WALTER LORD
A Night to Remember

Preface
1 ‘Another Belfast Trip’
2 ‘There’s Talk of an Iceberg, Ma’am’
3 ‘God Himself Could Not Sink This Ship’
4 ‘You Go and I’ll Stay a While’
5 ‘I Believe She’s Gone, Hardy’
6 ‘That’s the Way of It at This Kind of Time’
7 ‘There is Your Beautiful Nightdress Gone’
8 ‘It Reminds Me of a Bloomin’ Picnic’
9 ‘We’re Going North Like Hell’
10 ‘Go Away – We Have Just Seen Our Husbands Drown’
Facts about the Titanic

‘Absolutely gripping and unputdownable’
David McCullough, Pulitzer prize-winning author
‘Walter Lord singlehandedly revived interest in the Titanic … an electrifying book’
John Maxtone-Graham, maritime historian and author
‘A Night to Remember was a new kind of narrative history – quick, episodic, unsolemn. Its immense success inspired a
film of the same name three years later’
Ian Jack, Guardian
‘Devotion, gallantry … Benjamin Guggenheim changing to evening clothes to meet death; Mrs Isador Straus clinging to
her husband, refusing to get in a lifeboat; Arthur Ryerson giving his lifebelt to his wife’s maid … A book to remember’
Chicago Tribune
‘Seamless and skilful … it’s clear why this is many a researcher’s Titanic bible’
Entertainment Weekly
‘Enthralling from the first word to the last’
Atlantic Monthly
ABOUT THE AUTHORS
A graduate of Princeton University and Yale Law, Walter Lord served in England with the
American Intelligence Service during the Second World War. His interest in the Titanic dates
back to 1926 when, at ten years old, he persuaded his family to cross the Atlantic on the
Olympic, sister ship to the doomed ocean liner. Lord was renowned for his knowledge of the
Titanic catastrophe, serving as consultant to director James Cameron during the filming of
Titanic. A Night to Remember was published in 1956 and has never been out of print. Walter
Lord died in 2002.
Julian Fellowes is an actor, writer, director and producer. His film and television work
includes Gosford Park, Downton Abbey and Titanic. His novels include Snobs and Past
Imperfect.
Brian Lavery is Curator Emeritus at the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich. He is the
author of books including Ship: The Epic Story of Maritime Adventure. He was consultant on
the film Master and Commander and the BBC’s Empire of the Seas.
To my Mother
Foreword by Julian Fellowes
There are certain episodes in the past which fix like a burr on our imaginations, events in
history which will not let us go. They are generally tragic ones: the destruction of Pompeii, the
plague and fire in the London of the 1660s, the French Revolution. But few of these outrank that
single incident, just a century ago, when a luxury liner, the very acme of its own type and time,
struck an iceberg in the North Atlantic at 11.40 on the night of 14 April 1912, and sank just
over two and a half hours later, thereby giving birth to books and films and memoirs and
articles without number.
It is hard to pin down exactly why this tragedy still haunts us to the degree that it does, when
the last of the infant passengers to survive have now gone to their reward. Maybe it is because
the ship seemed, even then, to represent that proud, pre-war world in miniature, from the
industrialists and peeresses and millionaires and Broadway producers who sat about the vast
staterooms in first class, to the Irish and German and Scandinavian immigrants packed into
third, carrying with them all they possessed, on their way to a new life in America.
There were the passengers in second class, too, professionals and their wives, and salesmen
with samples of wares or order books at the ready, all set to make a deal with the entrepreneurs
of the New World. And there was the crew, the boilermen and deckhands, the stewards and
stewardesses, and, of course, the officers, who would find themselves at the centre of the
drama of the ship’s final hours. And as they headed for destruction, so did the larger world they
represented, which would soon hit its own iceberg in the shape of the First World War. Walter Lord begins his account of the disaster with a curious fact: in 1898 one Morgan
Robertson wrote a novel about a fabulous liner, packed with the rich and fashionable folk of
the day, which crashed into an iceberg and sank. The book was called Futility and the events
predicted in it would become startlingly true. It seems to have been the discovery of this eerie
coincidence that inspired Lord to take on the mantle of Chief Chronicler of the Titanic.
He would have many imitators, but what continues to mark his version apart from the rest is
its extraordinary economy. He manages to convey both the detail and the sweep, the little
sorrows and the all-embracing horror, in prose which is minutely researched but never dense.
His style is serious, moving and, above all, readable. In my own investigation into the truth
behind the sinking, I never came across another book to rival it.
The Titanic has spawned its own legends, its own heroes and heroines, but, as so often in
life, the truth is a little more complicated. Some of these stars, the famously ‘unsinkable’ Molly
Brown, for instance, or John Hart the third-class steward, or the stalwart Countess of Rothes,
prove satisfactorily authentic when they are researched. Mrs Brown did indeed take the oars
and try to get the lifeboats to go back for survivors; John Hart did lead parties up from steerage
to the boat deck on his own initiative and he did get them away to safety; Lady Rothes did take
over the tiller, and corresponded with the sailor in charge of her boat for the rest of their lives.
But then it was Charles Lightoller, second officer, one of the accepted heroes of the sinking,
who decided not to fill the boats to capacity, and to take ‘women and children only’ (rather than
the more usual ‘women and children first’), his idea being that the men could swim out to join
their womenfolk once the boats were safely launched. This doomed plan seems to have been
arrived at because Lightoller was unaware that the boats had been tested full in Belfast, and
failed to recognize that, after a short time, the hatches from which the men were to swim would
be unreachable or that the water was too cold to survive in for more than a few minutes. As it
was, the boats rowed away from the wreck as soon as they touched the surface of the sea to
escape the suction which never in fact happened.
So while Lightoller definitely was a very brave man and a real hero, his split-second
decision not to take men and not to fill all the boats cost hundreds of lives.
I wonder, too, whether some of the villains have been justly treated. History has not been
kind to the Duff Gordons, but the charge against them of paying the sailors to keep away from
the drowning was never proved. If they were afraid to return for fear of being swamped, it was
no more than the fear felt in almost every boat.
And the Managing Director of the White Star Line, Bruce Ismay, has had a hard press when
he did not, as one often reads, get into the ‘first’ lifeboat to leave the ship. In fact, he climbed
into the very last boat of any description, one of only two collapsibles to be successfully
launched, to get away before the ship went down. Nor is there any solid evidence that he was
responsible for the increase in speed, since it was White Star’s clear and stated policy that they
sold luxury rather than a record crossing. It is not anyway realistic to exonerate Captain Smith
from the decision to go faster, as some have tried to do, when the order could not have been
carried out, no matter where it came from, without his approval. During those frightful last two
hours, Ismay had in fact spent a good deal of the time helping women and children into the
boats before the temptation to survive proved too much for him. I wonder if his subsequent
title, The Coward of the Titanic, which cast such a shadow over the remainder of his life, was
quite merited.
I was recently in Budapest, where they were filming my scripts for the ITV/Indigo
production of the story. Standing alone on the huge sets, astonishing replicas of the promenade
deck and the boat deck, it was impossible not to think of that moment, a hundred years before,
when some of the great names of Belgravia and Newport stood, in silent and dignified groups,
waiting to learn their fate. The American Croesus John Jacob Astor and his pregnant young
wife, Madeleine; the banking Wideners of Philadelphia; the railway king Charles Hays; the
hedonist Benjamin Guggenheim; the silent-movie queen Dorothy Gibson; and behind them all
those other men, women and children, rich and poor, old and young, from every background
under the sun, for whom the next hundred minutes would deliver them either to life or to death.
Despite the wealth of new evidence gleaned from the discovery of the wreck, long after this
book was first published, some of the mysteries of the sinking will probably never be solved. Why some piece of crucial equipment was mislaid, why this telegram was ignored, why that
warning went unremarked.
And, like most of us, I am not sure of the lessons we can draw from this awful story; maybe
just that we cannot know what Fate has in store, that we should not forget man is never the
superior of nature, or simply that ordinary men and women are capable of acts of courage and
kindness that make them great in the doing. Perhaps that’s it. That savage events can inspire
people to greatness.
Certainly, we cannot predict how we would behave in such a case, but we can hope and
even pray that we would act as nobly as so many of the victims did, on that dark and terrible
Atlantic night.
Julian Fellowes
August 2011
Introduction by Brian Lavery
When A Night to Remember was first published in the United States in 1955, Burke Wilkinson,
in the New York Times, wrote that ‘the author’s style is so simple as to be almost an absence of
style. But his great story needs no gilding, and he has given us that rarest of experiences – a
book whose total effect is greater than the sum of its parts’. Stanley Walker of the New York
Herald Tribune claimed that it was based on ‘a kind of literary pointillism, the arrangement of
contrasting bits of fact and emotion in such a fashion that a vividly real impression of an event
is conveyed to the reader’. When it was published in Britain in the following year, the reviewers were divided along
political lines. In the Illustrated London News Sir John Squire, a poet and historian who had
flirted with both Marxism and fascism in his time, found that Lord’s populist approach to
disaster ‘slightly disgusts me’. The conservative Times thought that Lord had been unfair to the
ship’s owner, Bruce Ismay, who had escaped from the disaster. The high loss of life among the
poor steerage passengers, it was claimed, was due to shortage of lifeboats and not class
distinction. To the left-wing New Statesman, the disaster was caused by ‘complacency and
commercialism … the attempt of the White Star Line to wring the last penny out of the
profitable Atlantic trade’. But most reviewers saw it as having all the elements of a Greek
tragedy. Whatever the reviewers might think, the book sold very well and made Lord’s reputation as
a storyteller. It was filmed in 1958 with the highly popular British star Kenneth More in the
role of Second Officer Charles Lightoller. The book helped to establish the idea of reporting a
dramatic event through the accounts of ordinary people involved, which was used, for example,
by Cornelius Ryan in The Longest Day. And it put the ageing story of the Titanic back in the
forefront of the public consciousness.
However much one would like to say about the millions of people who built ships or sailed
in them as passengers and crew, it is impossible for a maritime historian to escape from iconic
characters such as Lord Nelson, and dramatic events such as the sinking of the Titanic. But it is
quite likely that the Titanic would be almost forgotten now, or known only to specialists, if
Walter Lord had not researched and published his most famous book at just the right moment.
By the 1950s the sinking had been overshadowed by two world wars, and it was no longer
the greatest maritime disaster of all time – for Britain that distinction went to the Lancastria,
sunk off Le Havre in 1940 with 2,500 people on board. In world terms the greatest loss of life
was in the German Wilhelm Gustlof in the Baltic in 1945, when an estimated 7,000 people,
including many refugees, were killed. But, of course, these were wartime disasters, unlike the
Titanic, which sank in the calm waters of a peaceful world.
Lord was motivated by his love of the great liners, which he had travelled in as a boy with
his parents, including a trip in the Titanic’s surviving sister-ship, Olympic, in 1927. He was
fascinated by the idea of a closed society like a town afloat, even if the passengers were only
on board for a week or so. He was researching his book at the right time, partly because many
of the survivors were still alive and had fresh memories of events more than forty years before.
Perhaps they were far enough from the disaster to get over any survivor’s guilt, or the traumas
of the night in question.
But Lord did not make use of one new invention which a modern researcher would regard as
essential: the tape recorder. Nor did he take notes during the interviews, for fear of intimidating
the witnesses. Instead, he prepared his questions for each interview very carefully, and
memorized what was said, writing them down afterwards as soon as he found privacy.
The book was also published at exactly the right time. The television age was just beginning,
but the public was already used to the immediacy of newsreel and radio reporting, and the
highlighting of individual stories in the midst of historic events. Despite the reactions of some
traditional historians, history was no longer about kings, queens and presidents but about how
it was shaped by people of both high and low status.
Like most history books, A Night to Remember is about the time in which it was written as
well as the period it describes. America in the 1950s was more prosperous than it had ever
been, and it felt a great moral superiority after defeating the Nazis and taking on the Soviets in
the Cold War. As Lord is careful to point out, it was far more classless than the society of
1912. Yet it too had a huge threat hanging over it, as the Soviets built up an increasingly
terrifying nuclear arsenal, with thermonuclear bombs and ballistic missiles. Britain was no less
threatened by the bomb, and its people had far less space to hide from it. It was about to face
its own sinking moment, when the Suez Crisis of 1956 signalled the end of the British Empire.
Lord does not deal with the issue of race, which was about to engulf the United States and, to a
lesser extent, Britain. Many British shipping lines employed Africans and Asians as firemen,
stewards and seamen, but not White Star. Almost everyone aboard the Titanic, both passengers
and crew, was white (though there is casual mention of Chinese and Japanese) and racialism,
which was an essential and largely unspoken feature of 1912 society, was directed against
what were considered the ‘lesser’ European races such as the Italians.
Lord begins his story with the first sighting of the iceberg, and the world outside the ship
appears only incidentally, increasing the feeling of peril and claustrophobia among those on
board. He portrays the sinking as a slow-motion disaster, with its extent dawning on crew and
passengers only by degrees. As he wrote in 1987, part of the appeal of the story relies on ‘the
initial refusal to believe that anything was wrong – card games continued in the smoking room;
playful soccer matches on deck with chunks of ice broken off from the berg. Then the gradual
dawning that there is real danger – the growing tilt of the deck, the rockets going off. And
finally, the realization that the end is at hand, with no apparent escape.’ Lord also starts with
different levels in the ship – the lookout at the head of the mast, the officers on the bridge, the
passengers in the saloons and the firemen down in the engine room. He explores the alternative
hierarchies on board – the normal social one and the sea discipline, with officers commanding
seamen, who in turn are nominally in charge of the passengers in a lifeboat – though in real life
they were often challenged successfully by the first-class passengers, who believed they had a
right to rule in any circumstances. When he mentions it at all, Lord portrays the world outside the Titanic as a very stable one,
only ended in later years by war and taxation, but it is worth remembering that Britain was in
turmoil at the time, with militant suffragettes, very bitter strikes and Ireland on the verge of
rebellion. Nevertheless, Lord convinces us that the social order was maintained on board the
ship, as stewards and valets helped their masters prepare for the lifeboats. And the sacrifice of
third-class passengers went largely unchallenged by the inquiries in Britain and the United
States. Lord tells many individual stories of heroism and cowardice, selfishness and
generosity. The band did indeed play on, though not, apparently, ‘Nearer My God to Thee’.
Lord tells how Bruce Ismay bullied his way into a lifeboat, only to live the next twenty-five
years in loneliness and shame.
The interaction between Europe and America had been one of the most dynamic factors in
world history for four hundred years, and Lord’s story taps into that, in particular the links
between Britain and the United States, with a common language. They had fought together
undefeated in the recent war, and one was in the process of handing over the mantle of world
power with a generally liberal reputation to the other. Practically all white Americans had
ancestors who had emigrated in ships like the Titanic, and millions more had crossed the
Atlantic both ways in wartime. Yet the era of the great liner was about to end. The Boeing 707
began its service in 1957 and for the first time it was more economical to cross by air. The
liner had a slow death paralleling the Titanic herself, but regular scheduled transatlantic
services had ended by 1973.
Today just as many people take to the seas in cruise ships but somehow they do not have the
same mythology. Passengers’ motives might range from pure hedonism to intellectual discovery,
but even at its best the modern cruise does not have the sense of purpose of the great liner
bridging the old world and the new, the isolation of those aboard in a closed society for days at
a time, the stark divisions by class. And, of course, voyaging today is much safer than it was a
hundred years ago. Loss of life in the Costa Concordia disaster of 2012 was mercifully small,
but even so there are echoes of the Titanic – scramble for lifeboats, apparent neglect of duty by
those in authority and heroism by others.
The Titanic disaster was soon overtaken by far greater catastrophes as Europe moved into
the First World War two years later – a technologically advanced, arrogant and class-ridden
society steamed boldly into danger despite numerous warning signals. The public never forgot
the Titanic, but thirty years of destruction and savagery seemed to overshadow it. For ten years
after 1945 there was a great flood of war memoirs and novels, often made into highly
successful movies such as The Cruel Sea and The Caine Mutiny.
There was a certain amount of reaction by the mid-fifties. Peacetime conscription in Britain
and the United States had created a generation ready to laugh at all things military, as reflected
in films such as Private’s Progress and television characters like Sergeant Bilko, which
showed soldiers as essentially lazy and corrupt. The public was ready for new heroes and
legends, or for older ones to be revived. Even so, as the New York Times reviewer commented
in 1955, there were already fifty books on the Titanic disaster in the Library of Congress,
including four novels and six books of verse. But none of them matched the immediacy and
impact of Lord’s work.
The Titanic legend had another enormous boost in 1985 when Dr Robert Ballard announced
his discovery of the wreck two miles under the Atlantic. Lord was sceptical about this when it
happened. ‘At first I thought that the discovery might spoil some of the allure. Part of the spell
seemed to depend on the great ship, still hauntingly beautiful in her final moments, disappearing
beneath the sea forever. But soon it became clear that the discovery actually added to the
mystique.’ The salvage revealed much about the technical details of the sinking, including the
fact that the ship had broken in two close to the surface, and that the funnels had become
detached one by one. It produced a great range of personal goods, salvaged by RMS Titanic
Inc. These added little to the historical account, but they provided poignant and often emotional
links with the past when they were shown in well-attended exhibitions around the world.
The third great Titanic revival came with James Cameron’s film of 1997. Since the
publication of A Night to Remember, the ship has been represented in fiction far more than any
other in history. Offstage, it is included in almost every novel set in the period when it is
necessary to get rid of a character or two – most recently, the loss of family heirs was the
starting point for the highly successful TV series Downton Abbey. If all the fictional characters
on board the ship could be counted, they would far outnumber the real passengers and crew. If
they had any weight, they might sink the vessel without any help from the iceberg. Cameron’s
film relied heavily on Lord’s research for many of the incidents described, a tribute to the merit
of his work. The hero Jack Dawson finds it a little too easy to cross from third class to first or
to go to the extreme bow, where only the crew were allowed, but in general the film was quite
accurate.
The Titanic story remains as a legend. Though Walter Lord did everything humanly possible
to find the absolute truth, he always knew that it could never be achieved: ‘The best that can be
done is to weigh the evidence carefully and give an honest opinion.’ This is true of all historic
research, and it is a tribute to Walter Lord’s skill and honesty that his work is still influential
and worthy of a reprint after more than half a century.
Brian Lavery, National Maritime Museum, Greenwich
January 2012
Preface
In 1898 a struggling author named Morgan Robertson concocted a novel about a fabulous
Atlantic liner, far larger than any that had ever been built. Robertson loaded his ship with rich
and complacent people and then wrecked it one cold April night on an iceberg. This somehow
showed the futility of everything and, in fact, the book was called Futility when it appeared
that year, published by the firm of M. F. Mansfield.
Fourteen years later a British shipping company named the White Star Line built a steamer
remarkably like the one in Robertson’s novel. The new liner was 66,000 tons displacement;
Robertson’s was 70,000 tons. The real ship was 882.5 feet long; the fictional one was 800 feet.
Both vessels were triple screw and could make 24–5 knots. Both could carry about 3,000
people, and both had enough lifeboats for only a fraction of this number. But then, this didn’t
seem to matter because both were labelled ‘unsinkable’.
On 10 April 1912 the real ship left Southampton on her maiden voyage to New York. Her
cargo included a priceless copy of The Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám and a list of passengers
collectively worth 250 million dollars. On her way over she too struck an iceberg and went
down on a cold April night.
Robertson called his ship the Titan; the White Star Line called its ship the Titanic. This is
the story of her last night.
1. ‘Another Belfast Trip’
High in the crow’s-nest of the new White Star liner Titanic, lookout Frederick Fleet peered
into a dazzling night. It was calm, clear and bitterly cold. There was no moon, but the cloudless
sky blazed with stars. The Atlantic was like polished glass; people later said they had never
seen it so smooth.
This was the fifth night of the Titanic’s maiden voyage to New York, and it was already
clear that she was not only the largest but also the most glamorous ship in the world. Even the
passengers’ dogs were glamorous. John Jacob Astor had brought his Airedale Kitty. Henry
Sleeper Harper, of the publishing family, had his prize Pekingese Sun Yat-Sen. Robert W.
Daniel, the Philadelphia banker, was bringing back a champion French bulldog just purchased
in Britain. Clarence Moore of Washington also had been dog-shopping, but the fifty pairs of
English foxhounds he had bought for the Loudoun Hunt weren’t making the trip.
That was all another world to Frederick Fleet. He was one of six lookouts carried by the
Titanic, and the lookouts didn’t worry about passenger problems. They were the ‘eyes of the
ship’, and on this particular night Fleet had been warned to watch especially for icebergs.
So far, so good. On duty at 10 o’clock … a few words about the ice problem with lookout
Reginald Lee, who shared the same watch … a few more words about the cold … but mostly
just silence, as the two men stared into the darkness.
Now the watch was almost over, and still there was nothing unusual. Just the night, the stars,
the biting cold, the wind that whistled through the rigging as the Titanic raced across the calm,
black sea at 22.5 knots. It was almost 11.40 p.m. on Sunday 14 April 1912.
Suddenly Fleet saw something directly ahead, even darker than the darkness. At first it was
small (about the size, he thought, of two tables put together), but every second it grew larger
and closer. Quickly Fleet banged the crow’s-nest bell three times, the warning of danger ahead.
At the same time he lifted the phone and rang the bridge.
‘What did you see?’ asked a calm voice at the other end.
‘Iceberg right ahead,’ replied Fleet.
‘Thank you,’ acknowledged the voice with curiously detached courtesy. Nothing more was
said.
For the next thirty-seven seconds Fleet and Lee stood quietly side by side, watching the ice
draw nearer. Now they were almost on top of it, and still the ship didn’t turn. The berg towered
wet and glistening far above the forecastle deck, and both men braced themselves for a crash.
Then, miraculously, the bow began to swing to port. At the last second the stem shot into the
clear, and the ice glided swiftly by along the starboard side. It looked to Fleet like a close
shave.
At this moment Quartermaster George Thomas Rowe was standing watch on the after bridge.
For him too, it had been an uneventful night – just the sea, the stars, the biting cold. As he paced
the deck, he noticed what he and his mates called ‘whiskers ’round the light’ – tiny splinters of
ice in the air, fine as dust, that gave off myriads of bright colours whenever caught in the glow
of the deck lights.
Then suddenly he felt a curious motion break the steady rhythm of the engines. It was a little
like coming alongside a dock wall rather heavily. He glanced forward – and stared again. A
windjammer, sails set, seemed to be passing along the starboard side. Then he realized it was
an iceberg, towering perhaps a hundred feet above the water. The next instant it was gone,
drifting astern into the dark.
Meanwhile, down below in the first-class dining-saloon on D deck, four other members of
the Titanic’s crew were sitting round one of the tables. The last diner had long since departed,
and now the big white Jacobean room was empty except for this single group. They were
dining-saloon stewards, indulging in the time-honoured pastime of all stewards off duty – they
were gossiping about their passengers.
Then, as they sat there talking, a faint grinding jar seemed to come from somewhere deep
inside the ship. It was not much, but enough to break the conversation and rattle the silver that
was set for breakfast next morning.
Steward James Johnson felt he knew just what it was. He recognized the kind of shudder a
ship gives when she drops a propeller blade, and he knew this sort of mishap meant a trip back
to the Harland & Wolff shipyard at Belfast – with plenty of free time to enjoy the hospitality of
the port. Somebody near him agreed and sang out cheerfully, ‘Another Belfast trip!’
In the galley just to the stern, chief night baker Walter Belford was making rolls for the
following day. (The honour of baking fancy pastry was reserved for the day shift.) When the
jolt came, it impressed Belford more strongly than steward Johnson – perhaps because a pan of
new rolls clattered off the top of the oven and scattered about the floor.
The passengers in their cabins felt the jar too, and tried to connect it with something familiar.
Marguerite Frolicher, a young Swiss girl accompanying her father on a business trip, woke up
with a start. Half-asleep, she could think only of the little white lake ferries at Zurich making a
sloppy landing. Softly she said to herself, ‘Isn’t it funny … we’re landing!’
Major Arthur Godfrey Peuchen, starting to undress for the night, thought it was like a heavy
wave striking the ship. Mrs J. Stuart White was sitting on the edge of her bed, just reaching to
turn out the light, when the ship seemed to roll over ‘a thousand marbles’. To Lady Cosmo Duff
Gordon, waking up from the jolt, it seemed ‘as though somebody had drawn a giant finger along
the side of the ship’. Mrs John Jacob Astor thought it was some mishap in the kitchen.
It seemed stronger to some than to others. Mrs Albert Caldwell pictured a large dog that had
a baby kitten in its mouth and was shaking it. Mrs Walter B. Stephenson recalled the first
ominous jolt when she was in the San Francisco earthquake – then decided this wasn’t that bad.
Mrs E. D. Appleton felt hardly any shock at all, but she noticed an unpleasant ripping
sound … like someone tearing a long, long strip of calico.
The jar meant more to J. Bruce Ismay, managing director of the White Star Line, who, in a
festive mood, was going along for a ride on the Titanic’s first trip. Ismay woke up with a start
in his de luxe suite on B deck – he felt sure the ship had struck something, but he didn’t know
what.
Some of the passengers already knew the answer. Mr and Mrs George A. Harder, a young
honeymoon couple down in cabin E-50, were still awake when they heard a dull thump. Then
they felt the ship quiver, and there was ‘a sort of rumbling, scraping noise’ along the ship’s
side. Mr Harder hopped out of bed and ran to the porthole. As he looked through the glass, he
saw a wall of ice glide by.
The same thing happened to James B. McGough, a Gimbels buyer from Philadelphia, except
his experience was more disturbing. His porthole was open, and as the berg brushed by, chunks
of ice fell into the cabin.
Like Mr McGough, most of the Titanic’s passengers were in bed when the jar came. On this
quiet, cold Sunday night a snug bunk seemed about the best place to be. But a few shipboard
diehards were still up. As usual, most were in the first-class smoking-room on A deck.
And as usual, it was a very mixed group. Around one table sat Archie Butt, President Taft’s
military aide; Clarence Moore, the travelling Master of Hounds; Harry Widener, son of the
Philadelphia streetcar magnate; and William Carter, another Main Liner. They were winding up
a small dinner given by Widener’s father in honour of Captain Edward J. Smith, the ship’s
commander. The Captain had left early, the ladies had been packed off to bed, and now the men
were enjoying a final cigar before turning in too. The conversation wandered from politics to
Clarence Moore’s adventures in West Virginia, the time he helped to interview the old feuding
mountaineer Anse Hatfield.
Buried in a nearby leather armchair, Spencer V. Silverthorne, a young buyer for Nugent’s
department store in St Louis, browsed through a new best-seller, The Virginian. Not far off,
Lucien P. Smith (still another Philadelphian) struggled gamely through the linguistic problems
of a bridge game with three Frenchmen.
At another table the ship’s young set was enjoying a somewhat noisier game of bridge.
Normally the young set preferred the livelier Café Parisien, just below on B deck, and at first
tonight was no exception. But it grew so cold that around 11.30 the girls went off to bed, and
the men strolled up to the smoking-room for a nightcap. Most of the group stuck to highballs;
Hugh Woolner, son of the English sculptor, took a hot whisky and water; Lieutenant Hokan
Bjornstrom Steffanson, a young Swedish military attaché on his way to Washington, chose a hot
lemonade.
Somebody produced a deck of cards, and as they sat playing and laughing, suddenly there
came that grinding jar. Not much of a shock, but enough to give a man a start – Mr Silverthorne
still sits up with a jolt when he tells it. In an instant the smoking-room steward and Mr
Silverthorne were on their feet … through the aft door … past the Palm Court … and out on to
the deck. They were just in time to see the iceberg scraping along the starboard side, a little
higher than the boat deck. As it slid by, they watched chunks of ice breaking off and tumbling
into the water. In another moment it faded into the darkness astern.
Others in the smoking-room were pouring out now. As Hugh Woolner reached the deck, he
heard a man call out, ‘We hit an iceberg – there it is!’ Woolner squinted into the night. About 150 yards astern he made out a mountain of ice
standing black against the starlit sky. Then it vanished into the dark.
The excitement, too, soon disappeared. The Titanic seemed as solid as ever, and it was too
bitterly cold to stay outside any longer. Slowly the group filed back. Woolner picked up his
hand, and the bridge game went on. The last man inside thought, as he slammed the deck door,
that the engines were stopping.
He was right. Up on the bridge First Officer William M. Murdoch had just pulled the engineroom telegraph handle all the way to ‘Stop’. 
Murdoch was in charge of the bridge this watch, and it was his problem, once Fleet phoned the warning. A tense minute had passed since then –
orders to Quartermaster Hitchens to turn the wheel hard-a-starboard … a yank on the engineroom telegraph for ‘Full speed astern’ … a hard push on the button closing the watertight
doors … and finally those thirty-seven seconds of breathless waiting.
Now the waiting was over, and it was also clearly too late. As the grinding noise died away,
Captain Smith rushed on to the bridge from his cabin next to the wheelhouse. There were a few
quick words:
‘Mr Murdoch, what was that?’
‘An iceberg, sir. I hard-a-starboarded and reversed the engines, and I was going to hard-aport around it, but she was too close. I couldn’t do any more.’
‘Close the emergency doors.’
‘The doors are already closed.’
They were closed all right. Down in boiler room No. 6 fireman Fred Barrett had been
talking to second engineer James Hesketh when the warning bell sounded and the light flashed
red above the watertight door leading to the stern. A quick shout of warning – an ear-splitting
crash – and the whole starboard side of the ship seemed to give way. The sea cascaded in,
swirling about the pipes and valves, and the two men leaped through the door as it slammed
down behind them.
Barrett found things almost as bad where he was now, in boiler room No. 5. The gash ran
into No. 5 about two feet beyond the closed compartment door, and a fat jet of sea-water was
spouting through the hole. Nearby, trimmer George Cavell was digging himself out of an
avalanche of coal that had poured out of a bunker with the impact. Another stoker mournfully
studied an overturned bowl of soup that had been warming on a piece of machinery.
It was dry in the other boiler rooms further aft, but the scene was pretty much the same – men
picking themselves up, calling back and forth, asking what had happened. It was hard to figure
out. Until now the Titanic had been a picnic. Being a new ship on her maiden voyage,
everything was clean. She was, as fireman George Kemish still recalls, ‘a good job … not
what we were accustomed to in old ships, slogging our guts out and nearly roasted by the heat’.
All the firemen had to do was keep the furnaces full. No need to work the fires with slice
bars, pricker bars and rakes. So on this Sunday night the men were taking it easy – sitting
around on buckets and the trimmers’ iron wheelbarrows, gossiping, waiting for the twelve-tofour watch to come on.
Then came that thud … the grinding, tearing sound … the telegraphs ringing wildly … the
watertight doors crashing down. Most of the men couldn’t imagine what it was – the story
spread that the Titanic had gone aground just off the Banks of Newfoundland. Many of them
still thought so, even after a trimmer came running down from above shouting, ‘Blimey! We’ve
struck an iceberg!’
About ten miles away Third Officer Charles Victor Groves stood on the bridge of the
Leyland liner Californian, bound from London to Boston. A plodding 6,000-tonner, she had
room for forty-seven passengers, but none were being carried just now. On this Sunday night
she had been stopped since 10.30 p.m., completely blocked by drifting ice.
At about 11.10 Groves noticed the lights of another ship, racing up from the east on the
starboard side. As the newcomer rapidly overhauled the motionless Californian, a blaze of
deck lights showed she was a large passenger liner. Around 11.30 he knocked on the Venetian
door of the chart room and told Captain Stanley Lord about it. Lord suggested contacting the
new arrival by Morse lamp, and Groves prepared to do this.
Then, at about 11.40, he saw the big ship suddenly stop and put out most of her lights. This
didn’t surprise Groves very much. He had spent some time in the Far East trade, where they
usually put deck lights out at midnight to encourage the passengers to turn in. It never occurred
to him that perhaps the lights were still on … that they only seemed to go out because she was
no longer broadside but had veered sharply to port.
2. ‘There’s Talk of an Iceberg, Ma’am’
Almost as if nothing had happened, lookout Fleet resumed his watch, Mrs Astor lay back in her
bed, and Lieutenant Steffanson returned to his hot lemonade.
At the request of several passengers second-class smoking-room steward James Witter went
off to investigate the jar. But two tables of card players hardly looked up. Normally the White
Star Line allowed no card playing on Sunday, and tonight the passengers wanted to take full
advantage of the chief steward’s unexpected largesse.
There was no one in the second-class lounge to send the librarian looking, so he continued
sitting at his table, quietly counting the day’s loan slips.
Through the long white corridors that led to the staterooms came only the murmurs of people
chatting in their cabins … the distant slam of some deck-pantry door … occasionally the click
of unhurried high heels – all the usual sounds of a liner at night.
Everything seemed perfectly normal – yet not quite. 
In his cabin on B deck, seventeen-yearold Jack Thayer had just called good night to his father and mother, Mr and Mrs John B. Thayer
of Philadelphia. The Thayers had connecting staterooms, an arrangement compatible with Mr
Thayer’s position as Second Vice-President of the Pennsylvania Railroad. Now, as young Jack
stood buttoning his pyjama jacket, the steady hum of the breeze through his half-opened
porthole suddenly stopped.
One deck below, Mr and Mrs Henry B. Harris sat in their cabin playing double canfield. Mr
Harris, a Broadway producer, was dog-tired, and Mrs Harris had just broken her arm. There
was little conversation as Mrs Harris idly watched her dresses sway on their hangers from the
ship’s vibration. Suddenly she noticed they had stopped jiggling.
Another deck below, Lawrence Beesley, a young science master at Dulwich College, lay in
his second-class bunk reading, pleasantly lulled by the dancing motion of the mattress.
Suddenly the mattress was still.
The creaking woodwork, the distant rhythm of the engines, the steady rattle of the glass dome
over the A deck foyer – all the familiar shipboard sounds vanished as the Titanic glided to a
stop. Far more than any jolt, silence stirred the passengers.
Steward bells began ringing, but it was hard to learn anything. ‘Why have we stopped?’
Lawrence Beesley asked a passing steward. ‘I don’t know, sir,’ came a typical answer, ‘but I
don’t suppose it’s much.’
Mrs Arthur Ryerson, of the steel family, had somewhat better results. ‘There’s talk of an
iceberg, ma’am,’ exclaimed steward Bishop. ‘And they have stopped, not to run over it.’ While
her French maid Victorine hovered in the background, Mrs Ryerson pondered what to do. Mr
Ryerson was having his first good sleep since the start of the trip, and she hated to wake him.
She walked over to the square, heavy glass window that opened directly on to the sea. Outside,
she saw only a calm, beautiful night. She decided to let him sleep.
Others refused to let well enough alone. With the restless curiosity that afflicts everyone on
board ship, some of the Titanic’s passengers began exploring for an answer.
In C-51 Colonel Archibald Gracie, an amateur military historian by way of West Point and
an independent income, methodically donned underwear, long stockings, shoes, trousers, a
Norfolk jacket, and then puffed up to the boat deck. Jack Thayer simply threw an overcoat over
his pyjamas and took off, calling to his parents that he was ‘going out to see the fun’.
On deck there was little fun to be seen; nor was there any sign of danger. For the most part
the explorers wandered aimlessly about or stood by the rail, staring into the empty night for
some clue to the trouble. The Titanic lay dead in the water, three of her four huge funnels
blowing off steam with a roar that shattered the quiet, starlit night. Otherwise everything was
normal. Towards the stern of the boat deck an elderly couple strolled arm in arm, oblivious of
the roaring steam and the little knots of passengers roving about.
It was so bitterly cold, and there was so little to be seen, that most of the people came inside
again. Entering the magnificent foyer on A deck, they found others who had risen but preferred
to stay inside where it was warm.
Mingling together, they made a curious picture. Their dress was an odd mixture of bathrobes,
evening clothes, fur coats, turtle-neck sweaters. The setting was equally incongruous – the huge
glass dome overhead … the dignified oak panelling … the magnificent balustrades with their
wrought-iron scrollwork … and, looking down on them all, an incredible wall clock adorned
with two bronze nymphs, somehow symbolizing Honour and Glory crowning Time.
‘Oh, it’ll be a few hours and we’ll be on the way again,’ a steward vaguely explained to
first-class passenger George Harder.
‘Looks like we’ve lost a propeller, but it’ll give us more time for bridge,’ called Howard
Case, the London manager of Vacuum Oil, to Fred Seward, a New York lawyer. Perhaps Mr
Case got his theory from steward Johnson, still contemplating a sojourn in Belfast. In any event,
most of the passengers had better information by this time.
‘What do you think?’ exclaimed Harvey Collyer to his wife, as he returned to their cabin
from a tour around the deck. ‘We’ve struck an iceberg – a big one – but there’s no danger. An
officer told me so!’ The Collyers were travelling second class, on their way from Britain to a
fruit farm just purchased in Fayette Valley, Idaho. They were novices on the Atlantic, and
perhaps the news would have roused Mrs Collyer, but the dinner that night had been too rich.
So she just asked her husband if anybody seemed frightened, and when he said no, she lay back
again in her bunk.
John Jacob Astor seemed equally unperturbed. Returning to his suite after going up to
investigate, he explained to Mrs Astor that the ship had struck ice, but it didn’t look serious. He
was very calm and Mrs Astor wasn’t a bit alarmed.
‘What do they say is the trouble?’ asked William T. Stead, a leading British spiritualist,
reformer, evangelist, and editor, all rolled into one. A professional individualist, he seemed
almost to have planned his arrival on deck later than the others.
‘Icebergs,’ briefly explained Frank Millet, the distinguished American painter.
‘Well,’ Stead shrugged, ‘I guess it’s nothing serious; I’m going back to my cabin to read.’
Mr and Mrs Dickinson Bishop of Dowagiac, Michigan, had the same reaction. When a deck
steward assured them, ‘We have only struck a little piece of ice and passed it,’ the Bishops
returned to their stateroom and undressed again. Mr Bishop picked up a book and started to
read, but soon he was interrupted by a knock on the door. It was Mr Albert A. Stewart, an
ebullient old gentleman who had a large interest in the Barnum and Bailey Circus: ‘Come on
out and amuse yourself!’
Others had the same idea. First-class passenger Peter Daly heard one young lady tell
another, ‘Oh, come and let’s see the berg – we have never seen one before.’
And in the second-class smoking-room somebody facetiously asked whether he could get
some ice from the berg for his highball.
He could indeed. When the Titanic brushed by, several tons of ice crumbled off the berg and
landed on the starboard well deck, just opposite the foremast. This was third-class recreation
space, and the ice was soon discovered by steerage passengers coming up to investigate. From
her cabin window on B deck, Mrs Natalie Wick watched them playfully throwing chunks at
each other.
The ice soon became quite a tourist attraction. 
Major Arthur Godfrey Peuchen, a middleaged manufacturing chemist from Toronto, used the opportunity to descend on a more
distinguished compatriot, Charles M. Hays, President of the Grand Trunk Railroad. ‘Mr Hays!’
he cried, ‘Have you seen the ice?’ When Mr Hays said he hadn’t Peuchen followed through – ‘If you care to see it, I will take
you up on deck and show it to you.’ And so they went all the way forward on A deck and
looked down at the mild horseplay below.
Possession of the ice didn’t remain a third-class monopoly for long. As Colonel Gracie
stood in the A deck foyer, he was tapped on the shoulder by Clinch Smith, a New York society
figure whose experiences already included sitting at Stanford White’s table the night White was
shot by Harry K. Thaw. ‘Would you like,’ asked Smith, ‘a souvenir to take back to New York?’
And he opened his hand to show a small piece of ice, flat like a pocket watch.
The same collector’s instinct gripped others. Able seaman John Poingdestre picked up a
sliver and showed it around the crew’s mess room. A steerage passenger presented Fourth
Officer Boxhall with a chunk about the size of a small basin. As greaser Walter Hurst lay half
awake, his father-in-law – who shared the same quarters – came in and tossed a lump of ice
into Hurst’s bunk. A man entered the stewards’ quarters, displaying a piece about as big as a
teacup, and told steward F. Dent Ray, ‘There are tons of ice forward!’
‘Ah, well,’ Ray yawned, ‘that will not hurt.’ And he prepared to go back to sleep.
A little more curious, first-class steward Henry Samuel Etches – off duty at the time of the
crash – walked forward along the alleyway on E deck to investigate, and ran into a third-class
passenger walking the other way. Before Etches could say anything, the passenger – as though
confronting Etches with irrefutable evidence about something in dispute – threw a block of ice
on to the deck and shouted, ‘Will you believe it now?’
Soon there was far more disturbing evidence that all was not as it should be. By 11.50 – ten
minutes after the collision – strange things could be seen and heard in the first six of the
Titanic’s sixteen watertight compartments.
Lamp trimmer Samuel Hemming, lying off duty in his bunk, heard a curious hissing sound
coming from the fore-peak, the compartment closest to the bow. He jumped up, went as far
forward as he could, and discovered that it was air escaping from the forepeak locker where
the anchor chains were stowed. Far below, water was pouring in so fast that air rushed out
under tremendous pressure.
In the next compartment aft, containing the firemen’s quarters and cargo hatch No. 1, leading
fireman Charles Hendrickson was also roused by a curious sound. But here it was not air – it
was water. When he looked down the spiral staircase that led to the passageway connecting the
firemen’s quarters with the stokeholds, he saw green sea-water swirling around the foot of the
grated, cast-iron steps.
Steerage passenger Carl Johnson had an even more disturbing experience in the third
compartment aft. This contained the cheapest passenger accommodation – lowest in the ship
and closest to the bow. As Johnson got up to see what was causing a mild commotion outside
his cabin, water seeped in under the door and around his feet. He decided to dress, and by the
time his clothes were on, the water was over his shoes. With a detached, almost clinical
interest, he noticed that it seemed to be of very even depth all over the floor. Nearby, steerage
passenger Daniel Buckley was a little slower to react, and when he finally jumped out of his
bunk, he splashed into water up to his ankles.
Five postal clerks working in the fourth compartment were much wetter. The Titanic’s post
office took up two deck levels – the mail was stacked, along with first-class luggage, on the
orlop deck and was sorted just above on G deck. The two levels were connected by a wide
iron companionway, which continued up to F deck and the rest of the ship. Within five minutes
water was sloshing around the knees of the postal clerks, as they dragged 200 sacks of
registered mail up the companionway to the drier sorting room.
They might have spared themselves the trouble – in another five minutes the water reached
the top of the steps and was lapping on to G deck. The clerks now abandoned the mail room
altogether, retreating further up the companionway to F deck.
At the top of the stairs they found a married couple peering down at them. Mr and Mrs
Norman Campbell Chambers of New York had been attracted by the noise while returning to
their cabin after a fruitless trip to the promenade deck. Now, the Chamberses and the postal
clerks watched the scene together, joking about the soaked baggage and wondering what might
be in the letters they could see floating around the abandoned mail room.
Others joined them briefly from time to time – Fourth Officer Boxhall … assistant second
steward Wheat … once even Captain Smith. But at no point could the Chamberses bring
themselves to believe that anything they saw was really dangerous.
The fifth watertight compartment from the bow contained boiler room No. 6. This was where
fireman Barrett and second engineer Hesketh jumped through the watertight door as it slammed
down after the collision. Others didn’t make it and scrambled up the escape ladders that laced
their way topside. A few hung on, and after a moment some of the others came down again.
Shouts of ‘Shut the dampers!’ and then ‘Draw the fires!’ came from somewhere. Fireman
George Beauchamp worked at fever pitch as the sea flooded in from the bunker door and up
through the floor plates. In five minutes it was waist deep – black and slick with grease from
the machinery. The air was heavy with steam. Fireman Beauchamp never did see who shouted
the welcome words, ‘That will do!’ He was too relieved to care as he scurried up the ladder
for the last time.
Just to the stern, second engineer Hesketh, now on the dry side of the watertight door,
struggled to get boiler room No. 5 back to normal. The sea still spouted through a two-foot
gash near the closed door, but assistant engineers Harvey and Wilson had a pump going, and it
was keeping ahead of the water.
For a few moments the stokers stood by, aimlessly watching the engineers rig the pumps;
then the engine room phoned to send them to the boat deck. They trooped up the escape ladder,
but the bridge ordered them down again, and for a while they milled around the working
alleyway on E deck – halfway up, halfway down – caught in the bureaucracy of a huge ship and
wondering what to do next.
Meanwhile the lights went out in boiler room No. 5. Engineer Harvey ordered fireman
Barrett, who had stayed behind, to go aft to the engine room for lanterns. The connecting doors
were all shut; so Barrett had to climb to the top of the escape ladder, cross over, and go down
the other side. By the time he retraced his steps, the engineers had the lights on again and the
lanterns weren’t needed.
Next, Harvey told Barrett to shut down the boilers – the pressure, built up while the ship
was at full steam, now lifted the safety valves and was blowing joints. Barrett scrambled back
up the ladder and drafted fifteen or twenty of the stokers wandering around E deck. They all
clattered down and began wetting the fires. It was backbreaking work, boxing up the boilers
and putting on dampers to stop the steam from rising. Fireman Kemish still remembers it with
feeling: ‘We certainly had one hell of a time putting those fires out …’
Clouds of steam gushed through the boiler room as the men sweated away. But gradually
order returned. The lights burned bright, the place was clear of water, and, in No. 5 at any rate,
everything seemed under control. There was an air of cheerful confidence by the time word
spread that the men on the twelve-to-four watch were dragging their beds to the recreation deck
because their rooms were flooded. The men on the eight-to-twelve watch paused in their work,
thought this was a huge joke, and had a good laugh.
Up on the bridge, Captain Smith tried to piece the picture together. No one was better
equipped to do it. After thirty-eight years’service with White Star, he was more than just
senior captain of the line; he was a bearded patriarch, worshipped by crew and passengers
alike. They loved everything about him – especially his wonderful combination of firmness and
urbanity. It was strikingly evident in the matter of cigars. ‘Cigars,’says his daughter, ‘were his
pleasure. And one was allowed to be in the room only if one was absolutely still, so that the
blue cloud over his head never moved.’
Captain Smith was a natural leader, and on reaching the wheelhouse after the crash, he
paused only long enough to visit the starboard wing of the bridge to see if the iceberg was still
in sight. First Officer Murdoch and Fourth Officer Boxhall trailed along, and for a moment the
three officers merely stood peering into the darkness. Boxhall thought he saw a dark shape
astern, but he wasn’t sure.
From then on all was business. Captain Smith sent Boxhall on a fast inspection of the ship. In
a few minutes he was back: he had been as far forward in the steerage as he could go, and there
was no sign of damage. This was the last good news Captain Smith heard that night.
Still worried, Smith now told Boxhall, ‘Go down and find the carpenter and get him to sound
the ship.’ Boxhall wasn’t even down the bridge ladder when he bumped into carpenter J.
Hutchinson rushing up. As Hutchinson elbowed his way by, he gasped, ‘She’s making water
fast!’
Hard on the carpenter’s heels came mail clerk Iago Smith. He too pushed on towards the
bridge, blurting out as he passed, ‘The mail hold is filling rapidly!’
Next to arrive was Bruce Ismay. He had pulled a suit over his pyjamas, put on his carpet
slippers, and climbed to the bridge to find out whether anything was happening that the
president of the line should know. Captain Smith broke the news about the iceberg. Ismay then
asked, ‘Do you think the ship is seriously damaged?’ A pause, and the captain slowly
answered, ‘I’m afraid she is.’
They would know soon enough. A call had been sent for Thomas Andrews, managing
director of Harland & Wolff shipyard. As the Titanic’s builder, Andrews was making the
maiden voyage to iron out any kinks in the ship. If anybody could figure out the situation, here
was the man.
He was indeed a remarkable figure. As builder, he of course knew every detail about the
Titanic. But there was so much more to him than that. Nothing was too great or too small for his
attention. He even seemed able to anticipate how the ship would react to any situation. He
understood ships the way some men are supposed to understand horses.
And he understood equally well the people who run ships. They all came to Andrews with
their problems. One night it might be First Officer Murdoch, worried because he had been
superseded by Chief Officer Wilde. The next night it might be a couple of quarrelling
stewardesses who looked to Andrews as a sort of supreme court. This very evening chief baker
Charles Joughin had made him a special loaf of bread.
So far, Andrews’ trip had been what might be expected. All day long he roamed the ship,
taking volumes of notes. At 6.45 every evening he dressed for dinner, dining usually with old
Dr O’Loughlin, the ship’s surgeon, who also had a way with the stewardesses. And then back
to his stateroom A-36, piled high with plans and charts and blueprints. There he would
assemble his notes and work out his recommendations.
Tonight the problems were typical – trouble with the restaurant galley hot press … the
colouring of the pebble dashing on the private promenade decks was too dark … too many
screws on all the stateroom hat hooks. There was also the plan to change part of the writing
room into two more staterooms. The writing room had originally been planned partly as a
place where the ladies could retire after dinner. But this was the twentieth century, and the
ladies just wouldn’t retire. Clearly, a smaller room would do.
Completely absorbed, Andrews scarcely noticed the jar and stirred from his blueprints only
when he got Captain Smith’s message that he was needed on the bridge.
In a few minutes Andrews and the captain were making their own tour – down the crew’s
stairway to attract less attention … along the labyrinth of corridors far below … by the water
surging into the mail room … past the squash court, where the sea now lapped against the foul
line on the backboard.
Threading their way back to the bridge, they passed through the A deck foyer, still thronged
with passengers standing around. Everybody studied the two men’s faces for some sign of good
news or bad; nobody could detect any clue.
Some of the crew weren’t so guarded. In D-60, when Mrs Henry Sleeper Harper asked Dr
O’Loughlin to persuade her sick husband to stay in bed, the old doctor exclaimed, ‘They tell
me the trunks are floating around in the hold; you may as well go on deck.’
In C-91 a young governess named Elizabeth Shutes sat with her charge, nineteen-year-old
Margaret Graham. Seeing an officer pass the cabin door, Miss Shutes asked him if there was
any danger. He cheerfully said no, but then she overheard him further down the hall say, ‘We
can keep the water out for a while.’
Miss Shutes glanced at Margaret, who was uneasily nibbling at a chicken sandwich. Her
hand shook so badly the chicken kept falling out of the bread.
No one was asking questions along the working alleyway on E deck. This broad corridor
was the quickest way from one end of the ship to the other – the officers called it ‘Park Lane’,
the crew ‘Scotland Road’. Now it was crowded with pushing, shoving people. Some were
stokers forced out of boiler room No. 6, but most were steerage passengers, slowly working
their way aft, carrying boxes, bags and even trunks.
These people didn’t need to be told there was trouble. To those berthed far below on the
starboard side, the crash was no ‘faint grinding jar’. It was a ‘tremendous noise’ that sent them
tumbling out of bed.
Mrs Celiney Yasbeck – a bride of fifty days – ran out into the corridor with her husband.
Instead of making the long hike to the deck, it was easier to look below for trouble. In their
night clothes they walked along to a door leading down to the boiler rooms and peeked through.
Engineers were struggling to make repairs and get the pumps going. The Yasbecks needed no
second glance – they rushed back to their cabin to dress.
Far above on A deck, second-class passenger Lawrence Beesley noticed a curious thing. As
he started below to check his cabin, he felt certain the stairs ‘weren’t quite right’. They seemed
level, and yet his feet didn’t fall where they should. Somehow they strayed forward off
balance … as though the steps were tilted down towards the bow.
Major Peuchen noticed it too. As he stood with Mr Hays at the forward end of A deck,
looking down at the steerage passengers playing soccer with the loose ice, he sensed a very
slight tilt in the deck. ‘Why, she is listing!’ he cried to Hays. ‘She should not do that! The water
is perfectly calm and the boat has stopped.’
‘Oh, I don’t know,’ Mr Hays replied placidly, ‘you cannot sink this boat.’
Others also felt the downward slant, but it seemed tactless to mention the matter. In boiler
room No. 5, fireman Barrett decided to say nothing to the engineers working on the pumps. Far
above in the A deck foyer, Colonel Gracie and Clinch Smith had the same reaction. On the
bridge the commutator showed the Titanic slightly down at the head and listing five degrees to
starboard.
Nearby, Andrews and Captain Smith did some fast figuring. Water in the fore-peak … No. 1
hold … No. 2 hold … mail room … boiler room No. 6 … boiler room No. 5. Water fourteen
feet above keel level in the first ten minutes, everywhere except boiler room No. 5. Put
together, the facts showed a 300-foot gash, with the first five compartments hopelessly flooded. 
What did this mean? Andrews quietly explained. The Titanic could float with any two of her
sixteen watertight compartments flooded. She could float with any three of her first five
compartments flooded. She could even float with all of her first four compartments gone. But
no matter how they sliced it, she could not float with all of her first five compartments full.
The bulkhead between the fifth and sixth compartments went only as high as E deck. If the
first five compartments were flooded, the bow would sink so low that water in the fifth
compartment must overflow into the sixth. When this was full, it would overflow into the
seventh, and so on. It was a mathematical certainty, pure and simple. There was no way out.
But it was still a shock. After all, the Titanic was considered unsinkable. And not just in the
travel brochures. The highly technical magazine Shipbuilder described her compartment
system in a special edition in 1911, pointing out, ‘The captain may, by simply moving an
electric switch, instantly close the doors throughout and make the vessel practically
unsinkable.’
Now all the switches were pulled, and Andrews said it made no difference.
It was hard to face, and especially hard for Captain Smith. Over fifty-nine years old, he was
retiring after this trip. Might even have done it sooner, but he traditionally took the White Star
ships on their maiden voyages. Only six years before, when he brought over the brand-new
Adriatic, he remarked: ‘I cannot imagine any condition which would cause a ship to founder. I
cannot conceive of any vital disaster happening to this vessel. Modern shipbuilding has gone
beyond that.’ Now he stood on the bridge of a liner twice as big – twice as safe – and the
builder told him it couldn’t float.
At 12.05 a.m. – twenty-five minutes after that bumping, grinding jar – Captain Smith ordered
Chief Officer Wilde to uncover the boats … First Officer Murdoch to muster the
passengers … Sixth Officer Moody to get out the list of boat assignments … Fourth Officer
Boxhall to wake up Second Officer Lightoller and Third Officer Pitman. The captain himself
then walked about twenty yards down the port side of the boat deck to the wireless shack.
Inside, first operator John George Phillips and second operator Harold Bride showed no sign
that they realized what was happening. It had been a tough day. In 1912 wireless was still an
erratic novelty; range was short, operators were inexperienced, and signals were hard to catch.
There was a lot of relaying, a lot of repeats, and a lot of frivolous private traffic. Passengers
were fascinated by the new miracle, couldn’t resist the temptation of sending messages to
friends back home or on other ships.
All this Sunday the messages had piled up. It was enough to fray the nerves of any man
working a fourteen-hour day at thirty dollars a month, and Phillips was no exception. Evening
came, and still the bottomless in-basket, still the petty interferences. Only an hour ago – just
when he was at last in good contact with Cape Race – the Californian barged in with some
message about icebergs. She was so close she almost blew his ears off. No wonder he had
snapped back, ‘Shut up, shut up! I am busy; I am working Cape Race!’
It was such a hard day that second operator Bride decided to relieve Phillips at midnight,
even though he wasn’t due until 2.00 a.m. He woke up at about 11.55, brushed by the green
curtain separating the sleeping quarters from the ‘office’, and asked Phillips how he was
getting along. Phillips said he had just finished the Cape Race traffic. Bride padded back to his
berth and took off his pyjamas. Phillips called after him that he thought the ship had been
damaged somehow and they’d have to go back to Belfast.
In a couple of minutes Bride was dressed and took over the headphones. Phillips was hardly
behind the green curtain when Captain Smith appeared: ‘We’ve struck an iceberg and I’m
having an inspection made to see what it has done to us. You’d better get ready to send out a
call for assistance, but don’t send it until I tell you.’
Then he left but returned again in a few minutes. This time he merely stuck his head in the
doorway:
‘Send the call for assistance.’
By now Phillips was back in the room. He asked the captain whether to use the regulation
distress call. Smith replied, ‘Yes, at once!’
He handed Phillips a slip of paper with the Titanic’s position. Phillips took the headphones
from Bride, and at 12.15 a.m. began tapping out the letters ‘CQD’ – at that time the usual
international call of distress – followed by ‘MGY’, the call letters of the Titanic. Again and
again, six times over, the signal rasped out into the cold, blue Atlantic night.
Ten miles away, Third Officer Groves of the Californian sat on the bunk of wireless
operator Cyril F. Evans. Groves was young, alert and always interested in what was going on
in the world. After work he liked to drop by Evans’ wireless shack and pick up the latest news.
He even liked to fool with the set.
This was all right with Evans. There weren’t many officers on third-rate liners interested in
the outside world, much less the wireless telegraphy. In fact, there weren’t any others on the
Californian. So he used to welcome Groves’ visits.
But not tonight. It had been a hard day, and there was no operator to relieve him. Besides, he
had been pretty roughly handled around 11.00 when he tried to break in on the Titanic and tell
her about the ice blocking the Californian. So he lost no time tonight closing down his set at
11.30, his scheduled hour for going off duty. Now – dead tired – he was in no mood for chatting
with anybody. Groves made a brave try: ‘What ships have you got, Sparks?’
‘Only the Titanic.’ Evans scarcely bothered to glance up from his magazine.
Undeterred, Groves took the headphones and put them on. He was really getting quite good,
if the message was simple enough. But he didn’t know too much about the equipment. The
Californian’s set had a magnetic detector that ran by clockwork. Groves didn’t wind it up, and
so he heard nothing.
Giving up, he put the phones back on the table, and went below to find livelier company. It
was just a little after 12.15 a.m.
3. ‘God Himself Could Not Sink This Ship’
The door to the cooks’ quarters whacked open against the iron cot of assistant baker Charles
Burgess. He woke up with a start and stared at second steward George Dodd standing in the
doorway. Normally a rotund, jolly man, Dodd looked serious as he called, ‘Get up, lads, we’re
sinking!’
Dodd moved forward to the waiters’ quarters, where saloon steward William Moss was
trying to rouse the men. Most of them were laughing and joking, when Dodd burst in, shouting,
‘Get every man up! Don’t let a man stay here!’
He moved on with Moss towards the stewards’ quarters. Just outside, smoking-room
steward Witter was already getting some disturbing news from carpenter Hutchinson: ‘The
bloody mail room is full.’ Moss came up and added, ‘It’s really serious, Jim.’
The wisecracks that greeted the first warnings faded, and the crew tumbled out of their
berths. Still half-asleep, baker Burgess pulled on pants, a shirt, no lifebelt. Walter Belford
wore his white baker’s coat, pants, didn’t stop to put on his underdrawers. Steward Ray took
more time; he wasn’t worried – nevertheless he found himself putting on his shore suit.
Steward Witter, already dressed, opened his trunk and filled his pockets with
cigarettes … picked up the caul from his first child, which he always carried with him … then
joined the crowd of men now swarming out into the working alleyway and up towards the boat
stations.
Far forward, away from the uproar, trimmer Samuel Hemming climbed back into his bunk,
satisfied that the hissing sound in the forepeak didn’t mean very much. He was just drifting off
to sleep when the ship’s joiner leaned in, saying, ‘If I were you, I’d turn out. She’s making
water one-two-three, and the racket court is getting filled up.’ An instant later the boatswain
appeared: ‘Turn out, you fellows. You haven’t half an hour to live. That is from Mr Andrews.
Keep it to yourselves and let no one know.’
Certainly no one knew in the first-class smoking-room. The bridge game was going full blast
again. Lieutenant Steffanson was still sipping his hot lemonade, and another hand was being
dealt, when a ship’s officer suddenly appeared at the door: ‘Men, get on your lifebelts; there’s
trouble ahead.’
In her A deck stateroom, Mrs Washington Dodge lay in bed, waiting for Dr Dodge, Assessor
for San Francisco, to dig up some news. The door opened and the doctor came in quietly:
‘Ruth, the accident is rather a serious one; you had better come on deck at once.’
Two decks below, Mrs Lucien Smith – tired of waiting for Mr Smith to finish exploring –
had gone back to sleep. Suddenly the lights snapped on, and she saw her husband standing by
the bed, smiling down at her. Leisurely he explained, ‘We are in the north and have struck an
iceberg. It does not amount to anything but will probably delay us a day getting into New York.
However, as a matter of form, the captain has ordered all ladies on deck.’
And so it went. No bells or sirens. No general alarm. But all over the Titanic, in one way or
another, the word was passed.
It was very bewildering to eight-year-old Marshall Drew. When his aunt Mrs James Drew
woke him and said she had to take him on deck, he sleepily protested he didn’t want to get up.
But Mrs Drew paid no attention.
It was no less bewildering to Major Arthur Peuchen, despite his sightseeing expedition to
look at the ice. He heard the news on the grand staircase and could hardly believe it.
Completely stunned, he stumbled to his cabin to change from evening dress into something
warm.
For many, first word came from their stewards. John Hardy, second-class chief steward,
personally roused twenty to twenty-four cabins. Each time he threw the door open wide,
shouting, ‘Everybody on deck with lifebelts on, at once!’
In first class it was more polite to knock. These were the days when a steward on a crack
liner didn’t have more than eight or nine cabins, and he was like a mother hen to all the
passengers he served.
Steward Alfred Crawford was typical. He had spent thirty-one years handling difficult
passengers, and now he knew just how to coax old Mr Albert Stewart into a life jacket. Then
he stopped and tied the old gentleman’s shoes.
In C-89, steward Andrew Cunningham helped William T. Stead into his lifebelt, while the
great editor mildly complained that it was all a lot of nonsense. In B-84, steward Henry Samuel
Etches worked like a solicitous tailor, fitting Benjamin Guggenheim for his lifebelt.
‘This will hurt,’ protested the mining and smelting king. Etches finally took the belt off
altogether, made some adjustments, put it on again. Next, Guggenheim wanted to go on deck as
he was, but Etches was adamant – it was much too cold. Ultimately Guggenheim submitted;
Etches pulled a heavy sweater over him and sent him packing off topside.
Some of the passengers were even more difficult. At C-78, Etches found the door locked. 
When he knocked loudly with both hands, a man inside asked suspiciously, ‘What is it?’ and a
woman added, ‘Tell us what the trouble is.’ Etches explained and again tried to get them to
open the door. He had no luck, and after a few minutes’ pleading he finally passed on to the
next cabin.
In another part of the ship a locked door raised a different problem. It was jammed, and
some passengers broke it down to release a man inside. At this point a steward arrived,
threatening to have everybody arrested for damaging company property when the Titanic
reached New York.
At 12.15 it was hard to know whether to joke or be serious – whether to chop down a door
and be a hero, or chop it down and get arrested. No two people seemed to have the same
reaction.
Mrs Arthur Ryerson felt there wasn’t a moment to lose. She had long since abandoned the
idea of letting Mr Ryerson sleep; now she scurried about trying to keep her family together.
There were six to get ready – her husband, three children, governess and maid – and the
children seemed so slow. Finally she gave up on her youngest daughter; just threw a fur coat
over her nightgown and told her to come on.
There seemed all the time in the world to Mrs Lucien Smith. Slowly and with great care she
dressed for whatever the night might bring – a heavy woollen dress, high shoes, two coats and
a warm knitted hood. All the while Mr Smith chatted away about landing in New York, taking
the train south, never mentioning the iceberg. As they started for the deck, Mrs Smith decided to
go back for some jewellery. Here Mr Smith drew the line. He suggested it might be wiser not
to bother with ‘trifles’. As a compromise Mrs Smith picked up two favourite rings. Closing the
door carefully behind them, the young couple headed up towards the boat deck.
Close behind came the Countess of Rothes and her cousin Gladys Cherry. They had difficulty
putting on their lifebelts, and a passing gentleman paused to help them. He topped off the
courtesy by handing them some raisins to eat.
The things people took with them showed how they felt. Adolf Dyker handed his wife a
small satchel containing two gold watches, two diamond rings, a sapphire necklace and 200
Swedish crowns. Miss Edith Russell carried a musical toy pig (it played the ‘Maxixe’). Stuart
Collett, a young theological student travelling second class, took the Bible he promised his
brother he’d always carry until they met again. Lawrence Beesley stuffed the pockets of his
Norfolk jacket with the books he had been reading in bed. Norman Campbell Chambers
pocketed a revolver and compass. Steward Johnson, by now anticipating far more than ‘another
Belfast trip’, stuck four oranges under his blouse. Mrs Dickinson Bishop left behind 11,000
dollars in jewellery, then sent her husband back for her muff.
Major Arthur Peuchen looked at the tin box on the table in C-104. Inside were 200,000
dollars in bonds, 100,000 dollars in preferred stock. He thought a good deal about it as he took
off his dinner jacket, put on two suits of long underwear and some heavy clothes.
Then he took a last look around the little cabin – the real brass bed … the green mesh net
along the wall for valuables at night … the marble washstand … the wicker armchair … the
horsehair sofa … the fan in the ceiling … the bells and electrical fixtures that on a liner always
look as if they were installed as an afterthought.
Now his mind was made up. He slammed the door, leaving behind the tin box on the table. In
another minute he was back. Quickly he picked up a good-luck pin and three oranges. As he left
for the last time, the tin box was still on the table.
Out in the C deck foyer, Purser Herbert McElroy was urging everyone to stop standing
around. As the Countess of Rothes passed, he called, ‘Hurry, little lady, there is not much time.
I’m glad you didn’t ask me for your jewels as some ladies have.’
Into the halls they poured, gently prodded along by the crew. One room steward caught the
eye of Miss Marguerite Frolicher as she came down the corridor. Four days before, she had
playfully teased him for putting a lifebelt in her stateroom, if the ship was meant to be so
unsinkable. At the time he had laughed and assured her it was just a formality … she would
never have to wear it. Remembering the exchange, he now smiled and reassured her, ‘Don’t be
scared; it’s all right.’
‘I’m not scared,’she replied, ‘I’m just seasick.’
Up the stairs they trooped – a hushed crowd in jumbled array. Under his overcoat Jack
Thayer now sported a greenish tweed suit and vest, with another mohair vest underneath. Mr
Robert Daniel, the Philadelphia banker, had on only woollen pyjamas. Mrs Turrell Cavendish
wore a wrapper and Mr Cavendish’s overcoat … Mrs John C. Hogeboom a fur coat over her
nightgown … Mrs Ada Clark just a nightgown. Mrs Washington Dodge didn’t bother to put on
stockings under her high-button shoes, which flopped open because she didn’t stop to button
them. Mrs Astor looked right out of a bandbox in an attractive light dress, Mrs James J. Brown
– a colourful Denver millionairess – equally stylish in a black velvet two-piece suit with black
and white silk lapels.
Automobiling, as practised in 1912, affected the attire of many ladies – Mrs C. E. Henry
Stengal wore a veil tightly pinned down over her floral hat, Madame de Villiers a long
woollen motoring coat over her nightgown and evening slippers.
Young Alfred von Drachstedt, a twenty-year-old youth from Cologne, settled on a sweater
and a pair of trousers, leaving behind a brand-new 2,133-dollar wardrobe that included
walking sticks and a fountain pen, which he somehow felt was a special badge of distinction.
Second class was somewhat less elegantly disarrayed. Mr and Mrs Albert Caldwell –
returning from Siam, where they taught at the Bangkok Christian College – had bought new
clothes in London, but tonight they dressed in the oldest clothes they owned. Their baby Alden
was wrapped in a blanket. Miss Elizabeth Nye wore a simple skirt, coat and slippers. Mrs
Charlotte Collyer didn’t bother to put up her hair, just tied it back with a ribbon. 
Her eightyear-old daughter Marjory had a steamer rug around her shoulders. Mr Collyer took little
trouble dressing, because he expected to be back soon – he even left his watch lying on his
pillow.
The scene in third class was particularly confusing because the White Star Line primly
quartered the single men and single women at opposite ends of the Titanic. Now many of the
men – who slept towards the bow – hurried aft to join the girls.
Katherine Gilnagh, a pert colleen not quite sixteen, heard a knock on the door. It was the
young man who had caught her eye earlier that day playing the bagpipes on deck. He told her to
get up – something was wrong with the ship. Anna Sjoblom, an eighteen-year-old Finnish girl
bound for the Pacific Northwest, woke up when a young Danish swain came in to rouse her
room-mate. He also gave Anna a lifebelt and urged her to come along. But she was too seasick
to care. Eventually there was so much commotion that she went up after all, even though she
still felt awful. She was quickly helped into a lifebelt by Alfred Wicklund, a schoolfriend from
home.
Among these young men, Olaus Abelseth was especially worried. 
He was a twenty-six-yearold Norwegian heading for a South Dakota homestead, and an old family friend had put a
sixteen-year-old daughter in his care until they reached Minneapolis. As he pushed his way aft
along the E deck working alleyway, Minneapolis seemed a long way off.
Abelseth found the girl in the main steerage hallway on E deck. 
Then, along with his brotherin-law, a cousin and another girl, he climbed the broad, steep third-class stairs to the poop
deck at the very stern of the ship.
Into the bitter night the whole crowd milled, each class automatically keeping to its own
decks – first class in the centre of the ship, second a little aft, third at the very stern or in the
well deck near the bow. Quietly they stood around waiting for the next orders … reasonably
confident yet vaguely worried. With uneasy amusement they eyed how one another looked in
lifebelts. There were a few half-hearted jokes.
‘Well,’said Clinch Smith as a girl walked by carrying a Pomeranian, ‘I suppose we ought to
put a life preserver on the little doggie too.’
‘Try this on,’ a man told Mrs Vera Dick as he fastened on her life jacket. ‘They are the very
latest thing this season. Everybody is wearing them now.’
‘They will keep you warm if you don’t have to use them,’ Captain Smith cheerfully explained
to Mrs Alexander T. Compton of New Orleans.
At about 12.30 Colonel Gracie bumped into Fred Wright, the Titanic’s squash pro.
Remembering he had reserved the court for 7.30 in the morning, Gracie tried a little joke of his
own: ‘Hadn’t we better cancel that appointment?’
‘Yes,’ replied Wright. His voice was flat and without enthusiasm, but the wonder is he
played along at all. He knew the water was now up to the squash-court ceiling.
In the brightly lit gym, just off the boat deck, Mr and Mrs Astor sat side by side on a pair of
motionless mechanical horses. They wore their lifebelts, and Mr Astor had an extra one in his
lap. He was slicing it open with his penknife, whiling away the time by showing his wife what
was inside. While the passengers joked and talked and waited, the crew moved swiftly to their stations.
The boat teemed with seamen, stewards, firemen, chefs, ordered up from below.
A curiously late arrival was Fifth Officer Harold Godfrey Lowe. A tempestuous young
Welshman, Lowe was hard to suppress. When he was fourteen, his father tried to apprentice
him to a Liverpool businessman, but Lowe said he ‘wouldn’t work for nobody for nothing’. So
he ran away to sea and a life after his own heart – schooners … square-riggers … five years
steaming along the West African coast.
Now, at twenty-eight, he was making his first trip across the Atlantic. This Sunday night he
was off duty and slept through the collision. Voices outside his cabin on the boat deck finally
woke him up. When he looked out of the porthole and saw everybody in lifebelts, he catapulted
out of bed, into his clothes, and rushed on deck to help. Not exactly an auspicious start, but
then, as Lowe later explained to US senator Smith, ‘You must remember that we do not have
any too much sleep, and therefore when we sleep we die.’
Second Officer Charles Herbert Lightoller was late too, but for an entirely different reason.
Like Lowe, he was off duty in his bunk when the Titanic hit, but he woke up instantly and, in
his bare feet, ran out on the boat deck to see what was up. Nothing could be seen on either side
of the ship, except on the starboard wing of the bridge, where he dimly made out Captain Smith
and First Officer Murdoch. They too were peering out into the night.
Lightoller returned to his cabin and thought it over. Something undoubtedly was wrong with
the ship – first that jar, now the silent engines. But he was of duty and, until called, it was no
business of his. When they needed him, they would send for him. When this happened, he
should be where they’d expect to find him. Lightoller got back into bed and lay awake
waiting …
Five, fifteen, thirty minutes went by. He could now hear the roar of the funnels blowing off
steam, the rising sound of voices, the clanking of gears. But still, his duty was to be where
they’d expect to find him.
At 12.10 Fourth Officer Boxhall finally came bursting in: ‘You know we have struck an
iceberg.’
‘I know we have struck something,’ Lightoller replied, getting up and starting to dress.
‘The water is up to F deck in the mail room,’ continued Boxhall, by way of a little prodding.
But no urging was needed. Lightoller was already well on the way. Cool, diligent, cautious, he
knew his duty to the letter. He was the perfect Second Officer.
On the boat deck men began to clear the sixteen wooden lifeboats. There were eight on each
side – a cluster of four towards the bow, then an open space of 190 feet, then another four
towards the stern. Port boats had even numbers, starboard odd. They were numbered in
sequence, starting from the bow. In addition, four canvas collapsible lifeboats – known as
Englehardts – were stowed on deck. These could be fitted into the empty davits after the two
forward boats were lowered. The collapsibles were lettered A, B, C and D.
All the boats together could carry 1,178 people. On this Sunday night there were 2,207
people on board the Titanic.
This mathematical discrepancy was known by none of the passengers and few of the crew,
but most of them wouldn’t have cared anyhow. The Titanic was unsinkable. Everybody said so. 
When Mrs Albert Caldwell was watching the deck hands carry up luggage at Southampton, she
had asked one of them, ‘Is this ship really non-sinkable?’
‘Yes, lady,’ he answered. ‘God Himself could not sink this ship.’
So now the passengers stood calmly on the boat deck – unworried but very confused. There
had been no boat drill. The passengers had no boat assignments. The crew had assignments, but
hardly anybody bothered to look at the list. Now they were playing it strictly by ear – yet
somehow the crew seemed to sense where they were needed and how to be useful. The years
of discipline were paying off.
Little knots of men swarmed over each boat, taking off the canvas covers, clearing the masts
and useless paraphernalia, putting in lanterns and tins of biscuits. Other men stood at the davits,
fitting in cranks and uncoiling the lines. One by one the cranks were turned. The davits creaked,
the pulleys squealed and the boats slowly swung out free of the ship. Next, a few feet of line
were paid out, so that each boat would lie flush with the boat deck … or, in some cases, flush
with promenade deck A directly below.
But the going was slow. Second Officer Lightoller, in charge of the port side, believed in
channels, and Chief Officer Wilde’s side seemed quite a bottleneck. When Lightoller asked
permission to swing out, Wilde said, ‘No, wait.’ Lightoller finally went to the bridge and got
orders direct from Captain Smith. Now Lightoller asked Wilde if he could load up. Again
Wilde said no; again Lightoller went to the bridge; again Captain Smith gave him the nod: ‘Yes,
put the women and children in and lower away.’
Lightoller then lowered boat 4 level with A deck and ordered the women and children down
to be loaded from there. It seemed safer that way – less chance of falling overboard, less
distance to the water, and it helped clear the boat deck for hard work ahead. Too late he
remembered the promenade deck was closed here and the windows were shut. While someone
was sent to get the windows open, he hastily recalled everybody and moved aft to boat 6. 
With one foot in No. 6 and one on deck, Lightoller now called for women and children. The
response was anything but enthusiastic. Why trade the bright decks of the Titanic for a few dark
hours in a rowboat? Even John Jacob Astor ridiculed the idea: ‘We are safer here than in that
little boat.’
As Mrs J. Stuart White climbed into No. 8, a friend called, ‘When you get back you’ll need a
pass. You can’t get back on tomorrow morning without a pass!’ 
When Mrs Constance Willard flatly refused to enter the boat, an exasperated officer finally
shrugged: ‘Don’t waste time – let her go if she won’t get in!’
And there was music to lull them too. Bandmaster Wallace Henry Hartley had assembled his
men, and the band was playing ragtime. Just now they stood in the first-class lounge, where
many of the passengers waited before orders came to lower the boats. Later they moved to the
boat deck forward, near the entrance to the grand staircase. They looked a little nondescript –
some in blue uniform coats, some in white jackets – but there was nothing wrong with their
music.
Everything had been done to give the Titanic the best band on the Atlantic. The White Star
Line had even raided the Cunarder Mauretania for bandmaster Hartley. Pianist Theodore
Brailey and cellist Roger Bricoux were easily wooed from the Carpathia. ‘Well, steward,’
they happily told Robert Vaughan who served them on the little Cunarder, ‘we will soon be on
a decent ship with decent grub.’ Bass player Fred Clark had never shipped before, but he was
well known on the Scottish concert circuit, and the line brought him away too. First violinist
Jock Hume hadn’t yet played in any concerts, but his fiddle had a gay note the passengers
seemed to love. And so it went – eight fine musicians who knew just what to do. Tonight the
beat was fast, the music loud and cheerful.
On the starboard side things moved a little faster. But not fast enough for President Ismay,
who dashed to and fro, urging the men to hurry. ‘There’s no time to lose!’ he urged Third
Officer Pitman, who was working on boat 5. Pitman shrugged him off – he didn’t know Ismay
and he had no time for an officious stranger in carpet slippers. Ismay told him to load the boat
with women and children. This was too much for Pitman: ‘I await the commander’s orders,’ he
announced.
Suddenly it dawned on him who the stranger might be. He eased down the deck, gave his
hunch to Captain Smith and asked if he should do what Ismay wanted. Smith answered a crisp,
‘Carry on.’ Returning to No. 5, Pitman jumped in and called, ‘Come along, ladies!’
Mrs Catherine Crosby and her daughter Harriet were firmly propelled into the boat by her
husband, Captain Edward Gifford Crosby, a Milwaukee shipping man and an old Great Lakes
skipper. Captain Crosby had a way of knowing things – right after the crash he scolded his
wife, ‘You’ll lie there and drown!’ Later he told her, ‘This ship is badly damaged, but I think
the watertight compartments will hold her up.’ Now he was taking no chances.
Slowly others edged forward – Miss Helen Ostby … Mrs F. M. Warren … Mrs Washington
Dodge and her five-year-old son … a young stewardess. When no more women would go
alone, a few couples were allowed. Then a few single men. On the starboard side this was the
rule all evening – women first, but men if there was still room.
Just aft, First Officer Murdoch, in charge of the starboard side, was having the same trouble
filling No. 7. Serial movie star Dorothy Gibson jumped in, followed by her mother. Then they
persuaded their bridge companions of the evening, William Sloper and Fred Seward, to join
them. Others trickled in, until there were finally nineteen or twenty in the boat. Murdoch felt he
could wait no longer. At 12.45 he waved away No. 7 – the first boat down.
Then he ordered Pitman to take charge of No. 5, told him to hang around the after gangway,
shook hands and smiled: ‘Good-bye, good luck.’
As No. 5 creaked downward, Bruce Ismay was beside himself. ‘Lower away! Lower away!
Lower away! Lower away!’ he chanted, waving one arm in huge circles while hanging on to the
davit with the other.
‘If you’ll get the hell out of the way,’ exploded Fifth Officer Lowe, who was working the
davits, ‘I’ll be able to do something! You want me to lower away quickly? You’ll have me
drown the whole lot of them!’
Ismay was completely abashed. Without a word he turned and walked forward to No. 3.
Old-timers in the crew gasped. They felt Lowe’s outburst was the most dramatic thing that
could happen tonight. A Fifth Officer doesn’t insult the president of the line and get away with
it. When they reached New York, there would be a day of reckoning.
And nearly everyone still expected to reach New York. At worst, they would all be
transferred to other ships.
‘Peuchen,’said Charles M. Hays as the major began helping with the boats, ‘this ship is
good for eight hours yet. I have just been getting this from one of the best old seamen, Mr
Crosby of Milwaukee.’
Monsieur Gatti, maître of the ship’s à la carte French restaurant, was equally unperturbed.
Standing alone on the boat deck, he seemed the picture of dignity – his top hat firmly in place,
grip in hand and a shawl travelling-blanket folded neatly over his arm.
Mr and Mrs Lucien Smith and Mr and Mrs Sleeper Harper sat quietly chatting in the gym just
off the boat deck. The mechanical horses were riderless now – the Astors had moved off
somewhere else. And for once there was no one on the stationary bicycles, which the
passengers liked to ride, pedalling red and blue arrows round a big white clock. But the room
with its bright, blocked linoleum floor and the comfortable wicker chairs was far more
pleasant than the boat deck. Certainly it was warmer, and there seemed no hurry.
In the nearly empty smoking-room on A deck, four men sat calmly around a table – Archie
Butt, Clarence Moore, Frank Millet, and Arthur Ryerson seemed deliberately trying to avoid
the noisy confusion of the boat deck.
Far below, greaser Thomas Ranger began turning off some forty-five electric fans used in the
engine room, and he thought about the ones he had to repair tomorrow. Electrician Alfred
White, working on the dynamos, brewed some coffee at his post.
At the very stern of the Titanic, Quartermaster George Thomas Rowe still paced his lonely
watch. He had seen no one, heard nothing since the iceberg glided by nearly an hour ago.
Suddenly he was amazed to see a lifeboat floating near the starboard side. He phoned the
bridge – did they know there was a boat afloat? An incredulous voice asked who he was.
Rowe explained, and the bridge then realized he had been overlooked. They told him to come
to the bridge right away and bring some rockets with him. Rowe dropped down to a locker one
deck below, picked up a tin box with twelve rockets inside, and clambered forward – the last
man to learn what was going on.
Others knew all too well by now. Old Dr O’Loughlin whispered to stewardess Mary Sloan,
‘Child, things are very bad.’ Stewardess Annie Robinson stood near the mail room, watching
the water rise on F deck. As she puzzled over a man’s Gladstone bag lying abandoned in the
corridor, carpenter Hutchinson arrived with a lead line in his hand – he looked bewildered,
distracted, wildly upset. A little later Miss Robinson bumped into Thomas Andrews on A deck.
Andrews greeted her like a cross parent:
‘I thought I told you to put your lifebelt on!’
‘Yes,’she replied, ‘but I thought it mean to wear it.’
‘Never mind that. Put it on; walk about; let the passengers see you.’
‘It looks rather mean.’
‘No, put it on … Well, if you value your life, put it on.’
Andrews understood people very well. A charming, dynamic man, he was everywhere,
helping everyone. And people looked to him. He handled them differently, depending on what
he thought of them. He told garrulous steward Johnson that everything would be all right. He
told Mr and Mrs Albert Dick, his casual dinner companions, ‘She is torn to bits below, but she
will not sink if her after bulkheads hold.’ He told competent stewardess Mary Sloan, ‘It is very
serious, but keep the bad news quiet, for fear of panic.’ He told John B. Thayer, whom he
trusted implicitly, that he didn’t give the ship ‘much over an hour to live’.
Some of the crew didn’t need to be told. About 12.45, able seaman John Poingdestre left the
boat deck to get his rubber boots. He found them in the forecastle on E deck forward, and was
just starting up again when the wooden wall between his quarters and some third-class space to
starboard suddenly gave way. The sea surged in, and he fought his way out through water up to
his waist.
Further aft, dining-saloon steward Ray went to his quarters on E deck to get a warmer
overcoat. Coming back up, he went forward on ‘Scotland Road’ towards the main staircase.
The jostling firemen and third-class passengers were gone now. All was quiet along the broad
working alleyway, except for water sloshing along the corridor from somewhere forward.
Still further aft, assistant second steward Joseph Thomas Wheat dropped down to pick up
some valuables from his room on F deck, port side. It was right next to the Turkish bath, a
gloriously garish set of rooms that formed a sort of bridge between the Victorian and Rudolph
Valentino eras of interior decoration. The mosaic floor, the blue-green tiled walls, the gilded
beams in the dull red ceiling, the stanchions encased in carved teak – all were still perfectly
dry.
But when Wheat walked a few yards down the corridor and started back up the stairs, he
saw a strange sight: a thin stream of water was flowing down the stairs from E deck above. It
was only a quarter-inch deep – just about covered the heel of his shoe – as he splashed up the
steps. When he reached E deck, he saw it was coming from the starboard side forward.
He guessed what had happened: water forward on F deck, blocked by the watertight
compartment door, had risen to E deck, where there was no door, and now was slopping over
into the next compartment aft.
Boiler room No. 5 was the only place where everything seemed under control. After the
fires were drawn, leading fireman Barrett sent most of the stokers up to their boat stations. He
and a few others stayed behind to help engineers Harvey and Shepherd with the pumps.
At Harvey’s orders he lifted the iron manhole cover off the floor plates on the starboard
side, so Harvey could get at the valves to adjust the pumps.
The boiler room was now clouding up with steam from the water used to wet down the
furnaces. In the dim light of their own private Turkish bath, the men worked on … vague shapes
moving about through the mist.
Then Shepherd, hurrying across the room, fell into the manhole and broke his leg. Harvey,
Barrett and fireman George Kemish rushed over. They lifted him up and carried him to the
pump room, a closed-off space at one end of the boiler room.
No time to do more than make him comfortable … then back into the clouds of steam. Soon
orders came down from the bridge for all hands to report to boat stations. As the men went up,
Shepherd still lay in the pump room; Barrett and Harvey kept working with the valves. Another
fifteen minutes and both men were beginning to cheer up – the room was still dry, the rhythm of
the pumps was fast and smooth.
Suddenly the sea came roaring through the space between the boilers at the forward end of
the room. The whole bulkhead between No. 5 and No. 6 collapsed.
Harvey shouted to Barrett to make for the escape ladder. Barrett scrambled up, the foam
surging around his feet. Harvey himself turned towards the pump room where Shepherd lay. He
was still heading there when he disappeared under the torrent of rising water.
The silence in the Marconi shack was broken only by the rasping spark of the wireless, as
Phillips rapped out his call for help and took down the answers that bounced back. Bride was
still struggling into his clothes, between dashes to the bridge.
So far the news was encouraging. First to reply was the North German Lloyd steamer
Frankfort. At 12.18 she sent a crisp ‘OK … Stand by’ – but no position. In another minute
acknowledgements were pouring in – the Canadian Pacific’s Mt Temple … the Allan liner
Virginian … the Russian tramp Birma.
The night crackled with signals. Ships out of direct contact got the word from those within
range … The news spread in ever-widening circles. Cape Race heard it directly and relayed it
inland. On the roof of Wanamaker’s department store in New York, a young wireless operator
named David Sarnoff caught a faint signal and also passed it on. The whole world was
snapping to agonized attention.
Close at hand, the Cunarder Carpathia steamed southward in complete ignorance. Her
single wireless operator, Harold Thomas Cottam, was on the bridge when Phillips sent his
CQD. Now Cottam was back at his set and thought he’d be helpful. Did the Titanic know, he
casually asked, that there were some private messages waiting for her from Cape Race?
It was 12.25 when Phillips tapped back an answer that brushed aside the Carpathia’s
courteous gesture: ‘Come at once. We have struck a berg. It’s a CQD, old man. Position 41.46N
50.14W.’
A moment of appalled silence … then Cottam asked whether to tell his captain. Phillips:
‘Yes, quick.’ Another five minutes and welcome news – the Carpathia was only fifty-eight
miles away and ‘coming hard’.
At 12.34 it was the Frankfort again – she was 150 miles away. Phillips asked, ‘Are you
coming to our assistance?’ Frankfort: ‘What is the matter with you?’ Phillips: ‘Tell your
captain to come to our help. We are on the ice.’
Captain Smith now dropped into the shack for a first-hand picture. The Olympic, the
Titanic’s huge sister ship, was just chiming in. She was 500 miles away; but her set was
powerful, she could handle a major rescue job and there was a strong bond between the two
liners. Phillips kept in close touch, while urging on the ships that were nearer.
‘What call are you sending?’ Smith asked.
‘CQD,’ Phillips answered noncommitally.
Bride had a bright idea. While CQD was the traditional distress call, an international
convention had just agreed to use instead the letters SOS – they were easy for the rankest
amateur to pick up. So Bride suggested: ‘Send SOS; it’s the new call, and it may be your last
chance to send it.’
Phillips laughed at the joke and switched the call. The clock in the wireless shack said 12.45
a.m. when the Titanic sent the first SOS ever flashed by an ocean liner.
None of the ships contacted seemed as promising as the light that winked ten miles off the
Titanic’s port bow. Through his binoculars Fourth Officer Boxhall saw clearly that it was a
steamer. Once, as he tried to get in touch with the Morse lamp, he felt he saw an answer. But he
could make nothing of it and finally decided it must be her mast light flickering.
Stronger measures were necessary. As soon as Quartermaster Rowe reached the bridge,
Captain Smith asked if he had brought the rockets. Rowe produced them, and the Captain
ordered, ‘Fire one, and fire one every five or six minutes.’
At 12.45 a blinding flash seared the night. The first rocket shot up from the starboard side of
the bridge. Up … up it soared, far above the lacework of masts and rigging. Then with a
distant, muffled report it burst, and a shower of bright white stars floated down towards the
sea. In the blue-white light Fifth Officer Lowe remembered catching a glimpse of Bruce
Ismay’s startled face.
Ten miles away, apprentice James Gibson stood on the bridge of the Californian. The
strange ship that came up from the east had not moved for an hour, and Gibson studied her with
interest. With glasses he could make out her side lights and a glare of lights on her afterdeck. At
one point he thought she was trying to signal the Californian with her Morse lamp. He tried to
answer with his own lamp, but soon gave up. He decided the stranger’s masthead light was
merely flickering.
Second Officer Herbert Stone, pacing the Californian’s bridge, also kept his eye on this
strange steamer. At 12.45 he saw a sudden flash of white light burst over her. Strange, he
thought, that a ship would fire rockets at night.
4. ‘You Go and I’ll Stay a While’
Second-class passenger Lawrence Beesley considered himself the rankest landlubber, but even
he knew what rockets meant. The Titanic needed help – needed it so badly she was calling on
any ship near enough to see.
The others on the boat deck understood too. There was no more joking or lingering. In fact,
there was hardly time to say good-bye.
‘It’s all right, little girl,’ called Dan Marvin to his new bride; ‘you go and I’ll stay a while.’
He blew her a kiss as she entered the boat.
‘I’ll see you later,’ Adolf Dyker smiled as he helped Mrs Dyker across the gunwale.
‘Be brave; no matter what happens, be brave,’ Dr W. T. Minahan told Mrs Minahan as he
stepped back with the other men.
Mr Turrell Cavendish said nothing to Mrs Cavendish. Just a kiss … a long look … another
kiss … and he disappeared into the crowd.
Mark Fortune took his wife’s valuables, as he and his son Charles saw off Mrs Fortune and
their three daughters. ‘I’ll take care of them; we’re going in the next boat,’ he explained.
‘Charles, take care of Father,’ one of the girls called back to her brother.
‘Walter, you must come with me,’ begged Mrs Walter D. Douglas.
‘No,’ Mr Douglas replied, turning away, ‘I must be a gentleman.’
‘Try and get off with Major Butt and Mr Moore,’ came a final bit of wifely advice. ‘They are
big, strong fellows and will surely make it.’
On the fringe of the crowd stood a young Spanish honeymoon couple. Señor Victor de
Satode Penasco was just eighteen years old and his bride only seventeen. Neither could
understand English. As they watched in bewilderment, the Countess of Rothes spied them and
hurried over. A few hurried words in French … then Señor Penasco delivered his bride to the
countess’s care and stepped back into the shadows.
Some of the wives still refused to go. Mr and Mrs Edgar Meyer of New York felt so selfconscious arguing about it in public that they went down to their cabin. There, they decided to
part on account of their baby.
Arthur Ryerson had to lay down the law to Mrs Ryerson: ‘You must obey orders. When they
say “Women and children to the boats,” you must go when your turn comes. I’ll stay here with
Jack Thayer. We’ll be all right.’
Alexander T. Compton Jr was just as firm when his mother announced she would stay rather
than leave him behind: ‘Don’t be foolish, Mother. You and Sister go in the boat – I’ll look out
for myself.’
Mr and Mrs Lucien Smith were having the same kind of argument. Seeing Captain Smith
standing near with a megaphone, Mrs Smith had an inspiration. She went up to him, explained
she was all alone in the world, and asked if her husband could go along with her. The old
captain ignored her, lifted his megaphone and shouted, ‘Women and children first!’
At this point Mr Smith broke in: ‘Never mind, Captain, about that; I’ll see she gets in the
boat.’ Turning to his wife, he spoke very slowly: ‘I never expected to ask you to obey, but this
is one time you must. It is only a matter of form to have women and children first. The ship is
thoroughly equipped and everyone on her will be saved.’
Mrs Smith asked him if he was being completely truthful. Mr Smith gave a firm, decisive
‘Yes’. So they kissed good-bye, and as the boat dropped to the sea, he called from the deck,
‘Keep your hands in your pockets; it is very cold weather.’
Sometimes it took more than gentle deception. Mrs Emil Taussig was clinging to her husband
when No. 8 started down with her daughter. Mrs Taussig turned and cried, ‘Ruth!’ The brief
distraction proved enough: two men tore her from Mr Taussig and dropped her into the
lowering boat.
A seaman yanked Mrs Charlotte Collyer by the arm, another by her waist, and they dragged
her from her husband Harvey. As she kicked to get free, she heard him call, ‘Go, Lottie! For
God’s sake, be brave and go! I’ll get a seat in another boat!’ When Celiney Yasbeck saw she had to go alone, she began yelling and crying to rejoin Mr
Yasbeck, but the boat dropped to the sea while she tried in vain to get out.
No amount of persuasion or force could move Mrs Hudson J. Allison of Montreal. A little
apart from the rest, she huddled close to Mr Allison. Their baby Trevor had gone in a boat with
the nurse, but Lorraine, their three-year-old daughter, still tugged at her mother’s skirt.
Mrs Isidor Straus also refused to go: ‘I’ve always stayed with my husband; so why should I
leave him now?’
They had indeed come a long way together: the ashes of the Confederacy … the small china
business in Philadelphia … building Macy’s into a national institution … Congress … and now
the happy twilight that crowned successful life – advisory boards, charities, hobbies, travel.
This winter they had been to Cap Martin, and the Titanic’s maiden voyage had seemed a
pleasant way to finish the trip.
Tonight the Strauses came on deck with the others, and at first Mrs Straus seemed uncertain
what to do. At one point she handed some small jewellery to her maid Ellen Bird, then took it
back again. Later she crossed the boat deck and almost entered No. 8 – then turned around and
rejoined Mr Straus. Now her mind was made up: ‘We have been living together for many years. Where you go, I go.’
Archibald Gracie, Hugh Woolner, other friends tried in vain to make her go. Then Woolner
turned to Mr Straus: ‘I’m sure nobody would object to an old gentleman like you getting in …’
‘I will not go before the other men,’ he said, and that was that. Mrs Straus tightened her grasp
on his arm, patted it, smiled up at him, and smiled at the group hovering around them. Then they
sat down together on a pair of deck chairs.
But most of the women entered the boats – wives escorted by their husbands, single ladies
by the men who had volunteered to look after them. This was the era when gentlemen formally
offered their services to ‘unprotected ladies’ at the start of an Atlantic voyage. Tonight the
courtesy came in handy.
Mrs William T. Graham, nineteen-year-old Margaret and her governess Miss Shutes were
helped into boat 8 by Howard Case, London manager of Vacuum Oil, and young Washington
Augustus Roebling, the steel heir who was striking out on his own as manager of the Mercer
Automobile Works in Trenton, New Jersey. As No. 8 dropped to the sea, Mrs Graham watched
Case, leaning against the rail, light a cigarette and wave good-bye.
Mrs E. D. Appleton, Mrs R. C. Cornell, Mrs J. Murray Brown and Miss Edith Evans,
returning from a family funeral in Britain, were under Colonel Gracie’s wing, but somehow in
the crowd he lost them, and it wasn’t until much later that he found them again.
Perhaps the colonel was distracted by his simultaneous efforts to look after Mrs Churchill
Candee, his table companion in the dining-saloon. Mrs Candee was returning from Paris to see
her son, who had suffered the novelty of an aeroplane accident, and she must have been
attractive indeed. Just about everybody wanted to protect her. When Edward A. Kent, another table companion, found her after the crash, she gave him an
ivory miniature of her mother for safekeeping. Then Hugh Woolner and Bjornstrom Steffanson
arrived and helped her into boat 6. Woolner waved good-bye, assuring her that they would help
her on board again when the Titanic ‘steadied herself’. A little later Gracie and Clinch Smith
dashed up, also in search of Mrs Candee, but Woolner told them, perhaps a little smugly, that
she had been cared for and was safely away.
It was just as well, for the slant in the deck was steeper, and even the carefree were growing
uneasy. Some who left everything in their cabins now thought better of it and ventured below to
get their valuables. They were in for unpleasant surprises. Celiney Yasbeck found her room
was completely under water. Gus Cohen discovered the same thing. Victorine, the Ryersons’
French maid, had an even more disturbing experience. She found her cabin still dry, but as she
rummaged about, she heard a key turn, and suddenly realized the steward was locking the
stateroom door to prevent looting. Her shriek was just in time to keep him from locking her in. Without stretching her luck any further, she dashed back on deck empty-handed.
Time was clearly running out. Thomas Andrews walked from boat to boat, urging the women
to hurry: ‘Ladies, you must get in at once. There is not a moment to lose. You cannot pick and
choose your boat. Don’t hesitate. Get in, get in!’
Andrews had good reason to be exasperated. Women were never more unpredictable. One
girl waiting to climb into No. 8 suddenly cried out, ‘I’ve forgotten Jack’s photograph and must
get it.’ Everybody protested, but she darted below. In a moment she reappeared with the picture
and was rushed into the boat.
It was all so urgent – and yet so calm – that Second Officer Lightoller felt he was wasting
time when Chief Officer Wilde asked him to help find the firearms. Quickly he led the captain, Wilde and First Officer Murdoch to the locker where they were kept. Wilde shoved one of the
guns into Lightoller’s hand, remarking, ‘You may need it.’ Lightoller stuck it in his pocket and
hurried back to the boat.
One after another they now dropped rapidly into the sea: No. 6 at 12.55 … No. 3 at
1.00 … No. 8 at 1.10. Watching them go, first-class passenger William Carter advised Harry
Widener to try for a boat. Widener shook his head : ‘I think I’ll stick to the big ship, Billy, and
take a chance.’
Some of the crew weren’t as optimistic. When assistant second steward Wheat noticed chief
steward Latimer wearing his lifebelt over his greatcoat, he urged the chief to put it under the
coat – this made swimming easier.
On the bridge, as Fourth Officer Boxhall and Quartermaster Rowe fired off more rockets,
Boxhall still couldn’t believe what was happening. ‘Captain,’ he asked, ‘is it really serious?’
‘Mr Andrews tells me,’ Smith answered quietly, ‘that he gives her from an hour to an hour
and a half.’
Lightoller had a more tangible yardstick – the steep, narrow emergency staircase that ran
from the boat deck all the way down to E deck. The water was slowly crawling up the stairs,
and from time to time Lightoller walked over to the entrance and checked the number of steps it
had climbed. He could see very easily, for the lights still gleamed under the pale green water.
His gauge showed time was flying. The pace grew faster – and sloppier. A pretty French girl
stumbled and fell as she tried to climb into No. 9. An older woman in a black dress missed No.
10 entirely. She fell between the boat and the side of the ship. But as the crowd gasped,
someone miraculously caught her ankle. Others hauled her into the promenade deck below and
she climbed back to the boat deck for another try. This time she made it.
Some of them lost their nerve. An old lady made a big fuss at No. 9, finally shook off
everybody, and ran away from the boat altogether. A hysterical woman thrashed about
helplessly, trying to climb into No. 11. Steward Witter stood on the rail to help her, but she lost
her footing anyway, and they tumbled into the boat together. A large fat woman stood crying
near No. 13: ‘Don’t put me in the boat. I don’t want to go into the boat! I have never been in an
open boat in my life!’
Steward Ray brushed aside her protests – ‘You’ve got to go, and you may as well keep
quiet.’
A plan to fill some of the boats from the lower gangways went completely haywire. The
doors that were to be used were never opened. The boats that were to stand by rowed off. The
people who were to go were left stranded. When the Caldwells and several others went all the
way down to a closed gangway on C deck, somebody who didn’t know about the plan locked
the door behind them. Later some men on the deck above discovered the group and lowered a
ladder for them to crawl back up.
A shortage of trained seamen made the confusion worse. Some of the best men had been used
to man the early boats. Other old hands were off on special jobs – rounding up lanterns,
opening the A deck windows, helping fire the rockets. Six seamen were lost when they went
down to open one of the lower gangways; they never came back … probably trapped far
below. Now Lightoller was rationing the hands he had left – only two crewmen to a lifeboat.
No. 6 was halfway down when a woman called up to the boat deck, ‘We’ve only one seaman
in the boat!’
‘Any seamen there?’ Lightoller asked the people on deck.
‘If you like, I will go,’ called a voice from the crowd.
‘Are you a seaman?’
‘I am a yachtsman.’
‘If you’re sailor enough to get out on that fall, you can go down.’ Major Arthur Godfrey
Peuchen – Vice-Commodore of the Royal Canadian Yacht Club – swung himself out on the
forward fall and slid down into the boat. He was the only male passenger Lightoller allowed in
a boat that night.
Men had it luckier on the starboard side. Murdoch continued to allow them in if there was
room. The French aviator Pierre Maréchal and sculptor Paul Chevré climbed into No. 7. A
couple of Gimbels buyers reached No. 5. When the time came to lower No. 3, Henry Sleeper
Harper not only joined his wife, but he brought along his Pekingese Sun Yat-Sen and an
Egyptian dragoman named Hamad Hassah, whom he had picked up in Cairo as a sort of joke.
On the same side, Dr Washington Dodge was standing uncertainly in the shadow of No. 13,
when dining-room steward Ray noticed him. Ray asked whether the doctor’s wife and son
were off, and Dodge said yes. Ray was relieved, because he took a personal interest in them.
He had served the Dodges coming over on the Olympic. In fact, he was why the Dodges were
on board … It was no time for philosophy – Ray called out, ‘You had better get in here,’ and he
pushed the doctor into the boat.
The scene was almost punctilious at No. 1. Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon, his wife and her
secretary Miss Francatelli – whom Lady Duff Gordon liked to call Miss Franks – asked
Murdoch if they could enter.
‘Oh, certainly do; I’ll be very pleased,’ Murdoch replied, according to Sir Cosmo. (On the
other hand, lookout George Symons, standing near, thought Murdoch merely said, ‘Yes, jump
in.’) Then two Americans, Abraham Solomon and C. E. H. Stengel, came up and were invited
in too. Stengel had trouble climbing over the rail; finally got on top of it and rolled into the
boat. Murdoch, an agile terrier of a man, laughed pleasantly, ‘That’s the funniest thing I’ve seen
tonight.’
Nobody else seemed to be around – all the nearby boats were gone and the crowd had
moved aft. When the five passengers were safely loaded, Murdoch added six stokers, put
lookout Symons in charge and told him, ‘Stand off from the ship’s side and return when we call
you.’ Then he waved to the men at the davits, and they lowered No. 1 – capacity forty persons –
with exactly twelve people.
As the boat creaked down, greaser Walter Hurst watched it from the forward well deck. He
remembers observing somewhat caustically, ‘If they are sending the boats away, they might just
as well put some people in them.’
Down in third class there were those who didn’t even have the opportunity to miss going in
No. 1. A swarm of men and women milled around the foot of the main steerage staircase, all
the way aft on E deck. They had been there ever since the stewards got them up. At first there
were just women and married couples; but then the men arrived from forward, pouring back
along ‘Scotland Road’ with their luggage. Now they were all jammed together – noisy and
restless, looking more like inmates than passengers amid the low ceilings, the naked light
bulbs, the scrubbed simplicity of the plain white walls.
Third-class steward John Edward Hart struggled to get them into life jackets. He didn’t have
much luck – partly because he was also assuring them there was no danger, partly because
many of them didn’t understand English anyhow. Interpreter Muller did the best he could with
the scores of Finns and Swedes, but it was slow going.
At 12.30 orders came down to send the women and children up to the boat deck. It was
hopeless to expect them to find their way alone through the maze of passages normally sealed
off from third class; so Hart decided to escort them up in little groups. This took time too, but at
last a convoy was organized and started off.
It was a long trip – up the broad stairs to the third-class lounge on C deck … across the open
well deck … by the second-class library and into first-class quarters. Then down the long
corridor by the surgeon’s office, the private saloon for the maids and valets of first-class
passengers, finally up the grand stairway to the boat deck.
Hart led his group to boat No. 8, but even then the job wasn’t over. As fast as he got them in,
they would jump out and go inside where it was warm.
It was after one o’clock when Hart got back to E deck to organize another trip. It was no
easier. Many women still refused to go. On the other hand, some of the men now insisted on
going. But that was out of the question, according to the orders he had.
Finally he was off again on the same long trek. It was 1.20 by the time he reached the boat
deck and led the group to No. 15. No time to go back for more. Murdoch ordered him into the
boat and off he went with his second batch at about 1.30.
There was no hard-and-fast policy. One way or another, many of the steerage passengers
avoided the cul-de-sac on E deck and got topside. There they stood waiting, nobody to guide or
help them. A few of the barriers that marked off their quarters were down. Those who came
across these openings wandered into other parts of the ship. Some eventually found their way
to the boat deck.
But most of the barriers were not down, and the steerage passengers who sensed danger and
aimed for the boats were strictly on their own resources.
Like a stream of ants, a thin line of them curled their way up a crane in the after well deck,
crawled along the boom to the first-class quarters, then over the railing and on up to the boat
deck.
Some slipped under a rope that had been stretched across the after well deck, penning them
even further to the stern than the regular barrier. But once through, it was fairly easy to get to
the second-class stairway and on up to the boats.
Others somehow reached the second-class promenade space on B deck, then couldn’t find
their way any further. In desperation they turned to an emergency ladder meant for the crew’s
use. This ladder was near the brightly lit windows of the first-class à la carte restaurant, and
as Anna Sjoblom prepared to climb up with another girl, they looked in. They marvelled at the
tables beautifully set with silver and china for the following day. The other girl had an impulse
to kick the window out and go inside, but Anna persuaded her that the company might make
them pay for the damage.
Many of the steerage men climbed another emergency ladder from the forward well deck,
and then up the regular first-class companionway to the boats.
Others beat on the barriers, demanding to be let through. As third-class passenger Daniel
Buckley climbed some steps leading to a gate to first class, the man ahead of him was chucked
down by a seaman standing guard. Furious, the passenger jumped to his feet and raced up the
steps again. The seaman took one look, locked the gate and fled. The passenger smashed the
lock and dashed through, howling what he would do if he caught the sailor. With the gate down,
Buckley and dozens of others swarmed into first class. At another barrier a seaman held back
Kathy Gilnagh, Kate Mullins and Kate Murphy. (On the Titanic all Irish girls seemed to be
named Katherine.) Suddenly steerage passenger Jim Farrell, a strapping Irishman from the
girls’ home country, barged up. ‘Great God, man!’ he roared. ‘Open the gate and let the girls
through!’ It was a superb demonstration of sheer voice-power. To the girls’ astonishment the
sailor meekly complied.
Even then, Kathy Gilnagh’s troubles weren’t over. She took a wrong turn … lost her
friends … found herself alone on the second-class promenade, with no idea how to reach the
boats. The deck was deserted, except for a single man leaning against the rail, staring moodily
into the night. He let her stand on his shoulders, and she managed to climb to the next deck up. When she finally reached the boat deck, No. 16 was just starting down. A man warned her off –
there was no more room.
‘But I want to go with my sister!’ Kathy cried. She had no sister, but it seemed a good way to
move the man. And it worked. ‘All right, get in,’ he sighed, and she slipped into the boat as it
dropped to the sea – another third-class passenger safely away.
But for every steerage passenger who found an escape, hundreds milled aimlessly around the
forward well deck … the after poop deck … or the foot of the E deck staircase. Some stayed in
their cabins – that’s where Mary Agatha Glynn and four discouraged room-mates were found
by young Martin Gallagher. He quickly escorted them to boat 13 and stepped back on the deck
again. Others turned to prayer. When steerage passenger Gus Cohen passed the third-class
dining-saloon about an hour after the crash, he saw quite a number gathered there, many with
rosaries in their hands.
The staff of the first-class à la carte restaurant were having the hardest time of all. They
were neither fish nor fowl. Obviously they weren’t passengers, but technically they weren’t
crew either. The restaurant was not run by the White Star but by Monsieur Gatti as a
concession.
Thus, the employees had no status at all. And to make matters worse, they were French and
Italian – objects of deep Anglo-Saxon suspicion at a time like this in 1912.
From the very start they never had a chance. Steward Johnson remembered seeing them
herded together down by their quarters on E deck aft. Manager Gatti, his chef and the chef’s
assistant, Paul Maugé, were the only ones who made it to the boat deck. They got through
because they happened to be in civilian clothes; the crew thought they were passengers.
Down in the engine room no one even thought of getting away. Men struggled desperately to
keep the steam up … the lights lit … the pumps going. Chief engineer Bell had all the
watertight doors raised aft of boiler room No. 4 – when the water reached here they could be
lowered again; meanwhile it would be easier to move around.
Greaser Fred Scott worked to free a shipmate trapped in the after tunnel behind one of the
doors. Greaser Thomas Ranger turned off the last of the forty-five ventilating fans – they used
too much electricity. Trimmer Thomas Patrick Dillon helped to drag long sections of pipe from
the aft compartments, to get more volume out of the suction pump in boiler room No. 4.
Here, trimmer George Cavell was busy drawing the fires. This meant even less power, but
there must be no explosion when the sea reached No. 4. It was about 1.20 and the job was
almost done when he noticed the water seeping up through the metal floor plates. Cavell
worked faster. When it reached his knees, he had had enough. He was almost at the top of the
escape ladder when he began to feel he had quit on his mates. Down again, only to find they
were gone too. His conscience clear, he climbed back up, this time for good.
Most of the boats were now gone. One by one they rowed slowly away from the Titanic,
oars bumping and splashing in the glass-smooth sea.
‘I never had an oar in my hand before, but I think I can row,’ a steward told Mrs J. Stuart
White, as No. 8 set out.
In every boat all eyes were glued on the Titanic. Her tall masts, the four big funnels stood
out sharp and black in the clear blue night. The bright promenade decks, the long rows of
portholes all blazed with light. From the boats they could see the people lining the rails; they
could hear the ragtime in the still night air. It seemed impossible that anything could be wrong
with this great ship; yet there they were out on the sea, and there she was, well down at the
head. Brilliantly lit from stem to stern, she looked like a sagging birthday cake.
Clumsily the boats moved further away. Those told to stand by now lay on their oars. Others,
told to make for the steamer whose lights shone in the distance, began their painful journey.
The steamer seemed agonizingly near. So near that Captain Smith told the people in boat 8 to
go over, land its passengers, and come back for more. About the same time he asked
Quartermaster Rowe at the rocket gun if he could Morse. Rowe replied he could a little, and
the captain said, ‘Call that ship up and when she replies, tell her, “We are the Titanic sinking;
please have all your boats ready.”’
Boxhall had already tried to reach her, but Rowe was more than eager to try his own luck; so
in between rocket firing he called her again and again. Still no answer. Then Rowe told
Captain Smith he thought he saw another light on the starboard quarter. The old skipper
squinted through his glasses, courteously told Rowe that it was a planet. But he liked the
eagerness of his young quartermaster, and he lent Rowe the glasses to see for himself.
Meanwhile Boxhall continued firing rockets. Sooner or later, somehow they would wake up
the stranger.
On the bridge of the Californian, Second Officer Stone and apprentice Gibson counted the
rockets – five by 12.55. Gibson tried his Morse lamp again, and at one o’clock lifted his
glasses for another look. He was just in time to see a sixth rocket.
At 1.10 Stone whistled down the speaking tube to the chart room and told Captain Lord. He
called back, ‘Are they company signals?’
‘I don’t know,’ Stone answered, ‘but they appear to me to be white rockets.’
The captain advised him to go on Morsing.
A little later Stone handed his glasses to Gibson, remarking: ‘Have a look at her now. She
looks very queer out of the water – her lights look queer.’
Gibson studied the ship carefully. She seemed to be listing. She had, as he called it, ‘a big
side out of the water’. And Stone, standing beside him, noticed that her red side light had
disappeared.
5. ‘I Believe She’s Gone, Hardy’
The other ships just didn’t seem to understand. At 1.25 the Olympic asked, ‘Are you steering
south to meet us?’ Phillips patiently explained, ‘We are putting the women off in the boats.’
Then the Frankfort: ‘Are there any ships around you already?’ Phillips ignored this one.
Again the Frankfort, asking for more details. This was too much. He jumped up, almost
screaming: ‘The damn fool! He says, “What’s up, old man?”’ Then he angrily tapped back:
‘You fool, stand by and keep out.’
From time to time Captain Smith dropped in – once to warn that the power was
fading … again to say she couldn’t last much longer … later to report that the water had
reached the engine room. At 1.45, Phillips begged the Carpathia: ‘Come as quickly as
possible, old man; engine room filling up to the boilers.’
Meanwhile Bride draped an overcoat over Phillips’shoulders, then managed to strap a
lifebelt on him. The problem of getting him into his boots was more complicated. Phillips
asked whether any boats were left – maybe the boots wouldn’t be needed.
Once he turned the set over to Bride, went out to see what was happening. He returned
shaking his head: ‘Things look very queer.’
They looked queer indeed. The sea now slopped over the Titanic’s forward well
deck … rippled around the cranes, the hatches, the foot of the mast … washed against the base
of the white superstructure. The roar of steam had died, the nerve-racking rockets had stopped
– but the slant of the deck was steeper and there was an ugly list to port.
About 1.40, Chief Officer Wilde shouted, ‘Everyone on the starboard side to straighten her
up!’ Passengers and crew trooped over, and the Titanic swung sluggishly back on even keel.
The work on the boats resumed.
As No. 2 prepared to cast off at 1.45, steward Johnson, his pockets bulging with oranges,
yelled up to the boat deck for a razor to cut the falls. Seaman McAuliffe dropped one down,
calling, ‘Remember me at Southampton and give it back to me!’ McAuliffe was probably the
last man on the Titanic so sure of returning to Southampton.
First Officer Murdoch knew better. As he walked along the deck with chief steward Hardy
of second class, he sighed, ‘I believe she’s gone, Hardy.’
There was no longer any difficulty persuading people to leave the ship. Paul Maugé, the
chef’s assistant, jumped ten feet into a dangling boat. Somebody on a lower deck tried to drag
him out, but he squirmed free and was safe.
Third-class passenger Daniel Buckley – safely through the broken gate and on to the boat
deck – took no more chances. With several other men he jumped into a boat and huddled there
crying. Most of the men were hauled out, but from somewhere he got a woman’s shawl. He said
Mrs Astor put it over him. In any case, the disguise worked.
Another young man – no more than a boy – wasn’t as lucky. Fifth Officer Lowe caught him
under a seat in No. 14 begging that he wouldn’t take up much room. Lowe drew his gun, but the
boy only pleaded harder. Then Lowe changed tactics, told him to be a man, and somehow got
him out. By now Mrs Charlotte Collyer and other women in the boat were sobbing, and her
eight-year-old daughter Marjory joined the uproar, tugging at Lowe’s arm and crying, ‘Oh, Mr
Man, don’t shoot, please don’t shoot the poor man!’
Lowe paused long enough to smile and nod at her reassuringly. The boy was out now,
anyhow, lying face down near a coil of rope.
But No. 14’s troubles weren’t over. Another wave of men rushed the boat. Seaman Scarrott
beat them back with the tiller. This time Lowe pulled his gun and shouted, ‘If anyone else tries
that, this is what he’ll get!’ He fired three times along the side of the ship as the boat dropped
down to the sea.
Murdoch barely stopped a rush at No. 15. He yelled at the crowd, ‘Stand back! Stand back!
It’s women first!’
All the way forward, there was more trouble at collapsible C, which had been fitted into the
davits used by No. 1. A big mob pushed and shoved, trying to climb aboard.
Two men dropped in. Purser Herbert McElroy fired twice into the air. Murdoch shouted,
‘Get out of this! Clear out of this!’ Hugh Woolner and Bjornstrom Steffanson – attracted by the
pistol flashes – rushed over to help. Yanking the culprits by arms, legs, anything, they cleared
the boat. The loading continued.
Jack Thayer stood off to one side with Milton Long, a young shipboard acquaintance from
Springfield, Massachusetts. They had met for the first time this evening over after-dinner
coffee. Following the crash, Long – who was travelling alone – attached himself to the Thayer
family, but he and Jack lost the older Thayers in the crowd on A deck. Now they were alone,
debating what to do, supposing the rest of the family was already off in the boats. They finally
decided to stay clear of boat C. With all the uproar, it seemed bound to tip over.
But they were wrong. Things gradually straightened out, and finally boat C was ready for
lowering. Chief Officer Wilde shouted to know who was in command. Hearing him, Captain
Smith turned to Quartermaster Rowe – still fiddling with the Morse lamp – and told him to take
charge. Rowe jumped in and got ready to lower.
Close by, President Bruce Ismay stood, helping to get the boat ready for lowering. He was
calmer now than in those early moments when Lowe had bawled him out – in fact he seemed
every inch an accepted member of the Titanic’s crew.
This was a frequent role for Ismay, but by no means his only one. Sometimes he preferred the
role of passenger. So far during the voyage he had shifted back and forth several times.
At Queenstown he was a sort of super-captain. He told chief engineer Bell the speed he
wanted for various stages of the voyage. He also set the New York arrival time at Wednesday
morning, instead of Tuesday night. He didn’t consult Captain Smith on this.
Later, at sea, Ismay was mostly a passenger, enjoying the fine cuisine of the à la carte
restaurant … shuffleboard … bridge … tea and scones in his deck chair on the port side of A
deck.
This Sunday he was enough of a member of the crew to see the ice message that arrived from
another ship. In the bright, sunny Palm Court – just as the bugler sounded lunch – Captain Smith
gave him a warning from the Baltic. During the afternoon Ismay (who liked to remind people
who he was) fished it out of his pocket and waved it at Mrs Ryerson and Mrs Thayer. In the
smoking-room before dinner, while the twilight still glowed through the amber-stained
windows, Captain Smith sought and got the message back. Then Ismay walked down to the
restaurant, immaculate in his dinner jacket, very much a first-class passenger.
After the crash he went back to being in the crew – up with the captain on the
bridge … consulting with chief engineer Bell … and now, despite the tongue-lashing from Fifth
Officer Lowe, shouted orders about the boats.
Then came another switch. At the very last moment he suddenly climbed into boat C. Down
it dropped, with forty-two people including Bruce Ismay – just another passenger.
Most of the passengers were different. William T. Stead, independent as ever, sat reading
alone in the first-class smoking-room. To fireman Kemish, passing by, he looked as though he
planned to stay there whatever happened.
Reverend Robert J. Bateman of Jacksonville stood outside, watching his sister-in-law Mrs
Ada Balls enter a boat. ‘If I don’t meet you again in this world,’ he called, ‘I will in the next.’
Then as the boat jerked down, he took off his necktie and tossed it to her as a keepsake.
George Widener and John B. Thayer leaned against the boat deck rail, quietly talking things
over. Contrary to young Jack’s guess, his father wasn’t safe in a boat and, in fact, didn’t have
any idea of entering one. A little way off, Archie Butt, Clarence Moore, Arthur Ryerson and
Walter Douglas stood silently together. Major Butt was very quiet, had no pistol, took no active
part, despite the stories later told that he practically took charge.
Further aft, Jay Yates – described as a gambler hoping to make a maiden-voyage killing –
stood alone and friendless. To a woman entering a boat, he handed a page torn from his
appointment book. Signed with one of his aliases, the note read, ‘If saved, inform my sister Mrs
F. J. Adams of Findlay, Ohio. Lost. J. H. Rogers.’
Benjamin Guggenheim had a more detailed message: ‘If anything should happen to me, tell
my wife I’ve done my best in doing my duty.’
Actually Guggenheim almost outdid himself. Gone was the sweater that steward Etches
made him wear. Also his lifebelt. Instead he and his secretary now stood resplendent in
evening clothes. ‘We’ve dressed in our best,’ he explained, ‘and are prepared to go down like
gentlemen.’
There were a few couples too. The Allisons stood smiling on the promenade deck, Mrs
Allison grasping little Lorraine with one hand, her husband with the other. The Strauses leaned
against the boat deck rail, their arms about each other’s waist. A young Western couple waited
nearby; when Lightoller asked the girl if he could put her in a boat, she told him cheerfully,
‘Not on your life. We started together and, if need be, we’ll finish together.’
Archibald Gracie, Clinch Smith, a dozen other first-class men worked with the crew,
loading the last boats. As they helped Miss Constance Willard of Duluth, Minnesota, they
smiled and told her to be brave. She noticed great beads of sweat stood out on their foreheads.
Lightoller was sweating too. He peeled off his greatcoat. Even in sweater and pyjamas, he
was wringing wet from hard work. He looked so odd on this bitter-cold night that assistant
surgeon Simpson, always a wag, called out, ‘Hello, Lights, are you warm?’
The assistant surgeon was with old Dr O’Loughlin, Purser McElroy and Assistant Purser
Barker. Lightoller joined them for a moment. They all shook hands and said, ‘Good-bye.’
No time for more. A glance down the emergency stairway told Lightoller the water was now
on C deck … rising fast. But the lights were still bright … the music still ragtime … the beat
still lively.
Only two more boats. One of them, No. 4, had been a headache all night. Over an hour ago
Lightoller lowered it to A deck, planning to fill it from there, but the windows were all closed.
Then someone noticed the Titanic’s sounding spar stuck out directly below the boat. Seaman
Sam Parks and storekeeper Jack Foley went down to chop it away, but they had trouble finding
an axe. Time was wasting. Lightoller hurried on to the other boats – he’d load this one later.
Meanwhile the passengers waiting to go in No. 4 cooled their heels. And they were very
prominent heels. The Astors, Wideners, Thayers, Carters and Ryersons were sticking pretty
much together. When Lightoller first ordered the boat loaded, wives, children, maids and
nurses went down to the promenade deck to get in as a group. When they found they couldn’t,
they just stayed put.
Eventually most of the husbands turned up, and for over an hour the cream of New York and
Philadelphia society just waited around while the windows were opened and the sounding spar
chopped away. Once they were ordered back up to the boat deck, but then second steward
Dodd sent them right down again. Exasperated, Mrs Thayer exclaimed, ‘Just tell us where to go
and we will follow! You ordered us up here and now you’re sending us back!’
It was 1.45 when Lightoller returned. Now he stood – one foot in No. 4, the other on an open
window sill. Somebody put deck chairs against the rail to serve as steps. The men stood by to
pass the women and children through the windows.
John Jacob Astor helped Mrs Astor across the frame, then asked if he could join her. She
was, as he put it, ‘in a delicate condition’.
‘No, sir,’ Lightoller replied. ‘No men are allowed in these boats until the women are loaded
first.’
Astor asked which boat it was, and Lightoller said, ‘Number 4.’ Colonel Gracie was sure
Astor merely wanted to locate his wife later. Lightoller was sure he planned to make a
complaint.
Then came the Ryersons’ turn. Arthur Ryerson noticed their French maid Victorine had no
lifebelt. Quickly he stripped off his own and buckled it on her. When Mrs Ryerson led her son
Jack to the window, Lightoller called out, ‘That boy can’t go!’
Mr Ryerson indignantly stepped forward: ‘Of course that boy goes with his mother – he is
only thirteen.’ So they let him pass, Lightoller grumbling, ‘No more boys.’
At 1.55, No. 4 dropped to the sea – just 15 feet below. Mrs Ryerson was shocked to see how
far the ship had sunk. She watched the water pour in the big square ports on C deck, sweep
around the period furniture of the de luxe suites. Then she looked up at the promenade deck. Mr
Ryerson was still standing by the rail with Mr Widener, looking down at the boat. They seemed
very quiet.
Only one boat was left. Collapsible D had now been fitted into the davits used by No. 2 and
was ready for loading. There was no time to spare. The lights were beginning to glow red.
Chinaware was breaking somewhere below. Jack Thayer saw a man lurch by with a full bottle
of Gordon’s gin. He put it to his mouth and drained it. ‘If I ever get out of this,’ Thayer said to
himself, ‘there is one man I’ll never see again.’ (Actually, he was one of the first survivors
Thayer met.)
Lightoller took no chances. Most of the passengers had moved aft, but still – one
boat … forty-seven seats … 1,600 people. He had the crew lock arms in a wide ring around
boat D. Only the women could come through.
Two baby boys were brought by their father to the edge of the ring, handed through and
placed in the boat. The father stepped back into the crowd. He called himself ‘Mr Hoffman’
and told people he was taking the boys to visit relatives in America. His name really was
Navatril and he was kidnapping the children from his estranged wife.
Henry B. Harris, the theatrical producer, escorted Mrs Harris to the ring, was told he
couldn’t go any further. He sighed: ‘Yes, I know. I will stay.’
Colonel Gracie rushed up with Mrs John Murray Brown and Miss Edith Evans, two of the
five ‘unprotected ladies’ to whom he had offered his services on the trip. He was stopped by
the line but saw the women through. They reached boat D just as it was starting down the falls.
Miss Evans turned to Mrs Brown: ‘You go first. You have children waiting at home.’
Quickly she helped Mrs Brown over the rail. Then someone yelled to lower away, and at
2.05 collapsible D – the last boat of all – started down towards the sea – without Edith Evans.
Directly below, Hugh Woolner and Bjornstrom Steffanson were standing alone by the rail. It
had been a hard night – helping Mrs Candee … trying to save the Strauses … dragging those
cowards out of boat C. Now they were on A deck trying to find someone else to help, but the
deck was absolutely deserted. The lights had a reddish glow.
‘This is getting rather a tight corner,’ Woolner remarked, ‘let’s go through the door at the
end.’ They walked forward to the open end of the promenade deck. As they came out, the sea
poured on to the deck, over their evening pumps and up to their knees. They hopped on to the
railing. Nine feet away they saw boat D sliding down the side of the ship. It was now or never.
‘Let’s make a jump for it!’ cried Woolner. ‘There’s plenty of room in her bow!’ Steffanson
hurled himself out at the boat, landing head over heels up front. The next second Woolner
followed, falling half in, half out. In another instant collapsible D hit the water and cast off. As
it pulled away, seaman William Lucas called up to Miss Evans still standing on deck. ‘There’s
another boat going to be put down for you.’
6. ‘That’s the Way of It at This Kind of Time’
With the boats all gone, a curious calm came over the Titanic. The excitement and confusion
were over, and the hundreds left behind stood quietly on the upper decks. They seemed to
cluster inboard, trying to keep as far away from the rail as possible.
Jack Thayer stayed with Milton Long on the starboard side of the boat deck. They studied an
empty davit, using it as a yardstick against the sky to gauge how fast she was sinking. They
watched the hopeless efforts to clear two collapsibles lashed to the roof of the officers’
quarters. They exchanged messages for each other’s families. Sometimes they were just silent.
Thayer thought of all the good times he had had and of all the future pleasures he would
never enjoy. He thought of his father and his mother, of his sisters and brother. He felt far away,
as though he were looking on from some distant place. He felt very, very sorry for himself.
Colonel Gracie, standing a little way off, felt curiously breathless. Later he rather stuffily
explained it was the feeling when ‘vox faucibus haesit, as frequently happened to the old
Trojan hero of our schooldays’. At the time he merely said to himself, ‘Good-bye to all at
home.’
In the wireless shack there was no time for either self-pity or vox faucibus haesit. Phillips
was still working the set, but the power was very low. Bride stood by, watching people
rummage the officers’ quarters and the gym, looking for extra lifebelts.
It was 2.05 when Captain Smith entered the shack for the last time: ‘Men, you have done
your full duty. You can do no more. Abandon your cabin. Now it’s every man for himself.’
Phillips looked up for a second, then bent over the set once more. Captain Smith tried again:
‘You look out for yourselves. I release you.’ A pause, then he added softly, ‘That’s the way of it
at this kind of time …’
Phillips went on working. Bride began to gather up their papers. Captain Smith returned to
the boat deck, walked about speaking informally to men here and there. To fireman James
McGann: ‘Well, boys, it’s every man for himself.’ Again, to oiler Alfred White: ‘Well, boys, I
guess it’s every man for himself.’ To steward Edward Brown: ‘Well, boys, do your best for the
women and children, and look out for yourselves.’ To the men on the roof of the officers’
quarters: ‘You’ve done your duty, boys. Now, every man for himself.’ Then he walked back on
the bridge.
Some of the men took the captain at his word and jumped overboard. Night baker Walter
Belford leaped as far out as he could, cannon-balled into the water in a sitting position. He still
shudders and sucks his breath sharply when he thinks of the stabbing cold. Greaser Fred Scott,
just up from boiler room 4, tried to slide down an empty fall, missed and took a belly-flopper
into the sea. He was picked up by boat 4, still standing by the ship but trying to row clear of the
barrels and deck chairs that were now hurtling down. Steward Cunningham made a hefty leap
and also managed to reach No. 4.
But most of the crew stuck to the ship. On top of the officers’ quarters, Lightoller noticed
trimmer Hemming at work on one of the tangled collapsibles … yet Hemming should have gone
long ago as part of the crew in No. 6.
‘Why haven’t you gone, Hemming?’
‘Oh, plenty of time yet, sir.’
Not far away two young stewards idly watched Lightoller, Hemming and the others at work.
In the fading light of the boat deck, their starched white jackets stood out as they leaned against
the rail, debating how long the ship could last. Scattered around the boat deck, some fifteen
first-class bellboys were equally at ease – they seemed pleased that nobody cared any longer
whether they smoked. Nearby, gymnasium instructor T. W. McCawley, a spry little man in white
flannels, explained why he wouldn’t wear a life jacket – it kept you afloat but it slowed you
down; he felt he could swim clear more quickly without it.
By the forward entrance to the grand staircase, between the first and second funnel, the band
– now wearing life jackets on top of their overcoats – scraped lustily away at ragtime.
The passengers were just as calm, although they too had their jumpers. Frederick Hoyt saw
his wife into collapsible D, leaped and swam to where he thought the boat might pass. He
guessed well. In a few minutes boat D splashed by and hauled him in. For the rest of the night
he sat soaked to the skin, rowing hard to keep from freezing.
But for the most part the passengers merely stood waiting or quietly paced the boat deck.
New York and Philadelphia society continued to stick together – John B. Thayer, George and
Harry Widener, Duane Williams formed a little knot … lesser luminaries like Clinch Smith and
Colonel Gracie hovering nearby. Astor remained pretty much alone, and the Strauses sat down
on deck chairs.
Jack Thayer and Milton Long debated whether to jump. The davit they were using as a gauge
showed the Titanic was going much faster now. Thayer wanted to jump out, catch an empty
lifeboat fall, slide down and swim out to the boats he could dimly see 500 or 600 yards away.
He was a good swimmer. Long, not nearly as good, argued against it and persuaded Thayer not
to try.
Further forward, Colonel Gracie lent his penknife to the men struggling with the collapsibles
lashed to the officers’ quarters. They were having a hard time, and Gracie wondered why.
Some of the third-class passengers had now worked their way up to the boat deck, and
others were drifting towards the gradually rising stern. The after poop deck, normally thirdclass space anyhow, was suddenly becoming attractive to all kinds of people.
Olaus Abelseth was one of those who reached the boat deck. Most of the evening he had
been all the way aft with his cousin, his brother-in-law and the two Norwegian girls. With
other steerage men and women, they aimlessly waited for someone to tell them what to do.
Around 1.30 an officer opened the gate to first class and ordered the women to the boat
deck. At 2.00 the men were allowed up too. Many now preferred to stay where they were – this
would clearly be the last point above water. But Abelseth, his cousin and brother-in-law went
up on the chance there was still a boat left. The last one was pulling away.
So they just stood there, as worried about being in first class as by the circumstances that
had brought them there. Abelseth watched the crew trying to free the collapsibles. Once an
officer, searching for extra hands, called, ‘Are there any sailors here?’
Abelseth had spent sixteen of his twenty-seven years on the sea and felt he should speak up.
But his cousin and brother-in-law pleaded, ‘No, let us just stay here together.’
So they did. They felt rather awkward and said very little. It was even more awkward when
Mr and Mrs Straus drew near. ‘Please,’ the old gentleman was saying, ‘get into a lifeboat and
be saved.’
‘No, let me stay with you,’she replied. Abelseth turned and looked the other way. Within the ship the heavy silence of the deserted rooms had a drama of its own. The crystal
chandeliers of the à la carte restaurant hung at a crazy angle, but they still burned brightly,
lighting the fawn panels of French walnut and the rose-coloured carpet. A few of the little table
lights with their pink silk shades had fallen over, and someone was rummaging in the pantry,
perhaps for something to fortify himself.
The Louis Quinze lounge with its big fireplace was silent and empty. The Palm Court was
equally deserted – one passer-by found it hard to believe that just four hours ago it was filled
with exquisitely dressed ladies and gentlemen, sipping after-dinner coffee, listening to chamber
music by the same men who now played gay songs on the boat deck above.
The smoking-room was not completely empty. When a steward looked in at 2.10, he was
surprised to see Thomas Andrews standing all alone in the room. Andrews’ lifebelt lay
carelessly across the green cloth top of a card table. His arms were folded over his chest; his
look was stunned; all his drive and energy were gone. A moment of awed silence, and the
steward timidly broke in: ‘Aren’t you going to have a try for it, Mr Andrews?’
There was no answer, not even a trace that he heard. The builder of the Titanic merely stared
aft.
Outside on the decks, the crowd still waited; the band still played. A few prayed with the
Reverend Thomas R. Byles, a second-class passenger. Others seemed lost in thought.
There was much to think about. For Captain Smith there were the four ice messages he had
received during the day – a fifth, which he may not have seen, told exactly where to expect the
berg. And there was the thermometer that fell from forty-three degrees at seven o’clock to
thirty-two degrees at ten o’clock. And the temperature of the sea, which dropped to thirty-one
degrees at 10.30 p.m. Wireless operator Jack Phillips could ponder over the sixth ice warning – when the
Californian broke in at 11.00 p.m. and Phillips told her to shut up. That one never even
reached the bridge.
George Q. Clifford of Boston had the rueful satisfaction of remembering that he took out
50,000 dollars’ extra life insurance just before the trip.
For Isidor Straus there was the irony of his will. A special paragraph urged Mrs Straus to
‘be a little selfish; don’t always think only of others.’ Through the years she had been so selfsacrificing that he especially wanted her to enjoy life after he was gone. Now the very qualities
he admired so much meant he could never have his wish.
Little things too could return to haunt a person at a time like this. Edith Evans remembered a
fortune-teller who once told her to ‘beware of the water’. William T. Stead was nagged by a
dream about somebody throwing cats out of a top-storey window. Charles Hays had
prophesied just a few hours earlier that the time would soon come for ‘the greatest and most
appalling of all disasters at sea’.
Two men perhaps wondered why they were there at all. Archie Butt hadn’t wanted to go
abroad, but he needed a rest; and Frank Millet had badgered President Taft into sending Butt
with a message to the Pope – official business but spring in Rome, too. Chief Officer Wilde
didn’t plan to be on board either. He was regularly on the Olympic, but the White Star Line
transferred him at the last minute for this one voyage. They thought his experience would be
useful in breaking in the new ship. Wilde had considered it a lucky development.
In the wireless shack Phillips struggled to keep the set going. At 2.10 he sounded two V’s –
heard faintly by the Virginian – as he tried to adjust the spark for better results. Bride made a
last inspection tour. He returned to find that a fainting lady had been carried into the shack.
Bride got her a chair and a glass of water, and she sat gasping while her husband fanned her.
She came to, and the man took her away.
Bride went behind the curtain where he and Phillips slept. He gathered up all the loose
money, took a last look at his rumpled bunk, pushed through the curtain again. Phillips still sat
hunched over the set, completely absorbed. But a stoker was now in the room, gently
unfastening Phillips’ life jacket.
Bride leaped at the stoker, Phillips jumped up and the three men wrestled around the shack.
Finally Bride wrapped his arms about the stoker’s waist, and Phillips swung again and again
until the man slumped unconscious in Bride’s arms.
A minute later they heard the sea gurgling up the A deck companionway and washing over
the bridge. Phillips cried, ‘Come on, let’s clear out!’ Bride dropped the stoker, and the two men
ran out on to the boat deck. The stoker lay still where he fell.
Phillips disappeared aft. Bride walked forward and joined the men on the roof of the
officers’ quarters who were trying to free collapsibles A and B. It was a ridiculous place to
stow boats – especially when there were only twenty for 2,207 people. With the deck slanting
like this, it had been hard enough launching C and D, the two collapsibles stowed right beside
the forward davits. It was impossible to do much with A and B.
But the crew weren’t discouraged. If the boats couldn’t be launched, they could perhaps be
floated off. So they toiled on – Lightoller, Murdoch, trimmer Hemming, steward Brown,
greaser Hurst, a dozen others.
On the port side Hemming struggled with the block and tackle for boat B. If he could only
iron out a kink in the fall, he was sure it could still be launched. He finally got the lines
working, passed the block up to Sixth Officer Moody on the roof, but Moody shouted back, ‘We
don’t want the block; we’ll leave the boat on the deck.’
Hemming saw no chance of clearing boat B this way; so he jumped and swam for it.
Meanwhile the boat was pushed to the edge of the roof and slid down on some oars to the deck.
It landed upside down.
On the starboard side they were having just as much trouble with boat A. Somebody propped
planks against the wall of the officers’ quarters, and they eased the boat down bow first. But
they were still a long way from home, for the Titanic was now listing heavily to port, and they
couldn’t push the boat ‘uphill’ to the edge of the deck.
The men were tugging at both collapsibles when the bridge dipped under at 2.15 and the sea
rolled aft along the boat deck. Colonel Gracie and Clinch Smith turned and headed for the
stern. A few steps, and they were blocked by a sudden crowd of men and women pouring up
from below. They all seemed to be steerage passengers.
At this moment bandmaster Hartley tapped his violin. The ragtime ended, and the strains of
the Episcopal hymn ‘Autumn’ flowed across the deck and drifted in the still night far out over
the water.
In the boats women listened with wonder. From a distance there was an agonizing stateliness
about the moment. Close up, it was different. Men could hear the music, but they paid little
attention. Too much was happening.
‘Oh, save me! Save me!’ cried a woman to Peter Daly, Lima representative of the London
firm Haes and Sons, as he watched the water roll on to the deck where he stood.
‘Good lady,’ he answered, ‘save yourself. Only God can save you now.’
But she begged him to help her make the jump, and on second thoughts he realized he
couldn’t shed the problem so easily. Quickly he took her by the arm and helped her overboard.
As he jumped himself, a big wave came sweeping along the boat deck, washing him clear of
the ship.
The sea foamed and swirled around steward Brown’s feet as he sweated to get boat A to the
edge of the deck. Then he realized he needn’t try any longer – the boat was floating off. He
jumped in … cut the stern lines … yelled for someone to free the bow … and in the next instant
was washed out by the same wave that swept off Peter Daly.
Down, down dipped the Titanic’s bow, and her stern swung slowly up. She seemed to be
moving forward too. It was this motion which generated the wave that hit Daly, Brown and
dozens of others as it rolled aft.
Lightoller watched the wave from the roof of the officers’ quarters. He saw the crowds
retreating up the deck ahead of it. He saw the nimbler ones keep clear, the slower ones
overtaken and engulfed. He knew that this kind of retreat just prolonged the agony. He turned
and, facing the bow, dived in. As he reached the surface, he saw just ahead of him the crow’snest, now level with the water. Blind instinct seized him, and for a moment he swam towards it
as a place of safety.
Then he snapped to and tried to swim clear of the ship. But the sea was pouring down the
ventilators just in front of the forward funnel, and he was sucked back and held against the wire
grating of an air shaft. He prayed it would hold. And he wondered how long he could last,
pinned this way to the grating.
He never learned the answer. A blast of hot air from somewhere deep below came rushing
up the ventilator and blew him to the surface. Gasping and spluttering, he finally paddled clear.
Harold Bride kept his head too. As the wave swept by, he grabbed an oarlock of collapsible
B, which was still lying upside down on the boat deck near the first funnel. The boat, Bride and
a dozen others were washed off together. The collapsible was still upside down, and Bride
found himself struggling underneath it.
Colonel Gracie was not as sea-wise. He stayed in the crowd and jumped with the wave – it
was almost like Newport. Rising on the crest, he caught the bottom rung of the iron railing on
the roof of the officers’ quarters. He hauled himself up and lay on his stomach right at the base
of the second funnel.
Before he could rise, the roof too had dipped under. Gracie found himself spinning round
and round in a whirlpool of water. He tried to cling to the railing, then realized this was pulling
him down deeper. With a mighty kick he pushed himself free and swam clear of the ship, far
below the surface.
Chef John Collins couldn’t do much of anything about the wave. He had a baby in his arms.
For five minutes he and a deck steward had been trying to help a steerage woman with two
children. First they heard there was a boat on the port side. They ran there and heard it was on
the starboard side. When they got there, somebody said their best chance was to head for the
stern. Bewildered, they were standing undecided – Collins holding one of the babies – when
they were all swept overboard by the wave. He never saw the others again, and the child was
washed out of his arms.
Jack Thayer and Milton Long saw the wave coming too. They were standing by the starboard
rail opposite the second funnel, trying to keep clear of the crowds swarming towards the stern.
Instead of making for a higher point, they felt the time had come to jump and swim for it. They
shook hands and wished each other luck. Long put his legs over the rail, while Thayer
straddled it and began unbuttoning his overcoat. Long, hanging over the side and holding the
rail with his hands, looked up at Thayer and asked, ‘You’re coming, boy?’
‘Go ahead, I’ll be right with you,’ Thayer reassured him.
Long slid down, facing the ship. Ten seconds later Thayer swung his other leg over the rail
and sat facing out. He was about 10 feet above the water. Then with a push he jumped out as far
as he could.
Of these two techniques for abandoning ship, Thayer’s was the one that worked.
The wave never reached Olaus Abelseth. Standing by the fourth funnel, he was too far back.
Instead of plunging under, this part of the ship was swinging higher and higher.
As she swung up, Abelseth heard a popping and cracking … a series of muffled thuds … the
crash of glassware … the clatter of deck chairs sliding down.
The slant of the deck grew so steep that people could no longer stand. So they fell, and
Abelseth watched them slide down into the water right on the deck. Abelseth and his relatives
hung on by clinging to a rope in one of the davits.
‘We’d better jump or the suction will take us down,’ his brother-in-law urged.
‘No,’said Abelseth. ‘We won’t jump yet. We ain’t got much show anyhow, so we might as
well stay as long as we can.’
‘We must jump off!’ the cry came again, but Abelseth held firm: ‘No, not yet.’
Minutes later, when the water was only 5 feet away, the three men finally jumped, holding
each other’s hands. They came spluttering to the surface, Abelseth hopelessly snarled in some
rope from somewhere. He had to free his hands to untangle the line, and his cousin and brother-
in-law were washed away. Somehow he got loose, but he said to himself, ‘I’m a goner.’
In the maelstrom of ropes, deck chairs, planking and wildly swirling water, nobody knew
what happened to most of the people. From the boats they could be seen clinging like little
swarms of bees to deck houses, winches and ventilators as the stern rose higher. Close in, it
was hard to see what was happening, even though – incredibly – the lights still burned, casting
a sort of murky glow.
In the stories told later, Archie Butt had a dozen different endings – all gallant, none verified.
According to one newspaper, Miss Marie Young, music teacher to Teddy Roosevelt’s children,
remembered him calling, ‘Good-bye, Miss Young, remember me to the folks back home.’ Yet
the papers also reported Miss Young as saying she saw the iceberg an hour before the crash.
In an interview attributed to Mrs Henry B. Harris, Archie Butt was described as a pillar of
strength, using his fists here – a big brother approach there – to handle the weaklings. Yet
Lightoller, Gracie and the others working on the boats never saw him at all. When Mrs Walter
Douglas recalled him near boat 2 around 1.45, he was standing quietly off to one side.
It was the same with John Jacob Astor. Barber August H. Weikman described his last
moments with the great millionaire. It was a conversation full of the kind of small talk that
normally takes place only in the barber’s chair. And even more trite: ‘I asked him if he minded
shaking hands with me. He said, “With pleasure” …’ Yet, barber Weikman also said he left the
ship at 1.50, a good half-hour earlier.
Butt’s and Astor’s endings were described in a single story attributed to Washington Dodge,
the San Francisco assessor : ‘They went down standing on the bridge, side by side. I could not
mistake them,’ the papers had him saying. Yet Dr Dodge was in boat 13, a good half-mile away.
Nor did anyone really know what happened to Captain Smith. People later said he shot
himself, but there’s not a shred of evidence. Just before the end steward Edward Brown saw
him walk on to the bridge, still holding his megaphone. A minute later trimmer Hemmings
wandered on to the bridge and found it empty. After the Titanic sank, fireman Harry Senior saw
him in the water holding a child. Pieced together, this picture, far more than suicide, fits the
kind of fighter who once said: ‘In a way, a certain amount of wonder never leaves me,
especially as I observe from the bridge a vessel plunging up and down in the trough of the sea,
fighting her way through and over great waves. A man never outgrows that.’
Seen and unseen, the great and the unknown tumbled together in a writhing heap as the bow
plunged deeper and the stern rose higher. The strains of ‘Autumn’ were buried in a jumble of
falling musicians and instruments. The lights went out, flashed on again, went out for good. A
single kerosene lantern still flickered high in the after mast.
The muffled thuds and tinkle of breaking glass grew louder. A steady roar thundered across
the water as everything movable broke loose.
There has never been a mixture like it – twenty-nine boilers … the jewelled copy of The
Rubáiyát … 800 cases of shelled walnuts … 15,000 bottles of ale and stout … huge anchor
chains (each link weighed 175 pounds) … thirty cases of golf clubs and tennis rackets for A. G.
Spalding … Eleanor Widener’s trousseau … tons of coal … Major Peuchen’s tin
box … 30,000 fresh eggs … dozens of potted palms … five grand pianos … a little mantel
clock in B-38 … the massive silver duck press.
And still it grew – tumbling trellises, ivy pots and wicker chairs in the Café
Parisien … shuffleboard sticks … the fifty-phone switchboard … two reciprocating engines
and the revolutional low-pressure turbine … eight dozen tennis balls for R. F. Downey & Co.,
a cask of china for Tiffany’s, a case of gloves for Marshall Field … the remarkable ice-making
machine on G deck … Billy Carter’s new French Renault … the Ryersons’sixteen trunks,
beautifully packed by Victorine.
As the tilt grew steeper, the forward funnel toppled over. It struck the water on the starboard
side with a shower of sparks and a crash heard above the general uproar. Greaser Walter
Hurst, struggling in the swirling sea, was half blinded by soot. He got off lucky – other
swimmers were crushed under tons of steel But the falling funnel was a blessing to Lightoller,
Bride and others now clinging to overturned collapsible B. It just missed the boat, washing it
thirty yards clear of the plunging, twisting hull.
The Titanic was now absolutely perpendicular. From the third funnel after, she stuck straight
up in the air, her three dripping propellers glistening even in the darkness. To Lady Duff
Gordon she seemed a black finger pointing at the sky. To Harold Bride she looked like a duck
that goes down for a dive.
Out in the boats, they could hardly believe their eyes. For over two hours they had watched,
hoping against hope, as the Titanic sank lower and lower. When the water reached her red and
green running lights, they knew the end was near … but nobody dreamed it would be like this –
the unearthly din, the black hull hanging at ninety degrees, the Christmas card backdrop of
brilliant stars.
Some didn’t watch. In collapsible C, President Bruce Ismay bent low over his oar – he
couldn’t bear to see her go down. In boat 1, C. E. Henry Stengel turned his back: ‘I cannot look
any longer.’ In No. 4, Elizabeth Eustis buried her face.
Two minutes passed, the noise finally stopped, and the Titanic settled back slightly at the
stern. Then slowly she began sliding under, moving at a steep slant. As she glided down, she
seemed to pick up speed. When the sea closed over the flagstaff on her stern, she was moving
fast enough to cause a slight gulp.
‘She’s gone; that’s the last of her,’someone sighed to lookout Lee in boat 13. ‘It’s gone,’ Mrs
Ada Clark vaguely heard somebody say in No. 4. But she was so cold she didn’t pay much
attention. Most of the other women were the same – they just sat dazed, dumbfounded, without
showing any emotion. In No. 5, Third Officer Pitman looked at his watch and announced, ‘It is
2.20.’
Ten miles away on the Californian, Second Officer Stone and apprentice Gibson watched
the strange ship slowly disappear. She had fascinated them almost the whole watch – the way
she kept firing rockets, the odd way she floated in the water. Gibson remarked that he certainly
didn’t think the rockets were being sent up for fun. Stone agreed: ‘A ship is not going to fire
rockets at sea for nothing.’
By two o’clock the stranger’s light seemed very low on the horizon, and the two men felt she
must be steaming away. ‘Call the captain,’ Stone ordered, ‘and tell him that the ship is
disappearing in the south-west and that she has fired altogether eight rockets.’
Gibson marched into the chart room and gave the message. Captain Lord looked up sleepily
from his couch: ‘Were they all white rockets?’
Gibson said yes, and Lord asked the time. Gibson replied it was 2.05 by the wheelhouse
clock. Lord rolled over, and Gibson went back to the bridge.
At 2.20 Stone decided that the other ship was definitely gone, and at 2.40 he felt he ought to
tell the captain himself. He called the news down the speaking tube and resumed studying the
empty night.
7. ‘There is Your Beautiful Nightdress Gone’
As the sea closed over the Titanic, Lady Cosmo Duff Gordon in boat 1 remarked to her
secretary Miss Francatelli, ‘There is your beautiful nightdress gone.’
A lot more than Miss Francatelli’s nightgown vanished that April night. Even more than the
largest liner in the world, her cargo and the lives of 1,502 people.
Never again would men fling a ship into an ice field, heedless of warnings, putting their
whole trust in a few thousand tons of steel and rivets. From now on Atlantic liners took ice
messages seriously, steered clear, or slowed down. Nobody believed in the ‘unsinkable ship’.
Nor would icebergs any longer prowl the seas untended. After the Titanic sank, the
American and British governments established the International Ice Patrol, and today Coast
Guard cutters shepherd errant icebergs that drift towards the steamer lanes. The winter lane
itself was shifted further south, as an extra precaution.
And there were no more liners with only part-time wireless. Henceforth every passenger
ship had a twenty-four-hour radio watch. Never again could the world fall apart while a Cyril
Evans lay sleeping off duty only ten miles away.
It was also the last time a liner put to sea without enough lifeboats. The 46,328-ton Titanic
sailed under hopelessly outdated safety regulations. An absurd formula determined lifeboat
requirements: all British vessels over 10,000 tons must carry sixteen lifeboats with a capacity
of 5,500 cubic feet, plus enough rafts and floats for seventy-five per cent of the capacity of the
lifeboats.
For the Titanic this worked out at 9,625 cubic feet. This meant she had to carry boats for
only 962 people. Actually, there were boats for 1,178 – the White Star Line complained that
nobody appreciated their thoughtfulness. Even so, this took care of only fifty-two per cent of
the 2,207 people on board, and only thirty per cent of her total capacity. From now on the rules
and formulas were simple indeed – lifeboats for everybody.
And it was the end of class distinction in filling the boats. The White Star Line always
denied anything of the kind – and the investigators backed them up – yet there’s overwhelming
evidence that the steerage took a beating: Daniel Buckley kept from going into first
class … Olaus Abelseth released from the poop deck as the last boat pulled away … steward
Hart convoying two little groups of women topside, while hundreds were kept
below … steerage passengers crawling along the crane from the well deck aft … others
climbing vertical ladders to escape the well deck forward.
Then there were the people Colonel Gracie, Lightoller and others saw surging up from
below, just before the end. Until this moment Gracie was sure the women were all off – they
were so hard to find when the last boats were loading. Now, he was appalled to see dozens of
them suddenly appear. The statistics suggest who they were – the Titanic’s casualty list
included four of 143 first-class women (three by choice) … fifteen of ninety-three second-class
women … and eighty-one of 179 third-class women.
Not to mention the children. Except for Lorraine Allison, all twenty-nine first- and secondclass children were saved, but only twenty-three out of seventy-six steerage children.
Neither the chance to be chivalrous nor the fruits of chivalry seemed to go with a third-class
passage.
It was better, but not perfect, in second class. Lawrence Beesley remembered an officer
stopping two ladies as they started through the gate to first class. ‘May we pass to the boats?’
they asked.
‘No, madam; your boats are down on your own deck.’
In fairness to the White Star Line, these distinctions grew not so much from set policy as
from no policy at all. At some points the crew barred the way to the boat deck; at others they
opened the gates but didn’t tell anyone; at a few points there were well-meaning efforts to
guide the steerage up. But generally third class was left to shift for itself. A few of the more
enterprising met the challenge, but most milled helplessly about their quarters – ignored,
neglected, forgotten.
If the White Star Line was indifferent, so was everybody else. No one seemed to care about
third class – neither the Press, the official inquiries, nor even the third-class passengers
themselves.
In covering the Titanic, few reporters bothered to ask the third-class passengers anything.
The New York Times was justly proud of the way it handled the disaster. Yet the famous issue
covering the Carpathia’s arrival in New York contained only two interviews with third-class
passengers. This apparently was par for the course – of forty-three survivor accounts in the
New York Herald, two again were steerage experiences.
Certainly their experiences weren’t as good copy as Lady Cosmo Duff Gordon (one New
York newspaper had her saying, ‘The last voice I heard was a man shouting, “My God, my
God!”’). But there was indeed a story. The night was a magnificent confirmation of ‘women
and children first’, yet somehow the loss rate was higher for third-class children than firstclass men. It was a contrast which would never get by the social consciousness (or news
sense) of today’s Press.
Nor did Congress care what happened to third class. Senator Smith’s Titanic investigation
covered everything under the sun, including what an iceberg was made of (‘Ice’, explained
Fifth Officer Lowe), but the steerage received little attention. Only three of the witnesses were
third-class passengers. Two of these said they were kept from going to the boat deck, but the
legislators didn’t follow up. Again, the testimony doesn’t suggest any deliberate hush-up – it
was just that no one was interested.
The British Court of Inquiry was even more cavalier. Mr W. D. Harbinson, who officially
represented the third-class interests, said he could find no trace of discrimination, and Lord
Mersey’s report gave a clean bill of health – yet not a single third-class passenger testified, and
the only surviving steward stationed in steerage freely conceded that the men were kept below
decks as late as 1.15 a.m.
Even the third-class passengers weren’t bothered. They expected class distinction as part of
the game. Olaus Abelseth, at least, regarded access to the boat deck as a privilege that went
with first- and second-class passage … even when the ship was sinking. He was satisfied as
long as they let him stay above decks.
A new age was dawning, and never since that night have third-class passengers been so
philosophical.
At the opposite extreme, it was also the last time the special position of first class was
accepted without question. When the White Star liner Republic went down in 1908, Captain
Sealby told the passengers entering the lifeboats, ‘Remember! Women and children go first;
then the First Cabin, then the others!’ There was no such rule on the Titanic, but the concept
still existed in the public mind, and at first the Press tended to forestall any criticism over what
a first-class passenger might do. When the news broke that Ismay was saved, the New York
Sun hastened to announce, ‘Ismay behaved with exceptional gallantry … no one knows how Mr
Ismay himself got into a boat; it is assumed he wished to make a presentation of the case to his
company.’
Never again would first class have it so good. In fact, almost immediately the pendulum
swung the other way. Within days Ismay was pilloried; within a year a prominent survivor
divorced her husband merely because, according to gossip, he happened to be saved. One of
the more trying legacies left by those on the Titanic has been a new standard of conduct for
measuring the behaviour of prominent people under stress.
It was easier in the old days … for the Titanic was also the last stand of wealth and society
in the centre of public affection. In 1912 there were no movie, radio or television stars; sports
figures were still beyond the pale; and café society was completely unknown. The public
depended on socially prominent people for all the vicarious glamour that enriches drab lives.
This preoccupation was fully appreciated by the Press. When the Titanic sailed, the New
York Times listed the prominent passengers on the front page. After she sank, the New York
American broke the news on 16 April with a leader devoted almost entirely to John Jacob
Astor; at the end it mentioned that 1,800 others were also lost.
In the same mood, the 18 April New York Sun covered the insurance angle of the disaster.
Most of the story concerned Mrs Widener’s pearls.
Never again did established wealth occupy people’s minds so thoroughly. On the other hand,
never again was wealth so spectacular. John Jacob Astor thought nothing of shelling out 800
dollars for a lace jacket some dealer displayed on deck when the Titanic stopped briefly at
Queenstown. To the Ryersons there was nothing unusual about travelling with sixteen trunks.
The 190 families in first class were attended by twenty-three handmaids, eight valets and
assorted nurses and governesses – entirely apart from hundreds of stewards and stewardesses.
These personal servants had their own lounge on C deck, so that no one need suffer the
embarrassment of striking up a conversation with some handsome stranger, only to find he was
Henry Sleeper Harper’s dragoman.
Or take the survivors’ arrival in New York. Mrs Astor was met by two automobiles, carrying
two doctors, a trained nurse, a secretary and Vincent Astor. Mrs George Widener was met not
by automobile but by a special train – consisting of a private Pullman, another car for ballast,
and a locomotive. Mrs Charles Hays was met by a special train too, including two private cars
and two coaches.
It was a reception in keeping with people who could afford as much as 4,350 dollars – and
these were 1912 dollars – for a de luxe suite. A suite like this had even a private promenade
deck, which figured out at something like forty dollars a front foot for six days.
This kind of life, of course, wasn’t open to everybody – in fact it would take Harold Bride,
who made twenty dollars a month, eighteen years to earn enough to cross in style – so those
who enjoyed it gradually became part of a remarkably tightly knit little group, which also
seemed to vanish with the Titanic.
There was a wonderful intimacy about this little world of Edwardian rich. There was no
flicker of surprise when they bumped into each other, whether at the Pyramids (a great
favourite), the Cowes Regatta, or the springs at Baden-Baden. They seemed to get the same
ideas at the same time, and one of these ideas was to make the maiden voyage of the largest
ship in the world.
So the Titanic’s trip was more like a reunion than an ocean passage. It fascinated Mrs Henry
B. Harris, wife of the theatrical producer, who certainly wasn’t part of this world. Twenty
years later she still recalled with awe, ‘There was a spirit of camaraderie unlike any I had
experienced on previous trips. No one consulted the passenger list, to judge from the air of
good fellowship that prevailed among the cabin passengers. They met on deck as one big
party.’
This group knew the crew almost as well as each other. It was the custom to cross with
certain captains rather than on particular ships, and Captain Smith had a personal following
which made him invaluable to the White Star Line. The captain repaid the patronage with little
favours and privileges which kept them coming. On the last night John Jacob Astor got the bad
news direct from Captain Smith before the general alarm, and others learned too.
But the other end of the bargain was to respect the privilege. Nobody took advantage of the
captain’s confidence – hardly a man in the group was saved.
The stewards and waiters were on equally close terms with the group. They had often
looked after the same passengers. They knew just what they wanted and how they liked things
done. Every evening steward Samuel Etches would enter A-36 and lay out Thomas Andrews’
dress clothes just the way Mr Andrews liked. Then at 6.45 he would return and help Andrews
dress. It happened all over the ship.
And when the Titanic was going down, it was with genuine affection that steward Etches
made Mr Guggenheim wear his sweater … that steward Crawford laced Mr Stewart’s
shoes … that second steward Dodd tipped off John B. Thayer that his wife was still on board,
long after Thayer thought she had left. In the same spirit of devotion, dining-room steward Ray
pushed Washington Dodge into boat 13 – he had persuaded the Dodges to take the Titanic and
now felt he had to see them through.
The group repaid this loyalty with an intimacy and affection they gave few of their lessknown fellow passengers. In the Titanic’s last hours men like Ben Guggenheim and Martin
Rothschild seemed to see more of their stewards than the other passengers.
The Titanic somehow lowered the curtain on this way of living. It never was the same again.
First the war, then income tax, made sure of that. With this lost world went some of its prejudices – especially a firm and loudly voiced
opinion of the superiority of Anglo-Saxon courage. To the survivors all stowaways in the
lifeboats were ‘Chinese’ or ‘Japanese’; all who jumped from the deck were ‘Armenians’,
‘Frenchmen’ or ‘Italians’.
‘There were various men passengers,’ declared steward Crowe at the US inquiry, ‘probably
Italians, or some foreign nationality other than English or American, who attempted to rush the
boats.’ Steward Crowe, of course, never heard the culprits speak and had no way of knowing
who they were. At the inquiry things finally grew so bad that the Italian ambassador demanded
and got an apology from Fifth Officer Lowe for using ‘Italian’ as a sort of synonym for
‘coward’.
In contrast, Anglo-Saxon blood could do no wrong. When Bride described the stoker’s
attack on Phillips, some newspapers made the stoker a Negro for better effect. And in a story
headlined, ‘Desirable Immigrants Lost’, the New York Sun pointed out that, along with the
others, seventy-eight Finns were lost who might have done the country some good.
But along with the prejudices, some nobler instincts also were lost. Men would go on being
brave, but never again would they be brave in quite the same way. These men on the Titanic
had a touch – there was something about Ben Guggenheim changing to evening dress … about
Howard Case flicking his cigarette as he waved to Mrs Graham … or even about Colonel
Gracie panting along the decks, gallantly if ineffectually searching for Mrs Candee. Today
nobody could carry off these little gestures of chivalry, but they did that night.
An air of noblesse oblige has vanished too. During the agonizing days of uncertainty in New
York, the Astors, the Guggenheims and others like them were not content to sit by their phones
or to send friends and retainers to the White Star Line offices. They went themselves. Not
because it was the best way to get information, but because they felt they ought to be there in
person.
Today families are as loyal as ever, but the phone would probably do. Few would insist on
going themselves and braving the bedlam of the steamship office. Yet the others didn’t hesitate
a minute. True, Vincent Astor did get better information than the rest – and some even spoke to
General Manager Franklin himself – but the point is that these people didn’t merely keep in
touch – they were there.
Overriding everything else, the Titanic also marked the end of a general feeling of
confidence. Until then men felt they had found the answer to a steady, orderly, civilized life.
For 100 years the Western world had been at peace. For 100 years technology had steadily
improved. For 100 years the benefits of peace and industry seemed to be filtering satisfactorily
through society. In retrospect, there may seem fewer grounds for confidence, but at the time
most articulate people felt life was all right.
The Titanic woke them up. Never again would they be quite so sure of themselves. In
technology especially, the disaster was a terrible blow. Here was the ‘unsinkable ship’ –
perhaps man’s greatest engineering achievement – going down the first time it sailed.
But it went beyond that. If this supreme achievement was so terribly fragile, what about
everything else? If wealth meant so little on this cold April night, did it mean so much the rest
of the year? Scores of ministers preached that the Titanic was a heaven-sent lesson to awaken
people from their complacency, to punish them for top-heavy faith in material progress. If it
was a lesson, it worked – people have never been sure of anything since.
The unending sequence of disillusionment that has followed can’t be blamed on the Titanic,
but she was the first jar. Before the Titanic, all was quiet. Afterwards, all was tumult. That is
why, to anybody who lived at the time, the Titanic more than any other single event marks the
end of the old days, and the beginning of a new, uneasy era.
There was no time for such thoughts at 2.20 a.m., Monday 15 April 1912. Over the Titanic’s
grave hung a thin, smoky vapour, soiling the clear night. The glassy sea was littered with
crates, deck chairs, planking, pilasters and cork-like rubbish that kept bobbing to the surface
from somewhere now far below.
Hundreds of swimmers thrashed the water, clinging to the wreckage and each other. Steward
Edward Brown, gasping for breath, dimly noticed a man tearing at his clothes. Third-class
passenger Olaus Abelseth felt a man’s arm clamp around his neck. Somehow he wriggled
loose, spluttering, ‘Let go!’ But the man grabbed him again, and it took a vigorous kick to free
himself for good.
If it wasn’t the people, it was the sea itself that broke a man’s resistance. The temperature of
the water was twenty-eight degrees – well below freezing. To Second Officer Lightoller it felt
like ‘a thousand knives’ driven into his body. In water like this, lifebelts did no good.
Yet a few dozen managed to keep both their wits and their stamina. For these, two hopes of
safety loomed in the littered water – collapsibles A and B. Both had floated off the sinking boat
deck, A swamped and B upside down. Then the falling funnel washed both boats further clear
of the crowd. Now the strongest and luckiest swimmers converged upon them.
After about twenty minutes Olaus Abelseth splashed alongside A. Perhaps a dozen others
already lay half-dead in the wallowing boat. They neither helped nor hindered him as he
scrambled over the gunwale. They just mumbled, ‘Don’t capsize the boat.’
One by one others arrived, until some two dozen people slumped in the hulk. They were a
weird assortment – tennis star R. Norris Williams II, lying beside his waterlogged fur coat … a
couple of Swedes … fireman John Thompson with badly burned hands … a first-class
passenger in underpants … steward Edward Brown … third-class passenger Mrs Rosa Abbott.
Gradually boat A drifted further away; the swimmers arrived at less frequent intervals.
Finally they stopped coming altogether, and the half-swamped boat drifted silent and alone in
the empty night.
Meanwhile other swimmers were making for overturned collapsible B. This boat was much
closer to the scene. Many more people swarmed around its curved white keel, and they were
much louder, much more active.
‘Save one life! Save one life!’ Walter Hurst heard the cry again and again as he joined the
men trying to board the collapsible. Wireless operator Harold Bride was of course there from the start, but under the boat.
Lightoller also arrived before the Titanic sank. He was treading water alongside when the
forward funnel fell. The wave almost washed him away and at the same time pushed young
Jack Thayer right up against the boat. By now Hurst and three or four others were crouching on
the keel. Lightoller and Thayer scrambled aboard too. Bride was still under the boat, lying on
his back, bumping his head against the seats, gulping for air in the stuffy darkness.
Then came A. H. Barkworth, a Yorkshire Justice of the Peace. He wore a great fur coat over
his lifebelt, and this daring arrangement surprisingly helped buoy him up. Fur coat and all, he
too clambered on to the upturned collapsible, like some bedraggled, shaggy animal.
Colonel Gracie arrived later. Dragged down with the Titanic, he tried first a plank, then a
large wooden crate, before he spied the overturned collapsible. When he finally drew
alongside, more than a dozen men were lying and kneeling on the bottom.
No one offered a helping hand. With each new man, the collapsible sagged lower into the
sea; already the water slopped over the keel from time to time. But Gracie hadn’t come this far
for nothing. He grabbed the arm of a man already lying on the boat, and hauled himself on to the
keel. Next, assistant cook John Collins swam up and managed to get on too. Then Bride dived
out from underneath and scrambled on to the stern.
By the time steward Thomas Whiteley arrived, collapsible B wallowed under the weight of
thirty men. As he tried to climb aboard, someone swatted him with an oar, but he made it
anyhow. Fireman Harry Senior was beaten off by an oar, but he swam around to the other side
and finally persuaded them to let him on too.
All the time men straddling the stern and the bow flayed the water with loose boards,
paddling to get away from the scene and steer clear of the swimmers.
‘Hold on to what you have, old boy. One more would sink us all,’ the men in the boat shouted
to those in the water.
‘That’s all right, boys; keep cool,’ one of the swimmers replied when they asked him to stay
clear. Then he swam off, calling back, ‘Good luck, God bless you.’
Another swimmer kept cheering them on: ‘Good boy; good lads!’ He had the voice of
authority and never asked to climb aboard. Even though they were dangerously overcrowded, Walter Hurst couldn’t resist holding out an oar. But the man was too far gone. As the oar
touched him, he spun about like a cork and was silent. To this day Hurst thinks it was Captain
Smith.
As they moved off into the lonely night, away from the wreckage and the swimmers, one of
the seamen lying on the keel hesitantly asked, ‘Don’t the rest of you think we ought to pray?’
Everybody agreed. A quick poll showed Catholics, Presbyterians, Episcopalians,
Methodists all jumbled together; so they compromised on the Lord’s Prayer, calling it out in
chorus with the man who suggested it as their leader.
It was not the only sound that drifted over the water. All the time while collapsibles A and B
were filling up and painfully struggling away from the scene, hundreds of swimmers were
crying for help. Individual voices were lost in a steady, overwhelming clamour. To fireman
George Kemish, tugging at his oar in boat 9, it sounded like a hundred thousand fans at a British
football cup final. To Jack Thayer, lying on the keel of boat B, it seemed like the high-pitched
hum of locusts on a midsummer night in the woods back home in Pennsylvania.
8. ‘It Reminds Me of a Bloomin’ Picnic’
The cries in the night meant one thing to lively, impulsive Fifth Officer Lowe – row back and
help.
He was in a good position to do something. After leaving the Titanic in No. 14, he had
rounded up boats 10, 12, 4 and D, and all five were tied together like a string of beads 150
yards away.
‘Consider yourselves under my command,’ he ordered, and now he organized his flotilla for
rescue work. It was suicide for all the boats to go – they were too undermanned to face the
bedlam – but one boat with a hand-picked crew might do some good. So Lowe divided his
fifty-five passengers among the other four boats and picked volunteers from each to give No.
14 some expert oarsmen.
It was nerve-racking work, playing musical chairs with rowboats at 2.30 a.m. in the middle
of the Atlantic – almost more than Lowe could stand. ‘Jump, God damn you, jump!’ he shouted
impatiently at Miss Daisy Minahan. On the other hand, an old lady in a shawl seemed much too
agile; Lowe ripped it off and looked into the frightened face of a young man – eyes white with
terror. This time nothing was said, but he pitched the man into boat No. 10 as hard as he could.
It took time to make the transfer. Then more time while Lowe waited for the swimmers to
thin out enough to make the expedition safe. Then still more time to get there. It was after three
o’clock – nearly an hour since the sinking – when boat 14 edged into the wreckage and the
people.
There was little left – steward John Stewart … first-class passenger W. F. Hoyt … a
Japanese steerage passenger, who had lashed himself to a door. For nearly an hour boat 14
played a hopeless blind-man’s-buff, chasing after shouts and calls in the darkness, never quite
able to reach whoever was shouting.
They got only four, and Mr Hoyt died in an hour. Lowe had miscalculated how long it took to
row to the scene … how long to locate a voice in the dark … most of all, how long a man
could live in water at twenty-eight degrees. There was, he learned, no need to wait until the
crowd ‘thinned out’. But at least Lowe went back.
Third Officer Pitman in No. 5 also heard the cries. He turned the boat around and shouted,
‘Now, men, we will pull towards the wreck!’
‘Appeal to the officer not to go back,’ a lady begged steward Etches as he tugged at his oar.
‘Why should we lose all our lives in a useless attempt to save others from the ship?’
Other women protested too. Pitman was torn by the dilemma. Finally he reversed his orders
and told his men to lay on their oars. For the next hour No. 5 – forty people in a boat that held
sixty-five – heaved gently in the calm Atlantic swell, while its passengers listened to the
swimmers three hundred yards away.
In No. 2, Steward Johnson recalled Fourth Officer Boxhall asking the ladies, ‘Shall we go
back?’ They said no; so boat 2 – about sixty per cent full – also drifted while her people
listened.
The ladies in boat 6 were different. Mrs Lucien Smith, stung that she had fallen for the white
lie her husband used to get her in the boat; Mrs Churchill Candee, moved by the gallantry of her
self-appointed protectors; Mrs J. J. Brown, naturally brave and lusty for adventure – all begged
Quartermaster Hitchens to return to the scene. Hitchens refused. He painted a vivid picture of
swimmers grappling at the boat, of No. 6 swamping and capsizing. The women still pleaded,
while the cries grew fainter. Boat No. 6 – capacity sixty-five; occupants twenty-eight – went no
closer to the scene.
In No. 1, fireman Charles Hendrickson sang out, ‘It’s up to us to go back and pick up anyone
in the water.’
Nobody answered. Lookout George Symons, in charge of the boat, made no move. Then,
when the suggestion came again, Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon announced he didn’t think they should
try; it would be dangerous; the boat would be swamped. With that, the subject was dropped.
No. 1 – twelve people in a boat made for forty – rowed on aimlessly in the dark.
In boat after boat the story was the same: a timid suggestion, a stronger refusal, nothing done.
Of 1,600 people who went down on the Titanic, only thirteen were picked up by the eighteen
boats that hovered nearby. Boat D hauled in Mr Frederick Hoyt because he planned it that way.
Boat 4 rescued eight – not because it rowed back but because it was within reach. Only No. 14
returned to the scene. Why the others didn’t is part of the mystery of why trained men in
identical situations should react so differently.
As the cries died away, the night became strangely peaceful. The Titanic, the agonizing
suspense, was gone. The shock of what had happened, the confusion and excitement ahead, the
realization that close friends were lost for ever had not yet sunk in. A curiously tranquil feeling
came over many of those in the boats. With the feeling of calm came loneliness. Lawrence Beesley wondered why the Titanic,
even when mortally wounded, gave everyone a feeling of companionship and security that no
lifeboat could replace. In No. 3, Elizabeth Shutes watched the shooting stars and thought to
herself how insignificant the Titanic’s rockets must have looked, competing against nature. She
tried to bury her loneliness by pretending she was back in Japan. Twice she had left there at
night too, lonely and afraid, but everything came out all right in the end.
In boat 4, Miss Jean Gertrude Hippach also watched the shooting stars – she had never seen
so many. She recalled a legend that every time there’s a shooting star, somebody dies.
Slowly – very slowly – life in the boats picked up again. Fourth Officer Boxhall started
firing off green flares from boat 2. Somehow this brought people out of their trance, cheered
them up too. It was hard to judge distance, and some thought the green flares were being fired
by rescue ships on the horizon.
Oars squealed and splashed in the water, voices sang out as the boats hailed one another in
the dark. Nos. 5 and 7 tied up together; so did Nos. 6 and 16. Boat 6 borrowed a stoker for
extra rowing power. Other boats were drifting apart. Over a radius of four or five miles,
eighteen little boats wandered about through the night or drifted together on a sea flat as a
reservoir. A stoker in No. 13 thought of times he had spent on the Regent’s Park lake and
blurted out, ‘It reminds me of a bloomin’ picnic!’
At times it did seem like a picnic – the small talk, the children under foot. Lawrence Beesley
tried to tuck a blanket under the toes of a crying baby, and discovered that he and the lady
holding the baby had close mutual friends in Clonmel, Ireland. Edith Russell amused another
baby with her toy pig that played the ‘Maxixe’ whenever its tail was twisted. Hugh Woolner
found himself feeding cookies to four-year-old Louis Navatril. Mrs John Jacob Astor lent a
steerage woman a shawl to comfort her little daughter whimpering from the cold. The woman
thanked Mrs Astor in Swedish, and wrapped the shawl around her little girl.
About this time Marguerite Frolicher was introduced to an important piece of picnic
equipment. Still deathly seasick, she was noticed by a kindly gentleman sitting nearby. He
pulled out a silver flask with a cup top and suggested a drink of brandy might help. She took the
suggestion and was instantly cured. Perhaps it was the brandy, perhaps the novel experience –
in all her twenty-two years, she had never seen a flask before, and she was fascinated.
But no picnic was ever so cold. Mrs Crosby shivered so hard in No. 5 that Third Officer
Pitman wrapped a sail around her. A stoker in No. 6 sat beside Mrs Brown, his teeth chattering
with the cold. Finally she wrapped her sable stole about his legs, tying the tails around his
ankles. In No. 16 a man in white pyjamas looked so cold he reminded the other passengers of a
snowman. Mrs Charlotte Collyer was so numb she toppled over in No. 14; her hair caught in an
oarlock and a big tuft came out by the roots.
The crew did their best to make the women more comfortable. In No. 5 a sailor took off his
stockings and gave them to Mrs Washington Dodge. When she looked up in startled gratitude,
he explained, ‘I assure you, ma’am, they are perfectly clean, I just put them on this morning.’
In No. 13, fireman Beauchamp shivered in his thin jumpers, but he refused to take an extra
coat offered him by an elderly lady, insisting it go to a young Irish girl instead. For the people
in this boat there was additional relief from an unexpected quarter. When steward Ray left his
cabin for the last time, he picked up six handkerchiefs lying in his trunk. Now he gave them out,
telling people to tie a knot in each corner and turn them into caps. As a result, he recalls with
pride, ‘six heads were crowned’.
Besides the cold, the number of lady oarsmen dispelled the picnic illusion. In No. 4, Mrs
John B. Thayer rowed for five hours in water up to her shins. In No. 6 the irrepressible Mrs
Brown organized the women, two to an oar. One held the oar in place, while the second did the
pulling. In this way Mrs Brown, Mrs Meyer, Mrs Candee and others propelled the boat some
three or four miles, in a hopeless effort to overtake the light that twinkled on the horizon most
of the night.
Mrs Walter Douglas handled the tiller of boat 2. Boxhall, who was in charge, pulled an oar
and helped to fire the green flares. Mrs J. Stuart White didn’t help to row No. 8, but she
appointed herself a sort of signalman. She had a cane with a built-in electric light, and during
most of the night she waved it fiercely about, alternately helping and confusing everyone.
In No. 8, Marie Young, Gladys Cherry, Mrs F. Joel Swift and others pulled at the oars. Mrs
William R. Bucknell noted with pride that as she rowed next to the Countess of Rothes, further
down the boat her maid was rowing next to the countess’s maid. Most of the night the countess
handled the tiller. Seaman Jones, in charge, later explained to the Sphere why he put her there:
‘There was a woman in my boat as was a woman … When I saw the way she was carrying
herself and heard the quiet determined way she spoke to the others, I knew she was more of a
man than any we had on board.’ At the American investigation, perhaps lacking the guidance of
the Press, Jones phrased it a little less elegantly: ‘She had a lot to say, so I put her to steering
the boat.’
But there was no doubt how he felt. After the rescue Jones removed the numeral ‘8’ from the
lifeboat, had it framed, and sent it to the countess to show his admiration.
As the night wore on, the early composure began to give way. In No. 3, Mrs Charles Hays
hailed the boats that came near, searching for her husband. ‘Charles Hays, are you there?’she
would call over and over again. In No. 8 Señora de Satode Penasco screamed for her husband
Victor, until the Countess of Rothes couldn’t stand it any longer. Turning the tiller over to her
cousin Gladys Cherry, she slipped down beside the señora and spent the rest of the night
rowing beside her, trying to cheer her up. In No. 6, Madame de Villiers constantly called for
her son, who wasn’t even on the Titanic.
Gradually a good deal of squabbling broke out. The women in No. 3 bickered about trifles,
while their husbands sat in embarrassed silence. Mrs Washington Dodge – who wanted to row
back against the wishes of nearly everyone else in No. 5 – grew so bitter that when No. 7 came
by, she switched boats in mid-ocean. Maud Slocombe, the Titanic’s irrepressible masseuse,
helped to bawl out a woman who kept setting off, of all things, an alarm clock in No. 11.
Seaman Diamond, a tough ex-boxer in charge of No. 15, swore oaths that turned the night air
even bluer.
Many of the arguments revolved around smoking. In 1912 tobacco was not yet the American
cure-all for easing strain and tension, and the women in the boats were shocked. Miss
Elizabeth Shutes begged two men sitting near her in No. 3 to stop smoking, but they kept on. To
Mrs J. Stuart White it was a matter that still rankled at the investigation. When Senator Smith
asked if she wished to mention anything bearing on the crew’s discipline, she exploded, ‘As
we cut loose from the ship these stewards took out cigarettes and lighted them. On an occasion
like that!’
In the more casual intimacy of boat 1, smoking was no problem. When Sir Cosmo Duff
Gordon gave fireman Hendrickson a good cigar, neither of the women in the boat could very
well object. Miss Francatelli was employed by Sir Cosmo’s wife, and Lady Duff Gordon was
too sick to care. With her head down upon the oars and tackle, she vomited away the night.
But No. 1 had its squabbles too. Sir Cosmo and Mr C. E. Henry Stengel of Newark, New
Jersey, didn’t get along very well. This might not have mattered in a crowded boat, but with
only twelve people it was rather grating. According to Sir Cosmo, Mr Stengel kept shouting,
‘Boat ahoy!’ He also gave lookout Symons conflicting advice on where to steer. Nobody paid
any attention, but he irritated Sir Cosmo so much that he finally asked Mr Stengel to keep quiet.
Sir Cosmo was doubly annoyed when Mr Stengel later testified that ‘between Sir Cosmo and
myself we decided which way to go’.
Meanwhile fireman Pusey was smouldering over Lady Duff Gordon’s remark to Miss
Francatelli on the loss of her nightgown. At the time he told her, ‘Never mind, you have saved
your lives; but we have lost our kit.’
Half an hour later, still smouldering, Pusey turned to Sir Cosmo, ‘I suppose you have lost
everything?’
‘Of course.’
‘But you can get more?’
‘Yes.’
‘Well, we have lost our kit, and the company won’t give us any more. And what’s more, our
pay stops from tonight.’
Sir Cosmo had had enough: ‘Very well, I will give you a fiver each to start a new kit.’
He did, too, but lived to regret it. The Duff Gordons’ near monopoly of boat 1, its failure to
row back, gave the gift the look of a payoff that Sir Cosmo had a hard time living down.
Nor did subsequent events help his case. When Lady Duff Gordon reassembled the men in
life jackets for a group picture after the rescue, they looked more and more like the Duff
Gordons’ personal crew. Still later, when it came out that lookout Symons, nominally in charge
of the boat, spent the day with Sir Cosmo’s lawyer just before he testified at the British inquiry,
it looked as though Sir Cosmo even had his personal coxswain.
There’s no evidence that Sir Cosmo was guilty of more than extreme bad taste.
Drinking caused some trouble too. When No. 4 plucked a member of the crew out of the
water, he had a bottle of brandy in his pocket. It was then thrown away because, as he
explained it a few weeks later to the Press, ‘it was feared that if any hysterical person in the
boat touched it, the result might be bad’. Miss Eustis has a somewhat different version: ‘One
man was drunk and had a bottle of brandy in his pocket, which the quartermaster promptly
threw overboard, and the drunken man was thrown into the bottom of the boat …’
There was a different kind of trouble in boat 6. Friction erupted from the moment Major
Peuchen slid down the line to fill out the crew. Peuchen, used to giving orders, couldn’t resist
trying to take command. Quartermaster Hitchens had other ideas. As they rowed away from the
Titanic, Peuchen was pulling an oar and Hitchens was at the tiller, but within ten minutes
Peuchen asked Hitchens to let a lady steer and join him in rowing. The Quartermaster answered
that he was in charge and Peuchen’s job was to row and keep quiet.
Painfully the boat struggled away, with just Peuchen and lookout Fleet rowing. Under Mrs
Brown’s leadership, most of the women gradually joined in, but Hitchens remained glued to the
tiller, shouting at them to row harder or all would be sucked under when the Titanic sank.
Then women began shouting back, and as the boat splashed along in the dark, the night
echoed with bitter repartee. Most of the time No. 6 was heading towards the elusive light on
the horizon, and when it became clear they could never reach it, Hitchens announced that all
was lost; they had neither water nor food nor compass nor charts; they were hundreds of miles
from land and didn’t even know which way they were heading.
Major Peuchen had given up by now, but the women tore into him. Mrs Candee grimly
showed him the North Star. Mrs Brown told him to shut up and row. Mrs Meyer jeered at his
courage.
Then they tied up with boat 16, and Hitchens ordered them to drift. But the women couldn’t
stand the cold and insisted on rowing to keep warm. Mrs Brown gave an oar to a grimy stoker
transferred from No. 16, and told everyone to row. Hitchens moved to stop her, and Mrs Brown
told him if he came any closer, she would throw him overboard.
He sank back under a blanket and began shouting insults. Mrs Meyer answered back –
accused him of taking all the blankets and drinking all the whisky. Hitchens hotly denied it. The
transferred stoker, wondering what on earth he had run into, called out, ‘I say, don’t you know
you’re talking to a lady.’
Hitchens yelled back, ‘I know whom I’m speaking to, and I’m commanding this boat!’
But the stoker’s rebuke worked. The quartermaster lapsed into silence. Boat 6 rowed on
through the night with Hitchens subdued, Peuchen out of the picture, and Mrs Brown virtually in
charge.
Even among the men clinging desperately to overturned boat B, there was time for petty
bickering. Colonel Gracie – his teeth chattering, his matted hair now frozen stiff – noticed the
man beside him wore a dry outing cap. The colonel asked to borrow the cap to warm his head
for a minute. ‘And what would I do?’ the man shot back.
Nerves on boat B were understandably frayed. The air was leaking out from the hull, and
every minute it sank a little lower in the water. The sea occasionally washed over the keel, and
one impulsive move might pitch everybody into the sea. They needed cool leadership badly.
At this point Gracie was relieved to hear the deep, rich voice of Second Officer Lightoller,
and even more relieved when a somewhat tipsy crewman on the boat called out, ‘We will all
obey what the officer orders.’
Lightoller quickly responded. Feeling that only concerted, organized action would keep the
boat balanced, he had all thirty men stand up. He arranged them in a double column, facing the
bow. Then as the boat lurched with the sea, he shouted, ‘Lean to the right’ … ‘Stand
upright’ … ‘Lean to the left’ – whatever was necessary to counteract the swell.
As they threw their weight this way and that, for a while they yelled, ‘Boat ahoy! Boat ahoy!’
Lightoller finally stopped them, urging them to save their strength.
It grew still colder, and the colonel complained again about his head, this time to Lightoller.
Another man offered them both a pull from his flask. They turned him down but pointed out
Walter Hurst, shivering nearby. Hurst thought it was brandy and took a big swig. He almost
choked – it was essence of peppermint.
They talked a surprising amount. Assistant cook John Maynard told how Captain Smith
swam alongside the boat just before the Titanic took her last plunge. They pulled him on, but he
slipped off again. Later fireman Harry Senior claimed the captain let go on purpose, saying ‘I
will follow the ship!’ It may have been true, but Hurst is sure the captain never reached the
boat. Besides, Senior was one of the last to arrive – probably too late to have seen the captain
himself.
Most of all they all talked of getting rescued. Lightoller soon discovered Harold Bride, the
junior wireless operator, at the stern of the boat, and from his position in the bow he asked
what ships were on the way. Bride shouted back: the Baltic, the Olympic, the Carpathia.
Lightoller figured the Carpathia should arrive at daybreak … passed the word around, to buck
up sagging spirits.
From then on they scanned the horizon searching for any sign. From time to time they were
cheered by the green flares lit by Boxhall in boat 2. Even Lightoller thought they must come
from another ship.
Slowly the night passed. Towards dawn a slight breeze sprang up. The air seemed even more
frigid. The sea grew choppy. Bitter-cold waves splashed over the feet, the shins, the knees of
the men on boat B. The spray stabbed their bodies and blinded their eyes. One man, then
another, then another rolled off the stern and disappeared from sight. The rest fell silent,
completely absorbed in the battle to stay alive.
The sea was silent too. No one saw a trace of life in the waves that rippled the smooth
Atlantic as the first light of dawn streaked the sky.
But one man still lived – thanks to a remarkable combination of initiative, luck and alcohol.
Four hours earlier, chief baker Charles Joughin was awakened, like so many on the Titanic, by
that strange, grinding jar. And like many others he heard the call to general quarters a little after
midnight.
But Joughin didn’t merely report to the boat deck. He reasoned that if boats were needed,
provisions were needed too; so on his own initiative he mustered his staff of thirteen bakers
and ransacked the Titanic’s larder of all spare bread. The bakers then trooped topside carrying
four loaves apiece.
This done, Joughin retired to his cabin on E deck, port side, for a nip of whisky.
About 12.30 he felt sufficiently fortified to reascend the stairs to his boat, No. 10. At this
stage it was still difficult to persuade the women to go; so Joughin resorted to stronger
methods. He went down to the promenade deck and hauled some up by force. Then, to use his
own word, he ‘threw’ them into the boat. Rough but effective.
Joughin was assigned to No. 10 as skipper, but he thought there were enough men to handle
the boat; so he jumped out and helped launch it instead. To go with it, he explained, ‘would
have set a bad example’.
It was now 1.20. He scampered down the slanting stairs again to his cabin on E deck and
poured himself another drink. He sat down on his bunk and nursed it along – aware but not
particularly caring that the water now rippled through the cabin doorway, swilled across the
chequered linoleum, and rose to the top of his shoes.
About 1.45 he saw, of all people, gentle old Dr O’Loughlin poking around. It never occurred
to Joughin to wonder what the old gentleman was doing way down here, but the proximity of
the pantry suggests that Joughin and the doctor were thinking along similar lines.
In any case, Joughin greeted him briefly, then went back up to the boat deck. None too soon,
for the Titanic was listing heavily now, and the slant was much steeper. Any longer, and the
stairs might have been impossible.
Though all the boats were gone, Joughin was anything but discouraged. He went down to B
deck and began throwing deck chairs through the windows of the enclosed promenade. Others
watched him, but they didn’t help. Altogether he pitched about fifty chairs overboard.
It was tiring work; so after he lugged the last chair to the edge and squeezed it through the
window (it was a little like threading a needle), Joughin retired to the pantry on the starboard
side of A deck. It was 2.10.
As he quenched his thirst – this time it was water – he heard a kind of crash, as though
something had buckled. The pantry cups and saucers flew about him, the lights glowed red, and
overhead he heard the pounding of feet running aft.
He bolted out of the pantry towards the stern end of A deck, just behind a swarm of people,
running the same way and clambering down from the boat deck above. He kept out of the crush
as much as possible and ran along in the rear of the crowd. He vaulted down the steps to B
deck, then to the well deck. Just as he got there, the Titanic gave a sickening twist to port,
throwing most of the people into a huge heap along the port rail.
Only Joughin kept his balance. Alert but relaxed, his equilibrium was marvellous, as the
stern rose higher and corkscrewed to port. The deck was now listing too steeply to stand on,
and Joughin slipped over the starboard rail and stood on the actual side of the ship. He worked
his way up the side, still holding on to the rail – but from the outside – until he reached the
white-painted steel plates of the poop deck. He now stood on the rounded stern end of the ship,
which had swung high in the air some 150 feet above the water.
Joughin casually tightened his lifebelt. Then he glanced at his watch – it said 2.15. As an
afterthought, he took it off and stuck it into his hip pocket. He was beginning to puzzle over his
position when he felt the stern beginning to drop under his feet – it was like taking an elevator.
As the sea closed over the stern, Joughin stepped off into the water. He didn’t even get his head
wet.
He paddled off into the night, little bothered by the freezing water. For over an hour he
bobbed about, moving his arms and legs just enough to keep upright. ‘No trick at all,’ he
explains cheerfully today.
It was four o’clock when he saw what he thought was wreckage in the first grey light of day.
He swam over and discovered it was the upturned collapsible B.
The keel was crowded and he couldn’t climb on, so he hung around for a while until he
spied an old friend from the kitchen – entrée chef John Maynard. Blood proved thicker than
water; Maynard held out his hand and Joughin hung on, treading water, still thoroughly
insulated.
The others didn’t notice him … partly because they were too numb to care, partly because
all eyes now scanned the south-east horizon. It was just after 3.30 when they first saw it – a
distant flash followed by a far-off boom. In boat 6, Miss Norton cried, ‘There’s a flash of
lightning!’ while Hitchens growled, ‘It’s a falling star!’ In No. 13 a stoker lying in the bottom,
almost unconscious from the cold, bolted up, shouting, ‘That was cannon!’
In No. 8, seaman Jones hardly dared believe his eyes. Turning to the Countess of Rothes,
rowing next to him, he whispered, ‘Can you see any lights? Look on the next wave we top, but
don’t say anything in case I am wrong.’
As the boat heaved up on the next swell, the countess scanned the horizon. Far off, she saw a
dim light. A few moments later there was no doubt about it, and they told the others.
The single light grew brighter; then another appeared; then row after row. A big steamer was
pounding up, firing rockets to reassure the Titanic’s people that help was on the way. In No. 9,
deck hand Paddy McGough suddenly thundered, ‘Let us all pray to God, for there is a ship on
the horizon and it’s making for us!’
The men in boat B let out a yelp of joy and started babbling again. Someone lit a newspaper
in No. 3 and waved it wildly, then Mrs Davidson’s straw hat – it would burn longer. In Mrs A.
S. Jerwan’s boat they dipped handkerchiefs in kerosene and lit them as signals. In No. 13 they
twisted a paper torch out of letters. Boxhall burned a last green flare in boat 2. In No. 8, Mrs
White swung her electric cane as never before.
Over the water floated cheers and yells of relief. Even nature seemed pleased, as the dreary
night gave way to the mauve and coral of a beautiful dawn.
Not everyone saw it. In half-swamped boat A, Olaus Abelseth tried to kindle the will to live
in a half-frozen man lying beside him. As day broke, he took the man’s shoulder and raised him
up, so that he was sitting on the floorboards. ‘Look!’ pleaded Abelseth, ‘we can see a ship
now; brace up!’
He took one of the man’s hands and raised it. Then he shook the man’s shoulder. But the man
only said, ‘Who are you?’ And a minute later, ‘Let me be … who are you?’
Abelseth held him up for a while; but it was such a strain, he finally had to use a board as a
prop. Half an hour later the sky blazed with thrilling, warm shades of pink and gold, but now it
was too late for the man to know.
9. ‘We’re Going North Like Hell’
Mrs Anne Crain puzzled over the cheerful smell of coffee brewing as she lay in her cabin on
the Cunarder Carpathia, bound from New York to the Mediterranean. It was nearly 1.00 a.m.
on the fourth night out, and by now Mrs Crain knew the quiet little liner well enough to feel that
any sign of activity after midnight was unusual, let alone coffee brewing.
Down the corridor Miss Ann Peterson lay awake in her bunk too. She wondered why the
lights were turned on all over the ship – normally the poky Carpathia was shut down by now.
Mr Howard M. Chapin was more worried than puzzled. He lay in the upper berth of his
cabin on A deck – his face just a few inches below the boat deck above. Some time after
midnight a strange sound suddenly woke him up. It was a man kneeling down on the deck,
directly over his head. The day before, he had noticed a lifeboat fall tied to a cleat just about
there; now he felt sure the man was unfastening the boat and something was wrong.
Nearby, Mrs Louis M. Ogden awoke to a cold cabin and a speeding ship. Hearing loud
noises overhead, she too decided something must be wrong. She shook her sleeping husband.
His diagnosis didn’t reassure her – the noise was the crew breaking out the chocks from the
lifeboats overhead. He opened the stateroom door and saw a line of stewards carrying blankets
and mattresses. Not very reassuring either.
Here and there, all over the ship, the light sleepers listened restlessly to muffled commands,
tramping feet, creaking davits. Some wondered about the engines – they were pounding so
much harder, so much faster than usual. The mattress jiggled wildly … the washstand tumblers
rattled loudly in the brackets … the woodwork groaned with the strain. A turn of the tap
produced only cold water – a twist on the heater knob brought no results – the engines seemed
to be feeding on every ounce of steam.
Strangest of all was the bitter cold. The Carpathia had left New York on 11 April, bound for
Gibraltar, Genoa, Naples, Trieste and Fiume. Her 150 first-class passengers were mostly
elderly Americans following the sun in this pre-Florida era; her 575 steerage passengers were
mostly Italians and Slavs returning to their sunny Mediterranean. All of them welcomed the
balmy breeze of the Gulf Stream that Sunday afternoon. Towards five o’clock it grew so warm
that Mr Chapin shifted his deck chair to the shade. Now there was an amazing change – the
frigid blast that swept through every crack and seam felt like the Arctic.
On the bridge, Captain Arthur H. Rostron wondered whether he had overlooked anything. He
had been at sea for twenty-seven years – with Cunard for seventeen – but this was only his
second year as a Cunard skipper and only his third month on the Carpathia. The Titanic’s call
for help was his first real test. When the CQD arrived, Rostron had already turned in for the night. Harold Cottam, the
Carpathia’s operator, rushed the message to First Officer Dean on the bridge. They both raced
down the ladder, through the chart room, and burst into the captain’s cabin. Rostron – a stickler
for discipline even when half asleep – wondered what the ship was coming to, with people
dashing in in this way. They were meant to knock. But before he could reprimand them, Dean
blurted the news.
Rostron bolted out of bed, ordered the ship turned, and then – after the order was given –
double-checked Cottam:
‘Are you sure it is the Titanic and requires immediate assistance?’
‘Yes, sir.’
‘You are absolutely certain?’
‘Quite certain.’
‘All right, tell him we are coming along as fast as we can.’
Rostron then rushed into the chart room and worked out the Carpathia’s new course. As he
figured and scribbled, he saw the boatswain’s mate pass by, leading a party to scrub down the
decks. Rostron told him to forget the decks and prepare the boats for lowering. The mate
gaped. Rostron reassured him: ‘It’s all right; we’re going to another vessel in distress.’
In a few moments the new course was set – north 52 west. The Carpathia was fifty-eight
miles away. At 14 knots she would take four hours to get there. Too long.
Rostron sent for chief engineer Johnstone, told him to pour it on – call out the off-duty
watch … cut off the heat and hot water … pile every ounce of steam into the boilers.
Next, Rostron sent for First Officer Dean. He told him to knock off all routine work,
organize the ship for rescue operations. Specifically, prepare and swing out all boats … . rig
electric clusters along the ship’s side … open all gangway doors … hook block and line rope
in each gangway … rig chair slings for the sick and injured, canvas and bags for hauling up
children at every gangway … drop pilot ladders and side ladders at gangways and along the
sides … rig cargo nets to help people up … prepare forward derricks (with steam in the
winches) to hoist mail and luggage aboard … and have oil handy to pour down the lavatories
on both sides of the ship, in case the sea grew rough.
Then he called the ship’s surgeon, Dr McGhee: collect all the restoratives and stimulants on
the ship … set up first-aid stations in each dining-saloon … put the Hungarian doctor in charge
of third class … the Italian doctor in second … McGhee himself in first.
Now it was Purser Brown’s turn: see that the chief steward, the assistant purser and himself
each covered a different gangway – receive the Titanic’s passengers … get their
names … channel them to the proper dining-saloon (depending on class) for medical check.
Finally, another barrage of orders for chief steward Harry Hughes: call out every
man … prepare coffee for all hands … have soup, coffee, tea, brandy and whisky ready for
survivors … pile blankets at every gangway … convert smoking-room, lounge and library into
dormitories for the rescued … group all the Carpathia’s steerage passengers together, use the
space saved for the Titanic’s steerage.
As he gave his orders, Rostron urged them all to keep quiet. The job ahead was tough enough
without having the Carpathia’s passengers underfoot. The longer they slept, the better. As an
extra precaution, stewards were stationed in every corridor. They were to tell any prowling
passengers that the Carpathia wasn’t in trouble, urge them to go back to their cabins.
Then he sent an inspector, the master-at-arms and a special detail of stewards to keep the
steerage passengers under control. After all, no one knew how they’d react to being shuffled
about.
The ship sprang to life. Down in the engine room it seemed as if everyone had found a
shovel and was pouring on the coal. The extra watch tumbled out of their bunks and raced to
lend a hand. Most didn’t even wait to dress. Faster and faster the old ship knifed ahead –
14 … 14.5 … 15 … 16.5 … 17 knots. No one dreamed the Carpathia could drive so hard.
In the crew’s quarters a tug at his blanket woke up steward Robert H. Vaughan. A voice told
him to get up and dress. It was pitch black, but Vaughan could hear his room-mates already
pulling on their clothes. He asked what was up, and the voice said the Carpathia had hit an
iceberg.
Vaughan stumbled to the porthole and looked out. The ship was driving ahead, white waves
rolling out from her side. Obviously there was nothing wrong with the Carpathia. Bewildered,
he and his mates continued dressing – all the more confused because someone had swiped their
only light bulb and they had to get ready in the dark.
When they reached the deck, an officer put them to work collecting blankets. Then to the
first-class dining-saloon … now a beehive of men scurrying about, shifting chairs, resetting
tables, moving the liquor from the bar to the buffet. Still Vaughan and his mates couldn’t
imagine the reason. Elsewhere word spread that Captain Rostron wanted 3,000 blankets for
‘that many extra people’. But nobody knew why.
At 1.15 they learned. The stewards were all mustered into the main dining-saloon and chief
steward Hughes gave a little speech. He told them about the Titanic … explained their
duties … paused … then delivered his ending : ‘Every man to his post and let him do his full
duty like a true Englishman. If the situation calls for it, let us add another glorious page to
British history.’
Then the stewards went back to work, most of them now shifting blankets from the bedding
lockers to the gangways. These were the men Louis Ogden saw when he first looked out of his
cabin. Now he decided to try again. He collared Dr McGhee, who was passing by, but the
surgeon only told him, ‘Please stay in your cabin – captain’s orders.’
‘Yes, but what is the matter?’
‘An accident, but not to our ship. Stay inside.’
Mr Ogden reported back to his wife. For some reason he was sure the Carpathia was on fire
and the ship was speeding for help. He began dressing, slipped out on deck, found a
quartermaster he knew. This time he got a straight answer: ‘There has been an accident to the
Titanic.’
‘You’ll have to give me something better than that!’said Ogden, almost triumphantly. ‘The
Titanic is on the northern route and we are on the southern.’
‘We’re going north like hell. Get back in your room.’
Mr Ogden again reported back to Mrs Ogden, who asked, ‘Do you believe it?’
‘No. Get up and put on your warmest clothes.’ There was no doubt in Mr Ogden’s mind now:
the Titanic was unsinkable; so the surgeon must be covering up. His story confirmed their
worst fears – the Carpathia was in danger. They must escape. Somehow they managed to sneak
out on deck.
Others made it too; and they compared notes together, furtive little groups hiding from their
own crew. Gradually they realized the Carpathia wasn’t in danger. But despite rumours about
the Titanic, nobody was sure why they were on this wild dash through the night. And of course
they couldn’t ask or they’d be sent below again. So they just stood there, huddling in the
shadows, all eyes straining into the darkness, not even knowing what they were looking for.
In fact, nobody on the Carpathia now knew what to look for. In the wireless shack over the
second-class smoking-room, Harold Cottam could no longer rouse the Titanic. But his set was
so miserable – the range was only 150 miles at best – that he wasn’t sure what had happened.
Perhaps the Titanic was still sending, but her signals were now too weak to catch.
On the other hand, the news so far had been all bad. At 1.06, Cottam heard her tell the
Olympic, ‘Get your boats ready; going down fast at the head’ … at 1.10, ‘Sinking head
down’ … at 1.35, ‘Engine room getting flooded.’
Once the Titanic asked Cottam how long he would take to arrive. ‘Say about four hours,’
instructed Rostron – he didn’t yet realize what the Carpathia could do.
Then at 1.50 came a final plea, ‘Come as quickly as possible, old man; the engine room is
filling up to the boilers.’ After that, silence.
Now it was after 2.00, and Cottam still hunched tensely over the set. Once Miss Peterson
peeked in at him, noticed that, despite the biting cold, Cottam was still in his shirtsleeves. He
had just started to undress when the first CQD arrived, and he hadn’t yet got around to putting
on his coat again.
Up on the bridge, Rostron was wondering too. He had organized his men, done everything he
could think of, and now came the hardest part of all – waiting. Near him stood Second Officer
James Bisset, up forward with extra lookouts. All strained for any sign of ice, any sign of the
Titanic. But so far there was nothing – just the glassy sea, the blazing stars, the sharp, clear,
empty horizon.
At 2.35 Dr McGhee climbed the ladder to the bridge, told Rostron that everything was ready
below. As he talked, Rostron suddenly saw the glow of a green flare on the horizon, about half
a point off the port bow.
‘There’s his light!’ he shouted. ‘He must be still afloat!’ It certainly looked that way. The
flare was clearly a long way off. To see it at all, it must be high out of the water. It was only
2.40, and they were already in sight – perhaps the Carpathia would be in time after all.
Then at 2.45 Second Officer Bisset sighted a tiny shaft of light glistening two points off the
port bow. It was the first iceberg – revealed by, of all things, the mirrored light of a star.
Then another berg, then another. Twisting and turning, the Carpathia now dodged icebergs
on all sides, never slackening speed. On they surged, as the men breathlessly watched for the
next berg and from time to time spotted more green flares in the distance.
Now that everything was ready, the stewards had a little free time. Robert Vaughan and his
mates went to the afterdeck. Like boxers warming up for a fight, they danced about and
playfully rough-housed to keep warm. Once a huge iceberg passed close to starboard, and a
man cried, ‘Hey fellows! Look at the polar bear scratching himself with a chunk of ice!’
A weak joke perhaps, but the men roared with laughter as the Carpathia lunged on.
She was firing rockets now. One every fifteen minutes, with Cunard Roman candles in
between. Word spread below that they were in sight. In the main dining-saloon the stewards
took up their posts. In the engine room, the stokers shovelled harder than ever. At the gangways
and boat stations the men stood ready. Everyone was wild with excitement, and the Carpathia
herself trembled all over. A sailor later remarked, ‘The old boat was as excited as any of us.’
But Rostron’s heart was sinking. By 3.35 they were drawing near the Titanic’s position, and
still no sign of her. He decided the green flare couldn’t have been so high after all. It was just
the sparkling-clear night that let him see it from so far off. At 3.50 he put the engines on ‘stand
by’ – they were almost at the spot. At 4.00 he stopped the ship – they were there.
Just then another green flare blazed up. It was directly ahead, low in the water. The
flickering light showed the outline of a lifeboat perhaps 300 yards away. Rostron started up his
engines, began to manoeuvre the Carpathia to starboard so as to pick up the lifeboat on his
port side, which was leeward. An instant later he spotted a huge iceberg directly ahead and had
to swing the other way to keep from hitting it.
The lifeboat was now to windward, and as he edged towards it, a breeze sprang up and the
sea grew choppy. A voice from the dark hailed him, ‘We have only one seaman and can’t work
very well.’
‘All right,’ Rostron shouted back, and he gently nudged the Carpathia closer, until the voice
called again, ‘Stop your engines!’
It was Fourth Officer Boxhall in boat 2. Sitting beside him, Mrs Walter Douglas of
Minneapolis was near hysterics. ‘The Titanic,’she cried, ‘has gone down with everyone on
board.’
Boxhall told her to ‘shut up’, and his sharpness cut her off instantly. She quickly pulled
herself together and afterwards always agreed the rebuke was justified.
On the Carpathia no one heard her anyhow. All eyes were glued on the lifeboat bobbing
towards the gangway. Mrs Ogden noticed the White Star emblem painted on its side, the
lifebelts that made everybody look dressed in white. Mrs Crain wondered about the pale,
strained faces looking up at the decks. The only sound was a wailing baby somewhere in the
boat.
Lines were dropped, and now the boat was fast. A moment’s hesitation, then at 4.10 Miss
Elizabeth Allen climbed slowly up the swinging ladder and tumbled into the arms of Purser
Brown. He asked her where the Titanic was, and she replied it had gone down.
Up on the bridge Rostron knew without asking – yet he felt he had to go through with the
formalities. He sent for Boxhall, and as the Fourth Officer stood shivering before him, he put it
to him: ‘The Titanic has gone down?’
‘Yes’ – Boxhall’s voice broke as he said it – ‘she went down at about 2.30.’
It was half-day now, and the people on deck could make out other lifeboats on all sides.
They were scattered over a four-mile area, and in the grey light of dawn they were hard to
distinguish from scores of small icebergs that covered the sea. Mixed with the small bergs
were three or four towering monsters, 150 to 200 feet high. To the north and west, about five
miles away, stretched a flat, unbroken field of ice as far as the eye could see. The floe was
studded here and there with other big bergs that rose against the horizon. ‘When I saw the ice I
had steamed through during the night,’ Rostron later told a friend, ‘I shuddered and could only
think that some other hand than mine was on that helm during the night.’
The sight was so astonishing, so incredible, that those who had slept through everything until
now couldn’t grasp it at all. Mrs Wallace Bradford of San Francisco looked out of her porthole
and blinked in disbelief – half a mile away loomed a huge, jagged peak like a rock offshore. It
was not white, and she wondered, ‘How in the world can we be near a rock when we are four
days out from New York in a southerly direction and in mid-ocean?’
Miss Sue Eva Rule of St Louis was equally puzzled. When she first saw one of the lifeboats
splashing through the early dawn, it looked like the gondola of an airship, and the huge grey
mound behind it looked like a frame. She was sure they were picking up the crew of a fallen
dirigible.
Another bewildered passenger hunted up his stewardess in the corridor. But she stopped him
before he said a word. Pointing to some women tottering into the main dining-saloon she
sobbed, ‘From the Titanic. She’s at the bottom of the ocean.’
Ten miles away, with the coming of dawn, life was beginning to stir again on the
Californian. At 4.00 Chief Officer George Frederick Stewart climbed to the bridge and
relieved Second Officer Stone.
Stone brought him up to date – told him about the strange ship, the rockets, the way the
stranger disappeared. He added that around 3.40 he saw still another rocket, this time directly
south and clearly not from the same ship that fired the first eight. Dead tired, Stone dropped
down the ladder and turned in – from now on it was Stewart’s headache.
At 4.30 Stewart woke up Captain Lord and began to repeat Stone’s story.
‘Yes, I know,’ interrupted the captain, ‘he’s been telling me.’ Lord had never taken off his
uniform, so he now went straight to the bridge and began discussing the best way to work out of
the ice field and get on to Boston. Stewart broke in and asked if he wasn’t going to check on a
ship that was now in sight directly to the south. Lord said, ‘No, I don’t think so; she’s not
making any signals now.’
Stewart dropped the matter – he didn’t mention that Stone, on his way below, said he was
sure the ship to the south couldn’t be the same one that fired the first eight rockets.
But he must have thought a good deal more about it, because at 5.40 he woke up wireless
operator Evans, who recalled his saying, ‘There’s a ship been firing rockets. Will you see if
you can find out if anything is the matter?’
Evans fumbled in the half-light of day, found the headphones and tuned in.
Two minutes later Stewart rocketed up the steps to the bridge calling, ‘There’s a ship sunk!’
Then he ran back down to the wireless shack … back up again … then to Captain Lord with the
shattering news: ‘The Titanic has hit a berg and sunk!’
Captain Lord did just what a good skipper should do. He immediately started his engines
and headed for the Titanic’s last position.
10. ‘Go Away – We Have Just Seen Our Husbands Drown’
‘Oh, Muddie, look at the beautiful North Pole with no Santa Claus on it,’ little Douglas
Spedden said to his mother, Mrs Frederick O. Spedden, as boat 3 threaded its way through the
loose ice towards the Carpathia.
In fact, the world did look like a picture from a child’s book about the Arctic. The sun was
just edging over the horizon, and the ice sparkled in its first long rays. The bergs looked
dazzling white, pink, mauve, deep blue, depending on how the rays hit them and how the
shadows fell. The sea was now bright blue, and little chunks of ice, some no bigger than a
man’s fist, bobbed in the choppy water. Overhead, the eastern sky was gold and blue,
promising a lovely day. The shadows of night lingered in the west – Lawrence Beesley
remembered watching the Morning Star shine long after the others had faded. Near the horizon
a thin, pale crescent moon appeared.
‘A new moon! Turn your money over, boys! That is, if you have any!’ fireman Fred Barrett
shouted cheerfully to the crew rowing No. 13. Whoops and yells of relief erupted from all the
boats, as the men tried to outrow each other in reaching the Carpathia. Some began singing,
‘Pull for the Shore, Boys’. Some gave organized cheers. Some, however, remained silent –
stunned by the sinking or overwhelmed by relief.
‘It’s all right, ladies, do not grieve. We are picked up.’ Lookout Hogg sought to encourage the
women staring bleakly ahead in No. 7, but they kept very quiet.
There were no cheers on overturned collapsible B either. Lightoller, Gracie, Bride, Thayer
and the others were too busy trying to stay afloat. Stirred by the morning breeze, the waves now
washed over the hulk and rocked it back and forth. Every time it rolled, a little more air
escaped, and the keel sank still lower into the water. With Lightoller shouting directions, the
men still shifted their weight back and forth, but after an hour of this they were dead tired.
The sight of the Carpathia arriving with the dawn – so thrilling to everyone else – now
meant little to these men. She had stopped four miles away, and they wondered how they could
last until they were spotted. Suddenly, as the light spread over the sea, they saw new hope.
About 800 yards off, boats 4, 10, 12 and D were still strung together in a line, just as Fifth
Officer Lowe had ordered.
The men on collapsible B shouted, ‘Ship ahoy!’ – but they were too far away to be heard.
Then Lightoller fished an officer’s whistle out of his pocket and blew a shrill blast. The sound
not only carried but told the crew manning the boats that an officer was calling.
In No. 12, seaman Frederick Clinch quickly looked up … thought he saw about twenty men
in the distance standing on, of all things, a ship’s funnel. In No. 4, trimmer Samuel Hemming
looked over too; and in the early morning light it seemed to him some men were standing on a
slab of ice. Little matter, the two boats at once cast off and headed over. It was slow rowing,
and as they crept within hailing distance, Lightoller urged them on: ‘Come over and take us
off!’
‘Aye, aye, sir,’somebody called back, and finally the two boats arrived. They were barely in
time. By now collapsible B was so delicately balanced that the wash from No. 4 almost swept
everybody off. It took all Quartermaster Perkis’s skill to manoeuvre the boat safely alongside.
On B, Lightoller cautioned the men not to scramble. Even so, the boat gave a sickening roll as
each man leaned forward to jump.
One by one they made it. Jack Thayer was so preoccupied with getting safely into No. 12
that he didn’t notice his mother right alongside in No. 4. And Mrs Thayer was so numbed by
cold and misery that she didn’t notice her son. When Colonel Gracie’s turn came, he crawled
hands first into No. 12, preferring pinched fingers to the risk of a jump. Baker Joughin, still
treading water, didn’t worry at all. He simply let go Maynard’s hand and paddled over to No.
4, where they pulled him in, still thoroughly insulated by his whisky.
Lightoller was last to leave the overturned collapsible. When all the others were transferred,
he lifted a lifeless body into No. 12, jumped in himself, and took charge of the boat. It was just
about 6.30 when he finally shoved off from the empty keel and began rowing towards the
Carpathia.
Meanwhile Fifth Officer Lowe gave up his search for swimmers among the wreckage. In an
hour’s hard work No. 14 picked up only four men, and he knew he was too late to find any
more. No man could last longer in the ice-cold water. Now day was breaking and rescue was
at hand, Lowe decided to head back for the boats he had left tied together and shepherd them in
to the Carpathia.
‘Hoist a sail forward,’ he ordered seaman F. O. Evans as the breeze quickened. In every
other boat the crew regarded the mast as an extra encumbrance and the sail as just something
that got in the way. In some cases they dumped out this equipment before leaving the Titanic; in
others it stayed in, and the men cursed as they stumbled over useless spars in the dark. They
didn’t know how to sail anyhow.
Lowe was different. As he later explained, few seamen were boatmen and few boatmen
were seamen, but he was both. Years spent windjamming along the Gold Coast now paid off as
he skilfully tacked back and forth. The bow slammed down on the waves, and the spray
glittered in the early morning sun as No. 14 bowled along at four knots.
By the time he got back, his little fleet had scattered. Boats 4 and 12 were off picking up the
men on B, and Nos. 10 and D were heading separately for the Carpathia. D looked in bad
shape – low in the water and few oars at work. ‘Well,’said Lowe to himself, ‘I will go down
and pick her up and make sure of her.’
‘We have about all we want!’ Hugh Woolner shouted as No. 14 sailed up. Lowe tossed over
a line and gave them a tow.
Then, about a mile and a half away, he spied collapsible A, completely swamped and
making no headway at all. The people in A never did manage to get the sides up, and now the
gunwales lay flush with the water. Of some thirty who originally swam to the boat, most had
fallen overboard, numb with the cold. Only a dozen men and third-class passenger Mrs Rosa
Abbott were left, standing in freezing water up to their knees.
Lowe arrived just in time … took them all aboard No. 14 … then set sail again for the
Carpathia, still towing D. Collapsible A was left behind – abandoned and empty, except for
the bodies of three men (with lifebelts covering their faces), R. Norris Williams Jr’s fur coat
and a ring belonging to third-class passenger Edvard P. Lindell of Helsingborg, Sweden, whom
no one remembered seeing all night.
One by one the boats crept up to the Carpathia. It was 4.45 when No. 13 made fast, and
Lawrence Beesley climbed a rope ladder to the C deck companionway. He felt overwhelmed
with gratitude, relief and joy to feel a solid deck under his feet again. Close behind climbed Dr
Washington Dodge, who remembered to bring along his lifebelt as a memento.
Mrs Dodge and five-year-old Washington Jr arrived at 5.10 in No. 7. The little boy was
hauled up in a mail sack and plopped on to the deck. A steward rushed up with coffee, but
Master Dodge announced he would rather have cocoa. The steward promptly dashed off and
got some – British liners aren’t famous for their service for nothing.
Then came No. 3 at 6.00. Mr and Mrs Spedden climbed aboard immaculately dressed. Close
behind came the Henry Sleeper Harpers, dragoman Hamad Hassah, and Pekingese Sun Yat-
Sen. Mr Harper soon discovered Mr Ogden on deck, greeting him with classic detachment:
‘Louis, how do you keep yourself looking so young?’
Elizabeth Shutes, arriving in the same boat, didn’t try the ladder. She sat in a rope sling, felt
herself swept aloft with a mighty jerk. From somewhere above a voice called, ‘Careful,
fellows, she’s a lightweight.’
Bruce Ismay stumbled aboard around 6.30, mumbling ‘I’m Ismay … I’m Ismay.’ Trembling,
he stood near the gangway, his back against a bulkhead. Dr McGhee gently approached him:
‘Will you not go into the saloon and get some soup or something to drink?’
‘No, I really don’t want anything at all.’
‘Do go and get something.’
‘If you will leave me alone, I’ll be much happier here,’ Ismay blurted, then changed his
mind: ‘If you can get me in some room where I can be quiet, I wish you would.’
‘Please,’ the doctor softly persisted, ‘go to the saloon and get something hot.’
‘I would rather not.’
Dr McGhee gave up. He gently led Ismay to his own cabin. During the rest of the trip Ismay
never left the room; he never ate anything solid; he never received a visitor (except Jack
Thayer, once); he was kept to the end under the influence of opiates. It was the start of a selfimposed exile from active life. Within a year he retired from the White Star Line, purchased a
large estate on the west coast of Ireland and remained a virtual recluse till he died in 1937.
Olaus Abelseth reached the deck about 7.00. A hot blanket was thrown over his soaked,
shivering shoulders and he was rushed to the dining-saloon for brandy and coffee. Mrs
Charlotte Collyer and the others in No. 14 tagged along, while Fifth Officer Lowe remained
behind, unshipping the mast and stowing the sail. He liked a tidy boat.
And so they came, one boatload after another. As each drew alongside, the survivors already
aboard peered down from the promenade deck, searching for familiar faces. Billy Carter stood
next to the Ogdens, frantically watching for his wife and children. When the rest of the family
finally came alongside in No. 4, Mr Carter leaned far over the rail: ‘Where’s my son? Where’s
my son?’
A small boy in the boat lifted a girl’s big hat and called ‘Here I am, Father.’ Legend has it
that John Jacob Astor himself placed the hat on the ten-year-old’s head, saying in answer to
objections, ‘Now he’s a girl and he can go.’ Washington Dodge was another man who had an agonizing wait for his family – thanks
largely to a mischievous streak in five-year-old Washington Jr. Dr Dodge didn’t see his wife
and son come aboard – nor did Mrs Dodge see her husband on deck, but young Washington did.
And he decided it would be great fun to keep it to himself. So he didn’t tell his mother and
effectively hid from his father. Finally, the Dodges’ ever-faithful dining-saloon steward Ray
spoiled everything by bringing about a reunion.
The crowds along the rail grew steadily as the Carpathia’s own passengers poured from
their cabins. Some of them learned in curious ways. Mr and Mrs Charles Marshall were
awakened by the steward knocking on their stateroom door.
‘What is it?’ called Mr Marshall.
‘Your niece wants to see you, sir,’ came the answer.
Mr Marshall was nonplussed. All three of his nieces were, he knew, making the Titanic’s
maiden voyage. They even sent him a wireless last night. How could one of them be on board
the Carpathia? The steward explained. Minutes later the Marshalls were holding a family
reunion with Mrs E. D. Appleton (the other nieces arrived later), and their daughter Evelyn
dashed on deck to see the sight.
A strange sight it was. The endless plain of packed ice to the north and west – the big bergs
and smaller growlers that floated like scouts in advance of the main floe – gave the sea a
curiously busy look. The boats that rowed in from all directions seemed incredibly out of place
here in mid-Atlantic.
And the people that straggled from them couldn’t have looked more peculiar – Miss Sue Eva
Rule noticed one woman wearing only a Turkish towel around her waist and a magnificent fur
evening cape over her shoulders. The costumes were a rag-bag of lace-trimmed evening
dresses … kimonos … fur coats … plain woollen shawls … pyjamas … rubber boots … white
satin slippers. But it was still an age of formality – a surprising number of the women wore
hats and the men snap-brim tweed caps.
Strangest of all was the silence. Hardly a word was spoken. Everyone noticed it; everyone
had a different explanation. The Reverend P. M. A. Hoques, a passenger on the Carpathia,
thought people were too horror-stricken to speak. Captain Rostron thought everybody was just
too busy. Lawrence Beesley felt they were neither too stunned nor too busy – they were simply
in the presence of something too big to grasp.
Occasionally there was a minor commotion. Miss Peterson noticed a little girl named Emily
sitting on the promenade deck, sobbing, ‘Oh, Mama, Mama, I’m sick. Oh, Mama, Mama!’ While No. 3 was unloading its passengers, a woman clad only in a nightgown and kimono
suddenly sat up in the bottom of the boat. Pointing at another lady being hoisted up in a
boatswain’s chair, she cried: ‘Look at that horrible woman! Horrible! She stepped on my
stomach. Horrible creature!’
And in the third-class dining-saloon an Italian woman went completely to pieces – sobbing,
screaming, banging her fists on the table. Over and over and over she cried, ‘Bambino!’ An
Italian steward coaxed out the information that both her babies were missing. One was soon
located, but she held up two fingers and the hysterics started again. Finally the other was found
too – in the pantry on the hot press, where it had been left to thaw out.
By 8.15 all the boats were in except No. 12. It barely moved, still several hundred yards
away. The breeze grew stiff, and the sea grew rougher. The crowded gunwales were almost
level with the waves – nearly seventy-five people were jammed in. The crowd at the
Carpathia’s rail watched breathlessly as Lightoller nursed it along.
He was nearly frozen – his uniform soaked and stiff. Around his shoulders he wore a cape
with a monk’s hood, donated by Mrs Elizabeth Mellenger. At his feet, Mrs Mellenger’s
thirteen-year-old daughter Madeleine gazed up in admiration. She has cherished that cape and
hood ever since.
The people in the boat huddled tightly together … trying to keep dry, praying they might
make it. At a time like this a man notices little trivial things. As Colonel Gracie worked in vain
to revive a lifeless body lying beside him, he wondered why the person wore long, grey
woollen stockings.
Now 8.20, and they were only 200 yards off. Rostron, trying to help, turned the Carpathia’s
bow to within 100 yards. As Lightoller struggled to cross the bow and get in her lee, a sudden
squall whipped up the sea. First one wave, then another crashed into the boat. A third just
missed. Next instant he was there – safe in the shelter of the big ship.
At 8.30, No. 12 – the last boat to arrive – made fast and began to unload. Colonel Gracie felt
like falling down on his knees and kissing the deck as he stepped into the gangway. Harold
Bride felt a pair of strong hands reach out to him; then he passed out. Jack Thayer saw his
mother waiting and rushed to her arms. Mrs Thayer stammered, ‘Where’s Daddy?’
‘I don’t know, Mother,’ he answered quietly.
Meanwhile Rostron wondered where to take his 705 unexpected guests. Halifax was nearest,
but there was ice along the way, and he thought the Titanic’s passengers had seen enough. The
Azores were best for the Carpathia’s schedule, but he didn’t have the linen and provisions to
last that far. New York was best for the survivors but most costly to the Cunard Line. He
dropped down to the surgeon’s cabin where Dr McGhee was examining Bruce Ismay. The man
was shattered – anything Rostron wanted was all right with him. So Rostron decided on New
York.
Then the Olympic broke in: Why not transfer the Titanic’s survivors to her? Rostron thought
this was an appalling idea – he couldn’t see subjecting these people to another transfer at sea.
Besides, the Olympic was the Titanic’s sister ship and the sight alone would be like a hideous
ghost. To be on the safe side, he trotted back to Dr McGhee’s cabin, checked again with Ismay.
The White Star president shuddered at the thought.
So New York it was, and the sooner the better. By now the Californian was standing by, and
Rostron arranged for her to search the scene while he made for port with the survivors. Then he
hauled aboard as many of the Titanic’s lifeboats as possible – six on the forward deck, seven
in the Carpathia’s own davits. The rest were set adrift.
Before heading back, Rostron couldn’t resist one last look around. He was a thorough man;
he didn’t want to overlook the smallest chance. Let the Californian go through the motions, but
if there was any real hope of picking anybody else up, Rostron wanted the Carpathia to do it.
As he cruised, it occurred to him that a brief service might be appropriate. He dropped
down and asked if Ismay had any objection. It was always the same – anything Rostron wanted
to do was all right with him.
So Rostron sent for the Reverend Father Anderson, an Episcopal clergyman aboard, and the
people from the Titanic and Carpathia assembled together in the main lounge. There they gave
thanks for the living and paid their respects to the lost. While they murmured their prayers, the Carpathia steamed slowly over the Titanic’s grave.
There were few traces of the great ship – patches of reddish-yellow cork … some steamer
chairs … several white pilasters … cushions … rugs … lifebelts … the abandoned
boats … just one body.
At 8.50 Rostron was satisfied. There couldn’t possibly be another human being alive. He
rang ‘full speed ahead’ and turned his ship for New York.
Already the city was wildly excited. When the first word arrived at 1.20 a.m., nobody knew
what to think. The AP flash was certainly cryptic – just a message from Cape Race that at 10.25
local time the Titanic called CQD, reported striking an iceberg, and asked for help
immediately. Then another message that the liner was down at the head and putting the women
off in boats. Then silence.
The news was in time for the first morning editions – but barely. No leeway for doublechecking: only time to decide how to handle it. The story seemed fantastic. Yet there it was.
The editors nibbled gingerly; the Herald’s headline was typical:
THE NEW TITANIC STRIKES ICE AND CALLS FOR AID. VESSELS RUSH TO HER SIDE
Only The Times went out on a limb. The long silence after the first few messages convinced
managing editor Carr Van Anda that she was gone. So he took a flyer – early editions reported
the Titanic sinking and the women off in lifeboats; the last edition said she had sunk.
By 8.00 a.m. newsmen were storming the White Star Line offices at 9 Broadway. VicePresident Philip A. S. Franklin made light of the reports: even if the Titanic had hit ice, she
could float indefinitely. ‘We place absolute confidence in the Titanic. We believe that the boat
is unsinkable.’
But at the same time he was frantically wiring Captain Smith: ‘Anxiously await information
and probable disposition of passengers.’
By mid-morning friends and relatives of the Titanic’s passengers were pouring in: Mrs
Benjamin Guggenheim and her brother De Witt Seligman … Mrs Astor’s father W. H.
Force … J. P. Morgan Jr … hundreds of people nobody recognized. Rich and poor, they all got
the same reassuring smiles – no need to worry … the Titanic was unsinkable; well, anyhow,
she could float two or three days … certainly there were enough boats for everybody.
And the Press joined in. The Evening Sun ran a banner headline:
ALL SAVED FROM TITANIC AFTER COLLISION
The story reported all passengers transferred to the Parisian and the Carpathia, with the
Titanic being towed by the Virginian to Halifax.
Even business seemed confident. At the first news the reinsurance rate on the Titanic’s cargo
soared to fifty per cent, then to sixty per cent. But as optimism grew, London rates dropped
back to fifty per cent, then to forty-five … thirty … and finally twenty-five per cent.
Meanwhile Marconi stock skyrocketed. In two days it soared fifty-five points to 225. Not
bad for a stock that brought only two dollars just a year ago. And IMM – the great combine that
controlled the White Star Line – was now recovering after a shaky start in the morning.
Yet rumours were beginning to spread. No official word, but wireless men listening in on the
Atlantic traffic picked up disturbing messages not meant for their ears, and relayed the contents
anyhow. During the afternoon a Cunard official heard from a friend downtown that the Titanic
was definitely gone. A New York businessman wired a friend in Montreal the same thing.
Franklin heard too, but the source seemed unreliable; so he decided to keep quiet.
At 6.15 the roof fell in. Word finally arrived from the Olympic: the Titanic went down at
2.20 a.m.; the Carpathia picked up all the boats and was returning to New York with the 675
survivors. The message had been delayed in transit several hours. Nobody knows why, but
there has never been any evidence supporting the World’s suggestion that it was the work of
Wall Street bears and shippers reinsuring their cargoes.
Franklin was still steeling himself to tell the public when the clock in the White Star office
struck seven. An alert reporter smelled the gloom in the air, took a chance, and barged into the
manager’s office. Others followed. ‘Gentlemen,’ Mr Franklin stammered, ‘I regret to say that
the Titanic sank at 2.20 this morning.’
At first that was all he would say, but bit by bit the reporters chipped out admissions. At
8.00: the Olympic’s message ‘neglected to say that all the crew had been saved’. At 8.15:
‘Probably a number of lives had been lost.’ At 8.45: ‘We very much fear there has been a great
loss of life.’ By 9.00 he couldn’t keep up the front any longer: it was a ‘horrible loss of
life’ … they could replace the ship but ‘never the human lives’.
At 10.30 Vincent Astor arrived and disappeared into Franklin’s office. In a little while he
left weeping. On a hunch a reporter phoned Mrs John Jacob Astor’s father, W. H. Force. ‘Oh,
my God,’ cried the old gentleman, ‘don’t tell me that! Where did you get that report from? It
isn’t true! It can’t be true!’
No one could reach the Strauses’ daughter, Mrs Alfred Hess. Early that afternoon she had
taken the special train chartered by the White Star Line to meet the supposedly crippled Titanic
at Halifax. By 8.00 the train was lumbering through the Maine countryside, as Mrs Hess sat in
the diner chatting with reporters. She was the only woman on board, and it was rather fun.
She was just starting some grapefruit when the train slowed, stopped, and then began moving
backwards. It never stopped until Boston. There she learned, ‘Plans have changed; the
Titanic’s people are going straight to New York.’ So she took the sleeper back and was met at
the gate by her brother early the next morning: ‘Things look pretty bad.’
By now the first survivor list was up, and crowds again stormed the White Star office. Mrs
Frank Farquharson and Mrs W. H. Marvin came together to learn about their children, who
were coming back from their honeymoon. The bride’s mother, Mrs Farquharson, gave a happy
little yelp when she spied the name ‘Mrs Daniel Marvin’; then managed to stifle it when she
saw no ‘Mr’ beside it.
Mrs Ben Guggenheim clung to the hope that some lifeboat was missing. ‘He may be drifting
about!’she sobbed.
And he might have been, for all anyone knew. Nobody could get any information out of the
Carpathia – Rostron was saving his wireless for official traffic and private messages from the
survivors – so the newspapers made up their stories. The Evening World told of a fog, the
Titanic’s booming siren, a crash like an earthquake. The Herald described how the ship was
torn asunder, plunged into darkness, almost capsized at the moment of impact. When imagination ran low, the papers took it out on the silent rescue ship. The Evening Mail
thundered:
WATCHERS ANGERED BYCARPATHIA’S SILENCE
The World pouted:
CARPATHIA LETS NO SECRETS OF THE TITANIC’S LOSS ESCAPE BYWIRELESS
So Tuesday turned to Wednesday … and Wednesday to Thursday … and still there was no
news. The weeklies were caught now. Harper’s Weekly described the prominent people
aboard, featuring Henry Sleeper Harper, a member of the family who owned the magazine. It
conjured a fog and a frightful shock; then remarked a little lamely, ‘As to what happened, all is
still surmise.’ But Harper’s assured its readers that the rule was women and children first, ‘the
order long enforced among all decent men who use the sea’. Next issue, the magazine turned a
possible embarrassment into a journalistic scoop when Henry Sleeper Harper turned up
complete with Pekingese and personal Egyptian dragoman. Harper’s happily announced an
exclusive interview.
Thursday night the wait ended. As the Carpathia steamed by the Statue of Liberty, 10,000
people watched from the Battery. As she edged towards pier 54, 30,000 more stood in the
waterfront rain. To the end Rostron had no truck with newsmen. He wouldn’t let them on the
ship at quarantine, and as the Carpathia steamed up the North River, tugs chugged beside her,
full of reporters shouting questions through megaphones.
At 8.37 she reached the pier and began unloading the Titanic’s lifeboats so she could be
warped in. They were rowed off to the White Star pier, where souvenir hunters picked them
clean during the night. (The next day men were put to work removing the Titanic’s nameplate
from each boat.)
At 9.35 the Carpathia was moored, the gangplank lowered, and the first survivors tumbled
off. Later a brown canvas carry-all, its two-by-three-inch sides bulging, was taken off and
placed under Customs letter G. Customs officials said it was the only luggage saved from the
Titanic. Owner Samuel Goldenberg denied such foresight. He claimed he bought it on board
the Carpathia. He said it contained only the clothes he wore off the Titanic and a few
accessories purchased on the rescue ship – pyjamas, coat, trousers, dressing gown, raincoat,
slippers, two rugs, shirt, collars, toilet goods, and shoes for his wife and himself.
The Carpathia’s arrival made clear who survived, but it didn’t unravel what had happened.
The survivors added their own myths and fables to the fiction conjured up on shore. For some
the heartbreaking trip back was too much. Others were simply carried away by the excitement.
The more expansive found themselves making a good story even better. The more laconic had
their experiences improved by reporters. Some were too shocked, some too ashamed.
Newspaper interviews reported that second-class passenger Emilio Portaluppi rode a cake
of ice for hours … Miss Marie Young saw the iceberg an hour before the collision … seamen
Jack Williams and William French watched six men shot down like dogs … Philadelphia
banker Robert W. Daniel took over the Carpathia’s wireless during the trip back. All the
evidence went against such stories, but the public was too excited to care.
The sky was the limit. The 19 April New York Sun had first-class passenger George Brayton
saying:
‘The moon was shining and a number of us who were enjoying the crisp air were
promenading about the deck. Captain Smith was on the bridge when the first cry from the
lookout came that there was an iceberg ahead. It may have been 300 feet high when I saw it. It
was probably 200 yards away and dead ahead. Captain Smith shouted some orders … a
number of us promenaders rushed to the bow of the ship. When we saw we could not fail to hit
it, we rushed to the stern. Then came a crash, and the passengers were panic-stricken … The
accident happened at about 10.30 p.m … about midnight, I think, came the first boiler
explosion. Then for the first time, I think, Captain Smith began to get worried …’
Carpathia seaman Jonas Briggs’s interview told the story of Rigel, a handsome black
Newfoundland dog, who jumped from the deck of the sinking Titanic and escorted a lifeboat to
the Carpathia, his joyous barks signalling Captain Rostron that he was coming.
Personal thoughts weighed heavily on the minds of some. Lookout Reginald Lee – it seemed
a century since that dreadful moment when his mate Fleet sighted the berg – told of a haze on
the horizon, remembered Fleet saying, ‘Well, if we can see through that, we’ll be lucky.’ Fleet
never recalled the conversation.
An interview with one of the men in first class gave this careful explanation of his presence
in No. 7, the first boat to leave:
‘On one point all the women were firm. They would not enter a lifeboat until all the men
were in first. They feared to trust themselves to the seas in them. It required courage to step
into the frail craft as they swung from the creaking davits. Few men were willing to take the
chance. An officer rushed behind me and shouted, “You’re big enough to pull an oar. Jump into
this boat or we’ll never get the women off.” I was forced to do so, though I admit the ship
looked a great deal safer to me than any small boat.’
Gradually the full story emerged, but many of the engaging tales born these first few days
have lingered ever since – the lady who refused to leave her Great Dane … the band playing
‘Nearer My God to Thee’ … Captain Smith and First Officer Murdoch committing
suicide … Mrs Brown running No. 6 with a revolver.
But legends are part of great events, and if they help keep alive the memory of gallant selfsacrifice, they serve their purpose. At the time, however, no legends were needed to drive
home the story. People were overwhelmed by the tragedy. Flags everywhere flew half-mast.
Macy’s and the Harris theatres were closed. The French line called off a reception on the new
SS France. In Southampton, where so many of the crew lived, grief was staggering – twenty
families in one street bereaved. Montreal called off a military review. King George and
President Taft exchanged condolences – and the Kaiser got into the act. J. S. Bache & Co.
cancelled its annual dinner. J. P. Morgan called off the inauguration of a new sanatorium he
was building at Aix-les-Bains.
Even the Social Register was shaken. In those days the ship that people travelled on was an
important yardstick in measuring their standing, and the Register dutifully kept track. The
tragedy posed an unexpected problem. To say that listed families crossed on the Titanic gave
them their social due, but it wasn’t true. To say they arrived on the plodding Carpathia was
true, but socially misleading. How to handle this dilemma? In the case of those lost, the
Register dodged the problem – after their names it simply noted the words, ‘died at sea, 15
April 1912’. In the case of the living, the Register carefully ran the phrase, ‘Arrived TitanCarpath, 18 April 1912’. The hyphen represented history’s greatest sea disaster. What troubled people especially was not just the tragedy – or even its needlessness – but the
element of fate in it all. If the Titanic had heeded any of the six ice messages on Sunday … if
ice conditions had been normal … if the night had been rough or moonlit … if she had seen the
berg fifteen seconds sooner – or fifteen seconds later … if she had hit the ice any other
way … if her watertight bulkheads had been one deck higher … if she had carried enough
boats … if the Californian had only come. Had any one of these ‘if’s turned out right, every
life might have been saved. But they all went against her – a classic Greek tragedy.
These thoughts were yet to come, as the Carpathia turned towards New York in the bright
morning sunshine of 15 April. At this point the survivors still slumped exhausted in deck chairs
or sipped coffee in the dining-saloon or absently wondered what they would wear.
The Carpathia’s passengers pitched in gallantly – digging out extra toothbrushes, lending
clothes, sewing smocks for the children out of steamer blankets brought along in the lifeboats.
A Macy’s wine buyer bound for Portugal became a sort of guardian angel for the three rescued
Gimbels buyers. Mrs Louis Ogden took cups of coffee to two women in gay coats and scarves
sitting alone in a corner. ‘Go away,’ they said, ‘we have just seen our husbands drown.’
For some of the survivors life began again – Lawrence Beesley busily scribbled off a
wireless message that he was safe. For others it took longer. Colonel Gracie lay under a pile of
blankets on a sofa in the dining-saloon while his clothes dried in the bake oven. Bruce Ismay
sat trembling in the surgeon’s cabin, shot full of opiates. Harold Bride came to lying in
somebody’s stateroom; a woman was bending over him, and he felt her hand brushing back his
hair and rubbing his face.
Jack Thayer was in another cabin nearby. A kindly man had lent him pyjamas and a bunk.
Now Thayer was getting into bed, just as he had started to do ten hours before. He climbed
between the cool sheets, and it occurred to him that a cup of brandy he just swallowed was his
first drink of hard liquor. He must indeed be growing up.
Far below, the Carpathia’s engines hummed with a swift, soothing rhythm. Far above, the
wind whistled through the rigging. Ahead lay New York, and home in Philadelphia. Behind, the
sun caught the bright red-and-white stripes of the pole from the Titanic’s barber shop, as it
bobbed in the empty sea. But Jack Thayer no longer knew or cared. The brandy had done its
work. He was fast asleep.
Facts about the Titanic
‘There will never be another like her,’says baker Charles Burgess, who ought to know. In
forty-three years on the Atlantic run he has seen them all –
Olympic … Majestic … Mauretania … and so on. Today, as carver in the kitchen of the Queen
Elizabeth, Burgess is probably the last Titanic crewman on active service.
‘Like the Olympic, yes, but so much more elaborate,’ he reflects. ‘Take the dining-saloon.
The Olympic didn’t even have a carpet, but the Titanic – ah, you sank in it up to your knees.
Then there’s the furniture: so heavy you could hardly lift it. And that panelling …
‘They can make them bigger and faster, but it was the care and effort that went into her. She
was a beautiful, wonderful ship.’
Burgess’s reflections are typical. The Titanic has cast a spell on all who built and sailed her.
So much so that, as the years go by, she grows ever more fabulous. Many survivors now insist
she was ‘twice as big as the Olympic’ – actually they were sister ships, with the Titanic just
1,004 tons larger. Others recall golf courses, regulation tennis courts, a herd of dairy cows and
other little touches that exceeded even the White Star Line’s penchant for luxury.
The Titanic was impressive enough without embellishment. Her weight – 46,328 gross
tons … 66,000 tons displacement. Her dimensions – 882.5 feet long … 92.5 feet wide … 60.5
feet from waterline to boat deck, or 175 feet from keel to the top of her four huge funnels. She
was, in short, eleven storeys high and a sixth of a mile long.
Triple screw, the Titanic had two sets of four-cylinder reciprocating engines, each driving a
wing propeller, and a turbine driving the centre propeller. This combination gave her 50,000
registered horsepower, but she could easily develop at least 55,000 horsepower. At full speed
she could make 24 to 25 knots.
Perhaps her most arresting feature was her watertight construction. She had a double bottom
and was divided into sixteen watertight compartments. These were formed by fifteen watertight
bulkheads running clear across the ship. Curiously, they didn’t extend very far up. The first two
and the last five went only as high as D deck, while the middle eight were carried only up to E
deck. Nevertheless, she could float with any two compartments flooded, and since no one
could imagine anything worse than a collision at the conjuncture of two compartments, she was
labelled ‘unsinkable’.
The ‘unsinkable’ Titanic was launched at the Belfast shipyards of Harland & Wolff on 31
May 1911. The next ten months were spent in fitting her out. She completed her trials on 2
April 1912, and arrived in Southampton on 3 April. A week later she sailed for New York.
Here is a reconstructed log of the main events of her maiden voyage:
10 April
1912
12 noon Leaves Southampton dock; narrowly escapes collision with American liner New York .
7.00 p.m. Stops at Cherbourg for passengers.
9.00 p.m. Leaves Cherbourg for Queenstown.
11 April
1912
12.30 p.m. Stops at Queenstown for passengers and mail. One crewman deserts.
2.00 p.m. Leaves Queenstown for New York, carrying 1,316 passengers and 891 crew.
14 April
1912
9.00 a.m. Caronia reports ice Latitude 42º N from Longitude 49º to 51º W.
1.42 p.m. Baltic reports ice Latitude 41º 51´ N, Longitude 40º 52´ W.
1.45 p.m. Amerika reports ice Latitude 41º 27´ N, Longitude 50º 8´ W.
7.00 p.m. Temperature 43º.
7.30 p.m. Temperature 39º.
7.30 p.m. Californian reports ice Latitude 42º 3´ N, Longitude 49º 9´ W.
9.00 p.m. Temperature 33º.
9.30 p.m.
Second Officer Lightoller warns carpenter and engine room to watch fresh water supply – may freeze up;
warns crow’s-nest to watch for ice.
9.40 p.m. Mesaba reports ice Latitude 42º N to 41º 25´ N, Longitude 49º to 50º 30´ W.
10.00 p.m. Temperature 32º.
10.30 p.m. Temperature of sea down to 31º.
11.00 p.m. Californian warns of ice, but cut off before she gives location.
11.40 p.m. Collides with iceberg Latitude 41º 46´ N, Longitude 50º 14´ W.
15 April
1912
12.05 a.m. Orders are given to uncover the boats, muster the crew and passengers.
12.15 a.m. First wireless call for help.
12.45 a.m. First rocket fired. First boat, No. 7, lowered.
1.40 a.m. Last rocket fired.
2.05 a.m. Last boat, collapsible D, lowered.
2.10 a.m. Last wireless signals sent.
2.18 a.m. Lights fail.
2.20 a.m. Ship founders.
3.30 a.m. Carpathia ’s rockets sighted by boats.
4.10 a.m. First boat, No. 2, picked up by Carpathia .
8.30 a.m. Last boat, No. 12, picked up.
8.50 a.m. Carpathia heads for New York with 705 survivors.
So much for the basic facts. Beyond these, much is a mystery. Probably nothing will ever
equal the Titanic for the number of unanswered questions she left behind. For instance:
How many lives were lost? Some sources say 1,635 … the American Inquiry, 1,517 … the
British Board of Trade, 1,503 … the British Inquiry, 1,490. The British Board of Trade figure
seems most convincing, less fireman J. Coffy, who deserted at Queenstown.
How did various people leave the ship? Nearly every woman survivor who was asked
replied firmly, ‘in the last boat’. Obviously, all these women didn’t go in the same boat, yet to
question the point is like questioning a lady’s age – one simply doesn’t do it. Careful sifting of
the testimony at the British and American hearings shows pretty clearly how the ship was
abandoned, but even here there’s conflicting evidence. At the British Inquiry each witness was
asked how many people were lowered in his lifeboat. The minimum estimates were then
added. The results show a good deal of wishful thinking:
Lowered in the boats according to minimum
estimates of survivors
Lowered in the boats according to actual figures
of those saved
Crew 107 139
Men
passengers
43 119
Women and
children
704 393
Total 854 651
In short, about seventy per cent more men and forty-five per cent fewer women went in the
boats than even the most conservative survivors estimated. Plus the fact that the boats pulled
away with twenty-five per cent fewer people than estimated.
What time did various incidents happen? Everyone agrees that the Titanic hit the iceberg at
11.40 p.m. and sank at 2.20 a.m. – but there’s disagreement on nearly everything that happened
in between. The times given in this book are the honest estimates of people intimately involved,
but they are far from foolproof. There was simply too much pressure. Mrs Louis M. Ogden,
passenger on the Carpathia, offers a good example. At one point, while helping some
survivors get settled, she paused long enough to ask her husband the time. Mr Ogden’s watch
had stopped, but he guessed it was 4.30 p.m. Actually, it was only 9.30 in the morning. They
were both so engrossed, they had lost all track of time.
What did dif erent people say? There are no reconstructed conversations in this book. The
words quoted are given exactly as people remembered them being spoken. Yet there is margin
for error. The same conversations are often reported with slight variations. For instance, there
are at least four versions of the exchange between Captain Rostron and Fourth Officer Boxhall
as boat 2 edged alongside the Carpathia. The gist is always the same, but the words vary
slightly.
What did the band play? The legend is, of course, that the band went down playing ‘Nearer
My God to Thee’. Many survivors still insist this was so, and there’s no reason to doubt their
sincerity. Others maintain the band played only ragtime. One man says he clearly remembers
the band in its last moments, and they were not playing at all. In this maze of conflicting
evidence, junior wireless operator Harold Bride’s story somehow stands out. He was a trained
observer, meticulously accurate, and on board to the last. He clearly recalled that, as the boat
deck dipped under, the band was playing the Episcopal hymn ‘Autumn’.
Did a man get of dressed as a woman? While material was being gathered for this book,
four first-class passengers were specifically named as the famous man who escaped in
woman’s clothes. There is not one shred of evidence that any of these men were guilty, and
considerable evidence to the contrary. For instance, investigation suggests that one was the
target of a vindictive reporter shoved aside while trying for an interview. Another, prominent
in local politics, was the victim of opposition mudslinging. Another was the victim of society
gossip; he did happen to leave the Titanic before his wife. In the search for bigger game, no
one bothered about third-class passenger Daniel Buckley, who freely acknowledged that he
wore a woman’s shawl over his head. He was only a poor, frightened Irish lad, and nobody
was interested.
The answer to all these Titanic riddles will never be known for certain. The best that can be
done is to weigh the evidence carefully and give an honest opinion. Some will still disagree,
and they may be right. It is a rash man indeed who would set himself up as final arbiter on all
that happened the incredible night the Titanic went down.


Foreword by Julian Fellowes 8
Introduction by Brian Lavery 10
Preface 14
1 ‘Another Belfast Trip’ 15
2 ‘There’s Talk of an Iceberg, Ma’am’ 19
3 ‘God Himself Could Not Sink This Ship’ 27
4 ‘You Go and I’ll Stay a While’ 37
5 ‘I Believe She’s Gone, Hardy’ 44
6 ‘That’s the Way of It at This Kind of Time’ 49
7 ‘There is Your Beautiful Nightdress Gone’ 56
8 ‘It Reminds Me of a Bloomin’ Picnic’ 62
9 ‘We’re Going North Like Hell’ 70
10 ‘Go Away – We Have Just Seen Our Husbands Drown’ 75
Facts about the Titanic 84
Passenger List 87
Illustrations 108
Acknowledgements 128
