ALADDIN: THE COMPLETE SCRIPT

DEALER: Oh, I come from the country
 From a faraway place
 Where caravans of camels roam
 Where they cut off your ear / Where is the apartment and the huge one
 If they don't like your face / And the heat unbearable
 It's barbaric, but hey - it's home!
 When the wind blows at your back
 And the sun shines from the west
 And sand in the right glass
 come down
 Come over
 Jump onto the carpet and run in
 In other Arabian nights!

 Arabian Nights
 Like the Arab days
 Usually
 Warmer than warm
 In many good relationships

 Arabian Nights
 Under the Arabian moon
 Fool, lost his vigilance
 It can fall and fall hard
 There on the dunes.

 Ah, Salam and good evening to you, worthy friend.
 Please, please, come closer... (Camera zooms in, everything
 deliveryman's face) Too close, a little too close. (Camera
 increases the volume again to CU)Here.Welcome to Agrabah. City
 mysteries, magic and the best products on this one
 side of the Jordan River, it's for sale today, come here!
 Hehe. Look at this! Yes! Combined hookah and
 coffee machine - also prepares potatoes potatoes, cut into thin strips. Don't spoil it
 (knocks on their table), no (she falls apart) - that
 broken. Ooo! Look at this! He gets a plastic bowl) Me
 I've never seen anything like it in a pristine environment before. That
 the famous plastic container of the Dead Sea. Listen up. (He opens it,
 utters a crimson sound.) Ah, all is still well. (Camera starts
 turn to the right. A DELIVERY MAN rushes to catch him.) Wait,
 do not leave! (Stop scrolling.)I see you're only interested
 extremely rare. I mean, then
 you would be greatly rewarded if you reviewed ... this is. (Corobeynik
 gets a magic lamp from him in his sleeve.) It won't be
 confusing modest appearance. As in many others
 things, it's not what's outside and what's inside that matters
 it has significance. (Another pan, this time slower to the left.
 Again the SHIPMAN hurries to catch up.) That's unusual
 lamp! One day she changed the course of a young man's life.
 The young man, who likes this lamp, was more than those who liked it
 it seemed. The original diamond. Maybe you wanted to
 listen to a fairy tale? (DROWER vysypaet shiny sand from
 a lamp in his hand.) It begins on a dark night (SELLER
 throws sand into the sky, where it forms a star
 nightscape.) where the black man waits with the dark
the goal.

(Camera pans down to see SADIK, sitting on his horse, and ЯGO
 he is on the shoulder. GAZIM walking steam riding.)

JAFFER: You are... it's late.
GAZIM: A thousand apologies, oh patient.
JAFFER: So you have it?
GAZIM: Sam had to take a few breaths to get hold of it. (Take it out
 half medallion. JAFFER stretches to him,
 but GAZIM pulls him back.) Ah, ah, aaaa! Treasure!
 (YGO piercing shouts, flies past, and enough medallion.) Oh!
JAFFER: A trust from me, my austere friend. You will get what is owed to you
.
ЯGO: What is owed to you! Awk!

(JAFER takes out the other half of the medallion. He connects
 them, and the insect medallion starts to glow. Finally, he is
 falls from SADIK's hand, scares the horses, and is carried far away
 aside the dynamite.)

JAFFER: Quick, follow the trail!

(All leave, following the bright pâtnyško light, doc
 it does not reach the big dunes. It is divided into two parts, i
 halves are immersed in dûna. All that remains is two great ones
 points of light on the dunes. But then the dune starts to rise
 above, turns into a huge lion's head with a glowing
 points, through the eyes of civil servants.)

JAFFER: Finally, after all my years of searching, a cave
Wonders!
YAGO: Awk! Cave of miracles!
GAZIM: By Allah!
JAFFER: Now I remember! Bring me a lamp. Other
 treasure is yours, but the lamp is mine!

(GAZIM begins to approach the lion's mouth, which is forming
 entrance to the cave. Adds on the go.)

YAGO: Awk, a lamp! Awk, a lamp! (Now that ЯGO i
 JAFER some, ЯGO opens in normal English.)
 Lord, where did you dig up this contraption?

(JAFER puts his finger to his mouth and silences him. GAZIM reaches
 cave, but is carried away by the roar of the speaking cave.)

CAVE: Who disturbs my sleep?
GAZIM: It's me, Gazim, a humble thief.
CAVE: I know that. Only one can enter here. The one whose
 the value lies far within. The original diamond.

(GAZIM turns to JAFARA with a question mark look.)

JAFFER: What are you waiting for? Come on!

(GAZIM starts, then takes a step inside the cave. Sa
 great concern he leaves out the leg. Nothing happens.
 Experiencing relief, he begins his journey again. Then another roar rings out.
 He turns his back, but the lion's mouth collapses, and blows
 returns to normal. All that remains is JAFFER, YAGO,
 and two separated halves of a medallion.)

CAVE: Look at yourself, the diamond heals.

(YGO learned from sand, cough in this case.)

YAGO: I can't believe it. I just don't believe that. We
 will never reach this wacki lamp! Only
 forget about it. Look at that. Look at that. I am like that
 besan, yes linyayu! (He flies on
 Shoulder SADIK.)
JAFER: Patience, Yago. Patience. Gazim, obviously, was
 less than worthy.
ЯGO: (Extremely sarcastic) Oh, that's a big one
 surprise. This physical thing - I think it happens to me
 heart attack and I will die of surprise! Yes
 are we going to work? We have a big problem here, a big problem-
 (JAFER closes his beak.)
JAFFER: Yes, there is. Only one application is possible. I have to find it
 one, this... original diamond.

(Frame on the roof, where ALADDIN is so working up on the edge, carrying
 a loaf of bread. He almost falls over the edge.)

GUARD: Wait, thief! I'll take your hands are like a trophy,
 street rat!
ALADDIN: (Looks up, then down, then at the bread.) Everything
 is it for a loaf of bread?

(He sprygivaet, landing on two ropes, strung between buildings, on which
 clothes are drying. He descends on them, collecting notes in motion
 and clothes on. Finally, he is
 he approaches the end of the rope, near the window, when the woman holds out her hand
 outside and zahlopyvaet blinds. ALADDIN smashes into
 shutters and falls to the street, his fall cushioned
 numerous domes and piles of clothes around him. He mitigates
 the upper layer of clothing and that they will enjoy their bread
when...)

GUARD 1: It's him!
GUARD 2: You just don't do it!
ALADDIN: Do you think it was easy?

(He looks at the three women, laughing at him.)

GUARD 1: two, there, and you, with me. We
 we will find him.

(ALADDIN pulls on sheet metal and wraps for disguise.
 He chases women.)

ALADDIN: Good morning ladies.
WOMAN 1: It's a little early to be in trouble today, isn't it
 we, Aladdin?
ALADDIN: Trouble? For nothing. There will be problems from you, only if you are
catch--

(Someone's hand grabs ALADDIN's shoulder and pulls him back. That
 the first guard. The mask of ALADDIN falls.)

ALADDIN: I AM in trouble!
GUARD: ...and this time... (Hears a vizglivyj sound from the EBU,
 then the turban of the guard pulled him out on
 eyes. ABU dances on the guard's head, laughing.)
ALADDIN: Just in time, Abu!
EBU: Hello!
ALADDIN: Come on, Let's get out of here!
 They should keep ... one jump ahead of the bread line
 One swing in front of the sword
 They only steal what they can't afford
 That is all!

(ALADDIN fights the guard, the talking sword teams. He steps away from the pair
 punches, and then tightens the GUARD's pants. ABU attacks
 GUARD, then step back from the attack. GUARD do this to ALADDIN,
 but destroys the barrel of fish. When ALADDIN escapes, THE GUARD
 pulls the fish on the lower part of the body, like pants.)

 One jump ahead of the law
 That's all, and it's not a joke
 These guys don't appreciate it, to be honest!

(ALADDIN and ABU jump onto a pile of pipes, then one foot
 on top of the second guard.)

GUARDS: (one by one) Scum! Rat street!
 Nobody! Take this!
ALADDIN: Just a little snack, boys!

(ALADDIN wakes up on the top of the platform. GUARDS spread out
 platform forward and forward, trying to throw it.)

GUARDS: Rip him in the act, take your words back, boys!
ALADDIN: I can understand the advice, you have to face the facts
 You are my only friend, Abu!
WOMEN: Who?!?

(Aladdin jumping off the ledge to certain death, only to grab Abu
 hands, like an acrobat. A couple of swings in the garem.)

 Oh, that's sad Aladdin falls to the bottom
 It became a one-man increase in crime

(Abu finds a plate, full of fruit and accessories nabitym mouth, as
chipmunk.)

WOMAN: I would accuse the parent, but he doesn't have them!
ALADDIN: It needs to exist, to live, it needs to steal, to exist
 I will tell you all about it when I have time!

(ALADDIN and ABU exit. Frame of a muscular man, bending in front of the audience.
 Next to the sweep GUARDS. Cut to ALADDIN and ABBA behind MUSCLE MAN,
 podstraivayas' under his movements, until they do not commit a mistake and will not be discovered.)

 One jump in front of sloupokov
 One jump ahead of my doom
 Next time, I'll use a pseudonym.
 In one jump, I'm running paid assassins
 At one blow I cut off the herd
 I think I walked about a block.

(The chase sequence, in which ALADDIN and ABU, pursued by PROTECTION,
 pass through a herd of sheep, overcome MAN, sleeping on mats from
 of nails {of course, an extremely large GUARD falls on him}. ABU
 masked with jewelry, until the owner of the STORE discovered him.

AUDIENCE: Stop, thief! Vandal!
 Rage! Scandal!
ALADDIN: Let's not be too hasty

(ALADDIN surrounded by a GUARD in front of the door. He opens the door
 and out comes a great fertile LADY.)

LADY: I think he's pretty tasty, too

(ALADDIN refuses, then hugs the guard, driving off
 as if they were all friends.)

ALADDIN: It needs to exist, to live, it needs to steal, to exist
 Otherwise, it would come off!
GUARDS: WRONG!

(They all turn into a crowd and fight. When they stop, ALADDIN and
 ABU disappear. They are slipping in barrels. They run away
 through the pit, they are followed by guards, who are jumping up and down,
 screaming in pain, when they went over the stones. ALADDIN and ABU
 pass by ŠPAGOGLOTATEL, then EBU returns, draws sword
 from the mouth of the GLOTATEL. ABU comes at the guard,
 who retreats in fear.)

GUARD 1: He HAD a sword!
GUARD 2: You're an idiot - EVERYONE has swords here!!

(ABU carefully drops the sword, then runs away. ALADDIN and ABU
 they are surrounded again, on the left and on the right as they approach.
 He jumps and climbs onto the street (a trick with a robe, played on the street),
 when all the guards bump into each other.)

ALADDIN: One hop ahead of the pounding of hooves!
AUDIENCE: Vandal!
ALADDIN: One jump ahead of the humps!
AUDIENCE: Rat street!
ALADDIN: one trick before disaster
AUDIENCE: Nobody!
ALADDIN: They're fast - but I'm much faster
AUDIENCE: Take this!

(GUARDS who are banished ALADDIN up the stairs into the room. He is enough
 carpet and jumps out the window)

ALADDIN: Well, you'd better take my hand
 Wish me a happy landing
 All you have to do is jump!

(GUARDS follow him through the window, but they fly straight down onto
 outside, and landed in a pile labeled "Crazy Hakim's
 Fertilizers with a discount". ALADIN uses the carpet as a parachute
 to land safely out of harm's way. ALADDIN and ABU high five each other
the second.)

ALADDIN: And now, dear Effendi, we feast! Okay!

(ALADDIN breaks the bread in half and gives half to ABU, who begins
 exists. But ALADDIN looks back and sees two little children
 роющихся in the garbage in search of food. The girl sees him, and then
 falls into his bed and tries to hide. ALADDIN looks at them and then
 on bread, then EBU.)

EBU: Oh!

(ABU takes a big bite of his meal, but ALADIN gets up and answers
 towards the children. THE GIRL pulls her brother back.)

ALADDIN: Here, come on, take this.

(The children giggle with delight. ABU tries to swallow his piece,
 then it looks like I'm guilty. It is suitable for children and offers them its own
 bread. Delighted, they pat him on the head.)

EBU: Ah, no need. Huh?

(ABU see, like ALADDIN comes out into the light of day, where
 continues the parade.ALADDIN equals because of the shoulders of the people. He sees
 PRINCE Ahmed on horseback.)

WITNESS 1: I assume, he was sent to the palace.
WITNESS 2: Another lover of the princess.

(ALADDIN startled as the two children run from
 ribbons. A boy runs in front of the horse PRINCE,
 scares him.)

PRINCE: Out of the way, you dirty brat!

(The PRINCE raises his whip to attack the children, but ALADDIN
 jumps in front of them and grabs the whip.)

ALADDIN: Hey, if I were as rich as you, I could afford some manners
PRINCE: Oh, I'll teach you some manners!

(THE PRINCE starts ALADDIN into a filthy bar. The audience laughs at him.)

ALADDIN: Look at this, Abu. It's not every day you see it
 a horse with two hind limbs!

(The PRINCE stops and turns back to ALADDIN.)

PRINCE: You are a useless street rat. You were born a street war
 street war and you die, and only...
 your fleas will mourn you.

(ALADIN rushes to the prince, but the castle door is closed
 he is in front of the nose.)

ALADDIN: I'm not worthless. And I don't have fleas. come on
 Go ahead, Abu. Go home.

(ALADDIN goes up to his house, admiring the view, then is put to sleep
 ABU for the night.)

ALADDIN: Scumbag, street rat.
 I don't buy that.
 If only they would take a closer look
 Would they see the poor boy? No cheese.
 They would learn that there is much more to me.

(He lifts the curtains to show the beautiful palace.)

 One day, Ebu, everything will change. We have become
 rich, we will live in a palace, and we will never have any problems
at all.

(Rastvoryaemsya under one and the same portion during the day. Frame from the interior of SULTAN rooms.
 The door opens wide, and Prince AHMED bursts in, having missed the past
 the back of your pants.)

PRINCE: I have never been insulted like that!

SULTAN: Oh, Prince Ahmed. You didn't leave so soon, did you?
you are?

PRINCE: Your luck in marriage depends on him!

SULTAN: Oh, Jasmine! Jasmine! Jasmine! (The Sultan leaves
 in the garden, looking for his daughter. He
 finds him, but is interrupted RAJAH, Jasmina
 pat tiger, which blocks it. At RADA, a piece in the mouth
 coward PRINCE. SULTAN
 enough fabric and vydergivaet her mouth RAJA.)
 Hell, heaven! So that's why Prince Ahmed
 ran out of the house!
JASMINE: Oh, father. Raja just played with him,
 wasn't it Rajoj. (RAJA responds and allows you to
 JASMIN, to pat and hug him.) You just played
 with this overdressed, self-absorbed Prince Ahmed,
 is not it? (She embraces RAJOY, enjoying herself
 moment until he looked up at his angry father. )
Khm.
SULTAN: Darling, you should stop rejecting every admirer
 who comes by invitation. The law says that you are...
BOTH: ...she must marry a prince.

(They are suitable for a pigeon cage.)

SULTAN: ON your next birthday.
JASMIN: The law is wrong.
SULTAN: you only have three days left!
JASMIN: Father, I hate when they force me to do that. (She gets it
 pigeon from the cage and caresses him.) If I am going to marry,
 I want it to be out of love.
SULTAN: Jasmin, it's not just about this law. (She keeps out of it
 pigeon, and he puts it back in the cell.) I don't
 I'll be by your side forever, and I just want to
 make sure that he takes care of you, you are insured.
JASMIN: Try to understand. She never did anything by herself.
 alone. (She leaves her finger in the water
 pond, patting fish.)I never had a real one
 friends. (RAJA looks at her and growls.)
 Except you, raja. (Satisfied, he returns to
 sleeping.) He had never even been outside the palace
wall.
SULTAN: But Jasmin, you are a princess.
JASMIN: Then, it could be, I don't want to be a princess. (She
 sprinkles water.)
SULTAN: Oooooo! Don't let Allah have you
daughters!

(RAJA looks up and thinks for a moment.) JASMINA comes to the dovecote
 cell and a jerk opens the door. Birds fly free.
 She looks after them. Frame from the interior rooms of the SULTAN.)

SULTAN: I don't know where she got that from. Her mother
 and close was not that picky. (A shadow falls on him.
 He raises his eyes nervously and sees SADIKA.) Oh, oh.
 Ah, Jaffer - my most trusted advisor. I am in
 I desperately need your wisdom.
JAFFER: My life consists only in serving you, my lord. (He bows.)
SULTAN: That's a matter for Uhajar. Jasmina refuses
 to choose a husband. I'm at a dead end.
ЯGO: (Parrot voice) Awk! Dead end.
SULTAN: Oh, ha-ha-ha. Have a cracker, Grandma Polly! (He
 lack of pocket cracker. ЯGO looks like
 scared. Then SULTAN zasovyvaet him ЯGO u
 mouth. ЯGO morshitsya, trying to eat it. JAFAR
 and SULTAN both laugh.)
JAFFER: Your majesty certainly knows how to handle speechless animals.
 (ÂGO looks at him intently.) So maybe I can
 predict a solution to this complex problem.
SULTAN: If anyone can help, it's you.
JAFFER: Ah, but you'll have to use mystic blue for that
Diamond.
SULTAN: Uh, my ring? But it was in the family within
year.
JAFFER: You need to find the Princess Bridegroom.
 (JAFFER pronounces the word "princess" with an accent on
 second syllable "sess". He twirls his staff
 with the head of a cobra on the side of the sultan. Eyes
 the staff begin to light up. Darkness in the room, SADIK's voice
 it slows down and gets deeper. Eyes of the SULTAN
 they acquire a hypnotized look.) Don't worry. All
 will be fine.
SULTAN: Everything...will be...fine.
JAFFER: A diamond.
SULTAN: Here, Jafar. Everything you need will be fine.

(The SULTAN softens his ring and passes it to JAFFAR. The room returns
 back to normal, when JAFFER removes the stick.)

JAFFER: You are very merciful, my lord. And now run i
 play with your little toys.
SULTAN: (still hypnotized) Yes...that will be...very good.

(JAFAR and ЯGO exit. We follow behind them. When they left the room,
 the parrot throws out a cracker.)

ЯGO: I can't do that anymore! If I have to choke
 another moldy, disgusting cracker ...bam!
Kick!

(JAFER pulls the rope, which opens the secret entrance to his chambers.)

JAFER: Calm down, Yago.
ЯGO: Then I would grab his head. Kick! Kick!
JAFFER: (Speaking for ЯGO.) Soon I'll be the Sultan, and not
 this moron.
YAGO: And then I shoved crackers down his throat! Huh
ha!

(The couple passes through the door and zahlopyvaet ga. Diss. into the inner gardens
 at night. A dark figure walks through them. We see that it is JASMINE
 pereodeta. She reaches the palace wall, then begins to climb it.
 RAJA pulls him back.)

JASMINE: Oh, I'm sorry, Raja. But I can't stay here and
 live your life for yourself. You will miss me. (She
 she starts climbing again, and RAJA helps her up,
 which begins vhimper.) Farewell!

(She disappears behind the wall. Cross at daylight on the street to ALADDIN
 and ABU again came for their down payment. The ones at the top
 canopies over the fruit stand.)

ALADDIN: Good, Abu. Forward!

(ABU sleeps over the edge and looks at the OWNER.)

OWNER: (Passing through the crowd) Try to make it taste good
 will dance and sing. (ABU enough melons and
 hanging there, distracting him.) Hey,
 take your paws off her.
EBU: Blah-blah-blah!
OWNER: Well, what's the matter with you! Get out of here, you dirty monkey!

(He steals the melon in ABU. But in the foreground ALADDIN
 leans and enough from the counter another watermelon.)

EBU: Wait, wait!

(He jumps again. The owner decides the melon in the foreground,
 where it puts him at the top of the pile. He looks like he's confused
 he did just that.)

ALADDIN: Mate, Abu. Breakfast is served.

(ALADDIN and ABU on the roof are breaking a melon and eating. We see Jay
 ASMIN, walking down the street.)

SALESMAN 1: Babe, buy a pot of coffee. There is no better pot than copper
 or silver.
STORE OWNER 2: Sugar dates, sugar and dates and figs! Sugar
 dates and pistachios!
SHOP OWNER 3: Doesn't the lady want the necklace? A beautiful one
 necklace for a beautiful lady.

(She is full of fear action, but vzdragivaet, when the fish swallows
 in her face.)

SELLER 4: Fresh fish! We catch them, you buy them!
JASMIN: I don't think so. (She pulls away, but runs into
 because of the devourer of fire, who for fear proglatyvaet his own
 fire.) Oh, I'm sorry. (He sglatyvaet, then kulja).
 fire from the mouth. JASMINA feels disgusted. He
 satisfied and pohlopyvaet se on the stomach. ALADDIN sees him,
 and a strange expression appeared on his face.) We
 I'm really sorry.
ALADDIN: (Obviously, he's head over heels in love with her.) Whoa!

(She pulls the cover of his cloak over her head. ABU sees him and
 she jumps towards him on her shoulders, waves her hand in front of her
 the face of ALADDIN.)

EBU: Wow. Hello? Hello?

(JASMIN stops at a fruit kiosk and sees a small homeless child
 тянущегося за фруктом. She takes one and gives it
to him.)

JASMINE: Oh, you should be hungry. Hold on. (
 The boy runs away.)
OWNER: It would be better if you were able to pay for it.
JASMINA: (Disturbed) to pay?
OWNER: Nobody steals from my cart!
JASMIN: Oh, sorry, sir. I do not have any money.
OWNER: Thief!
JASMINE: Please, if you will let me go to the palace, I can
 take some at the sultan's.
OWNER: Do you know what the punishment should be for theft?

(He takes her hand and presses it to the table, intending to
cut down.)

JASMINA: no, no, please!

(The sword falls, but his hand is stopped by the hand of ALADDIN.)

ALADDIN: Thank you, good sir. I'm so glad you found it
 hers. I have been looking for you everywhere.
JASMINA: (whispering) What are you doing?
ALADDIN: (whispers in response) Just play.
OWNER: do you know this girl?
JASMIN: Unfortunately, it is. She is my sister. She is a little
 crazy. (He puts his finger around her ear.
 She is in shock. OWNER is enough for
vest.)
OWNER: She said she knew the Sultan!
ALADDIN: She thinks it's a monkey - it's the Sultan.

(ABU Sharit in his pocket. He hears that, then corrects himself.
 JASMIN, playing, falls to her knees and bows to EBU.)

JASMINE: Oh, wise sultan. What can they do for you?
EBU: Well, blah blah blah blah.
ALADDIN: Tragic, isn't it? (He leans forward, pick it up
 that apple from his cart
 foot.) But, no big deal. (Comes to
 Jasmina.) Now let's go, sister. It's time to look
Ph.D.
JASMINA: (To Camille, standing nearby) Oh, hello, Dr.
 How are you?
ALADDIN: no, no, no. Not that one. (EBU, which
 pockets ottopyreny.) Come on, Sultan.

(ABU bows to the pile, and everything he stole from the cart, he throws out
outside.)

OWNER: Huh? What is this? (ABU takes what it can take
 and the three run away.) Come back here,
 you little Vorishki!

(Go to the main one. from the SADIKA laboratory. ЯGO works on sixes in a bizarre device
 . A storm is brewing at the top of this device.)

ЯGO: (hooting and hollering) With due respect, yours truly
 rot, could we not just wait out this storm?
JAFFER: Save your breath, Yago. Faster! (He puts
 The SULTAN's ring is a quick-witted device.)
YAGO: Yes, oh mighty villain.

(ÂGO runs faster. Lightning pierces the ring, passing
 in the hourglass at the bottom. The sand begins to swirl.)

JAFFER: Ah, the sands of time - open for me someone who can
 entered the cave. (Sand from the top of the Pećin form
 Wonders. He perishes in the storm, but on him
 Aladdin is shown, climbing the stairs, behind which he should be
 JASMINE, who is wrapped in her cloak.) Yes, Yes!
 Here he is. My original diamond!
ЯGO: that's It?!?! That's the clown we've been with for so long
 have you been waiting? (ÂGO loses his balance and shits him
 into the mechanism.)
JAFER: Let the guards welcome him in
 palace, okay?

(ÂGO flies past and hits the wall upside down.)

YAGO: Excellent.

(Jaffer laughs wildly, and the camera focuses on the sandstorm with
 Aladdin in him. In the end, we are dissolved in this ALADDINE, podnimayuschemsya
 at the top of the stairs, followed by JASMINE.)

ALADDIN: Almost there.

(JASMIN jumps over the top, but stumbles and falls into ALADDIN's arms.
 She gets up.)

JASMIN: I want to thank you for stopping that man.
ALADDIN: Uh, forget all about it. (He grabs the stick.) So, uh-uh, that's it
 you're on the market for the first time, huh?

(ALADDIN jumps with the sixth into an adjacent building, leaving JASMINE behind.)

JASMIN: Is it so obvious?
ALADDIN: Well, you really stand out a bit. (He looks at her,
 still in love. She looks back at him. But he
 aware that he is doing, and returning to normal life.)
 I mean, um, you don't seem to know how dangerous it is
 Agrabah can be. (He puts the board in between
 building, so she can step over, but when she tilts it
 she jumps through his head. He looks back on
 surprised. She throws him a stick. Both
 Eyes of ALADDIN and ABU buckle.)
JASMIN: I AM a fast learner.
ALADDIN: All right. Come on, this way. (They climb up to the roof
 building, avoiding moving planks and beams
 ). Vov. Careful there. Be careful.
JASMIN: You live here?
ALADDIN: Yes. Just me and Ebu. We come and withdraw when we feel like it.
JASMINE: Unbelievable.
ALADDIN: Well, that's a little (he lifts the curtains and
 opens the palace), but from here there is a magnificent view.
 The palace looks pretty amazing, doesn't it?
JASMINE: Oh, that's wonderful.
ALADDIN: I wonder what it would be like if they lived there,
 they have servants and a butler...
JASMINE: Oh, of course. People who told you where to go and how
to get dressed.
ALADDIN: Here is better than here. Always mined food
 и уворачиваются од зарадар.
JASMIN: You are not free to make my own choice.
ALADDIN: Sometimes you feel so--
JASMINE: just--
BOTH: (voice over) - captured.

(They look at each other, realizing that they are perfect for each other
 the second. But then ALADDIN realizes where he is, and interrupts
 the view. He takes the apple from EBU's hand and puts it in his own way
 hands into JASMINE's palm.)

ALADDIN: Well, where are you?
JASMINA: What is important? I ran away, and I'm not going
to return.
ALADDIN: True? (He otkusyvaet from the apple, which holds in
 hand, and then passes it to the EBU, a disgusted expression on his face
.)
EBU: Why are you!

(ALADDIN perfect and sitting next to JASMINE.)

JASMIN: My father is making me get married.
ALADDIN: That's ... that's terrible. (ABU appears from behind
 princess and tries to steal an apple.) Abu!

(ABU rises to a higher point, hangs and mocks in motion.)

JASMINA: What?
ALADDIN: Abu says that ... uh ... it's unfair.
EBU: What?
JASMINE: Oh, right?
ALADDIN: Yes, of course.
JASMIN: And Abu wants me to say something else?
ALADDIN: Well, uh, he wanted something done
 to help.
EBU: Oh my god!
JASMINE: Um, tell him that's very cute.

(ALADIN and JASMINE grow closer and closer, while
 ALADDIN does not lean in to kiss her. But she drove him
 GUARDS who found them.)

GUARD: There you are!
ALADDIN and JASMINE: They found me! (Turning to each other) Su
 hunting you?
JASMINE: My father must have sent them--
ALADDIN: Do you trust me?
JASMINA: What?
ALADDIN: Do you trust me? (He extends his hand)
JASMINE: Yes. (She takes it.)
ALADDIN: Then jump!

(Both jump from the roof, fall and land in a pile of salt. They
 they try to escape, but the exit is blocked by a guard.)

GUARD: We just keep bumping into each other, don't we?
 street rat?

(Abu breaks the turban off the GUARDS again, but more guards
 here and block the exit. The first guard pulls the ABU from his head and
 throws it in the vase. Three other guards grab ALADDIN.)

GUARD: That's a dungeon for you, boy.
ALADDIN: Hey, get the fuck off me!
JASMIN: Let him go.
GUARD: (Not realizing she's a princess) Look what we got
 men here, mouse street. (He throws it at her
 on the ground.)
JASMINA: (gets up and puts back the cover of her confidential)
 Release him, by order of the princess.

(WHEN they suddenly stopped and bowed, which forced ALADDIN to also bow.)

GUARD: Princess Jasmine.
ALADDIN: A princess?
EBU: (peeking out of the vase) Princess?
GUARD: What are you doing outside the palace? And with
 these street rats?
JASMIN: It's none of your business. Do as I command. Deliver
ga!
GUARD: Well, I would do so, princess, but my orders come from
 Jafar. You'll have to talk to him.

(GUARDS exit ALADDIN, bowing in motion.)

JASMINA: (takes a very annoyed look) Believe me, I am
i will do.

(Cut to int. palace, Jaffer, exiting his secret camera. He
 slides the door, carefully locked it, but the princess comes attack
 before he finished. He zahlopyvaet him, pinching ЯGO inside
 door jamb.)

JASMINE: Jaffer?
JAFFER: Oh, uh-uh, princess.
YAGO: Wow! Jafar, I'm stuck!
JAFFER: What can I do to help you? (He rasstilaet his
 cloak, hides door.)
JASMIN: The guards just took the boy from the market according to you
account.
JAFFER: Your father ordered me to maintain peace in
 Agraba. The boy was a criminal.
JASMIN: What did the crime consist of?
YAGO: I can't breathe, Jaffer!
JAFFER: Well, kidnapping the princess, of course.
YAGO: If you could only... (JAFER pushes him back inside
 door knocking down) - wow, that hurts!
JASMIN: It wasn't me! I ran away!
JAFFER: (Leaving, as if shocked) Oh, dear! Oh, why
 terribly upset. If only I knew.
JASMINA: What do you think?
JAFFER: unfortunately, the boy's sentence has already been executed
.
JASMINA: What is the verdict?
JAFFER: (ominous tone) Death. (JASMINE chokes.)
Obezglavlivaniem.
JASMINA: No! (She falls to the floor.)
JAFFER: Yes, I am extremely sorry, princess.
JASMIN: How could you? (She runs out of the room, crying.)

(ÂGO finally walks out the door. He takes off and lands on
 Shoulder SADIKA, cough.)

ЯGO: So how was it?
JAFFER: I think he accepted that's pretty good. (The faces have both appearing
 sinister smile.)

(Diss. on JASMIN at night, crying on the edge of the fountain. RAJA
 suitable to comfort her. She pet him.)

JASMINE: It's all my fault, Raja. I didn't even know that
Name.

(Cuts from the text. from the dungeon. The rats are the past, and we go down, until we see
 ALADDIN, chained to the wall.)

ALADDIN: (to himself) She was a princess. I do not believe
 into it. It must have been me, it seemed so stupid to her.
EBU: (from a distance) Yoo-hoo! Aladdin? Hello!

(The ABU appears in the window at the top of the dungeon.)

ALADDIN: Abu! Down here! Hey, come on, help me out of it.

(ABU stops, then starts chatting frantically, falls to the ground. He
 wraps his head with a cloth and makes his eyes big,
 imitating a princess.)

ALADDIN: Hey, she was in trouble. Oh, she would cost.

(ABU jumps ALADDIN onto his shoulders and takes out a small set of tools
 from his pocket and then frees ALADDIN.)

EBU: Yes, Yes, Yes.
ALADDIN: Don't worry, Abu. I never see him again. Me
 street rat, remember, and there is a law. She
 she should marry a prince, she deserves it.

(ABU finally releases ALADDIN's hands.)

EBU: Yes!
ALADDIN: (Rubbing his wrist) I'm Sam... I'm a fool
OLD MAN: You're just a fool if you give in, boy.

(We see an OLD MAN, sitting in the corner, whom neither ALADDIN nor ABBA
 we haven't seen before.)

ALADDIN: Who are you?
OLD MAN: A humble prisoner, like you. But together,
 maybe, we will be able to achieve more.
ALADDIN: I'm listening.
OLD MAN: There's a cave, boy. Cave of Wonders. Fulfilled
 treasures, superior to your wildest dreams.
 Mild, enough to impress even your princess, I'd say
 I bet.

(Listeners will notice that the OLD MAN said the word
 "princess" as "princess", not as standard pronunciation
 "PRINCESSES". THE OLD MAN turns his back, and Yago vysovyvaet
 his head under the guise of SADIK as an "old man".)

ЯGO: Jaffer, can you hurry? I'm dying here!
ALADDIN: But the law says that only a prince can marry--
OLD MAN: You've heard of the golden rule, haven't you, boy?
 He who has the gold makes the rules. (He grins,
 showing a disgustingly foul-mouthed mouth.)
ALADDIN: So why are you sharing all these wonderful things?
 be with me?
OLD MAN: I need a young man with strong legs and
 to return, to apply for him.
ALADDIN: Ah, one problem. It's outside, we're here?

(The OLD MAN answers the wall and opens the secret exit.)

OLD MAN: Mmm, mmm, mmm. Things are not always as they are
 looks like. So we have a deal?

(ALADDIN looks at ABU who shrugs.)

EBU: Oh, hmm.

(Transition on desert scene. We see ALADDIN, leading the horse with
 OLD MAN and EBU on him. Diss. to the Cave of Wonders.)

CAVE: Who disturbed my dream?
ALADDIN: It's me, Aladdin.
CAVE: Go ahead. Don't touch anything, except the lamp.

(The cave opened shaken, and before
 ALADDIN appears stairs. )

OLD MAN: Remember, boy - first bring me the lamp, and then
 you will receive your reward.
ALADDIN: Go away, Abu. (ABU hides behind his shoulder
 his waistcoat.)

(ALADDIN begins to descend the stairs. She reaches the bottom
 and enters a golden room filled with treasures.)

ALADDIN: You are just look at that!
EBU: Oh-oh-oh!
ALADDIN: just a handful, it's a good thing he's richer than me
 from the sultan!

(ABU equals, sees the treasure, then chases after it.)

ALADDIN: Abu!

(ABU stops halfway, looks up at the carpet on the floor.)

ALADDIN: Don't ... touch ... anything! We have to find that lamp.

(They begin to wade through the room as the CARPET rises
 from the floor and starts following them. A feeling arises in ABU
 that they are under surveillance.)

EBU: Huh?

(He turns and the CARPET is just lying on the floor. He continues, and
 the carpet begins to follow him again. ABU turned again, but
 CARPET rolled and leaning against piles of treasure. ABU
 so he works up on ALADDIN and drags him by the barn.)

EBU: Aladdin! Aladdin!
ALADDIN: Abu, will you stop it?

(Again the CARPET should follow him, but this time, when the EBU turns it, the carpet
 pereskakivaet to the other side. He reaches down with the brush and pulls
 ABU for tail. When EBU jumps around her, TEPIH goes to another one again
 side. This time ABU falls into the karate river. CARPET tarps
 and they break ABU's hat, then he puts it on himself. ABU went down
 he thinks for a moment, until the CARPET waves the brush before
 face. EBU and TEPIH to frighten podprygivayut and run away. ABU attacks
 ALADDIN turns his head to see the CARPET.)

ALADDIN: Abu, what are you - out of your mind?

(CARPET equals because of the pile of treasures.)

ALADDIN: Carpet-plane! Come on. Get out. I'm not going
 to hurt you.

(CARPET comes out slowly, shyly, then picks up EBU's hat and dusts himself off
 takes it off her. He flies to ALADDIN and passes the hat to ABU standing by
 to him. ABU visits and saddles ALADDIN on his shoulder.)

ALADDIN: Take it easy, Abu. He doesn't bite.

(CARPET picks up EBU's hat again and gives it to him. ABU shockingly
 fist and visit her. CARPET begins to leave, "unfortunately".)

ALADDIN: Hey, wait a minute. Do not leave. Maybe you can help
 our. (CARPET looks around excitedly. Then he flies
 and turns around the pair.) Hey, start! You
 you see, we're trying to find this lamp. (CARPET
 she gestures for them to follow her.) I think he knows
 where is she.

(They pass through a long cave, until they find themselves in a giant
 underground caves. In the center of the room is a large column,
 a staircase leads to it. He is surrounded by water
 with unevenly distributed stones, which form a bridge. On top
 a pillar - it is a ray of light. ALADDIN begins to cross the bridge.)

ALADDIN: Wait here!
EBU: Oh, yes?

(ABU sees a shrine with a golden monkey. U is dragged out by its paws
 giant ruby. ABU is hypnotically drawn to him. ALADDIN quickly climbs on
 stairs. TEPIH sees EBA and grabs him by the tail, trying in vain to
 to keep him. ALADDIN eventually reaches the MAGIC LAMP.)

ALADDIN: That's it? That's what we did this whole trip for
 here, yes... (He looks down and sees ABU coming out
 from conquering the CARPET and rushing for jewelry.) Abu-
NOT!

(ABU jewel enough. Thunder is heard, and the room begins to shake
to shake.)

CAVE VOICE: False!
EBU: Wow!
CAVE VOICE: Did Lee touch the dangerous treasure. (EBU
 he puts the gem back in the paw, but the gem
 and they turn the shrine into lava.) Now you
 will never see the light of day again!

(ALADDIN makes the steps, but they open up into a ramp, and he is
 he descends until then, until he takes off in the air. The water turned into
 lava. He falls on it, when the CARPET suddenly appears
 and catch him. Abu-stands on one of the rocks
 bridge. He looks left and right and sees rocks burst into lava.
 Then the CARPET so it works up and ALADDIN misses, just as the last rock explodes
.)

ALADDIN: Wow! Carpet, let's move!

(Together, they rush back through the cave, avoiding the walls and falling wreckage
 . ABU enough ALADDIN for the head and closes his eyes.)

ALADDIN: Abu, now is not the time to panic! (He pulls ABU off himself
 his head and sees them fly into the wall.)
 He starts to panic.

(CARPET dives, then through another cave. Finally, them
 exit through the inner entrance. Outside the cave begins
 growl and close. TEPIH and company almost reached the top, when
 A pebble falls on the carpet, sending it to the floor. ALADDIN catches on
 for the stone wall and holds. He sees an OLD MAN upstairs,
 at your fingertips.)

ALADDIN: Help me!
OLD MAN: Throw me the lamp!
ALADDIN: I can't take it anymore. Give me your hand.
OLD MAN: First, give me the lamp!

(ALADDIN reaches out and takes out the MAGIC LAMP. He holds it up, a
 and the OLD MAN raises it above his head.)

OLD MAN: Ha-ha-ha-ha! Yes! Finally! Ha ha ha ha!

(ALADDIN went out through ABU. But OLD
 MAN rejects EBU and enough ALADDIN for the wrist.)

ALADDIN: What are you doing?
OLD MAN: I give you my reward. (JAFER returns to his own
 normal voice.) Your eternal reward.

(He takes out the crooked dagger and about to strike ALADDIN, when
 ABU bites his hand. He shouts, but let ALADDIN go,
 which falls into the cave. THE OLD MAN throws EBU into the cave and
 Okay. They fall. THE CARPET sees it, but it turns out to be a dirty floor
 with a wave. He struggles to break free, then it appears. She is chasing
 up and grab ALADDIN, but he's already several
 once hit the wall and lost consciousness. It makes a roar on the surface of the cave
 one last time, then it sinks back into the sand. JAFFER mitigates
 your disguise.)

JAFFER: He-he-he! That's mine. It's all mine! I am (He can't
 find it in your pocket)--- where is it? Not. NOT!!

(Kiss disappears into JASMINE's bedroom. She is sitting on her bed, beside
 to RAJU, who looks sad. Enter SULTAN.)

SULTAN: Jasmine? Oh dear. What happened?
JASMINE: Jaffer... did... something... terrible. (She
 it looks like she was crying.)
SULTAN: Well, well, well, my child, we have fixed everything.
 Now tell me everything.

(Go to main. about the cave. ALADDIN lies unconscious on the CARPET.
 ABU tries to wake him up.)

EBU: Oh, oh. Aladdin? Просыпайся. Aladdin.

(The CARPET rises, raising ALADDIN. He slowly wakes.)

ALADDIN: Oh, my head. (He looks at the sealed entrance.)
 We are trapped. (Angry, waving fists at
 logging in) This hypocritical son of a bitch! (OK)
 Whoever he was, he was long gone with this lamp.
EBU: Yes!

(ABU gets the MAGIC LAMP.)

ALADDIN: Ah, you little hairy bastard! It looks like one
 shabby, worthless piece of garbage. Hey, I think so
 there is something written here, but it is difficult
analyze.

(He wipes the lamp.) Suddenly, smoke comes out of the hole,
 The LAMP starts to shake and glow, but ALADDIN holds on to it.
 LAMP, and our wonderful friend the GHOST exits.)

GHOST: Ahhh! OH! Ten thousand years will give you
 such a break in the neck! (He hangs onto ALADDIN
 the nearest stone. Then he unearths the head and turns it over
 eye, shouting as he did so. THE CARPET knocks from your feet
 ALADDIN.) Wow! Is it nice to feel that?
 вырвавшимся одатле! (GINI uses sticking out of itself near the lamp as
 microphone.) It's nice to be back, ladies and
 gentlemen. Hello how are you? (He brings the microphone to his face
 ALADDIN.) What's your name?
ALADDIN: Uh, Uh...uh...Aladdin.
GHOST: (Says his name, as if discovering something
 major) Aladdin! (Bright neon sign with inscription
 On it is the name ALADDIN, surrounded by chase lights.
 The sign is changing to reflect the upcoming line of the GENIE.)
 Hello, Aladdin. Nice to see you on the show. You can
 we will be called "Ć"? Or, perhaps, just "Dean"? Or how
 What is "Léddi"? (THE GHOST disappears, then a dog appears
 , wrapped in a blanket.) Sounds like "Over here, boy!
 Come on, boy!"
ALADDIN: (Shakes head) It should be, I hit my head harder,
 than I thought.
GHOST: (still a dog) are you a smoker? Do you mind if I do? (The dog
 it turns to smoke and then returns to the JINN. ABU
 wildly visiting.) Oh, I'm sorry, Cheetah... I hope so
 did not set the fur on fire! Hey, Kovrovik! He didn't see it
 you several thousand years! Drag me with a brush! Yo!
 Yes! (The CARPET flies and high-fives the GENIE.
 GHOST looks at ALADDIN.) Listen, you much less
 but my last master. (He raises his beer belly.) Or
 that, or i'm more and more. Look at me from the side
 - do I look different to you?
ALADDIN: Wait a minute! I - your master?
GHOST: (Puts the diploma in ALADDIN's hand and
 installation of the board on his head.) Correct! One can
 learn!! What would you like from me, (in the role of Arnold
 Schwarzenegger) always spectacular, (inside
 Cuba) long-restrained, (as a colonizer with
 doll) often imitated, (throws the mannequin aside)
 but never duplicated--

(He propagates to many jinn, who surround him.)

DUP. GIANT: Double, double, double,
 double, double, double,
 double, double, double.
GHOST: (Says it like the ring announcer in a boxing match.)
 Ghost! From the! Lamps! (Goes to Ed
 Sullivan) right here, Right out of the lamp, right?
 it is for your pleasure the fulfillment of wishes.
 Thanks, woohoo!
ALADDIN: Wow! Wish fulfillment?
GHOST: Three wishes, to be precise. And x-no on account
 wishing for more wishes. (Turns the machine on the machine
 , omits the lever, and u
 three ghosts appear in the windows.) That's all - three. (Three geniuses
 caballero come out of the crack.) Uno, dos, tres.
 (Changes to b/w Groucho mark.) None
 alteration, exchange or return. (Duck
 falls with the secret word "Return".
ALADDIN: (EBU) Now I know how to sleep.
GHOST: (Music for "Friend Like Me" begins) Teacher, I don't
 I think he is fully aware that you are here! So
 Why don't I just think while I'm awake
 possibilities. (GHOST lights up like
 fluorescent)

 Well, I Ali Baba had forty thieves
 There are a thousand stories in Scheherazade
 But good luck, because you have something up your sleeve
 You have a proprietary magic that never fails!

(THE SPIRIT releases 40 thieves, who surround ALADDIN with swords.
 A GHOST appears in his vest, then puts on hands and discs
 thieves into obedience.)

 Now you have some power in your corner
 There is heavy ammunition in your camp
 You have a little kick, pizzazz, yahoo and how
 You see, all you have to do is rub this lamp
 I will say it too

(He appears in the boxing ring, in the corner of ALADDIN, who massiruet
 GHOST. Then the GHOST turns into a bunch of fireworks and
 it explodes. Then a GHOST appears inside the bulb and enough ALADDIN
 for the hand and the lamp.)

 Mr. Aladdin, sir
 But are you satisfied?
 Let me your account, write it down
 You have never had a friend like me.
 No no no!

(GINNY points out the table and chairs, then jots something down in a notebook.
 as a waiter. )

 Life is your restaurant.
 And I'm your mayor!
 Come on, whisper what you want
 You have never had a friend like me.

(The GHOST appears as chicken plates, then returns to normal,
 but he increases his ear to listen to ALADDIN. Finally, he explodes
 on four double gin.)

 Yes, sir, we pride ourselves on service
 You are the boss king, chess!
 You say you want it, it's yours! Now the dish
 What's a little more pahlava?

(The Genie gets a shave, a haircut and a manicure, and then ALADDIN
 appears in a comfortable chair (huh?), surrounded by treasures
 and obsessed with women. Appears GHOST and fills
 screen brown.)

 Try something from column "A"
 Try all columns "B"
 I'm in the mood to help you, dude
 You have never had a friend like me

(ALADDIN climbs the food convoy from the giant letter A upstairs,
 then jumps to the second column with the letter B on the floor. He falls
 and to be caught by a pillow held by the SPIRIT. He opens his mouth,
 and his tongue turns into a ladder. A little GHOST comes out
 dressed as a magician.)

(Mini-DUH completes a small dance with two giant ones
 the hands of the SPIRIT. At the end they surround the mini-GENIE and crush them
 him into nothing.)

 Can your friends do it?
 Your friends do that?
 Your friends pulled this out of their little hat
 Let your friends get excited!
 Well, look here
 Let your friends get excited, let's tear it up
 And then make the vacuum disappear?

(The ghost unearths his head, copies hers, then juggles them.
 He throws them to ALADDIN, who juggles with one hand and spins
 one of his heads on the tip of his finger, like a basketball. He throws
 heads snap back to GENIE, who continues to try to retreat
 itself out of the hat since its inception. He spirals round and round
 until he turns into a white rabbit. The rabbit turns into
 purple dragon (very reminiscent of Figment from EPCOT Center).
 The dragon breathes fire, which turns into three HAREM GIRLS,
 who dance around ALADDIN. As soon as he begins to enjoy them,
 they disappear.)

 So don't sit there with your jaw hanging open and your eyes goggling
 I am here to answer all your midday prayers
 You got me fair, certified
 Got a spirit to recharge? Charge d'Affairs!
 I have a strong desire to help you
 So what do you want, I really want to know
 You have a wish of three kilometers long, no doubt
 So all you have to do is rub like this, and oh!


(THE GHOST simulates what he calls ALADDIN, then transforms into
 a certificate that shrinks and surrounds ALADDIN. SPIRIT takes out
 a list {written in Arabic} from the ear of ALADDIN, which he uses
 to rub his back, as if you were cleaning up your soul.)

 Mr. Aladdin, sir, make one-two-three wishes
 I'm at work, you big nabob
 He never had a friend, he never had a friend
 You never had a friend, never had a friend
 You have never been...was...a friend...like me...!
 You have never had a friend like me!

(The dancing HAREM GIRLS reappear, and ALADDIN leans in to kiss one of them.
 She transforms into a GHOST that brings the four dancing elephants to life
 . On the other side, he rushes on four dancing camels,
 and needs a big final dance number. ABU enough as much gold as possible
 as he can, but the SPIRIT appears all in the cyclone and
 wear it, until they all return to the cave. IN GINA on her back
 neon sign "APPLAUSE". ABU turns his hat and
 see it's empty.)

DUH: So what is it to be a teacher?
ALADDIN: You granted me all three wishes that I want?
GHOST: (As William F. Buckley) Ah, almost. Exists
 a few reserves, a couple of favors for favors
ALADDIN: Like it?
GHOST: Ah, rule number one: I can't kill anyone. (He
 cuts off his own head with his finger.) So you don't need to
 Asking. Second Rule: I can't make anyone fall in love
 in no one else. (The head turns into a large pair
 lips that kiss ALADDIN.) You, little fill there.
 (He goes away, then gets up and turns into
 zombie.) Third Rule: I can't raise people from
 the dead. It is a very beautiful picture, (That's enough
 ALADDIN and shakes him) I don't like to do that! (He
 returns to normal.) Otherwise, you have
that!
ALADDIN: (Looks at ABU, as if planning something) Ah, reserves? You
 Do you have a limit in mind? On wishes? (Ebu) everything
 mighty spirit--can't even raise people out of
 the dead. I don't know, Abu-he probably can't even
 how to rescue us from this cave. Looks like we'll have to
 find a way to get out of there--

(They start to leave, but the big blue feet step on them first
to them.)

GHOST: Excuse me? Do look at
 me? You chased my lamp? You woke me up, didn't you?
 did you bring me here? And suddenly you are
 getting away from me? (More and more angry) Sam
 I don't think so, not now. Your wishes come true
 so sit down! (Everyone falls to the CARPET.
 The SPIRIT takes the form of a flight attendant with a crowd
 hands, point to exits.) In case
 emergency exits are here, here, here,
 here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here,
 here, wherever you go! Keep your hands inside
 on the carpet. Uiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii...get out of here!

(Carpet and travelers leave the sand in the desert and fly away
 in the distance. Frame from the SULTAN room. JAFAR
 there with YAGO, JASMIN and SULTANA.)

SULTAN: Jaffer, that's outrageous. If not for all
 your years of faithful service... . From that moment,
 should talk to me sentences concluded,
 before their heads are crushed.
JAFFER: I assure you, Your Highness, it will not happen again.
SULTAN: Jasmin, Jaffer, now let's leave all that dirty
 case behind you. Please?
JAFFER: My most miserable and humble apology to you as
 well, princess. (He takes her hand to kiss it, but
 she pulls him away.)
JASMIN: At least something good will come out of it, that I will
 to get married. When I became queen, I have to be
 the power to break free from you.
SULTAN: This sweet one. So, everything is resolved. So, Jasmine,
 coming back to this case with the Uhajerami, (he is
 he looks and sees that Jasmin is leaving) Jasmin?
 Jasmine! (He runs after her.)
JAFFER: If only I could get that lamp myself!
ЯGO: (As JASMINE) I will have the strength to get rid of him
 you! God! Just think - we need to continue to kiss
 with this bolvan and his daughter-bolvanka until
 the end of our lives...
JAFER: No, Yago. Only until she finds her husband-sissy.
 Then she will order us out - or cut off our heads!
BOTH: Yiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!
ЯGO: (he comes up with an idea) Oh! Wait a bit! Wait a bit!
 Jaffer? Yes, if you were a sick husband?
JAFFER: (He looks insultingly at ЯGO) What?
ЯGO: Okay, do you marry a princess, okay? Then, uh,
 you are becoming a sultan!
JAFFER: Oh! Marry a bitch? I am the Sultan. In theory there is
dignity!
YAGO: Yes, your honor! Yes! And then we come back right with the mother and
 little woman from the cliff! (Throw bombs in
 gender) Kersplat!
JAFFER: Yago, I like the way your dirty little mind works!

(We both laugh, when we reach the oasis in the desert, where the carpet
 going to land.)

GHOST: (still as flight attendants) Thank you for choosing Magic
 A rug for all your travel needs. Don't get up
 until the carpet stops completely. (Like
 ALADDIN and ABU descend the stairs, form the CARPET
 ) Thank you. Goodbye, goodbye! Thank you!
 Goodbye! (Returns to normal) Well, now. how about that
 of that, Mr. Doubt Mustafa?
ALADDIN: Oh, you just showed it to me. Now my three wishes-
GHOST: Are my ears deceiving me? Three? Not
 One boy!
Aladdin: Well, no ... I don't want to get out of
 cave. You did it on your own.

(THE GHOST thinks for a moment, then he drops his jaws. He transforms into
Sheep.)

GHOST: Well, don't I just feel shy? Okay, you are
 great boy, but no more freebies.
ALADDIN: Fair deal. So, three wishes. I wish they were
 the good ones. (To GINA) What would you like?

(GINNY hangs, as if suspended, between two trees.)

GINNIE: Me? No one had ever asked me about it before. Well, in
 in my case, oh, forget all about it.
ALADDIN: What? No, tell me.
SPIRIT: Freedom.
ALADDIN: Are you a prisoner?
DUH: It is an integral part of the whole concert of genius.
 (Becomes a giant, voice echoed) Phenomenal space
 strength! (Crawls, placed in a magic LAMP.)
 Insignificantly small living space.)
ALADDIN: God, that's terrible.
GHOST: (Exiting the LAMP) But, oh... to be free. Not
 he needs to shout "Poof!" What do you need? Poof! Yes
 do you need it? Poof! What do you need?" To be yourself
 master, such a thing was more than whole
 magic and all the treasures around the world! But
 what am i talking about here? Let's be real
 here. That won't happen. Spirit, wake up and
 smell the hummus
ALADDIN: Why not?
GHOST: The only way we can get out of here - if my master
 I wish I had gone. So you can guess how often that is
happened.
ALADDIN: I will do it. I set you free.
GHOST: (Turns head into Pinocchio's head with a long nose) Aha
 Yes exactly. Oops!
ALADDIN: No, it's true, I promise you. (He pushes his nose back in
 and Gin's head returns to normal life.) After mine
 first two wishes, I will use my third wish to replace you
 free. (He extends his hand)
GHOST: Well, I hope so. (Takes off ALADDA'S hand.)
 Okay, let's do some magic! (Converts to
 wizard.) So what is it? What do you want
 more than anything?
ALADDIN: Well, there's this girl--
GINNIE: Eeeehh! (As if they hear a call, and GINI appears on his chest
 a heart with a cross through it.) Wrong! I can not
 make someone fall in love, do you remember?
ALADDIN: Oh, but Ginny. She's smart and funny and...
GINNIE: Pretty?
ALADDIN: Beautiful. She has such eyes, which only...
 this hair, wow... and her smile.
GHOST: (Sitting in a Parisian cafe with ABU and a CARPET.)
 And we. C'est l'amour.
ALADDIN: But she's a princess. If I had at least a chance, I would
 it has to be... hey can you prince me?
GHOST: Let's see. (He's the "Royal Chef".) Uh,
 Chicken Royal? (He pulls out the chicken from
 crown on the head) Nea. Alaskan Kamchatka Crab?
 (Vydergivaet finger, and we see SEBASTIAN, the crab from
 "The Little Mermaid", vcepivshegosya in him.) Oh, it's me
 i hate it when they do that. Caesar salad? (
 He appears with a dagger and tries to pull it out.) And so on,
 Brute? Ah yes prince. (Looks slyly at
 ALADDIN.) Now this is an official wish? Say
say!
ALADDIN: Spirit, I want you to make me a prince!
GHOST: Good! Aw-aw-aw-aw! (Takes a square
 shoulders and looks like Arsenio Hall. Then it becomes
 tailor / clothing designer.) First, this fez and
 combination vest - it is too much for the third century. These
 patch - what are we trying to say - beggar? Not!
 Let's work here with me. (He removes from ALADDIN
 measures, snaps his fingers, and ALADDIN
 dressed in his prince costume.) I like that, dude
 macho! Now something else is needed. What is that
 tells me? The mode of transportation is listed here. I'm sorry
 me, monkey boy! Aqua, over here! (ABU tries
 прикрыться капеший, but the SPIRIT knocks him off his feet, and
 he flies.)
EBU: Oh-oh-oh!
GHOST: Here he comes, (ALADIN and GHOST play
 scenography of the play, where ALADDIN stands behind the catwalk with
 "AL' on it.) And what could be better for yours
 festive exit to the streets of Agraby, rather
 to take a ride on their new camel! gently,
 he spits! (A door with a GHOST head on it
 opens, where ABU turns into a camel. He
 At the signal, he throws out the corner of his mouth. But
 DUH isn't sure.) Mmm, not enough. (He clicks his
 fingers, and turns ABU into a strange white horse.)
 It's still not enough. Let's see. What do you need?
 (The spirit clicks its fingers several times, spinning
 ABU into: duck, ostrich, turtle and 57th
 Cadillac with plate number "EBU 1". (It is
 assumption, I didn't realize that I had in the machines, but, judging by the tail
 fins, - said nuff.) Finally, he returned to
 normal state.) Yes!! Ésalalumbo, shimin dumbo! Wow!!
 (And by the key word of magic, Dumbo, ABU converts
 into an elephant. THE CARPET is struggling to get out of
 in ABU leg size 46.) Tell me about your trunk
 space, look at this action!

(ABU sees his reflection in a puddle of water, then jumps onto a tree.
 The tree naturally leans back to the ground, where the EBU
 holds and looks at ALADDIN upside down.)

ALADDIN: Abu, you look good like.
DUH: he has an elephant, he has an elephant, but
 we haven't finished yet. Hold on to your turban,
 child, because we will give you a star!

(We slowly reduce the image of the oasis in the distance, when the fireworks
 begins to explode outwards. Cut up a bunch of toys.
 (Look for the BEAST here.) We bow down and see the SULTAN
 balancing them. He carefully balances the last piece on top,
 then otkidyvaetsya back and sighs. However, JAFAR breaks in, and
 the crowd breaks up.)

JAFFER: Sir, I found a solution to the problem with
 your daughter.
YAGO: Awk! The problem with your daughter!
SULTAN: Oh, right?
JAFFER: (Turns the scroll) here. "If princess
 does not choose a husband by a certain date,
 then the sultan will make a choice for her".
SULTAN: But Jasmin hated all those grooms! (Is trying to
 shoves a cracker into ЯGO's mouth. ЯГО патится
 far. Sultan idly takes out a cracker
 back to get again.) How could I choose the one he hates?
 (ÂGO is relieved, but SULTAN quickly shoves it in his mouth
cracker.)
JAFFER: Do not worry, my lord. There is something else. If, in case
 inability to find the right prince, princess
 must be married to... hmm... interesting.
SULTAN: For what? For whom?
JAFER: For the royal vizier! Why, that would be be...me!
SULTAN: Why, I thought the law said only a prince could
 to marry a princess, I'm quite sure.
JAFFER: Desperate times call for desperate measures, my
 Mr. (He took out a stick and hypnotized them
 SULTAN.)
SULTAN: Yes... desperate measures...
JAFFER: You order the princess to marry me.
SULTAN: I...will...princess...to...(spell
 it was destroyed for a moment)...but you are so old!
JAFFER: (He presses his stick firmly) The princess is about to be married
 for me!
SULTAN: The princess will marry...(spell again
 destroyed, this time fanfare "Prince
 Aaliyah".) What? What is this? This music! Ha ha ha.
 Jafar., you should come and see this!

(We see an approaching parade, headed by those who make GIANT u
 human form as MAJOR.)

MARCH PARTICIPANTS: Give way to the Aliyah!
WARRIORS: Say "Hello"! It's Prince Ali!
MAJOR: Hey, clear the way in the old bazaar,
 Hey, are you, miss us, it's a bright new star,
 And now come on, be the first in your quarter, who will meet him in appearance!
 Lose your way, here he comes,
 Calling bells, hitting the drums.
 You like this guy

(MAJOR mingles with various members of the crowd.)

 Prince Ali, he is wonderful, Alia Ababwa!
 Bend your knees, show some respect
 Get down on one knee

(The elephant ABU marches through the city with ALADDIN (ALIYA) on his back.)

 Now they are fighting try to stay calm
 Say your Sunday greetings
 And let's get acquainted with his spectacular circle.

(YGO dances to the music, while JAFFER glares at him.
 The MAJOR "steals" six men in the trunk of the EBU. They are standing
 on each other's shoulders, BUT when they put their hand down.)

 Prince Ali, mighty is he, Alia Ababwa!
 As strong as ten regular people, definitely
 He was face to face with the galloping hordes
 A hundred bad guys with swords
 Who sent those robbers to lord them, why Prince Ali!

(Crowd crashed on ALI, but lightning brand GENIE (tm)
 breaks up the crowd, and he ends up lifting them all up in acrobatic fashion
 wheel saw to build. He turns the ghost into an old man, then into a baby
 and utters the last two lines, addressing the audience.)

CHORUS OF MEN: (Camel bearers) there are seventy-five golden camels!

(U popse typical parade commentator)

HARRY: Aren't they lovely looking, Joon?

WOMEN'S CHORUS: (On the platform) Purple peacocks, there are fifty-three of them!

(Another commentator enters.)

JOON: Amazing, Harry, I love feathers!

GHOST: (GHOST backstage, a large gorilla on a balloon descends
parade)
 When it comes to exotic mammals
 It has a zoo, I tell you
 It's a world-class animal house!

(The ghost snaps like a leopard, then a goat, and says the last two
 lines for two children from the previous ones. We move to a convenient balcony,
 where the three HAREM girls are joined by the HAREM GHOST.)

GHOST:
 GIRLS: (in cutterpointe)
 Prince Ali, handsome he is, Alija Ababwa
 Without a doubt, this one engages Ali
 This material, as I can speak for myself
 Never plain, never boring
 Weakness in the knees
 Everything about this man is just impressive
 Well, exit to this area
 He is a miracle, he is a prodigy, a miracle
 Fix your veil and get ready to
 He will break my heart to pieces
 Crawl, crawl and smoke on Prince Ali!
 I absolutely love how he dresses too!

(JASMIN watched what was happening from the balcony of the palace. She
 hums something and then leaves.)

CHORUS: there are ninety-five white Persian monkeys!
 (There are monkeys, let's see monkeys!)
 And there is no charge for displaying them!
 (He is generous, so generous)
 He has slaves, he has servants and minions!
 (Proud to work for him)
 They are inclined before his whim, they like to serve him
 They are only lousy devotees of Ali! Prince Ali!

(ALADDIN throws a gold coin at the people who rush at him, yes
 to collect them. EBU and the parade is marching up the ladder
 palace and inside. SULTAN started back to the door
 in the throne room, but JAFFER is standing at the door.
 Suddenly they open to the open, ABU goes forward and broken
 JAFAR and YAGO find behind the door.)

GHOST: Prince Ali!
 Он влюбчивый! But Ababwa
 I heard about your princess it was nice to watch!
 And here, people are kind, why
 He принарядился и заехал мене
 With sixty elephants, many llamas
 With his bears and lions
 Orchestra and more
 With his forty fakirs, his cooks, his bakers
 Its a bird that chirps on the keys
 Put the Aliyah!

(The fanfare sounds louder and louder, until ALADDIN lands from the back of ABU
 on the CARPET-PLANE and does not fly towards the SULTAN. JAFER zahlopyvaet
the door.)

SULTAN: (Claps his hands) Great, absolutely amazing.
ALADDIN: (Gets a lower voice.) Khm. Your majesty, it's me
 arrived from afar, to reach your daughter's hand.
SULTAN: Prince Ali Ababwa! Of course. I'm glad
 to get to know you. (He is so working up and putting his ALI hand down.)
 This is my royal vizier, Jafar. He, too, is in ecstasy
.
JAFFER: (Extremely dry) In ecstasy. I'm afraid, prince
Abubu--
ALADDIN: -Ababwa!
JAFFER: It doesn't matter. You can't just have them show up without an invitation
 and expect--
SULTAN: ...by Allah, this is quite a remarkable device.
 (He pulled the brushes, and they pulled him
 mustache.) I don't think I could have…
ALADDIN: Well, of course, your majesty. Allow me to.

(It helps the SULTAN to climb on the CARPET, and he plyuhaetsya himself.
 JAFFER presses the CARPET staff on the floor.)

JAFFER: Sir, I must warn against that--
SULTAN: - Oh, buckle up, Jafar. Learn to have some fun.

(He throws the stick, and the CARPET with the sultan from flying away. ЯGO, which
 stood on the head of the staff, falling, several times
 hits the beak on the utensil when it falls. SULTAN i
 THE CARPET flies high under the ceiling, and then the bombing dive begins,
 flies under ABU, scares him. The flight continues at
 in the background, while JAFAR and ALIYA speak in the foreground.)

JAFFER: Where did you say you're from?
ALADDIN: Oh, I'm sure, much further than you've travelled.
 (He laughs. JAFFER - no.)
JAFFER: Try me. (YGO falls on the stick.)
SULTAN: Gently, Polly!

(Everyone ducks in time, when the CARPET flies inches above theirs
 heads. The CARPET returns, and the SULTAN chases after ЯGO around the room.)

YAGO: Hey, be careful. Careful with this crazy rug!

(A CARPET flies under ЯGO, who sighs, wipes his forehead and
 hit a pole. He falls to the floor, and his head
 surrounded by tiny SULTANS on RUGs, saying: "Take a cracker,
 take a cracker. This SULTAN begins his final sunset.)

SULTAN Get out of the way, I'm going to land. Jafar,
 look here! (He falls.)
JAFFER: Impressive, Your Highness.
SULTAN: Oh, okay. Yeah, looks like I have a knack for
 that. (CARPET comes to EBU, he was dizzy, then
 well, yes. ABU catches him.) That's very
 an impressive young man. And besides, the prince. (Whispers
 (JAFAR) If we're lucky, you don't have to get married
 After all, on Jasmin.
JAFFER: I don't trust him, sir.
SULTAN: Nonsense. But, I'm proud of Jafar, so that's who I am
 I realized very well that I have in people.
ЯGO: Oh, top judge, yes, of course ... no!!!

(JASMINA enters quietly.)

SULTAN: Jasmina enjoy this one!
ALADDIN: I'm pretty sure I like Princess Jasmine too!
JAFFER: Your Highness, no. I have to stand up for Jasmine
 from the name. (JASMIN hears this and gets angry.) Oh
 the boy is no different from the others. What makes it so
 do they think that he is worthy of a princess?
ALADDIN: Your majesty, I am Prince Ali Ababwa! (On prikalyvaet
 SADIKA's goat's beard, which peeks out at everything
 sides.) Just let her get to know me. I win
 your doughter!
JASMIN: How dare you! (They all look at her in amazement.)
 Everyone is standing around and deciding my future? Me
 is not a prize, which you have to win! (She runs out.)
SULTAN: Oh dear. Don't worry, Prince Ali. Just give it
 Jasmin it's time to cool down. (They exit.)
JAFFER: I think it's time to say goodbye to the prince
Abuba.

(Diss to JASMIN on her balcony at night. We bow and find
 ALADDIN and company in the inner courtyard.)

ALADDIN: What shall I do? Jasmina doesn't even let me
 I'm talking to her. I should have known it couldn't be enforced
 it is a foolish wish of a prince. (ABU fights with
 with his elephant paw to open a banana. He razdavlivaet
 that, and banana sprinkles in his eyes. He gives
 throws the banana peel a bunch
 the same.)
GHOST: (carpet, playing chess), So moving! (CARPET makes,
 they knock a black piece off the board.) Hey.
 That's a good move. (As Rodney Dangerfield) Me
 I can't believe it - I'm losing the carpet.
ALADDIN: Spirit, I need help.
GHOST: (as Jack Nicholson) Okay, Sparky, that's it
 agreement. You want him to take care of the little lady, you need him
 to be honest shooter, do you understand me?
ALADDIN: What?
GHOST: (Returns to normal, carries a board with an inscription. He points
 your words on the board) Tell her
...THE TRUTH!!!
ALADDIN: For nothing! If Jasmina were to find out that I am actually a species
 вшивая улика пацов, she would laugh at me. (He
 puts on his turban that glows like a GHOST.)
SPIRIT: A woman appreciates a man who can laugh at her!
 (ALADDIN pulls the chain, turn off the light.
 The GHOST exits, holding a real turban in his hands.) Al, all
 kidding aside, you really need to be alone.
ALADDIN: Hey, that's the last one, who do I want to be. OK,
 I'm going to go visit him. I have to be calm, unperturbed,
 safe. How do I look?
GHOST: (Sadly) Like a prince.

(ALADDIN flies up to the balcony on the CARPET. JASMINE lies on her bed,
 he sighs. RAJA next to her.)

ALADDIN: (from a distance) Princess Jasmine?

(RAJA looks up and growls.)

JASMIN: Who's there?
ALADDIN: It's me - Prince Ali. Khm... (Then he goes his own way
 deep voice) Prince Ali Ababwa.
JASMIN: I don't want to see you.
ALADDIN: no, no, please, princess. Give me a chance. (RAYA
 snarling and preparing for him.)
JAFFER: Just leave me alone.
ALADDIN: Lie down, kitten!

(From the edge of the balcony CARPET watches what is happening, along with GENIE at the bottom.)

GHOST: How's our twink doing?

(CARPET cut his throat with his finger)

ALADDIN: Good kitten, get out of here. I'm lying, kitten. (He removes
 his turban, to sweep away PARADISE.)
JASMINA: (She looks at him, thinking she saw
 and earlier.) Wait, wait. I know you?
ALADDIN: (Quickly puts on his turban) Uh-uh, no, no.
JASMIN: You remind me of someone I met at the market.
ALADDIN: In the market? (Bee buzzing overhead.)
 I have servants who follow me to the market.
 Why are there even servants who go to the market?
 after my servants, so you could not be with me
met.
JASMINA: (She looks disappointed.) No, I don't think so.
BI: (It's a GHOST) Enough about you, Casanova. Let's talk
 about her! She is smart, cheerful, hair, eyes.
 Whatever you want - choose your feature!
ALADDIN: Um, Princess Jasmine? You are very...
BI: Wonderful, glorious, great, accurate!
ALADDIN: Correct!
JASMIN: Correct?
BI: I'm sorry.
ALADDIN: All right.
BI: Have a nice recovery.
JASMINE: Hmm. You know, I'm rich too.
ALADDIN: Yes!
JASMINE: Daughter of the Sultan
ALADDIN: I know.
JASMINE: Nice reward for a prince in a wife.
ALADDIN: Uh, right. Exactly. Such a prince, as I am.
BI: (Buzzing in his ear) Attention! Attention!
JASMIN: Right, such a prince, like you. And all the other stuffed shirts,
 A swaggering peacock I met!
BI: (Rear on fire, goggles on and she knocked over) rope!
 Rope!
JASMIN: Just go jump off the balcony! (She turns and leaves)
ALADDIN: What?
BI: Stop him! Stop him! You want her to bite him?
ALADDIN: (Slaps each) Fuck you!
B: OK, great. But remember - are the bees themselves! (BEES buzzing in
 his turban)
ALADDIN: Yes, right!
JASMINA: What?!
ALADDIN: Uh, you're right. You are not just some prize, which should be
 conquer. (He looks disappointed.) You should be free
 make your choice. (JASMIN and RAJA look on
 at each other confused.) I will go now. (He
 goes out on the platform and sprygivaet.)
JASMINA: No!
ALADDIN: (Picks his head off the edge) What? What?
JASMINA: (Now struck) How do you... how do you do that?
 (She peeks over the edge and sees the CARPET.)
ALADDIN: It's a carpet-plane.
JASMIN: That's fine. (TEPIH takes JASMIN's hand
with a brush.)
ALADDIN: You're, uh, you don't want to ride, do you?
 We could have escaped from the palace, to see the world.
JASMIN: That's for sure?
ALADDIN: Of course. You trust me?
JASMINA: (She looks at him while saying this all-
 important phrases) What?
ALADDIN: (Holding out his hand just like before) you are the one who trusts
we?
JASMINA: (A smile appears on her face) Yes.

(She takes him by the hand and lifts him onto the CARPET. The picture shoots into the sky,
 both are in a sitting position. The music "A Whole
 New world". JASMINA looks back and sees that RAJA is looking at her
 it is questionable. She ahaet, when she will fly over the palace
 wall and rise to the sky.)

ALADDIN: I can show you the world
 Shining, sparkling, splendid.
 Tell me, princess, when was the last time you were there
 Let your heart decide?

(A CARPET flies through town, stopping lightly to thwart
 flower. He gives the flower to ALADDIN, who gives it to JASMINE.
 She laughs.)

 I can open my eyes
 You are guided by miracle after miracle
 Over, sideways and under
 On the carpet-plane


(THE CARPET does as he sings ALADDIN, then drifts off into the clouds.)

 A whole new world!
 A new fantastic point of view
 No one will tell us "no"
 Or where to go
 Or they will say that we are just a dream

(JASMIN looks back and sees how Agrabah disappears from sight. CARPET
 flies in the clouds and falls from them.)

JASMINE: a whole new world
 A dazzling place I never knew
 But when I'm high up here
 It's crystal clear
 Yes, now I am with you in a completely new world!

ALADDIN: Now I'm with you in a whole new world!

(Each of them catches a little cloud, when the CARPET continues its flight. That
 then around the cloud column, giving it the appearance of a vortex.)

JASMIN: Unbelievably kind
 An indescribable feeling
 Boy, kuvyrkanie, free spin
 In the endless diamond sky

(They join a flock of birds in the sky. One of them looks startled
 and the piercing screams. CARPET does flips, from time to time it causes
 ALADDIN and JASMINE in free fall, but catch them. Then they are
 взмывают above the clouds, where a starry night awaits them.)

JASMIN: a whole new world!
ALADDIN: don't you dare close your eyes
JASMIN: A hundred thousand things to see
ALADDIN:, hold your breath - it gets better!
JASMIN: I AM like a parachute,
 I have gone so far
 I can't go back to where I was before!

(They are almost to the river, apparently, to the Nile, because for sails
 ship see the Great Pyramids. They are waving a working koi
 sculpt the nose of the Sphinx completely. He laughs, but
 it hurts too much and otlamyvaet the front of the nose.)

ALADDIN: A Whole New World!
JASMIN: Every line is a surprise
ALADDIN: New horizons ahead
JASMINE: Every moment a red letter

(They fly past the fleeing wild horses. JASMINA pet one of them.)

BOTH: I will chase them nowhere
 We have free time
 Let me share this whole new world with you

 A whole new world
 That's where we're going to be

(They fly through Greece, where ALADDIN gets enough apples from the tree
 and skatyvaet him by the hand on JASMIN, who is now safe
 she's dealing with ALADDIN, not PRINCE ALI.)

ALADDIN: The Contagious Hunt
JASMINE: A wonderful place
BOTH: For you and me!

(A CARPET floats over the lake, and we see a reflection
 moon in the lake. Fireworks explode, and we can see a couple
 at the Chinese New Year celebration, sitting on the roof.)

JASMIN: it's all so magical.
ALADDIN: Yes.
JASMINA: (She looks at him and decides to snap)
 I'm sorry Abu had to miss this.
ALADDIN: No. He hates fireworks. (CARPET looks up
 realizing what's going on.) Actually, it's also very
 you want it to fly. (And now ALADDIN understands that)
 It's ... oh no!
JASMINA: (She pulls his turban off) you are the guy with
 on the market! That's how I knew it. Why did you lie to me?
ALADDIN: Jasmine, I'm sorry.
JASMIN: You thought I was stupid?
ALADDIN: No!
JASMINA: Why don't I understand this?
ALADDIN: No. I mean, I was hoping that I don't understand you. No, it's not like that
 I had it in mind.
JASMIN: Who are you? Tell me the truth!
ALADDIN: The truth? (He looks at CARPET, who waves his hand,
 losing hope.) The truth... the truth...I
 sometimes dress like a simpleton to avoid it
 the pressure of the palaces of life. (CARPET falls into the sign
 defeat.) But I truly a prince! (Pen on
 his turban falls on his eyes.)
JASMIN: Why didn't you just tell me?
Aladdin: Well, you know...compensation comes in
 masked city, this sounds a little strange,
 do not you think?
Jasmin: it's not strange.

(She throws the pen and presses it. TEPIH podkladyvaet
 watercolor under his "beard" and looks puzzled. It dissolves inside.
 palace balcony, from where ALADDIN and JASMINE return. CARPET
 forms stairs, and she descends. Then it descends to ALADDIN
 directly under the balcony.)

JASMINE: Good night, my prince.
ALADDIN: sleep well, princess.

(They slowly lean forward to kiss, but the CARPET pushes him, and they are
 kisses faster than expected. She slowly walks away, then turns and
 looks at him. Finally she enters her room through the curtains.)

ALADDIN: Yes! (He falls back onto the CARPET, which descends
 to the ground.) For the first time in my life,
 everything is starting to go right.

(He looks at the balcony JASMIN, and four pairs of hands grab him.)

ALADDIN: Hey! What? (Gag tied in mouth.
 In muffled words) Abu! Abu! (We see an elephant
 hanging on a net, tied to a tree.)
GUARD: Hold him!

(On his legs and hands don shackles. Another guard ties
 CARPET knotted around the tree.)

JAFFER: I'm afraid you've worn out your reception, Prince
 Abuba. (He leaves.) Make sure that he
 never found.

(A GUARD hits him on the head, and he falls unconscious. Cut to
 cliff, where the guards are laughing, when the body of ALADDIN falls into the water.
 Now he is in his head, but his feet are tied to the rock. Stone
 it hits the bottom of the sea, then the turban falls, and the lamp is thrown out
 outside. You can see it and he tries to rub the lamp with all his might. However, he is
 he loses consciousness and falls to the floor. A lamp, vybytaya iz oseleka
 his movement, sinks down and rubs against his arms. she shakes
 and appears GINNIE with a bath brush, rubber duck and soul whisperer)

GHOST: It never fails. Get in the tub and run there
 lamp. (Duck squeaks) Hello. (See
 ALADDIN unconscious) Al? Al! Boy, stop it!
 You can't cheat on that! I can't help you
 until you contaminate your desire. I should say to you, "Duh, it's me
 I wish you had saved my life". Got it? Good. Come on same
 Aladdin!! (He's ALADDIN enough for shoulders and
 shakes him. His head grows and then falls.) Me
 take that as a yes. (The head turns into a mermaid.)
 Vuga! Vuga! (Turns into a submarine.) Up
 sight! (He mumbles something that sounds like
 German. A huge water fountain appears on the surface
 and falls on top of a cliff. ALADDIN
 comes to himself and coughs up water from his lungs.)
 Don't push me like that!
ALADDIN: Duh, I'm... uh, I-uh-uh yeah...(He can't think of how to say
 that, therefore, they are only obnimayut each other.) Thank you, Spirit.
GHOST: Oh, Ć. You're kind of like I love you, baby. Not
 what I want you to choose curtains or something of that kind.

(In frame JASMINE in her room, hums "A Whole New World" and combs her hair
 your hair. The SULTAN appears in one of the double doors, mesmerized.)

SULTAN: Jasmine!
JASMINE: Oh, father, I'm just saying she had a wonderful time.
 I am so happy.
SULTAN: (still monotonous after hypnosis) You should be like that,
 Jasmine. I have chosen a husband for you.
JASMINA: What?
SULTAN: (Opens another door and JAFAR appears.) You will
 to marry Sadik.

(JASMINE aches in the form of him.)

JAFER: I see, you have lost the gift of speech. The quality is perfect for
wives.
JASMIN: I will never marry you. (Goes towards the SULTAN)
 Father, I choose Prince Ali!
JAFFER: Prince Ali is gone!

(A quick scan shows ALADDIN standing in the doorway to the balcony.)

ALADDIN: Better check your crystal ball one more time, Jafar!
JASMINE: Prince Ali!

(JAFFER ahaets in the form of ALADDIN.)

ЯGO: How the hell, he's... (repeats the parrot-ése) -uh-uh, damn it!
ALADDIN: Tell them the truth, Jafar! You tried to make me...
to kill.
JAFFER: What? (He walks towards the SULTAN) Funny
 nonsense, your highness. He is clearly lying to her.
 (He brings the stick close to the face of the SULTAN.)
SULTAN: It's obviously...a lie.

(ALADDIN looks at the staff with burning eyes.)

JASMINE: Father, what's wrong with you?
ALADDIN: I know!

(ALADDIN enough stick and breaks it on the floor. JAFFER vzdragivaet
 and they are madly destroyed forever.)

SULTAN: Oh, oh, oh, my God!
ALADDIN: Your highness, Jafar follows you through
 that! (He holds a stick)
SULTAN: What? Jaffer? You are, you are a traitor!

(The three are preparing for SADIKA.)

JAFFER: Your majesty, all this can be explained.
SULTAN: Personal Guard! Personal guard!
ЯGO: Well, that's all - we're dead, forget all about it. Only
 dig a grave for us both. We are dead.

(But JAFFER sees the lamp in ALADDIN's pocket. He makes a move, but
 his sufficient security.)

SULTAN: Arrest Sadik immediately.
JAFFER: It's not done yet, boy!

(JAFER pulls a vial from his pocket. ALADDIN sees it and rushes towards him.
 he is, but JAFFER throws a balloon on the floor.) A large red cloud appears
 . When that disappears, so does JAFAR.)

SULTAN: Find him, they are looking for him everywhere!
ALADDIN: Jasmine, are you all right?
JASMINE: Yes.

(They bend to kiss, but the SULTAN stands between them.)

SULTAN: Jafar, my most trusted advisor, is plotting against
 me all this time. Just awful. As I have ever…
 (He stops mid-bid and looks at the couple.)
 Could it be true? My daughter finally chose for herself
 a fan? (She nods her head) Ha, ha! Glory be to Allah! You
 beautiful boy, i could kiss you! I will... I
 I'll give it's mine .... You two get married now!
 Yes. And you will be happy and prosperous, and
 then, my boy, you will be sultana!
ALADDIN: Sultan?
SULTAN: Yes, such a wonderfully honest young man, like you,
 a man with his impeccable moral appearance - that's it
 that's what this kingdom needs! (ALADDIN appears
 don't mind this.)

(Go to the main. from SADIKA's room. JAFAR and YAGO enter.)

ЯGO: We need to get out of here! We need I need...
 to start collecting things, your highness. Only the most necessary.
 (ÂGO starts throwing things from their cell.
 JAFFER smiles widely.) Travel bright! Bring it
 guns, guns, knives (Stops and gets
 your photo with JAFAR) and how about if
 these photos? I don't know ... it seems to me, I have and it is gained
 strange facial expression. (JAFFER begins to laugh wildly.)
 Oh god, he's out of his mind. He's a nutty. (ЯГО
 flies towards him and taps his head.) Jafar?
 Jaffer? Pull yourself together, Jaffer! (JAFER enough for
 neck) Hold tight!
JAFFER: Prince Ali - no more than a ragged boy
 Aladdin. He's a lamp, Yago.
YAGO: Why is this poor--
JAFER: But you will take it away from her!
YAGO: Me?

(Cuts from the palace. ALADDIN looks at the gardens.)

ALADDIN: Sultan? They want me to be sultan?

(THE GHOST comes out of the lamp)

Ghost: Hooray! Glory to the heroes-winners! (Converts to
 man-orchestra. He sees Aladdin run away with his
 hung his head. He stops, scratches the back of his head, comes to
 with an idea, then approaches ALADDIN. He picks up
 hands, like a director evaluating a picture, and
 we look through them.) Aladdin, you just won it
 the heart of the princess. What are you going to do
 next? (ALADDIN looks at him, then leaves in mourning
 to the bed, where he falls on top of her and sighs.
 GHOST confused again, then answers it and gets it
 script with the inscription "Aladdin". Whisper: )
 Shh, your "I'm going to get rid of the ghost" line.
 At any time.
ALADDIN: Duh...I can't.
GHOST: Of course you can. You just say, "Duh, I want you
 freedom". (He has enough head of ALADDIN and uses
 as the layout of the intestines. ALADDIN is removed.)
ALADDIN: I AM serious. Listen to me I'm sorry I'm really sorry. But
 they want to sultana me - no!, they want to do
 Prince Ali Sultan. Without you I'm just Aladdin.
GHOST: Well, you won!
ALADDIN: Thanks to you! The only reason anyone thinks I am like that.
 Whatever you want, it's because of you. Yes, if they study
 I really not a prince? (Quietly) Yes, if
 Is Jasmina studying? I lose her. Duh, I can't
 continue to do it yourself. I cannot wish you freedom.
GHOST: (Sarcastic) Hey, I understand. In the end,
 you lied to everyone else. Hey, I started to
 they feel separated. And now, if you'll excuse me,
 teacher. (He utters the last word with disgust, then
 it falls back into the lamp.)

(EBU and TEPIH watch from the window.)

Ebu: Oooooh.
Aladdin: Duh, I'm sorry. (Language comes in
 nose and raspberries with it.) Well, good. (He throws
 pillow on the lamp.) Then just stay in
 exists! (He looks at Eba and the carpet.) Yes you are
 Guys, look? (Both leave.) Listen, I-I
 Unfortunately. Wait, Abu... wait... Sorry, I don't...
 wait, yeah, okay. (He sighs.) What should I do?
 Ginny's right - I have to tell Jasmina the truth.
JASMINA: (from a distance) But, oh But, you're going to come here?
ALADDIN: (Wearing turban) Well, that's all. (He is going
 in the garden.) Jasmine? Where are you?

(We see ЯGO with a beak and standing on stilts next to the flamingo
 into the pond. He imitates JASMINE's voice.)

ЯGO: Hmm... To the animal house, hurry up.
ALADDIN: I'm going.

(We see, as ALADIN rushes past, not noticing the bird. ЯGO laughs,
 then he turns and looks into the face of FLAMINGO, who
 breathing heavily.)

FLAMINGO: Wow!
ЯGO: Got a problem, pinkie? (He knocks down the bird
 Crow. ЯGO rushes to the palace
 and finds a lamp under the pillow.) God, Jaffer
 it will be nice to see you! (Pulls his face
 like SADIKA and imitating him.) Good job, Yago!
 (Okay) But, come on. (JAFER) No, it's true - on the level
 from one to ten you are the eleventh! (Okay) Oh,
 Jaffer - you are too good. I'm confused, I am
 red. (He flies away with the lamp.)

(Cut to the entrance of the palace. The Sultan, standing at the top, which he does
 ad with people.)

Sultan: the people of Agraba, My daughter, have finally chosen
groom!

(Frame behind the curtain, where JASMINA is looking. ALADDIN
 appears at the foot of the stairs.)

ALADDIN: Jasmine?
JASMIN: But where have you been?
Aladdin: I have something to tell you.
Jasmin: all Britain turned out to be for the father
ad!
Aladdin: no! But Jasmin, listen to me, please!
JASMINE: Good luck! (She pushes him onto the platform
 together with SULTAN, from where the whole can be seen
audience.)
SULTAN: ...But Ababwa!
ALADDIN: Oh god!

(Far above YAGO and JAFFER watch through the window.)

ЯGO: Look at them, cheering on this little squeaker.
JAFER: Let them cheer.

 (He raises the lamp and chases him away. THE GHOST exits.)

GHOST: You know, Ć, I'll start (he turns and sees SADIKA)
 actually... I don't think you are - that's it. (He
 comes down and compares with the poster.) Tonight
 the role of Al will be played by tall, temnovolosyj and
 a sinisterly ugly man.
JAFER: Now I am your master. (He casts the GHOST on
 the ground and puts his foot on the face of the SPIRIT.)
GHOST: I was afraid of that.
JAFFER: Spirit, my first wish granted. I want to rule on
 height, like a sultan!!!

(Cuts to the end, where dark clouds surround the castle. The castle shakes.
 The roof of the break, and SULTAN and ALADDIN I fold.)

ALADDIN: Wow!
SULTAN: Bless my soul. What is this? What happens?

(His turban separates from his head. When it is enough to him, his whole body
 they flew up, then took off all his clothes, next to his boxers
 shorts. The clothes reappear on Jafar.)

JAFFER: He-he-he!
SULTAN: Jafar, you are a vile traitor.
ЯGO: For you, Sultan Vile is a traitor.
ALADDIN: Oh, yes? Well, that remains to be seen! (Takes off
 his turban, but discovers that it is empty) Lamp!
JAFFER: They're looking for guards, Abubu.

(Both look up and see, as a giant SPIRIT raises the court in
 clouds.. ALADDIN whistles, and the carpet flies, to greet him.
 They fly past the head of the GHOST.)

ALADDIN: Ghost! Not!
GHOST: I'm sorry, child - I have a new owner now. (He puts
 a palace on top of a mountain.)
SULTAN: Jafar, I command you to stop!
JAFFER: Now a new account - my account! In the end, you are
 you bow to me!

(SULTAN bows, but JASMINE is gone.)

JAFFER: We will never bow down to you!
ЯGO: Why am I not surprised?
JAFER: If you don't bow down to the sultan, then you are
 ъежишься пре колдуном! (To Jinn) Spirit, my
 second wish - I want him to be the most powerful
 wizard in the world!

(THE GHOST pulls his finger. ALADDIN tries to stop him, but it doesn't work for him
 and SADIKA was struck by lightning from another brand, GENIE (tm),
 he is restored to his ordinary appearance.)

ЯGO: Ladies and gentlemen, a warm welcome to Agrabah for
 Wizard Sadika!
JAFFER: So where did we stop? Ah yes - terrible humiliation!
 (He affects JASMIN and SULTAN with his staff, and
 both bow to him. RAJA so it works worse on him.
 He affects PARADISE, and turns the tiger into a cat-
 to the cat.) Get down, boy! Oh, princess... (raises her chin
 with my staff)... there is something that I was dying to be with
 submit.
ALADDIN: (backstage) Jaffer! Take your hands off her!

(JAFER defeats ALADDIN. CARPET flies away.)

JAFFER: Prince Ali
 yes that's him
 But it's not like that, as you know it.
 Let's remind, according to my lips and humble yourself
 With reality

(JAFFER brings them in the air.)

 Yes, meet a wonderful character from your past
 Whose lie is too good to last long
 Say hello to your noble Prince Ali!

(JAFFER returns ALI to ALADDIN.)

ÂGO: Or should we say Aladdin?
ALADDIN: Jasmine, I tried to tell you.

JAFFER: Yes, but it turns out that only Aladdin
 Just a scam, continue?
 Trust me
 Flaws in his personality
 Call me an adequate cause
 Send him on his way to one end
 So his perspective finally collapsed
 His assets frozen, venue chosen
 It's the end of the world, hooray!
 While,
ЯGO: goodbye, see you!
JAFFER: Prince Ali's ex!

(JAFFER returns ABU to a normal life. He sends them away in twos
 a large column, then launches its own, like a rocket, but not before
 CARPET can go inside. F2B, then we see a snowy wasteland, where
 the pole falls and rolls. Finally he stops.
 It reveals ALADDIN, apparently very frozen.)

ALADDIN: Abu? Abu! (He looks back at the trembling crowd
 snow.) Oh, it's all my fault - I had to
 release the spirit, when I had the chance. (He takes out
 EBU and hangs him in his waistcoat.) Abu!
 Are you okay? Sorry, Abu - I kind of messed everything up.
 all. I have to go back and organize
 all the way to the place. (He begins to walk in the snow,
 and ends up on a frozen CARPET.)
 Carpet! (He raises his eyes and sees that the CARPET is pressed
 pillar He pulls, trying to free himself from the CARPET. He
 does not fall out, therefore, he begins to brush the snow with
 base of the column.) Abu, start digging! That
 that! (Finally, enough snow was removed, and
 column starts fifth. ALADDIN escapes,
 he looks back, then puts himself in his place. Column
 perekatyvaetsya through him, and when she disappears, ALADIN and
 ABU remain sitting on the stretch of snow, abandoned
 column window.) Yes! Everything is fine! (He
 he looks up at his turban, made of perepugannogo EBU.
 CARPET shakes out the snow and rushes to pick it up
 them.) And now let's go back to Agraba! Drove!

(We are cutting to the end. a long shot of Agraby, shrouded in red clouds.
 Cutting to the end. and the slow increase of the throne hall. SULTAN of Yago
 tied up, like a marionette, and JASMIN pinned next to it
throne.)

ЯGO: Puppet ruler, do you want a cracker? That's your cracker.
 Shove them all right down your throat. Here, take it
more!

(JAFFER pulls on the chain, and JASMINE answers him with an apple in her hand.)

JAFER: Leave him alone!

(ÂGO pauses for a moment, then continues.)

JAFER: It hurts me to see how you came to such a conclusion, Jasmina.
 (He tastes the apple she is holding.)
 Such a lovely Desert Flower, as it should be
 on the arm of the most powerful person in the world.
 (He waves his finger, and the crown appears.) What should I do?
 you say, my dear? Why, when you're my queen...

(She raises a glass of wine and throws it in his face.)

JASMINE: Never!
JAFFER: I will teach you respect! (She withdraws, when she is
 he raises his hand to slap her. Then he stops.) No.
 Duh, I decided to make my last wish. Me
 I want Princess Jasmin desperately to fall in love
 at me.

(We see, Aladdin races back to the city.)

Spirit: (Again, as Buckley) Ah, master, - there are several
 addendas, then in return-
JAFFER: don't you dare to talk to me, you stupid blue jerk! You
 you will do what I will to you, slave!

(JASMIN raises her eyes and sees ALADDIN in the window, which gesture asks her
play along.)

JASMINA: (She gets up and puts the crown on her head.)
 Jaffer! I never realize how amazing you are
pretty.

(JINN's jaw hangs open.)

JAFFER: That's better. (He raises the jaws of the SPIRIT, as
 shadow.) And now, cat, tell me more
 about me.
JASMIN: You are tall, well dressed...

(JAFER suitable for her. ALADDIN sprygivaet with ABU and JINN
 see them.)

GHOST: Al! Al, mate!
ALADDIN: Peace!
GHOST: (Literally closes his mouth, then unzips it.)
 Well, I can't help you - I work for a psycho seigneur,
 now. (His head turns to JAFAR, then back.)
ALADDIN: Hey, I'm a street rat, remember? (He closes the GENIE
 mouth.) I will improvise.

(Soskalzyvaet from the hill of money and hides it nearby JAFAROM and JASMINE.
 JAFFER stands with his back to ALADDIN.)

JAFFER: Come on.
JASMIN: And your beard... is like that... perverse! (She hugs him with hers
 hands. She pretends to turn her back
 finger, but, in fact, it is a gesture of calling ALADDIN
 approach. He makes his move. ЯGO sees him.)

YAGO: Jaf...mmmmmm! (ABU enough to shut him up.)
JAFER: And the street rat?
JASMINA: What is rat street?

(They will kiss when YAGO manages to knock over the bowl. JAFAR
 turns to see, but JASMIN answers enough and kisses him. ALADDIN
 looks on with disgust. ÂGO and ABU both look disgusted.)

EBU: Phew!
JAFFER: It's... (he sees a reflection in her ALADDIN
 crowns.) You are!! How many times have I
 to kill you, boy?

 (He met Aladdin. Jasmine tore at him, and he throws him at
 country. ALADDIN hurry and stick enough.)

ALADDIN: Bring the lamp!

(JASMIN so works up on him. JAFAR, however, shakes out ALADDIN, then
 enters the hourglass.)

JAFFER: Ah, ah, ah, princess, your time has come!

(Sand begins to fall on him from above.)

ALADDIN: Jasmine!
YAGO: Oh, great shot, Jaf... (ABU knocks him out.)

(ABU runs after the lamp.)

JAFFER: Don't play with me! (He turns into that monkey.
ALADDIN: Abu!


(CARPET breaks in.)

JAFER: Now everything is fast rasputyvaetsya, boy. (CARPET
 explodes and dissolves. ALADDIN grabs again
 with a lamp.) Got the gist? (His path is blocked
 great swords, stuck on the floor. JAFFER enough
 lamp and hideous laughter. ALADDIN takes out
 sword from the floor.) I'm just warming up
 ! (He blows the ring around ALADDIN.)
ALADDIN: You're afraid to fight me alone, you coward
snake?
JAFFER: I AM a snake, right? Maybe you wanted to see how
 zmeepodobnym I can be! (He's smiling broadly, and so are we
 let's see how the snake's tongue sticks out because of its teeth.
 teeth. Then, he turns into a huge cobra, and
 the ring around ALADDIN becomes a part
 snakes, living ALADDIN. A snake, created by JAFAR
 starts on ALADDIN, and on the third try ALADDIN
 raises his sword and strikes SADIK. Switch to GENIE
 support group girls in "A" sweaters.)

SPIRIT: Rake, rock, rock, rake - stick this sword in
 this snake!
JAFFER: You stay out of it!

(THE GHOST waves a small flag with the letter "J" on it.)

GHOST: (Weakly) Jaffer, Jaffer, he's our man - if he can't do,
PERFECT!

(ALADIN uses one red herring, to break through to the sand border, where
 JASMINA captured. However, JAFER sees it and blocks the way.
 ALADDIN thrown away, and he loses his sword.)

JASMINE: Aladdin!

(ALADDIN jumps onto a large stone and slides across the floor, catching
 sword on the road. He turns the corner, but is carried out by a snake
 he can't, and the front half of SADIK breaks through the wall and
 hangs outside the palace. ALADDIN jumps on the snake's back
 and pierces it. JAFFER screams in agony. ALADDIN tries again
 free the princess.)

ALADDIN: Hold on, Jasmine!

(He is about to strike the glass with his sword, when JAFFER misses.)

JAFFER: (obnoxious laugh) You little fool! You thought
 You could conquer the most powerful creature on earth!
YAGO: (with GINI, conveniently behind him) Squeeze him,
 Jaffer ... Squeeze him, how can...wow! (The GHOST elbows him
 out of the way)
JAFFER: Without spirit, boy, you are nothing!
ALADDIN: (He has an idea) Duh! Ghost! Ghost
 It has more power than you will ever have!
JAFER: What?!
ALADDIN: He gave you his power, she can take it away!
GHOST: Well, what are you doing? Why are you pulling me?
 into that?
ALADDIN: Admit it, Jafar - you're still only second in power!
JAFER: You are right! His strength is truly beyond her own! But
not for long!

(JAFFER circle the GHOST.)

GHOST: The guy is crazy. He's a little drunk on the toddy. One
 too many snake strikes (His hand
 turns into a snake, and he beats it on the head).
JAFER: Servant, I'm polluting my third wish! I want to be almighty
ghost!
GHOST: (reluctantly) Okay, your wish is my law.
 So, Ć.

(SPIRIT affects the SADIKA of the last branded lightning GENIE (tm).
 The serpent destroys the form of SADIKA, and he turns into a ghost. We
 we see how JASMINA's raised hand disappears under the sand. ALADDIN
 so he works up and finally breaks the glass. Sand and the princess
vysypayutsya.)

JAFFER: Yes! Yes! Power! Absolute power!
JASMINE: (to ALADDIN) What did you do?
ALADDIN: Trust me!

(A black lamp appears at the base of SADIKA. JAFFER engaged in witchcraft.)

JAFFER: The universe belongs to me, to command, to control!
ALADDIN: Not so fast, Jafar! You don't forget anything?
 (JAFER looks down at her questioningly) you wanted to be a jinn, you are
 he got! And everything that is on this attachment!

(Shackles appear on SADIKA's wrists.)

JAFFER: No! Not!
ЯGO: I'm leaving here! Come on, you're a ghost, I don't want to
 (Yago tries to fly away, but he's fucked along with JAFAR.) Yago: I'm out of here!--

Come on, you're a ghost, I don't want to.)

ALADDIN: Phenomenal Cosmic Force! Small living space.
GHOST: Well, you're a little genius, you are!

(ABU returns to normal state, CARPET again than finally stretches, JASMIN, SULTAN
 and RAJA stand together. RAJA jumps into the embrace
 SULTAN, then they all transform, all the lights. Sultan broken
 because of the weight of the new paradise. The palace appears again
 there, where he was in the city before. ALADDIN stays with
 new with lamp in hand.)

JAFFER: (Both inside the lamp.) Pick your damn beak
 away from my face!
ЯGO: OH, shut up, dumbass!
JAFFER: don't tell me to shut up!
GHOST: Let me go. (Takes the lamp and goes out
 balcony. Now wearing a baseball cap. He
 do this, as if to throw the lamp, but reveals
 palm and with a click throws it into the desert
 with a finger.) Ten thousand years in a cave
 miracles should cool him down!

(JAFAR and Яgo continue to argue, when they disappear. JASMINA answers
 on ALADDIN. They are holding hands, but both look sad.)

Aladdin: Jasmin, I'm sorry, I told you about it, that in
prince
Jasmin: I know, why did you do that.
Aladdin: Well, I mean...that...goodbye? (GINI raises his head
 around the corner, shocked by what he is
hears.)
JASMIN: Oh, this stupid law. That's not fair - I love you.
GINNIE: (Wiping away tears) No problem. You still have it
 one wish left. Just say the word, and you're back
prince.
ALADDIN: But Spirit, how about your freedom?
GHOST: Hey, it's just an eternity of slavery. That
 love. (He leans in next to her.) Well, you are
 you won't find another girl like her for a million
 year. Trust me, I know. I was in search.
ALADDIN: Jasmine, I really love you, but it has to stop
 meanwhile pretending to be someone I'm not.
JASMIN: I understand.

(They look into each other's eyes for the last time, then ALADDIN turns
 on the GENIE.)

ALADDIN: Spirit, I wish you freedom.
SPIRIT: A true race of princes will soon appear. I - what?
ALADDIN: (He holds the lamp to the GENIE.) Spirit, it is you
free!

(Then follows the transformation scene, in which the shackles fall off
 From GINI's wrist, the lamp falls to the ground uselessly.
 GINNIE picks it up and thinks.)

GHOST: (can't believe it.) Heh, heh! I am free. Me
 free. (Holds lamp to ALADDIN.) Quick,
 quickly wants something upsetting. Say: "I want to
 Nila". Wish Nila. Try this!
Aladdin: I want Neal.
Jean: no!! (Laughs hysterically. He averts his eye
 balcony, like a pinball machine.) Oh this feeling
 Okay! I am free! I'm finally free! Я отправляюсь на пут
 on the road. I'm off to see the world! I--

(He collects the suitcase, but looks down and sees that it looks like ALADDIN
 very sad.)

ALADDIN: Spirit, I... you'll miss me.
SPIRIT: I AM, too, Ć. So who would say yes, you are
 you will always be a prince to me.

(They embrace. The Sultan takes a step forward.)

Sultan: Correct. You just
 as far as I can tell. That is the law, which is in
issue.
Jasmin: father?
SULTAN: Well, am I a sultan or am I a sultana? Since that day
 then the princess must marry who she thinks he is
worthy.
JASMINE: (She smiles widely and runs into the arms of ALADDIN.)
 He! I choose...I choose you, Aladdin.
ALADDIN: Ha, ha. They call me El.

(They are about to kiss when giant blue hands pull them all together.
 A GHOST dressed in a Hawaiian shirt, golf clubs and funny
a hat.)

GHOST: Oh, all of you. Come here. A tight friendly hug!
 Do you mind if I kiss the monkey? (He kisses EBU.) Oh,
 ball of wool! Well, I can no longer do harm about
 these ice cream coasters. I'm getting out of here! until, until
 you two crazy pigeons. Hey Rugman: bye! I -
 history! No, I - mythology! No, I'm not interested
 who am i - i am free!

(The GHOST flies into the blue sky, leaving a trail of sparks behind
 behind yourself. They are reduced (reduces jump, to make matters worse)
 on fireworks, exploding over the night landscape. We bow down and see
 ALADDIN and JASMINE fly on the carpet.)

ALADDIN: A Whole New World
JASMIN: A whole new life
BOTH: (with backstage chorus) For you and me!
MEN'S CHOIR: A whole new world!

(They fly away in the moonlight, and afterwards, as they disappear,
 the moon turns and shows the smiling face of the SPIRIT. Suddenly
 the film takes "out of the projector", the SPIRIT raises hers
 and looks at the audience.)

GHOST: Made me see you!

(Reverts film to normal, with normal moon. Fade to black.
The end.)




 
