
Jafar lusting after Jasmine 

Near the beginning, Iago suggests that Jafar should marry Jasmine so he can become sultan. After that, they can push the current sultan and Jasmine off a cliff. Jafar seems to consider this a very good idea, with no qualms about the messy ending bit. At no point is it ever indicated that he feels any particular desire for Jasmine herself. Say what you will about him, but lechery never seemed to be one of his character flaws. Yet, in the end, he traps Jasmine in Go-Go Enslavement and tries to get the genie to make her fall in love with him - despite the fact that he's now already sultan by virtue of his first wish.
It's probably because he hadn't become an all-powerful sorcerer yet and it's implied that the only reason he didn't hypnotize her into embracing him is because he knows she's strong-willed unlike her father. But when he got power, he initially only made Jasmine his slave as a gesture of cruel irony (because she boasted earlier in the film that she will one day be powerful enough to dismiss him). However, he gave her ultimate fate some thought and realized just how beautiful she is and changed his mind (as shown by him turning her chains into a tiara) as he wanted all the pleasure he could get from her.
I always chalked that up less to lechery and more to simple sadism, since there weren't any puppies available for kicking. He had pretty much everything he wanted at that point. Wouldn't have put it past him to just get a good laugh out of Jasmine fawning over him (and the Sultan having to suffer through it), and pushing them both off a cliff afterward.
Exactly, it was more about making her his servant. And, if you look around, that's apparently what servant girls wore around there.
And she's The Hero's girl, which he didn't know at the time he made the plan to throw her off a cliff. Getting her would just be another way of telling his ego "I beat Aladdin".
Well it was Iago's idea to throw Jasmine off a cliff and not Jafar's.
Somebody else stated below that Jafar probably also just wanted to torment the Genie, since he knows that the Genie is a Shipper on Deck for Aladdin and Jasmine.
In the remake, he doesn't show any attraction toward Jasmine until the end; his desire when marrying her is to torment her father in revenge for him constantly reminding Jafar of his subordinate position.
Presumably, Jafar knew her for a long time, possibly since birth, so his mental image of her for the past decade and a half was "literal child", and that he personally didn't get along with her kept his creeper instincts latent. But between Iago's suggestion turning on a "hey she's a young woman" lightbulb, and the rush he's getting from being all-powerful, he's probably developed some new lusts.

Isn't Jafar still the Sultan? 

Unless imprisoning him in the lamp counts as overthrowing the government, Jafar is still the legitimate ruler of Agrabah, having used his first wish to become Sultan.
Well—maybe he's "really" the ruler, but does anyone care? After all, rulers don't just get their power from nowhere—they get it from people (including the military and police) doing what they say. So if he's the ruler, but nobody acknowledges it, does it matter?
Having a genie as the head of state in any city doesn't seem like a really good idea, does it? What with the servitude, the tendency to be buried in lamps for centuries, etc... probably a rule or two against that. Genies serve humans, not the other way around, hence no genie sultans.
Is he, though? The fact that he's no longer a free being probably trumps his 'right' to the throne.
Jafar wished to become Sultan, and he did. He never said anything about how long. So the people get together, have themselves a revolution, and overthrow Sultan Jafar, who's conveniently stuck in the lamp and unable to defend his throne. May they'll try him as an absentee for crimes against the people and strip him of his title, or whatever. Or the court will declare him effectively deceased, since as a Genie he's no longer human, and proceed to crown his "successor", the former Sultan, Sultan again.
I might remember wrong but all that genie did was move the palace outside the city and did something to the sultan so Jafar could take his place. It left it a little vague how "legal" this actually was. If he could have made him the legal sultan, what was with all that capturing the palace and all?
A severe lack of ontological inertia. Also, genies probably can't grant wishes to other genies, so when Jafar became a genie, his wishes became null and void.

Ruling on high! 

How did Jafar get Genie to move the palace to the top of the mountain in the film? He's never seen wishing for that to happen, and he gets three other wishes.
The Genie may not have been a Literal Genie, but Jafar certainly seemed to enjoy literalism—witness his Hurricane of Puns during the final confrontation. Therefore since the exact words of his first wish were "I wish to rule on high as Sultan!", and his innermost desires were to make this become literal, the Genie was compelled to pick up the palace and place it on a mountain. QED.

Jafar's nearly-wasted wish 

Anyone want to explain why Jafar tried to bother with his third wish to hypnotize Jasmine when he had a perfectly good hypnotizing snake staff in his hand at the time? He'd have probably won right then and there had he simply raised it up and forced her into eye contact with it.
If you're talking about the last scene when he's got her dressed in her flattering red outfit, didn't Aladdin smash the thing several scenes ago? Since he's an all-powerful sorcerer, I guess the better question would be why didn't he just conjure up a new hypnotizing wand? Or simply zap her? Jafar was on a psycho-mad-with-power high at this point, so it's not likely he'd be thinking things through too clearly.
Well, he DOES create a new one right before his big Villain Song, but perhaps the hypnosis effects are only temporary (he seems to have to re-zap the Sultan several times in the movie) and he wants the Genie to finalize it.
I always interpreted it as Jasmine being too strong-willed and temperamental to be hypnotized in that way. The Sultan, while he does have his Crouching Moron, Hidden Badass moments, is for the most part weak-minded and easily manipulated (not to mention, he trusts Jafar for the majority of the movie, while Jasmine openly despises him), and as such, the Sultan is easily controlled while Jasmine wouldn't be.
All moot points considering by that time Jafar was the most powerful sorcerer in the world and had spells of every type of power level and for every occasion (we saw him conjure objects out of nothing and transport a tower across the world; the guy was already all-powerful). I assumed that not only could he cast the same mind-control spells, but they would be more diversified and greatly enhanced. He could indeed have simply cast a permanent love spell on Jasmine (or in the very least a permanent lust spell) powerful enough to overcome even her strong will, and he wouldn't have had to waste a wish.
Perhaps, until that moment, he had just contented himself with having her chained, thinking that soon she would surrender, as he believed that he had managed to kill Aladdin. However, one or two days after, which is when Aladdin manages to get back when he forces Jasmine to take the apple and raise it so that he can eat it without moving much, he realizes that, even as he holds the chain, she will always be the same rebellious girl, the one who is in love with Aladdin. Thus, he decides to take the last shred of her will and make her fall completely in love with him, and how to do it better than to use his last wish to force the Genie to do this? Besides, it is another way to humiliate Genie, because he knows he likes Aladdin and Jasmine, and them together, and forcing Jasmine to fall in love with Jafar would be another way to twist the knife.
Or perhaps it's impossible to force people to fall in love with any kind of magic—the inherent power of true love fits a Disney film. Jafar just forgets or doesn't know that genie magic can't make people fall in love any more than sorcerer magic, or he thinks Genie just wasn't normally willing to make people fall in love.
Another thing to keep in mind is that while the staff Aladdin broke had the Hypno-power, we have no proof the replacement staff has it too—what we see Jafar do with it is literally puppetmaster and compel the Sultan and Jasmine, not hypnotize them. They still have their own will, it's just their bodies won't obey them. And I would imagine that, once he decided he wanted to make Jasmine his, Jafar would want her to do it of her own free will, not because he hypnotized or compelled her. Yes, making her love with him a wish isn't free will, but at the same time if the wish changed her will so that she'd love him, that would be more delicious to him than the compulsion...especially if behind the facade of 'love' she were screaming forever.
It's a control thing. He could hypnotize Jasmine into being his servant but he would know she was only under a spell and that her true feelings for Aladdin would be underneath. But for wishing her to fall in love with him, if Genie had been able to do so then effectively reality would have been altered to make Jasmine love him. Pretty much the difference between creating an illusion of gold and actually owning some.

Love loophole 

Genies cannot make people fall in love. No argument there, love is the most powerful force there is. Far too powerful for any magic to affect. But is that only the case with TRUE love? Couldn't Genie theoretically BRAINWASH someone into THINKING or ACTING like they're in love? Sure that would be too despicable for THIS genie to WANT to do, but I'm just curious.
He doesn't seem to be able to alter the mind at all. For example, when he made Aladdin a prince, he just gave him the appearance and entourage of one - and people's minds weren't warped into thinking he was one. Likewise, Jafar did become the Sultan, but Genie couldn't trick them into worshipping him as one. Maybe if the Genie was particularly devious, they could conjure up a potion or a magical object that would do so as long as it was drunk/worn.

Sorcery 

Was Jafar a sorcerer of lesser power before his second wish? Or did he just possess intimate knowledge of how to use or build mystical objects (his staff, the storm machine, the ancient version of google that told him that Aladdin was the diamond in the rough, the vial of smoke that allowed him to ninja escape)?
I think he was just your everyday sorcerer who could only do "little" pieces of magic like hypnotize people, but until he got his second wish he couldn't do "big" things like, say, launch a tower into the Arctic. At least that's what I always assumed.
All magic he did before the second wish seemed to be performed with various trinkets, like his staff, the golden beetle from Gazeem, and Sultan's family ring. After the wish, he gains the power to do magic on his own. He's basically an alchemist before the second wish.
Before the second wish, all he has is knowledge. It's his staff that's magic - and that seems to be restricted to hypnotism. So the second wish basically just cuts out the middleman.

Screwing Jafar out of his wishes 

Obviously Genie had a vested interest in not being a literal/asshole Genie to Aladdin, but when Jafar became his master... he was clearly not enjoying serving Jafar, so why not 'misinterpret his wishes' a little bit? For his first wish (rule on high as Sultan) you could make him Sultan of a tiny patch of desert land or somewhere on the other side of the planet. The second wish (the most powerful sorcerer in the world) just makes every other sorcerer in the world powerless and gives Jafar a tiny bit of power. There's some room here for misinterpretation.
He's just not that type of genie.
Seeing how Aladdin was able to outsmart him into facilitating his escape from the Cave of Wonders for free, I'd say it's more likely that the Genie simply didn't think of it. In the second movie, Jafar had no compunctions about subverting Abis Mal's wishes (when Abis Mal wished for a legendary sunken treasure, he teleported him underwater and made him waste a second wish to escape); nothing was stopping Genie from doing the same but his own imagination.
Genie might have been afraid of the repercussions and what Jafar may do to Aladdin, Jasmine, or anyone else if he doesn't go along with him. Even if he doesn't have much in the way of magic, he still has some connections and could make life very difficult for them.
Maybe he actually did? With the first wish anyway. Jafar wishes to rule on high as sultan, so Genie just literally moves the palace high up and gives Jafar the sultan's clothes. Perhaps he could have Mind Raped all of Agrabah into worshiping Jafar as sultan but he tried to be as literal as possible. With the second wish, Jafar was very specific so there wasn't much Genie could have done there.
The remake plays up the potential for the Genie to be more interpretive when it comes to granting wishes, and the first two Jafar makes are actually worded differently to compensate for this — his first is "I wish to become sultan of Agrabah" as opposed to "I wish to rule on high as sultan!", and his second is "I wish to become the most powerful sorcerer there is," rather than "most powerful sorcerer in the world." It's his third wish that's vague and ambiguous enough for Genie to screw him over, as he just wishes to be "the most powerful being in the universe" rather than wishing himself specifically into a genie.

Jasmine using the lamp 

if you don't need to wait for someone to make all their wishes, and whoever is holding the lamp is its master..why didn't Jasmine just grab it when she was all chained up? She was standing right next to it, so she could have reached for the next apple, grabbed the lamp, and before Jafar says anything, shout really loudly something like... "I wish Jafar had no powers?" or, "I wish Jafar was a daisy?" or something like that.
That wouldn't have done anything. Jasmine would have had to rub the lamp and summon Genie first. Only Jasmine doesn't know how to use the lamp, because (obviously) Aladdin didn't make any wishes in front of her, and the only wishes Jafar did in front of her were after he had already summoned the Genie (and so didn't do the lamp-rubbing part).
I just have to say I am now completely overwhelmed with laughter at the image you just put in my head: the dancing flowers from the Silly Symphonies Springtime short (as seen in 101 Dalmatians)...with one of them bearing Jafar's face. Thank you! :D
Jasmine also doesn't know the rules of the lamp. She might not know that she could make a wish, or even that Aladdin used to be Genie's master. And as well as that, Jafar's attention is entirely on her so she has no way of distracting him long enough to get the lamp.
Also, she wasn't standing right next to the lamp. We don't see it until Jafar sets it down on the arm of his throne, which is after Jasmine has started seducing him to distract him from Aladdin. And before that, her hands were manacled and chained to Jafar's staff. So even if the lamp were nearby and she had known to grab it, Jafar would've stopped her as soon as she made a move.
In the remake, she does steal it off of Jafar and escapes the palace with Aladdin on the carpet. Unfortunately, they get chased down by magically-enlarged Iago, so they don't have an opportunity to summon the Genie before they're caught and taken back to the palace.
Note in the original that Jasmine only goes for the lamp because Aladdin tells her to. By that point, she might have guessed she could do something with it - but Jafar traps her in the hourglass as soon as she touches it.

Jafar marrying Jasmine 

Why didn't Jafar ever consider marrying Jasmine before? He didn't even think about it until Iago mentioned it. Wouldn't that have been the easiest way to become sultan, rather than spending so much time and energy searching for a genie to make him one? Well, considering his character, there is one potential reason why it might be unappealing to him, but really, you'd think that he would have at least thought of it before.
Because you had to be a prince to marry a princess. He says as much in the film, and he's gotta go through a couple of little-known loopholes to make it legal.
But he created that loophole pretty easily as soon as he got the idea to marry Jasmine. Why didn't he do that earlier?
Also, really? What, if anything, gave you any indication from the movie that he was gay? Was it him putting Jasmine in the skimpy outfit? Or perhaps him getting thoroughly distracted when she seduces him? Yeah, he totally found her unappealing.
I was mostly joking about the gay thing, but Jafar can be seen as a negative gay stereotype, what with his mannerisms, voice, and design (see Scar for the same thing). And I saw the whole "skimpy outfit" and slave thing as a way for him to have power over her. Someone else on this page talked about how him wanting Jasmine to fall in love with him was just him being a sadist. And I wouldn't exactly say that he was Distracted by the Sexy... he was pleased that she was submitting to him, and during her diversion, what he wanted from her was for her to "tell me more about myself," which she did. He's egotistical, not lecherous.
If Jafar marries Jasmine somehow, he gets to become Sultan. But if he finds the lamp, he gets to become Sultan and also he gets to make wishes. It's not hard to see why he preferred the latter option. And imagine what would happen if someone else found the lamp while he was busy doing other things! No, no, no. Once he knew that the lamp existed, he had to make that his priority.
Jafar would have also thought of Jasmine as a temperamental brat he'd have no chance with if she's turning down perfectly good princes coming to court her (from his POV).

Genie granting Jafar's wishes 

Why in the world did the Genie start granting Jafar's wishes when Aladdin hadn't finished using all of his yet?
Because Jafar was holding the lamp. Whoever holds the lamp gets his wishes, simple as that.
One would think that was information important enough for the Genie to tell Aladdin about at some point.
Why bother? The plan was 'Make Al a prince, whatever the second wish turned out to be (in this case saving him from drowning), and then set Genie free'. It was only going to be a short partnership while nobody knew he had the lamp so no need to share every little rule.
Plus, why would it have mattered even if he had told him? Aladdin could already see that the Genie was granting Jafar's wishes — him knowing that was possible beforehand would've done jack squat.

Jafar's knowledge of the Genie 

How did Jafar know that he got only three wishes when he didn't give the Genie the opportunity to give him the same orientation as he'd given Aladdin?
Jafar very obviously knew about the lamp before he ever sent Aladdin in there. You don't think he would have done some research into how it works?
If he did that kind of research, you'd think he would know that he can't wish for Jasmine to fall in love with him, though.
He knows, he just doesn't give a shit about some stupid "rules".
Maybe it's something you "just know" once you become a genie.
He wasn't a genie at that point though.
He literally just starts the wishing immediately; too fast for Genie to do anything but obey him.

Sultan helping out 

When Jasmine is trapped in the hourglass and everyone has been incapacitated, why isn't the Sultan helping her? We aren't shown that anything traumatic has happened to him such as being turned into a toy or unraveled, he's just in a Jester's costume. I mean jeez it is his daughter.
He was suspended in the air by puppet strings earlier. He may have been floating off screen at the time and there weren't any good one-liners for Jafar to say to him. Plus that would make four rescues being defeated in a row, people don't like that.

Jafar killing Aladdin 

Why does Jafar attempt to screw over and kill Aladdin in the first place? Aladdin may be a diamond in the rough and an all-around good guy but there is little indication that he was the kind of guy who would have bothered opposing Jafar. Basically, Aladdin gets three wishes, most likely becoming a prince, something involving making him even more palatable to Jasmine, and who knows what his third wish would have been. Jafar then wishes to become Sultan, followed by a powerful sorcerer, and while neither of them was smart enough to do that setting Genie free at the end would have been pragmatic. If Aladdin had freed Genie even with his second wish everybody would have been better off as an added bonus he still would likely have gotten his second wish. If Jafar had freed Genie after becoming an all-powerful sorcerer Genie may very well have either left, taken Aladdin and left, or without knowing how the power scales work been incapable of defeating Jafar anyway. To say nothing of how many ways keeping a genie around who's on poor terms with you is never going to end well. Forgetting how Jafar is actually defeated the very first time he fell asleep Jasmine, Sultan, Razoul, or any number of just random people could have gotten their hands on the lamp and wished away his powers, making the same wish about being the most powerful sorcerer in the world trumping him, turned him into a genie, or anything else.
To put it briefly, because Jafar doesn't care. Aladdin is more likely a liability than he is an asset by the time Jafar has the lamp. Even if he doesn't suspect him capable or willing to interfere, that doesn't mean he would think of him as worth saving.
And for the record, even if he did care enough to keep Aladdin alive, he wouldn't have anything to repay him with like he promised to: the treasure in the cave was all fake, and I doubt Jafar would've been willing to waste time letting Aladdin have a run with the Genie before enacting his own plans — especially considering Aladdin's willingness to free the Genie after he's made his first two wishes. Jafar wouldn't be happy about that.
Perhaps a case of Evil Cannot Comprehend Good. Jafar expected Aladdin to try and take the lamp for himself since it's not hard to guess that it must be much more valuable than all the treasure, and that's what Jafar would've done in his place. "Diamond in the rough" means "the one who can enter the cave" for him and nothing beyond that, and, well, Aladdin, was a thief and Jafar couldn't hope to overpower him if Aladdin had decided to take the lamp before Jafar could make his first wish. Better be safe than sorry, he thought.

Return to normal 

Why does everything return to normal after Jafar is sealed inside the lamp? There doesn't seem to be any good reason why his previous wish of being sultan would be undone, let alone relocating the palace, unraveling the carpet, and turning Abu into a toy. Indeed, the same headscratcher applies to the sequel: Why is all the damage Jafar did automatically undone when he's killed?
Most likely, there's some unspoken cosmic rule that prevents one genie from being the master of another genie, as that might give them a little too much power. If this were the case, then Jafar's transformation into a genie would've rendered his previous two wishes null and void, and so everything that had happened as a result of them was reversed. (Either that or Genie himself just fixed everything - since Jafar made his third wish, he's no longer obligated to serve him or further his own personal ends.)
As for how it happens in the sequel, well, Jafar is a Genie in that movie. And the only permanent effects of Genie magic are wish fulfillment. (Or something mistaken for wish fulfillment like escaping the cave) Genie's can warp reality, but unless their masters wished for it, it would wear off eventually.

Hey, Genie, pass me the lamp! 

Couldn't the Genie have picked up the lamp and given it to Aladdin during the finale? I was thinking that maybe he couldn't touch the lamp as long as he was bound to it, but he does so briefly after he saves Al from drowning. So is he only capable of handing the lamp to his current master? Alternatively, he was able to touch the lamp because it was wrapped in Al's turban at the time...but doesn't that mean he could've covered it with something else and then given it to him?
Probably not. Genie is a slave at this point, and he doesn't have the freedom to do what he wants. He was pretty clear that as long as he was Jafar's slave, he couldn't do anything to help Al — at least not directly. Cheering for Al and smacking Iago seems to have been the biggest acts of rebellion he was able to do.
