




MONSTER BLOOD III 

Goosebumps - 29 
R.L. Stine 

1 


“The Monster Blood! It’s growing again!” Evan Ross stared at the quivering 
green blob in his driveway. It looked like an enormous wad of sticky green 
bubble gum, and was bigger than a beach ball. Bigger than two beach balls! 

The green blob trembled and shook as if it were breathing hard. It made 
disgusting sucking sounds. Then it started to bounce. 

Evan took a step back. How did the sticky goo get out of its can? he 
wondered. Who left it in the driveway? Who opened the can? 

Evan knew that once Monster Blood starts to grow, it can’t be stopped. It 
will grow and grow, and suck up everything in its path. 

Evan knew this from painful experience. 

He had seen a giant glob of Monster Blood swallow kids whole. And he 
had seen what had happened when his dog, Trigger, had eaten Monster Blood. 
The cocker spaniel had grown and grown and grown—until he was big enough 
to pick up Evan in his teeth and bury him in the backyard! 

A small chunk of Monster Blood had turned Cuddles, the tiny hamster in 
Evan’s class, into a raging, growling monster. The giant hamster—bigger than a 
gorilla—had roared through the school, destroying everything in its path! 

This gunk is dangerous, Evan thought. It may be the most dangerous green 
slimy stuff on Earth! 

So how did it get in Evan’s driveway? 

And what was he going to do about it? 

The Monster Blood bounced and hiccupped. It made more disgusting 
sucking sounds. 

As it bounced, it picked up sticks and gravel from the driveway. They stuck 
to its side for a moment, before being sucked into the center of the giant wet ball. 

Evan took another step back as the ball slowly started to roll. “Oh, noooo.” 
Alow moan escaped his throat. “Please. Noooo.” 

The Monster Blood rolled over the driveway toward Evan, picking up speed 
as it moved. Evan had tossed one of his Rollerblades by the side of the house. 
The green goo swallowed up the skate with a loud thwoccccck. 

Evan gulped as he saw the skate disappear into the bouncing green ball. “I 
—I’m next!” he stammered out loud. 



No way! he told himself. I’m getting out of here. 

He turned to run—and went sprawling over the other skate. 

“Ow!” he cried out as he fell hard on his elbows and knees. Pain shot up his 
arms. He had landed on both funny bones. 

Shaking away the tingling, he scrambled to his knees. He turned in time to 
see the seething goo roll over him. 

He opened his mouth to scream. But the scream was trapped inside him as 
the heavy green gunk splatted over his face. 

He thrashed both arms wildly. Kicked his feet. 

But the sticky goo wrapped around him. Pulling him. Pulling him in. 

I—I can’t breathe! he realized. 

And, then, everything turned green. 



2 


“Evan—stop daydreaming and eat your Jell-O,” Mrs. Ross scolded. 

Evan shook his head hard. The daydream had seemed so real. His mother’s 
voice still sounded far away. 

“Evan—hurry. Eat the Jell-O. You’ll be late.” 

“Uh... Mom...” Evan said softly. “Could you do me a really big favor?” 

“What favor?” his mother asked him patiently, pushing back her straight 
blond hair into a ponytail. 

“Could we never have green Jell-0 again? Could you just buy other colors? 
Not green?” 

He stared at the shimmering, quivering green mound of Jell-0 in the glass 
bowl in front of him on the kitchen counter. 

“Evan, you’re weird,” Mrs. Ross replied, rolling her eyes. “Hurry up. 
Kermit is probably wondering where you are.” 

“Kermit is probably busy blowing up his house,” 

Evan replied glumly. He pulled the spoon out of the Jell-O. It made a gross 
sucking sound. 

“All the more reason for you to hurry over there,” his mother said sharply. 
“You are responsible for him, Evan. You are in charge of your cousin until his 
mom gets home from work.” 

Evan shoved the green Jell-0 away. “I can’t eat this,” he murmured. “It 
makes me think of Monster Blood.” 

Mrs. Ross made a disgusted face. “Don’t mention that slimy stuff.” 

Evan climbed down from the stool. Mrs. Ross pushed a hand gently through 
his curly, carrot-colored hair. “It’s nice of you to help out,” she said softly. “Aunt 
Dee can’t really afford a babysitter.” 

“Kermit doesn’t need a baby-sitter. He needs a keeper!” Evan grumbled. 
“Or maybe a trainer. A guy with a whip and a chair. Like in the circus.” 

“Kermit looks up to you,” Mrs. Ross insisted. 

“Only because he’s two feet tall!” Evan exclaimed. “I can’t believe he’s my 
cousin. He’s such a nerd.” 

“Kermit isn’t a nerd. Kermit is a genius!” Mrs. Ross declared. “He’s only 
eight, and already he’s a scientific genius.” 



“Some genius,” Evan grumbled. “Mom, yesterday he melted my sneakers.” 

Mrs. Ross’ pale blue eyes grew wide. “He what?” 

“He made one of his concoctions. It was a bright yellow liquid. He said it 
would toughen up the sneakers so they would never wear out.” 

“And you let him pour the stuff on your sneakers?” Evan’s mother 
demanded. 

“I didn’t have a choice,” Evan replied unhappily. “I have to do everything 
Kermit wants. If I don’t, he tells Aunt Dee I was mean to him.” 

Mrs. Ross shook her head. “I wondered why you came home barefoot 
yesterday.” 

“My sneakers are still stuck to Kermit’s basement floor,” Evan told her. 
“They melted right off my feet.” 

“Well, be careful over there, okay?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. He pulled his Atlanta Braves cap over his head, 
waved to his mother, and headed out the back door. 

It was a warm spring day. Two black-and-yellow monarch butterflies 
fluttered over the flower garden. The bright new leaves on the trees shimmered 
in the sunlight. 

Evan stopped at the bottom of the driveway and lowered the baseball cap to 
shield his eyes from the sun. He squinted down the street, hoping to see his 
friend Andy. 

No sign of her. 

Disappointed, he kicked a large pebble along the curb and started to make 
his way toward Kermit’s house. Aunt Dee, Kermit’s mom, paid Evan three 
dollars an hour to watch Kermit after school every afternoon. Three hundred 
dollars an hour would be a lot more fair! he thought angrily. 

But Evan was glad to earn the money. He was saving for a new Walkman. 
Trigger had mistaken his old Walkman for a dog bone. 

But Evan was earning every penny. Kermit was impossible. That was the 
only word for him. Impossible. 

He didn’t want to play video games. He didn’t want to watch TV. He 
refused to go outside and play ball or toss a Frisbee around. He didn’t even want 
to sneak down to the little grocery on the corner and load up on candy bars and 
potato chips. 

All he wanted to do was stay downstairs in his dark, damp basement lab 
and mix beakers of chemicals together. “My experiments,” he called them. “I 



have to do my experiments.” 

Maybe he is a genius, Evan thought bitterly. But that doesn’t make him any 
fun. He’s just impossible. 

Evan definitely wasn’t enjoying his after-school baby-sitting job watching 
Kermit. In fact, he had several daydreams in which Kermit tried one of his own 
mixtures and melted to the basement floor, just like Evan’s sneakers. 

Some afternoons, Andy came along, and that made the job a little easier. 
Andy thought Kermit was really weird, too. But at least when she was there, 
Evan had someone to talk to, someone who didn’t want to talk about mixing 
aluminum pyrite with sodium chlorobenzadrate. 

What is Kermit’s problem, anyway? Evan wondered as he crossed the street 
and made his way through backyards toward Kermit’s house. Why does he think 
mixing is so much fun? Why is he always mixing this with that and that with 
this? 

I can’t even mix chocolate milk! 

Kermit’s house came into view two yards down. It was a two-story white 
house with a sloping black roof. 

Evan picked up his pace. He was about fifteen minutes late. He hoped that 
Kermit hadn’t already gotten into some kind of trouble. 

He had just pushed his way though the prickly, low hedges that fenced in 
Kermit’s yard when a familiar gruff voice made him freeze. 

“Evan—were you looking at my yard?” 

“Huh?” Evan recognized the voice at once. It belonged to Kermit’s next- 
door neighbor, a kid from Evan’s school. 

His name was Conan Barber. But the kids at school all called him Conan 
the Barbarian. That’s because he had to be the biggest, meanest kid in Atlanta. 
Maybe in the universe. 

Conan sat on top of the tall white fence that separated the yards. His cold 
blue eyes glared down at Evan. “Were you looking at my yard?” Conan 
demanded. 

“No way!” Evan’s voice came out in a squeak. 

“You were looking at my yard. That’s trespassing,” Conan accused. He 
leaped down from the high fence. He was big and very athletic. His hobby was 
leaping over kids he had just pounded into the ground. 

Conan wore a gray muscle shirt and baggy, faded jeans cutoffs. He also 
wore a very mean expression. 



“Whoa. Wait a minute, Conan!” Evan protested. “I was looking at Kermit’s 
yard. I never look at your yard. Never!” 

Conan stepped up to Evan. He stuck out his chest and bumped Evan hard, 
so hard he stumbled backwards. 

That was Conan’s other hobby. Bumping kids with his chest. His chest 
didn’t feel like a chest. It felt like a truck. 

“Why don’t you look at my yard?” Conan demanded. “Is there something 
wrong with my yard? Is my yard too ugly? Is that why you never look at it?” 

Evan swallowed hard. It began to dawn on him that maybe Conan was 
itching for a fight. 

Before he could answer Conan, he heard a scratchy voice reply for him. 
“It’s a free country, Conan!” 

“Oh, noooo,” Evan groaned, shutting his eyes. 

Evan’s cousin, Kermit, stepped out from behind Evan. He was tiny and 
skinny. A very pale kid with a pile of white-blond hair, and round black eyes 
behind big red plastic-framed glasses. Evan always thought his cousin looked 
like a white mouse wearing glasses. 

Kermit wore enormous red shorts that came down nearly to his ankles, and 
a red-and-black Braves T-shirt. The short sleeves hung down past the elbows of 
his skinny arms. 

“What did you say?” Conan demanded, glaring down menacingly at 
Kermit. 

“It’s a free country!” Kermit repeated shrilly. “Evan can look at any yard he 
wants to!” 

Conan let out an angry growl. As he lumbered forward to pound Evan’s 
face into mashed potatoes, Evan turned to Kermit. “Thanks a lot,” he told his 
cousin. “Thanks for all your help.” 

“Which way do you want your nose to slant?” Conan asked Evan. “To the 
right or to the left?” 



3 


“Don’t do it!” Kermit shrieked in his scratchy mouse voice. 

Conan raised a huge fist. With his other hand, he grabbed the front of 
Evan’s T-shirt. He glared down at Kermit. “Why not?” he growled. 

“Because I have this!” Kermit declared. 

“Huh?” Conan let go of Evan’s shirt. He stared at the glass beaker Kermit 
had raised in both hands. The beaker was half-full with a dark blue liquid. 

Conan let out a sigh and swept a beefy hand back through his wavy blond 
hair. His blue eyes narrowed at Kermit. “What’s that? Your baby formula?” 

“Ha-ha,” Kermit replied sarcastically. 

If Kermit doesn’t shut up, we’re both going to get pounded! Evan realized. 
What is the little creep trying to do? 

He tugged at Kermit’s sleeve, trying to pull him away from Conan. But 
Kermit ignored him. He raised the beaker close to Conan’s face. 

“It’s an Invisibility Mixture,” Kermit said. “If I pour it on you, you’ll 
disappear.” 

We should both disappear! Evan thought frantically. He let his eyes dart 
around the backyard. Maybe I can make it through that hedge before Conan 
grabs me, he thought. If I can get around the next house and down to the street, I 
might escape. 

But would it be right to leave little Kermit at Conan’s mercy? 

Evan sighed. He couldn’t abandon his cousin like that. Even though Kermit 
was definitely asking for it. 

“You’re going to make me invisible with that stuff?” Conan asked Kermit 
with a sneer. 

Kermit nodded. “If I pour a few drops on you, you’ll disappear. Really. I 
mixed it myself. It works. It’s a mixture of Teflon dioxinate and magnesium 
parasulfidine.” 

“Yeah. Right,” Conan muttered. He peered at the liquid in the beaker. 
“What makes it blue?” 

“Food coloring,” Kermit replied. Then he lowered his squeaky voice, trying 
to sound tough. “You’d better go home now, Conan. I don’t want to have to use 
this stuff.” 



Oh, wow! Evan thought, pulling the bill of his Braves cap down over his 
face. I can’t bear to watch this. This is sad. Really sad. Kermit is such a jerk. 

“Go ahead. Try it,” Evan heard Conan say. 

Evan raised the cap so he could see. “Uh... Kermit... maybe we should go 
in the house now,” he whispered. 

“Go ahead. Make me invisible,” Conan challenged. 

“You really want me to?” Kermit demanded. 

“Yeah,” Conan replied. “I want to be invisible. Go ahead, Kermit. Pour it on 
me. Make me disappear. I dare you.” 

Kermit raised the beaker over the gray muscle shirt that covered Conan’s 
broad chest. 

“Kermit—no!” Evan pleaded. “Don’t! Please don’t!” 

Evan made a frantic grab for the beaker. 

Too late. 

Kermit turned the beaker over and let the thick blue liquid pour onto the 
front of Conan’s shirt. 



4 


Out of the corner of his eye, Evan saw a monarch butterfly fluttering over the 
low hedges. I wish I were a butterfly, he thought. I wish I could flap my wings 
and float away. 

As far away from here as I can get! 

The blue liquid oozed down the front of Conan’s muscle shirt. All three 
boys stared at it in silence. 

“Well? I’m not disappearing,” Conan murmured, narrowing his eyes 
suspiciously at Kermit. 

Then his shirt started to shrink. 

“Hey—!” Conan cried angrily. He struggled to pull off the shrinking shirt. 
It got tinier and tinier. “It—it’s choking me!” Conan shrieked. 

“Wow!” Kermit squeaked, his black eyes glowing excitedly behind his 
glasses. “This is cool!” 

Evan gazed in amazement as the muscle shirt shrank down to a tiny shred 
of cloth. And then it vanished completely. 

Now Conan stood in front of them bare-chested. 

A heavy silence fell over the backyard. All three of them stared at Conan’s 
broad, bare chest for a few moments. 

Conan broke the silence. “That was my best muscle shirt,” he told Evan 
through gritted teeth. 

“Uh-oh,” Evan uttered. 

“I like your nose that way,” Andy told Evan. “It kind of tilts in both directions at 
once.” 

“I think it will go back to the way it was,” Evan replied, patting his nose 
tenderly. “At least it stopped hurting so much.” He sighed. “All the other cuts 
and bruises will go away, too. In time.” 

It was two days later. Evan sat across from Andy in the lunchroom at 
school. He stared down sadly at the tuna fish sandwich his mom had packed for 
him. He hadn’t taken a bite. His mouth wasn’t working exactly right yet. It kept 
going sideways instead of up and down. 

Andy wiped a chunk of egg salad off her cheek. She had short brown hair 



and big brown eyes that stared across the table at Evan. 

Andy didn’t dress like most of the other kids in their sixth-grade class. She 
liked bright colors. A lot of bright colors. 

Today she wore a yellow vest over a magenta T-shirt and orange Day-Glo 
shorts. 

When Andy moved to Atlanta in the beginning of the school year, some 
kids made fun of her colorful clothes. But they didn’t anymore. Now everyone 
agreed that Andy had style. And a few kids were even copying her look. 

“So what happened after Conan the Barbarian pounded your body into 
coleslaw?” Andy asked. She pulled a handful of potato chips from her bag and 
shoved them one by one into her mouth. 

Evan took a few bites from a section of his tuna fish sandwich. It took him 
a long time to swallow. “Conan made me promise I’d never look in his yard 
again,” he told Andy. “I had to raise my right hand and swear. Then he went 
home.” 

Evan sighed. He touched his sore nose again. “After Conan left, Kermit 
helped me hobble into his house,” Evan continued. “A little while later, Aunt 
Dee got home.” 

“Then what happened?” Andy asked, crinkling up the empty potato chip 

bag. 

“She saw that I was messed up,” Evan replied. “So she asked what 
happened.” 

Evan shook his head and scowled. “And before I could say anything, that 
little rat Kermit piped up and said, 'Evan picked a fight with Conan.’” 

“Oh, wow,” Andy murmured. 

“And Aunt Dee said, ‘Well, Evan, if you’re just going to get into fights 
instead of taking care of Kermit, I’m going to have to talk to your mom about 
you. Maybe you’re not mature enough for this job.’” 

“Oh, wow,” Andy repeated. 

“And the whole thing was Kermit’s fault!” Evan shouted, pounding his fist 
so hard on the table that his milk carton tipped over. Milk spilled over the 
tabletop, onto the front of his jeans. 

Evan was so upset, he didn’t even move out of the way. “And do you know 
the worst thing?” Evan demanded. “The worst thing?” 

“What?” Andy asked. 

“Kermit did it deliberately. He knew what that blue mixture would do. He 



knew it would shrink Conan’s shirt. Kermit wanted me to get pounded by 
Conan. He did the whole thing to get me in trouble with Conan.” 

“How do you know?” Andy asked. 

“The smile,” Evan told her. 

“Huh? What smile?” 

“The smile on Kermit’s face. You know that twisted little smile he has 
where his two front teeth stick out? That’s the smile he had when he helped me 
back to the house.” 

Andy tsk-tsked. 

Evan finished the section of tuna fish sandwich. “Is that all you’re going to 
say?” he snapped. 

“What can I say?” Andy replied. “Your cousin, Kermit, is a weird little 
dude. I think you should teach him a lesson. Pay him back.” 

“Huh?” Evan gaped at her. “How do I do that?” 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe you could... uh...” Her dark eyes 
suddenly flashed with excitement. “I know! Doesn’t he have a snack after school 
every day? You could slip some Monster Blood into his food.” 

Evan gulped and jumped to his feet. “Hey—no way! No way, Andy!” he 
shouted. 

Several kids turned to stare at Evan, startled by his loud cries. 

“Don’t even think it!” Evan shouted, ignoring the stares. “No Monster 
Blood. Ever! I never want to hear those words again!” 

“Okay, okay!” Andy cried. She raised both hands, as if to shield herself 
from him. 

“By the way,” Evan said, a little calmer, “where is the Monster Blood? 
Where did you hide it? You didn’t take any of it out—did you?” 

“Well...” Andy replied, lowering her eyes. A devilish grin spread across her 
face. “I put a little bit of it in the tuna fish sandwich you just ate.” 



5 


Evan let out a cry so loud, it made two kids fall off their chairs. Two other kids 
dropped their lunch trays. 

His eyes bulged and his voice rose higher than the gym teacher’s whistle. 
“You—you—you—!” he sputtered, grabbing his throat. 

Andy laughed. She pointed at his chair. “Evan, sit down. I was only 
joking.” 

“Huh?” 

“You heard me,” Andy said. “It was a joke. The Monster Blood is home, 
safe and sound.” 

Evan let out a long sigh. He sank back into the chair. He didn’t care that he 
was sitting in the milk he had spilled. 

“Annndrea,” he said unhappily, stretching out the word. “Annnndrea, that 
wasn’t funny.” 

“Sure it was,” Andy insisted. “And don’t call me Andrea. You know I hate 
that name.” 

“Andrea. Andrea. Andrea,” Evan repeated, paying her back for her mean 
joke. He narrowed his eyes at her sternly. “That new can of Monster Blood your 
parents sent you from Europe—it really is hidden away?” 

Andy nodded. “On the top shelf of a closet in the basement. Way in the 
back,” she told him. “The can is shut tight. No way the stuff can get out.” 

He stared hard at her, studying her face. 

“Don’t look at me like that!” she cried. She balled up the sandwich tinfoil 
and tossed it at him. “I’m telling the truth. The Monster Blood is totally hidden 
away. You don’t have to worry about it.” 

Evan relaxed. He pulled the Fruit Roll-Up from his lunch bag and started to 
unwrap it. “You owe me now,” he said softly. 

“Excuse me?” 

“You owe me for playing that stupid joke,” Evan said. 

“Oh, yeah? What do I have to do?” Andy demanded. 

“Come with me after school. To Kermit’s,” Evan said. 

Andy made a disgusted face. 

“Please,” Evan added. 



“Okay,” she said. “Kermit isn’t that bad when I’m around.” 

Evan held up the sticky Fruit Roll-Up. “Want this? I begged my mom not to 
buy the green ones!” 


* * * 


After school, Evan and Andy walked together to Kermit’s house. It was a gray 
day, threatening rain. The air felt heavy and wet, as humid as summer. 

Evan led the way across the street. He started to cut through the backyards 
—but stopped. “Let’s go the front way,” he instructed. “Conan might be hanging 
out in back. Waiting for us.” 

“Don’t say us,” Andy muttered. She shifted her backpack to the other 
shoulder. She scratched her arm. “Ow. Look at this.” 

Evan lowered his eyes to the large red bump on Andy’s right arm. “What is 
that? A mosquito bite?” 

Andy scratched it some more. “I guess so. It itches like crazy.” 

“You’re not supposed to scratch it,” Evan told her. 

“Thanks, Doc,” she replied sarcastically. She scratched it even harder to 
annoy him. 

A few sprinkles of rain came down as they made their way up Kermit’s 
driveway. Evan opened the front door and stepped into the living room. 

“Kermit—are you here?” 

No reply. 

A sour smell attacked Evan’s nostrils. He pressed his fingers over his nose. 
“Yuck. Do you smell that?” 

Andy nodded, her face twisted in disgust. “I think it’s coming from the 
basement.” 

“For sure,” Evan muttered. “Kermit must already be in his lab.” 

“Kermit? Hey—Kermit, what are you doing down there?” Evan called out. 

Holding their noses, they made their way quickly down the stairs. The 
basement was divided into two rooms. To the right stood the laundry room and 
furnace; to the left the rec room with Kermit’s lab set up along the back wall. 

Evan hurried across the tiled floor into the lab. He spotted Kermit behind 
his lab table, several beakers of colored liquids in front of him. “Kermit—what’s 
that disgusting smell?” he demanded. 

As Evan and Andy ran up to the lab table, Kermit poured a yellow liquid 



into a green liquid. “Uh-oh!” he cried, staring down at the bubbling mixture. 
Behind his glasses, his eyes grew wide with horror. 

“Run!” Kermit screamed. “Hurry! Get out! It’s going to BLOW!” 



6 


The liquid swirled and bubbled. 

Kermit ducked under the lab table. 

With a cry of horror, Evan spun round. Grabbed Andy’s hand. Started to 
pull her to the stairs. 

But he had only taken a step when he stumbled over Dogface, Kermit’s 
huge sheepdog. 

“Oof!” Evan felt the wind knocked out of him as he fell over the dog and 
landed facedown on the tile floor. He gasped. Struggled to choke in a mouthful 
of air. 

The room tilted and swayed. 

“It’s going to BLOW!” Kermit’s shrill warning rang in Evan’s ears. 

He finally managed to take a deep breath. Raised himself to one knee. 
Turned back to the lab table. 

And saw Andy standing calmly in the center of the rec room, her hands at 
her waist. 

“Andy—it’s going to BLOW!” Evan choked out. 

She rolled her eyes. “Evan, really,” she muttered, shaking her head. “Did 
you really fall for that?” 

“Huh?” Evan gazed past her to the long glass table. 

Kermit had climbed back to his feet. He was leaning with both elbows on 
the table. And he had the grin on his face. That grin. 

The twisted grin with the two front teeth sticking out. The grin Evan hated 
more than any grin in the world. 

“Yeah, Evan,” Kermit repeated, mimicking Andy, “did you really fall for 
that?” He burst into his squealing-high laugh that sounded like a pig stuck in a 
fence. 

Evan pulled himself up, muttering under his breath. Dogface hiccupped. 
The dog’s tongue tumbled out, and he began to pant loudly. 

Evan turned to Andy. “I didn’t really fall for it,” he claimed. “I knew it was 
another one of Kermit’s dumb jokes. I was just seeing if you believed it.” 

“For sure.” Andy rolled her eyes again. She was doing a lot of eye-rolling 
this afternoon, Evan realized. 



Evan and Andy stepped up to the table. It was littered with bottles and glass 
tubes, beakers and jars—all filled with colored liquids. 

On the wall behind the table stood a high bookshelf. The shelves were also 
jammed with bottles and jars of liquids and chemicals. Kermit’s mixtures. 

“I was only a few minutes late getting here,” Evan told Kermit. “From now 
on, don’t do anything. Just wait for me.” He sniffed the air. “What’s that really 
gross smell?” 

Kermit grinned back at him. “I didn’t notice it until you came in!” he joked. 

Evan didn’t laugh. “Give me a break,” he muttered. 

Andy scratched her mosquito bite. “Yeah. No more jokes today, Kermit.” 

The big sheepdog hiccupped again. 

“I’m mixing up something to cure Dogface’s hiccups,” Kermit announced. 

“Oh, no!” Evan replied sharply. “No way! I can’t let you give the dog one 
of your mixtures to drink.” 

“It’s a very simple hiccup cure,” Kermit said, pouring a blue liquid into a 
green liquid. “It’s just maglesium harposyrate and ribotussal polythorbital. With 
a little sugar for sweetness.” 

“No way,” Evan insisted. “You’re not giving Dogface anything to drink but 
water. It’s too dangerous.” 

Kermit ignored him and continued to mix chemicals from one glass beaker 
into another. He glanced up at Andy. “What’s wrong with your arm?” 

“It’s a really big mosquito bite,” Andy told him. “It itches like crazy.” 

“Let me see it,” Kermit urged. 

Andy eyed him suspiciously. “Why?” 

Kermit grabbed Andy’s hand and tugged her closer. “Let me see it,” he 
insisted. 

“It’s just a mosquito bite,” Andy said. 

“I have some of that blue shrinking mixture left,” Kermit announced. “The 
stuff I shrank Conan’s shirt with.” 

“Don’t remind me,” Evan groaned. 

“It’ll shrink your mosquito bite,” Kermit told Andy. He picked up the 
beaker. 

“You’re going to pour that stuff on my arm?” Andy cried. “I don’t think 

so!” 

She tried to step away. 

But Kermit grabbed her arm. And poured. 



The blue liquid spread over the mosquito bite. 
“No! Oh, no!” Andy shrieked. 



7 


“My arm!” Andy shrieked. “What did you do to me?” 

Evan lurched to the lab table, nearly stumbling over the dog again. He 
grabbed Andy’s arm and examined it. “It—it—” he stammered. 

“It’s gone!” Andy cried. “The mosquito bite—it’s gone!” 

Evan stared at Andy’s arm. Perfectly smooth, except for a few drips of the 
blue liquid. 

“Kermit—you’re a geniusl” Andy cried. “That mixture of yours shrank the 
mosquito bite away!” 

“Told you,” Kermit replied, grinning happily. 

“You can make a fortune!” Andy exclaimed. “Don’t you realize what 
you’ve done? You’ve invented the greatest cure for mosquito bites ever!” 

Kermit held up the beaker. He tilted it one way, then the other. “Not much 
left,” he said softly. 

“But you can mix up some more—right?” Andy demanded. 

Kermit frowned. “I’m not sure,” he said softly. 

“I think I can mix up a new batch. But I’m not sure. I didn’t write down 
what I put in it.” 

He scratched his white-blond hair and stared at the empty glass beaker, 
twitching his nose like a mouse, thinking hard. 

Dogface let out another loud hiccup. The hiccup was followed by a howl. 
Evan saw that the poor dog was getting very unhappy about the hiccups. 
Dogface was a big dog—and so he had big hiccups that shook his sheepdog 
body like an earthquake. 

“I’d better get to work on the hiccup cure,” Kermit announced. He pulled 
some jars of chemicals off the shelf and started to open them. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Evan told him. “I told you, Kermit—I can’t let you 
feed anything to the dog. Aunt Dee will kill me if—” 

“Oh, let him try!” Andy interrupted. She rubbed her smooth arm. “Kermit is 
a genius, Evan. You have to let a genius work.” 

Evan glared at her. “Whose side are you on?” he demanded in a loud 
whisper. 

Andy didn’t answer. She unzipped her orange-and-blue backpack and 



pulled out some papers. “I think I’ll do my math homework while Kermit mixes 
up his hiccup cure.” 

Kermit’s eyes lit up excitedly behind his glasses. “Math? Do you have math 
problems?” 

Andy nodded. “It’s a take-home equations exam. Very hard.” 

Kermit set down the test tubes and beakers. He hurried out from behind the 
lab table. “Can I do the problems for you, Andy?” he asked eagerly. “You know I 
love to do math problems.” 

Andy flashed Evan a quick wink. Evan frowned back at her. He shook his 
head. 

So that’s why Andy is being so nice to Kermit! Evan told himself. It was all 
a trick. A trick to get Kermit to do the math test for her. 

Kermit could never resist math problems. His parents had to buy him stacks 
and stacks of math workbooks. He could spend an entire afternoon doing all the 
problems in the workbooks —for fun ! 

Dogface hiccupped. 

Kermit grabbed the math test from Andy’s hand. “Please let me do the 
equations,” he begged. “Pretty please?” 

“Well... okay,” Andy agreed. She flashed Evan another wink. 

Evan scowled back at her. Andy is going to get in trouble for this, he 
thought. Andy is a terrible math student. It’s her worst subject. Mrs. McGrady is 
going to get very suspicious when Andy gets every problem right. 

But Evan didn’t say anything. What was the point? 

Kermit was already scribbling answers on the page, solving the equations as 
fast as he could read them. His eyes were dancing wildly. He was breathing hard. 
And he had a happy grin on his face. 

“All done,” he announced. 

Wow, he’s fast! Evan thought. He finished that math test in the time it 
would take me to write my name at the top of the page! 

Kermit handed the pencil and math pages back to Andy. “Thanks a lot,” she 
said. “I really need a good grade in math this term.” 

“Cheater,” Evan whispered in her ear. 

“I just did it for Kermit,” Andy whispered back. “He loves doing math 
problems. So why shouldn’t I give him a break?” 

“Cheater,” Evan repeated. 

Dogface hiccupped. Then he let out a pained howl. 



Kermit returned to his lab table. He poured a yellow liquid into a red liquid. 
It started to smoke. Then it turned bright orange. 

Andy tucked the math test into her backpack. 

Kermit poured the orange liquid into a large glass beaker. He picked up a 
tiny bottle, turned it upside down, and emptied silvery crystals into the beaker. 

Evan stepped up beside Kermit. “You can’t feed that to Dogface,” Evan 
insisted. “I really mean it. I won’t let you give it to him.” 

Kermit ignored him. He stirred the mixture until it turned white. Then he 
added another powder that made it turn orange again. 

“You have to listen to me, Kermit,” Evan said. “I’m in charge, right?” 

Kermit continued to ignore him. 

Dogface hiccupped. His white furry body quivered and shook. 

“Let Kermit work,” Andy told Evan. “He’s a genius.” 

“Maybe he’s a genius,” Evan replied. “But I’m in charge. Until Kermit’s 
mom gets home, I’m the boss.” 

Kermit poured the mixture into a red dog dish. 

“I’m the boss,” said Evan. “And the boss says no.” 

Kermit lowered the dog dish to the floor. 

“The boss says you can’t feed that to Dogface,” Evan said. 

“Here, boy! Here, boy!” Kermit called. 

“No way!” Evan cried. “No way the dog is drinking that!” 

Evan made a dive for the bowl. He planned to grab it away. 

But he dove too hard—and went sliding under the lab table. 

Dogface lowered his head to the dog dish and began lapping up the orange 
mixture. 

Evan spun around and stared eagerly at the dog. All three of them were 
waiting... waiting... waiting to see what would happen. 



8 


Dogface licked the bowl clean. Then he stared up at Kermit, as if to say, “Thank 
you.” 

Kermit petted the big dog’s head. He smoothed the white, curly fur from in 
front of Dogface’s eyes. The fur fell right back in place. Dogface licked Kermit’s 
hand. 

“See? The hiccups are gone,” Kermit declared to Evan. 

Evan stared at the dog. He waited a few seconds more. “You’re right,” he 
confessed. “The hiccups are gone.” 

“It was a simple mixture,” Kermit bragged. “Just a little tetrahydropodol 
with some hydradroxilate crystals and an ounce of megahydracyl oxyneuroplat. 
Any child could do it.” 

“What a genius!” Andy exclaimed. 

Evan started to say something. But Dogface interrupted with a sharp yip. 

Then, without warning, the big sheepdog sprang forward. With another 
shrill yip, Dogface raised his enormous front paws—and leaped on to Kermit. 

Kermit let out a startled cry and stumbled back against the wall. Bottles and 
jars shook on the shelves behind him. 

Dogface began barking wildly, uttering shrill, excited yips. The dog jumped 
again, as if trying to leap into Kermit’s arms. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Kermit squealed. 

The dog jumped again. 

The shelves shook. Kermit sank to the floor. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Kermit shrieked, covering his head with both arms. 
“Stop it, Dogface! Stop jumping!” 

The excited dog used his head to push Kermit’s arm away. Then he began 
licking Kermit’s face frantically. Then he began nipping at his T-shirt. 

“Stop! Yuck! Stop!” Kermit struggled to get away. But the big dog had 
Kermit pinned to the floor. 

“What’s going on?” Andy cried. “What’s gotten into that dog?” 

“Kermit’s mixture!” Evan replied. He dove at the dog, grabbed Dogface 
with both hands, and tried to tug him off Kermit. 

Dogface spun around. With another high-pitched yip, he bounded away, 



running at full speed across the basement. 

“Stop him!” Kermit cried. “He’s out of control! He’ll break something!” 

CRAAAASH. 

A shelf of canning jars toppled to the floor. 

Barking loudly, the dog bounded away from the shelf and began running in 
wide circles, his big paws clomping on the tile floor. Round and round, as if 
chasing his tail. 

“Dogface—whoa!” Evan called, chasing after the sheepdog. He turned back 
to Andy. “Help me! We’ve got to stop him! He’s acting crazy!” 

Dogface disappeared into the laundry room. “Dogface—come back here!” 
Evan called. 

He burst into the laundry room in time to see the dog crash into the ironing 
board. It toppled over, along with a stack of clothes that had been resting on it. 
The iron clattered over the hard floor. 

Dogface yelped and climbed out from under the spilled clothes. Spotting 
Evan, the dog’s stubby tail began wagging—and he leaped across the room. 

“No!” Evan screeched as the huge dog knocked him over backwards to the 
ground. Dogface frantically licked Evan’s face. 

Behind him, Evan heard Andy laugh. “Too much energy! He’s acting like a 
crazy puppy!” she declared. 

“He’s too big to think he’s a puppy!” Evan wailed. 

Dogface was sniffing furiously under the washing machine. He pounced on 
a large black ant. 

Then he turned and came bounding over to Andy and Evan. 

“Look out!” Evan cried. 

But the big sheepdog lumbered past them, back into the other room. They 
followed him, watching him roll over a few times, kicking his big, furry paws in 
the air. 

Then Dogface jumped to his feet—and came charging at Kermit. 

“Whoa! Whoa, boy!” Kermit cried. He turned to Andy. “You’re right. This 
is just the way Dogface acted when he was a puppy. The mixture gave him too 
much energy!” 

The sheepdog crashed into an old couch against the wall. He climbed up 
onto the couch, sniffing the cushions, exploring. His stubby tail wagged 
furiously. 

“Dogface, you’re not a puppy!” Evan cried. “Please listen to me! You’re too 



big to be a puppy! Dogface—please!” 

“Look out!” Andy shrieked. 

The dog jumped off the couch and went running full speed toward Kermit. 

“No! Stop!” Kermit cried. He dove behind the lab table. 

The dog tried to slow down. But his big legs were carrying him too fast. 

Dogface crashed into the lab table. Bottles and beakers flew into the air, 
then crashed to the floor. The table toppled over on top of Kermit. 

The shelves fell off the wall, and all of the jars and tubes and beakers 
tumbled to the floor, shattering, clattering, chemicals pouring out over the floor. 

“What a mess!” Evan cried. “What a horrible mess!” 

He turned—and let out a loud gasp. 

Aunt Dee stood in the doorway. Her mouth was opened wide in surprise, 
and her eyes nearly bulged out of her head. 

“What on Earth is going on down here?” she shrieked. 

“Uh... well...” Evan started. 

How could he begin to explain? And if he did find a way to explain, would 
Aunt Dee believe him? 

Aunt Dee pressed her hands against her waist and tapped one foot on the 
floor. “What has happened here?” she demanded angrily. 

“Uh... well...” Evan repeated. 

Kermit spoke up first. He pointed an accusing finger at Evan. “Evan was 
teasing the dog!” he cried. 



9 


Kermit’s mom glared angrily at Evan. “I’m paying you to take care of Kermit,” 
she said sternly. “Not to play silly jokes on the dog and wreck my house.” 

“But—but—but—” Evan sputtered. 

“Evan didn’t do it!” Andy protested. 

But her words were drowned out by Kermit, who let out a loud, phony wail 
—and burst into tears. “I tried to stop Evan!” Kermit sobbed. “I didn’t want him 
to tease Dogface! But he wouldn’t stop!” 

Kermit rushed into his mother’s arms. “It’s okay,” Aunt Dee said 
soothingly. “It’s okay, Kermit. I’ll make sure Evan never does it again.” 

She narrowed her eyes angrily at Evan as Kermit continued to sob, holding 
on to his mother like a baby. 

Evan rolled his eyes at Andy. Andy replied with a shrug. 

“Evan, you and Andy can start cleaning up this mess,” Mrs. Majors 
ordered. “Kermit is a very sensitive boy. When you play jokes like this, it upsets 
him terribly.” 

Kermit sobbed even louder. His mom tenderly patted his head. “It’s okay, 
Kermit. It’s okay. Evan won’t ever tease Dogface again,” she whispered. 

“But—but—” Evan sputtered. 

How could Kermit put on such an act? 

How could he deliberately get Evan into trouble? This mess wasn’t Evan’s 
fault. It was Kermit’s! 

“I really don’t think—” Andy started. 

But Aunt Dee raised a hand to silence her. “Just get this mess cleaned up— 
okay?” 

She turned to Evan. “I’m not going to tell your mom about this, Evan,” she 
said, still patting Kermit’s head. 

“Thanks,” Evan muttered. 

“I’m going to give you one more chance,” she continued. “You don’t really 
deserve it. If you weren’t my nephew, I’d make you pay for all the damage. And 
I’d get someone else to take care of Kermit.” 

“Evan is mean,” Kermit murmured, removing his glasses and wiping tears 
off his cheeks. “Evan is really mean.” 



What a little rat! Evan thought. But he remained silent, his eyes lowered to 
the floor. 

“Kermit, let’s get you cleaned up,” Aunt Dee said, leading him to the stairs. 
“Then we’ll have to give the dog a bath.” 

She turned back to Evan and pointed a finger at him. “One more chance,” 
she warned. “One more chance.” 

In the corner, Dogface let out a loud hiccup. 

“See how you’ve upset the dog?” Kermit’s mom called to Evan. “You’ve 
given poor Dogface the hiccups!” 

“But—but—” Evan sputtered again. 

As Evan struggled to find words to defend himself, Kermit and his mom 
disappeared up the stairs. 

Two hours later, Andy and Evan wearily headed for home. 

“What a mess,” Evan moaned. “Look at me. I’m covered in chemicals.” 

“Two hours,” Andy muttered. “Two hours to clean up the basement. And 
Dogface stood there watching us, hiccupping the whole time.” 

“Kermit is such a little creep,” Evan said, kicking a stone across the 
sidewalk. 

Andy shook her head bitterly. “Do you have any more cousins like him?” 

“No,” Evan replied. “Kermit is one of a kind.” 

“He’s such a little liar,” Andy said. 

“Hey—you stuck up for him,” Evan accused. “You said he was a genius, 
remember? You were so happy that he did your math problems for you, you 
thought he was wonderful.” 

Andy shifted her backpack onto her other shoulder. A smile crossed her 
face. “I forgot all about the math problems,” she said. “Kermit may be a little 
creep—but he’s also a genius. I’m going to get an A in math!” She let out a 
happy cheer. 

“Winners never cheat, and cheaters never win,” Evan muttered. 

Andy gave him a playful shove. “Did you just make that up? It’s very 
catchy.” 

“Give me a break,” Evan growled. He turned and made his way up his 
driveway without saying good-bye. 


Andy called him two nights later. “Your cousin Kermit is a total creep!” She 



shouted so loudly, Evan had to hold his phone away from his ear. 

“Do you know what he did? Do you know what he did?” Andy shrieked. 

“No. What?” Evan asked softly. 

“He did all the math equations wrong,” Andy cried. 

“Excuse me?” Evan wasn’t sure he heard correctly. “The genius got 
everything wrong?” 

“On purpose!” Andy declared. “He got them wrong on purpose. He made 
up answers for all of them! He didn’t even read the problems. He just wrote 
down stupid answers.” 

“But why?” Evan demanded. 

“Why? Why? Because he’s Kermit!” Andy screamed. 

Evan swallowed hard. Poor Andy, he thought. Now she will fail in math. 

“What a mean, rotten trick!” Andy shrieked into the phone. “Mrs. McGrady 
called me up to her desk and asked me to explain my answers. She asked me 
how I could possibly be so totally off on every single equation.” 

Andy sighed bitterly. “Of course I couldn’t answer her. I just stood there 
with my mouth open. I think I drooled on her desk!” 

“After we left his house, Kermit probably laughed his head off,” Evan said. 

“That brat has such a sick sense of humor,” Andy wailed. “We have to pay 
him back, Evan. We really have to.” 

“Yeah. We do,” Evan agreed. 

“We have to get out the Monster Blood,” Andy urged. “We have to use the 
Monster Blood to pay him back.” 

“Yeah. We do,” Evan agreed. 



10 


Evan called Andy back later that night. “I changed my mind,” he said. “I don’t 
want to use the Monster Blood.” 

“What’s your problem?” Andy demanded. “Kermit deserves it. You know 
he does.” 

“Monster Blood is too dangerous,” Evan told her. “It turned Cuddles the 
hamster into a giant, roaring monster. I don’t want to turn Kermit into a giant, 
roaring monster.” 

“Neither do I!” Andy exclaimed. “I don’t want to feed it to him, Evan. I just 
want to slip a tiny bit into one of his mixtures. He thinks he’s so smart and can 
do anything. I want to see Kermit’s face when his mixture goes berserk!” 

She laughed gleefully. 

What an evil laugh, Evan thought. 

“It’ll be awesome!” Andy exclaimed. 

“Forget about it,” Evan insisted. “I have nightmares about Monster Blood 
almost every night. I don’t want to see that stuff again, Andy. I really don’t. 
Leave it locked up—please!” 

“But you said we could do it!” Andy pleaded. 

“I made a mistake,” Evan told her. “Don’t take it out of the closet, Andy. 
Leave it safe and sound in its can—okay?” 

Andy didn’t reply. 

“Okay?” Evan demanded. “Okay?” 

“Okay,” Andy finally agreed. 

“We’re going to play outside today, Kermit,” Evan said firmly. “It’s a beautiful 
day, and we’re going to go out and not stay in the stupid basement. Get it?” 

It was a sunny, warm Thursday afternoon. Golden sunlight filtered down 
through the dust-covered basement windows up near the ceiling. 

Standing behind his lab table, arranging his jars and bottles of chemicals, 
Kermit muttered something to himself. 

“No argument,” Andy added. “We’re going outside even if Evan and I have 
to drag you out.” 

“But I have a mixture I want to try,” Kermit whined. 



“You need some sunshine,” Evan told him. “Look how pale you are. You 
look just like a white mouse.” 

Kermit was wearing a huge olive-colored T-shirt over baggy brown shorts. 
With his white-blond hair, beady eyes, and buck teeth, he looked more like a rat 
in human clothes. 

He frowned, hurt by Evan’s description. 

“Okay. I’ll go outside with you,” he murmured unhappily. 

“Yaay!” Andy whooped. It was the first time Kermit had ever agreed to 
leave his basement lab. 

“But first I have to have a drink,” Kermit said. He stepped out from behind 
the lab table and made his way toward the basement stairs. “You want an orange 
soda?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. He and Andy followed Kermit up the stairs to 
the kitchen. 

“I can’t believe he agreed to go out and play,” Andy whispered. “Do you 
think he’s sick or something?” 

“Maybe he feels bad about the mean tricks he’s pulled,” Evan whispered. 

The kitchen phone rang. Evan answered it. It was the wrong number. 

He hung up the phone. He and Andy stepped up to the counter. Andy was 
wearing pink jeans, a yellow sleeveless T-shirt, and bright orange high-tops. 

Kermit had already poured out three glasses of orange soda. The soda was 
the same color as Andy’s high-tops, Evan noticed. They all drank the soda down 
quickly. 

“I was really thirsty,” Kermit said. Evan didn’t pay any attention to the 
strange smile on Kermit’s face. After all, Kermit always had a strange smile on 
his face. 

“This orange soda is very sweet,” Andy commented. She made a face. “Too 
sweet! It makes my teeth itch!” 

Kermit laughed. “I think it’s good,” he said. 

They set their glasses down in the sink and stepped out the back door. Evan 
found a red Frisbee on the back stoop. He flipped it to Andy. 

Andy trotted across the backyard and flipped it back to Evan. “Let’s play 
keep-away from Kermit!” she cried. 

“Hey—no way!” Kermit protested. “Toss it to me!” 

Andy sent the Frisbee flying over Kermit’s head to Evan. Kermit made a 
wild grab for it, but it sailed out of his reach. It hit Evan’s hands, but Evan 



dropped it. 

Andy started to laugh. 

“What’s so funny?” Evan demanded. 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know.” She let out another giggle. 

Evan flipped the Frisbee to Kermit. It bounced off Kermit’s chest. 

This kid is a real klutz, Evan thought. It’s because he never plays sports. He 
never comes up out of his basement. 

Andy uttered a high-pitched laugh. 

Evan started to laugh, too. 

Kermit picked up the Frisbee. He tried to toss it to Andy, but the Frisbee 
sailed way over her head. It hit the side of the garage and bounced off. 

Evan and Andy both laughed harder. 

Evan trotted over to the garage. He sent a sidearm toss toward Andy. She 
missed, and the Frisbee flew into the low hedges at the side of the yard. 

Andy didn’t chase after it. She was laughing too hard. 

Evan laughed even harder. Tears ran down his cheeks. 

What’s happening to me? he wondered, suddenly feeling frightened. 

Why can’t I stop laughing? What’s going on? 

Kermit grinned at both of them. That grin! 

Evan laughed even harder. So hard, his stomach hurt. 

Something is wrong, Evan realized. Something is terribly wrong. 

“K-Kermit—why are we 1-laughing?” he stammered. 

Andy wiped tears from her eyes. She held her sides and laughed some 
more. 

“Why are we laughing?” Evan demanded. 

“I gave you my laughing mixture,” Kermit told them. “I put it in the orange 
soda.” 

Evan tossed back his head and laughed. Andy giggled so hard, she choked. 
But she kept on laughing. 

This isn’t funny. This is scary, Evan thought. But he let out a shrill giggle. 

“How—how long are we going to laugh like this, Kermit?” Evan managed 
to ask. 

“Probably forever,” Kermit replied, flashing his famous toothy grin. 



11 


Evan took a deep breath and tried to hold it. But the laughter burst out of him so 
hard, his chest ached. 

Laughing giddily, Andy made a grab for Kermit. 

Kermit ducked out of her reach and went scampering toward the fence at 
the back of the yard. 

Evan shook his head hard, trying to shake off the effect of the laughter 
potion. But it didn’t help. He laughed until tears rolled down his face. 

Andy chased after Kermit, laughing shrilly. 

Evan followed, gasping for breath. I can’t breathe, he realized. I’m laughing 
so hard, I can’t breathe. 

“K-Kermit—!” Evan choked out. “You’ve got to s-stop it!” A high giggle 
burst out of his throat. “You’ve g-got to!” 

“I don’t know how,” Kermit replied calmly. 

Andy and Evan laughed in reply. 

“It’s awesome—isn’t it!” Kermit declared happily. “The mixture works 
perfectly!” 

Andy made a grab for Kermit’s throat. 

Again, Kermit ducked away. 

Andy and Evan laughed a little harder. 

Andy picked up the Frisbee and tried to heave it at Kermit. But she was 
laughing too hard to control it. The Frisbee sailed over the fence. 

“Hey—get that back. That’s mine!” Kermit demanded. 

Evan and Andy laughed. 

A familiar face popped up on the other side of the fence. 

“Conan!” Kermit cried. 

Conan peered first at Andy, then at Evan. “Are you looking at my yard?” he 
asked Evan. 

Evan struggled to hold it in. But he let out a high, shrill laugh. 

“Didn’t I warn you last week about looking at my yard?” Conan demanded. 

Evan laughed. 

“Conan, give me back my Frisbee,” Kermit whined. 



Conan leaped over the fence. Evan saw that he had the Frisbee in his left 
hand. Conan quickly hid the Frisbee behind his back. 

Andy and Evan laughed. Andy wiped tears from her eyes. Her whole body 
shook with laughter. 

“Give me back my Frisbee,” Kermit insisted. 

Conan ignored him. “What’s so funny?” he asked Andy and Evan. He 
balled his right hand into a fist. 

Andy giggled. 

If we keep laughing, he’ll pound us! Evan realized. But he couldn’t help 
himself. He let out a loud belly laugh. 

“Hey—I want my Frisbee!” Kermit whined. 

“I don’t have your Frisbee,” Conan lied, keeping his left hand behind his 
back. 

Evan tossed his head back and laughed. 

“Yes, you do. It’s behind your back,” Kermit said. “Give it back, Conan.” 

“Who’s going to make me?” Conan demanded in a low, menacing voice. 

Evan let out a high giggle. Andy laughed, too. 

“They are!” Kermit replied to Conan. “They’re going to make you!” He 
turned to Evan. “Make Conan give back my Frisbee.” 

Evan laughed in reply. 

“What’s so funny?” Conan asked again. 

Andy shook her head. “Nothing. Nothing’s funny,” she choked. Then she 
burst out laughing. 

“I don’t like people laughing at me,” Conan said. 

This is horrible! Evan thought. One more laugh—and Conan could 
explode! 

Evan let out a long hyena laugh. 

“I really go ballistic when people laugh at me,” Conan warned. 

Evan and Andy laughed some more. 

“I have to hurt people who laugh at me,” Conan threatened. 

Evan and Andy laughed in reply. 

Conan turned to Kermit. “Why are they laughing like that?” 

Kermit shrugged. “Beats me. I guess they think you’re funny.” 

“Oh, is that right?” Conan shouted angrily, turning back to Evan and Andy. 
“You two think I’m funny?” 

Evan and Andy held their sides and laughed. 



“Give me my Frisbee!” Kermit shouted. 

“Okay. Go chase it.” Conan flung the Frisbee across the hedges. It sailed 
over two yards and disappeared in a clump of evergreen shrubs. 

Kermit went running after it. 

Conan scowled at Evan and Andy. “I’m going to count to three,” he 
growled. “And if you don’t stop laughing by the count of three, I’ll make you 
stop!” He raised both fists to show them how he would make them stop. 

“One...” Conan said. 

Evan laughed. Andy pressed her hand over mouth, but couldn’t stop a 
giggle from escaping. 

“Two...” Conan counted, his face twisted in anger. 

I’ve got to stop laughing! Evan told himself. I’m in serious trouble here. 
Serious. 

He opened his mouth, and a booming “Hahahahaha!” burst out. 

Andy had both hands pressed over her mouth. But it didn’t stop the snickers 
and guffaws from pouring out her nose. 

Kermit came jogging back into the backyard. “I can’t find the Frisbee,” he 
complained. “Somebody has to help me. I can’t find it anywhere.” 

Conan turned to him. “You sure you don’t know why they’re laughing like 
that?” he asked. 

Kermit shook his head. “They told me they think you’re funny-looking,” he 
told Conan. “I guess that’s why they’re laughing.” 

I don’t believe this! Evan thought, so angry he wanted to explode. That 
little creep! How can he do this to us? 

Conan turned back to Andy and Evan. “Last chance to stop,” he said. He 
took a deep breath, stretching out his big, powerful chest. “Three!” 

Andy laughed. 

Evan laughed even harder. 

“I warned you,” Conan growled. 



12 


Andy phoned Evan that night to see how he was feeling. Evan had to hold the 
phone away from his ear. His head hurt too much to press a phone against it. 

“I guess I’ll survive,” Evan groaned. “I’m getting used to looking in the 
mirror and seeing a pile of coleslaw where my head used to be.” 

Andy sighed. “Your cousin is such a creep,” she said. 

“How are you feeling?” Evan asked. “How long did it take you to climb 
down from the tree?” 

“Not too many hours,” Andy replied weakly. 

Conan had said he never hit girls. So he picked Andy up and stuck her onto 
a high tree branch. 

“At least Conan stopped us from laughing,” Evan said. “My stomach still 
hurts from laughing so hard.” 

“Mine, too,” Andy told him. “I’m never going to laugh again. Never. If 
someone tells me the funniest joke in the world, I’ll just smile and say, ‘Very 
funny.’” 

“I can’t believe Kermit did that to us,” Evan moaned. 

“I believe it,” Andy replied dryly. “Kermit will do anything to get us into 
trouble. That’s what he lives for—getting us into major trouble.” 

“Did you hear that little mouse laughing while Conan pounded me into the 
ground?” Evan asked. 

“I was up in the tree, remember? I could see him laughing!” Andy declared. 

There was a long silence at the other end. And then Andy spoke in a hushed 
voice, just above a whisper, “Evan—are you ready to use the Monster Blood on 
Kermit?” 

“Yeah,” Evan replied without having to think about it even for a second. 
“I’m ready.” 



13 


After school the next afternoon, Evan and Andy found Kermit behind his lab 
table as usual. “Hi, Kermit,” Evan called, tossing his backpack down and 
stepping up to the table. 

Kermit didn’t glance up. He was busy stirring ingredients in a large mixing 
bowl, using a large wooden spoon. 

Evan peered into the bowl. It looked like pie dough in there. It was thick 
and gooey and yellowish. 

Kermit hummed to himself as he stirred. 

Andy was wearing a sleeveless, hot pink T-shirt over bright yellow shorts 
and matching yellow sneakers. She stepped up beside Evan and peeked into the 
bowl. “Making a pie?” she asked. 

Kermit ignored her, too. He kept stirring and humming, stirring and 
humming. 

Finally he stopped and glanced up at Evan. “I told my mom you lost my 
Frisbee,” he said, sneering. “She says you have to get me a new one.” 

“Huh? Me?” Evan cried. 

Andy walked around to Kermit’s side of the table. She lowered her head to 
the bowl. “Smells lemony,” she said. “What is it, Kermit? Is it some kind of 
dough?” 

“It was your fault my Frisbee got lost,” Kermit told Evan, ignoring Andy’s 
questions. “Mom says you’re a very bad baby-sitter.” 

Evan let out an angry cry. He balled his hands into fists. He struggled to 
keep himself from strangling Kermit. 

It was a real struggle. 

“Mom wanted to know who drank up all the orange soda,” Kermit 
continued. “I told her you and Andy drank it.” 

“Kermit!” Evan shrieked. “You played a horrible trick on us yesterday! You 
put chemicals in our orange soda! You made us laugh and laugh and laugh— 
until it hurt. Then you got us in major trouble with Conan! Did you tell your 
mom that? Did you? Did you ? ” 

Kermit put his hands over his ears. “Don’t shout, Evan,” he whined. “You 
know I have very sensitive ears.” 



Another angry growl escaped Evan’s throat. He felt about to explode with 

rage. 

“I told my mom that you shout at me all the time,” Kermit continued. 
“Mom says you’re just immature. She thinks you’re very babyish. She only lets 
you stay with me because you’re my cousin.” 

Kermit picked up the wooden spoon and started to stir the doughy mixture 
again. 

Evan spun away, trying to control his anger. 

I’m glad Andy and I are going to do what we’re going to do, he thought. 
I’m glad we’re going to give Kermit a little scare. He’s been asking for it. He 
really has. And now he’s going to get it. 

Evan walked over to his backpack. He unzipped it and pulled out a candy 
bar. “Mmmm. A Choc-O-Lik Bar,” he murmured. He crossed back to the lab 
table, unwrapping the candy bar as he walked. 

Standing in front of Kermit, Evan took a big bite of the chocolate bar. It 
made a loud crunch as his teeth sank into it. “Mmmmmm!” he proclaimed. 
“Choc-O-Lik Bars are cool.” 

The candy bar was part of the plot. 

Evan knew that the Choc-O-Lik Bar was Kermit’s favorite. 

The candy bar was supposed to distract Kermit. While Kermit stared at the 
candy and pleaded with Evan to give him a bite, Andy would slip a tiny chunk of 
Monster Blood into Kermit’s mixture. 

Evan crunched the candy bar loudly, making lip-smacking sounds as he 
chewed. 

Kermit glanced up. He stopped stirring the yellowish dough. “Is that really 
a Choc-O-Lik Bar?” he asked. 

Evan nodded. “Yeah. Sure is.” 

“My favorite,” Kermit said. 

“I know,” Evan replied. He took another crunchy bite. 

Kermit stared at the candy bar. 

Andy stood beside Kermit. Evan saw the blue container of Monster Blood 
in her hand. Just seeing the can made Evan shiver. 

So many bad memories. So many nightmares. 

The green gunk inside the can was so dangerous. 

“Can I have a piece of the Choc-O-Lik Bar?” Kermit asked Evan. 

Andy lifted off the top of the Monster Blood container. 



“Maybe. Maybe not,” Evan told Kermit. 

Andy stuck two fingers in the container. She pulled out a gooey green hunk 
of Monster Blood. 

“Please? Pretty please?” Kermit begged Evan. 

Andy dropped the chunk of Monster Blood into Kermit’s big bowl of 
dough. Then she quietly snapped the cap back on the container and slid it back 
into her bag. 

Evan took another bite of the candy bar. 

“You shouldn’t eat a candy bar unless you have enough to share with 
everyone,” Kermit scolded. 

“You haven’t been very nice to me,” Evan told him. “So I’m not going to 
share.” 

Kermit started stirring the dough again. He stared angrily at Evan as he 
stirred. He didn’t see the green Monster Blood being stirred up in the yellow 
dough. 

Evan took another bite of the Choc-O-Lik Bar. Only a few bites left. 

“I’m going to tell Mom you were mean to me,” Kermit threatened. “I’m 
going to tell her you wouldn’t share.” 

Evan shook his head. “See what I mean? You’re not nice to me, Kermit. If 
you were nice to me, I’d share all my candy bars with you.” 

Andy winked at Evan. Then she peered into the bowl. 

Kermit stirred and stirred. 

Andy’s expression became tense. She gripped the edge of the table with 
both hands. Evan saw her nibble her bottom lip. 

Watching Kermit stir the Monster Blood, Evan suddenly had a heavy 
feeling in his stomach. 

We’ve done it, he thought. 

We’ve opened another can of Monster Blood. 

He stared at the yellow dough in the bowl. It made a soft plopping sound as 
Kermit pushed the wooden spoon through it. 

Now what? Evan wondered. 

Now what’s going to happen? 



14 


Kermit stirred the yellow dough. The big wooden spoon scraped the bowl. The 
doughy mixture plopped softly, tumbling and swirling as Kermit worked. 

Andy kept nibbling her lower lip, her eyes locked on the bowl. Her brown 
hair fell over her face. But she made no move to push it back. 

Evan watched from the other side of the table. His heart began doing flip- 
flops in his chest. He took another bite of the chocolate bar. 

He chewed as quietly as possible. He didn’t want to disturb Kermit. As he 
chewed, he stared at the bowl. 

He and Andy were waiting. Waiting to see what the little hunk of Monster 
Blood would do to Kermit’s mixture. 

Waiting to see the look of horror on Kermit’s face. 

Waiting to pay him back for being such a little monster. 

Kermit didn’t seem to notice how quiet it had become in the basement. 
Dogface came lumbering in, panting loudly, his paws thudding on the tile floor. 

No one turned to look at him. 

The dog hiccupped, turned, and padded out of the room. 

Evan bit off another chunk of the candy bar. 

Kermit stirred, humming to himself. The spoon scraped the side of the 
bowl. The dough slapped against the edge. 

And spilled over. 

Kermit stopped stirring. “Weird,” he muttered. 

Evan’s heart did a flip-flop up to his throat. “What’s weird?” he asked. 

“It grew,” Kermit replied, scratching his white-blond hair. “Look.” 

Kermit pointed to the yellow dough with the wooden spoon. It plopped up 
over the top of the bowl. 

“It—it’s growing really fast!” Kermit declared. 

Evan took a few steps closer. Andy leaned down to get a better look. 

The dough rose up, shimmering and quivering. 

“Wow!” Kermit cried. “It wasn’t supposed to do this! It was supposed to 
turn sticky and black!” 

Andy winked at Evan. Her brown eyes lit up excitedly. A smile spread 



across her face. 

The yellow blob quivered up over the top of the bowl, as big as a beach 

ball. 

How big was it going to get? 

“Oh, wow! This is awesome!” Kermit declared. 

The dough shimmered higher. Wider. 

It rose up high over the bowl. It overflowed the sides. 

Bigger. Bigger. It started to look like an enormous hot air balloon. 

“It’s taller than me!” Kermit declared. His voice had changed. He didn’t 
sound excited now. He was beginning to sound frightened. 

“We’d better stop it, I think,” he murmured. 

“How?” Andy asked. She stepped out from behind the lab table and joined 
Evan on the other side. 

Andy grinned at Evan. She was enjoying the expression of fear on Kermit’s 
face. Evan had to admit he enjoyed it, too. 

The ball of yellow dough shimmered and shook, growing bigger every 
second. It bubbled up faster and faster, pressing Kermit back against the 
basement wall. 

“Hey—help!” he sputtered. 

Andy’s grin grew wider. “He’s terrified now,” she whispered to Evan. 

Evan nodded. He knew he was supposed to enjoy this. It was supposed to 
be sweet revenge. 

But Evan was terrified, too. 

How much bigger would the huge yellow blob grow? Could they stop it? 
Or would it grow and grow and grow until it filled the entire basement? 

“Evan—help me!” Kermit cried. “I’m trapped back here!” 

The dough began to shake harder. It bobbed up against the basement 
ceiling. 

Evan glanced down and realized he was still holding a chunk of candy bar 
in his hand. The chocolate had started to melt. 

Evan started to pop the candy into his mouth—just as the giant dough ball 
exploded with a deafening roar. 



15 


“ULP!” 

Evan swallowed hard as the doughy goop exploded. The force of the blast 
sent the candy chunk flying down his throat. 

He started to cough and choke. 

With a hard splat, globs of sticky dough hit him in the face. The yellow goo 
spread over his hair and covered his eyes. 

“Hey!” Evan choked out. He frantically wiped the dough from his eyes, 
blinking hard. 

He could taste it on his tongue. “Yuck!” He spit it out and rubbed the sticky 
stuff off his lips. Then he pulled thick wads of goo off his face. 

“It’s stuck to my hair!” Andy wailed. 

“Help me! Help me!” Kermit’s cries sounded as if they were coming from 
far away. Evan quickly saw why. Kermit was buried under a big heap of yellow 
goop. 

Pulling dough from his hair, Evan hurried behind the lab table. He reached 
down with both hands and tugged Kermit up from under the dough. 

“Wow. I’m kind of dizzy!” Kermit cried. He leaned heavily against the lab 
table. His hands slid in the yellow goo that covered the table. 

“Til never get it out of my hair!” Andy wailed, tugging at her hair with both 
hands. “Never!” She turned to Evan. “It wasn’t supposed to explode. Just get 
big. I guess something in the dough made it blow up.” 

Wiping dough off the front of his T-shirt, Evan gazed around the basement. 
The yellow dough had splattered over everything. Now it dripped down the 
walls, making soft plopping sounds as it hit the floor. 

“That was an awesome explosion!” Kermit declared. His eyeglasses were 
covered with yellow goop. He pulled them off and squinted around the room. 

He turned to Andy. “Did you put something in the bowl?” 

“Never mind,” Andy replied, still pulling sticky yellow globs from her hair. 

Kermit tugged her arm. “What was it? What did you put in my mixture?” 

“Why do you want to know?” Andy demanded. 

“So we can do that again!” Kermit declared gleefully. “It was so awesome !” 

“No way we’re doing it again!” Evan moaned. 



Their revenge on Kermit hadn’t exactly worked out, Evan realized bitterly. 
Kermit should be in tears by now. Or he should be quivering in fear and terror. 

Instead, his eyes were dancing with excitement and he was grinning from 
ear to ear. 

We were total jerks! Evan thought sadly. Kermit is loving this! 

Kermit pulled out a cloth and cleaned his glasses. “What a mess!” he 
declared, gazing around the room. “Evan, you’re going to be in major trouble 
when Mom gets home.” 

Evan swallowed hard. He had forgotten about Kermit’s mom. 

She had given him one last chance to prove that he was a good baby-sitter. 

Now she was going to come home to a basement splattered with sticky 
yellow goop from floor to ceiling. And Kermit was sure to tell her the whole 
thing was Evan’s fault. 

Aunt Dee will tell everyone in the world why she had to take the job away 
from me, Evan thought unhappily. And I’ll never get another baby-sitting job as 
long as I live. 

Bye-bye, Walkman, he thought grimly. No way he’d ever earn the money 
for one now. 

“This is your fault!” he snapped at Andy, pointing an accusing finger at her. 
A spot of yellow dough stuck to his fingernail. 

“My fault?” Andy shrieked. “You’re the one who wanted to teach Kermit a 
lesson!” 

“But you ’re the one who wanted to use the Monster Blood!” Evan cried. 

“Look at my hair!” Andy wailed. “It’s solid goop! It looks like I’m wearing 
a helmet! It’s ruined! Ruined!” She uttered an angry growl. 

Kermit giggled. He bent down and picked up a chunk of the sticky yellow 
dough. “Think fast!” he shouted—and heaved it at Evan. 

The dough ball hit the front of Evan’s T-shirt and stuck there. “Stop it, 
Kermit!” he shouted angrily. 

“Let’s have a dough fight!” Kermit suggested, grinning. He scooped up 
another handful of the stuff. 

“No! No way! Stop it!” Evan cried. He pulled the dough ball off his T-shirt. 
“This is dangerous! We’ve got to clean this up!” 

Kermit flung another big chunk of yellow goo at Evan. 

Evan tried to dodge out of the way. But his sneakers slipped on a big, slimy 
puddle of goop, and he hit the floor hard. He landed on his side with a loud 



“OOF!” 

Kermit let out a gleeful laugh. “That was awesome!” he declared. “What a 
shot!” 

Andy hurried over and helped tug Evan to his feet. “Maybe we can vacuum 
it all up,” she suggested. She turned to Kermit. “Where does your mom keep the 
vacuum cleaner?” 

Kermit shrugged. “Beats me.” 

Evan leaned against the lab table. His hand rested in a puddle of dough, but 
he didn’t care. 

He suddenly felt strange. 

His entire body started to tingle. His stomach felt queasy. He shut his eyes, 
trying to force the strange feeling away. 

But the tingling grew stronger. 

He heard a shrill whistling sound in his ears. His muscles started to ache. 
He could feel the blood throbbing at his temples. 

“Maybe we can mop it up,” Evan heard Andy say. But her voice sounded 
tiny and far away. 

He turned to see her pick up a mop and bucket from against the basement 

wall. 

That bucket is too tiny, Evan thought. Why does Andy want to use such a 
tiny mop? 

The room tilted—to the right, then to the left. 

Evan blinked hard, trying to straighten everything out. 

His whole body buzzed, as if an electrical current were shooting through 
him. He shut his eyes and pressed both hands against his throbbing temples. 

“Evan—aren’t you going to help me?” Andy’s voice sounded so faint, so 
far away. “Evan—?” he heard her call. “Evan—?” 

When he opened his eyes, he saw that Andy and Kermit were staring up at 
him. Their expressions had changed. Their eyes bulged in fright and surprise. 
Their mouths were wide open. 

“What’s going on?” Evan demanded. His voice boomed through the 
basement, echoing off the concrete walls. 

Andy and Kermit stared up at him. The tiny mop fell out of Andy’s hand 
and clattered to the floor. 

Such a tiny mop, Evan thought again, staring down at it. Such a tiny bucket. 

And then he realized that Andy and Kermit were tiny, too. 



“Oh!” A cry of surprise escaped Evan’s throat. 

Everyone is so small. Everything is so tiny. 

It took Evan a long time to figure out what had happened. 

But when it finally dawned on him, he let out a shriek of horror. 

“Oh, no! No!” he moaned. “I’m growing ! I’m growing bigger and bigger!” 



16 


Evan lowered his eyes to the floor. It seemed so far below. 

“My—my legs—” he stammered. 

Andy and Kermit still hadn’t said a word. They stared up at him, their faces 
twisted in surprise. 

Evan swallowed hard. “What’s going on?” he cried. His voice boomed 
through the small room. “I must be eight feet tall!” 

“You—you’re a giant]” Kermit declared. He stepped forward and grabbed 
on to Evan’s knee. “Me, too! Okay? Okay, Evan? Make me a giant, too!” he 
begged. 

“Give me a break,” Evan muttered. He picked up Kermit easily and set him 
down on top of the lab table. 

Then Evan turned to Andy. “What am I going to do? This is terrible!” 

“Not so loud!” Andy pleaded, covering her ears with her hands. “Please, 
Evan—try to whisper or something, okay?” 

“What am I going to do?” Evan repeated, ignoring her plea. 

Andy forced a smile. “Try out for basketball, I guess.” 

Evan balled his huge hands into huge fists. “I’m not in the mood for your 
sick sense of humor, Andy,” he snapped. 

His body started to tingle again. His muscles ached. 

I’m growing even bigger, he realized. 

Evan’s throat suddenly felt very dry. He realized his knees were shaking. 
They made a loud banging sound as they hit together. 

Don’t panic! he instructed himself. 

The first rule is—don’t panic. 

But why shouldn ’t he panic? His head was nearly pushing up against the 
basement ceiling. 

Kermit stood up on top of the lab table. His white high-tops were splattered 
with yellow dough. They looked like little doll shoes to Evan. 

“Make me a giant, too!” Kermit pleaded. “Why can’t I be a giant?” 

Evan stared down at his cousin. Kermit really did look like a little white 


mouse now. 



Evan’s body tingled harder. The room tilted and swayed again. “This is 
your fault, Andy!” he shouted. 

Andy shrank back against the wall. “Huh? My fault?” 

“You and your Monster Blood!” Evan thundered. “I—I swallowed some!” 

Andy stared up at him. “How?” 

“When Kermit’s mixture exploded,” Evan replied. “I was putting the candy 
bar in my mouth. The dough exploded. I started to choke. The dough hit me in 
the face. I remember I tasted it. It was on my lips. And—and—” 

“And it had Monster Blood in it!” Andy finished his sentence for him. Her 
face filled with horror. “Oh, Evan. I’m sorry. I really am.” 

But then her face brightened. “The Monster Blood splashed on your 
clothes, too. That was lucky. They’re growing with you.” 

Evan let out an exasperated sigh. “Lucky?” he cried. “You call this lucky? 
What if I keep growing and never stop?” 

Kermit remained standing on the lab table. He stared up at Evan. “You 
mean if I eat some of the dough, I’ll turn into a giant, too?” He bent down and 
scooped up a handful of dough. 

“Don’t you dare!” Evan screamed. He leaned over and flicked the dough 
out of Kermit’s hand with two fingers. Then he hovered over Kermit, glaring at 
him menacingly. “I can squash you, Kermit. I really can,” Evan warned. 

“Okay, okay,” Kermit muttered, his voice trembling. He slid off the table 
and stepped behind Andy. 

Wow, Evan thought, I actually have Kermit afraid of me! That’s a first. 
Maybe growing so big isn’t all bad! 

His body tingled and vibrated. The whistling in his ears grew louder. He 
could feel himself grow some more. 

He turned to see Dogface pad into the room. The big sheepdog looked like 
a tiny poodle. 

The dog hiccupped. It sniffed at a yellow puddle of dough on the floor. 

“No!” Evan cried. “Don’t eat that! Dogface—no!” 

He bent over and picked up the sheepdog. 

Seeing a giant human lift him up easily off the floor, Dogface let out a yelp 
of terror. All four legs thrashed the air as the frightened dog struggled to break 
free. 

But Evan cradled the sheepdog in one arm and held on to him tightly. 

When he realized he couldn’t escape from the giant, the dog’s terrified 



yelps turned to quiet whimpers. 

“Take Dogface out of here. Lock him outside,” Evan ordered Kermit. He 
lowered the whimpering dog to the floor. 

Kermit obediently led the dog away. Halfway to the stairs, he turned back to 
Evan. “Hey, you cured Dogface’s hiccups!” 

I guess I scared them out of him! Evan told himself. 

Kermit led Dogface up the stairs. Evan turned to Andy. “I told you to leave 
the Monster Blood in the closet!” he cried. “Now look at me!” 

He had to duck his head. Otherwise it would brush against the ceiling. 

“Who told you to eat the stuff?” Andy replied. “Why did you have to be 
eating that candy bar?” 

“It was part of the plan—remember?” Evan snapped angrily. He uttered a 
bitter sigh. “Great plan we had!” 

“I guess it didn’t work out too well,” Andy admitted. 

“I guess it didn’t,” Evan muttered. “Now what will happen to me? What 
will Mom and Dad say?” 

“What will you eat?” Andy added. “You’ll probably have to eat sixteen 
meals a day! And where will you sleep? And how can you go to school? There 
aren’t any desks big enough for you. And what will you wear? They’ll have to 
make your T-shirts out of bedsheets!” 

“You’re not cheering me up,” Evan murmured glumly. 

He felt his body tingle. Again, he could feel his skin stretching, feel all of 
his muscles throb. 

“Ow!” he cried out as the top of his head banged against the ceiling. 

He had to lean over to rub his head. 

“Evan—you’re growing!” Andy exclaimed. 

“I know. I know,” Evan grumbled. The basement ceiling was at least nine 
feet high. Evan had to stoop to keep from banging the ceiling. That meant he 
was more than nine feet tall. 

A shiver of fear shook his body. He glanced around the basement. “I have to 
get out of here!” he cried. 

Kermit returned to the room. He stopped and gawked at Evan. “You grew 
even more!” he cried. “I’ll bet you weigh three hundred pounds!” 

“I don’t have time to weigh myself,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “I have 
to get out of here. I’m so big, I can’t stand up. I’m so big, I—” 

He stopped. He felt himself grow a little more. 



“I’m too big now!” he cried. “I’m trapped down here! There’s no way I can 
get out!” 



17 


“Stay calm,” Andy called up to him. 

“Calm? How can I stay calm?” Evan shrieked. “I’m going to spend the rest 
of my life in this basement! I’m too big for the stairs!” 

“Mom won’t like that,” Kermit said, shaking his head. 

“Try the stairs!” Andy cried. “Maybe you can squeeze up if you hurry!” 

Evan turned to the basement stairs. “I—I don’t think I’ll fit,” he stammered. 
The stairway appeared very narrow. And Evan was now very wide. 

“Come on,” Andy urged. “We’ll help you.” 

“You push and I’ll pull,” Kermit said, running to the stairs. 

Evan lumbered toward the stairs. His sneakers thudded heavily on the tile 
floor. He stooped his shoulders to keep his head from crashing against the 
ceiling. 

“Try not to grow any bigger!” Andy called, following closely behind him. 

“Great advice!” Evan replied sarcastically. “Do you have any more advice 
like that?” 

“Don’t be nasty,” Andy scolded. “I’m only trying to help you.” 

“You’ve already helped me more than enough,” Evan grumbled. 

He felt his body start to tingle. His muscles started to throb. 

“No! Please—no!” He uttered a silent plea. I don’t want to grow any more! 

He sucked in a deep breath and held it. He shut his eyes tight and tried to 
concentrate—concentrate on not growing. 

“I think I just saw you grow another few inches,” Andy called to him. 
“You’d better hurry, Evan.” 

“How big is Evan going to get?” Kermit asked. He had climbed halfway up 
the stairs. “Is he going to get bigger than an elephant?” 

“That’s not helpful, Kermit,” Evan muttered unhappily. “Please stop asking 
questions like that—okay?” 

“If you get as big as an elephant, will you give me a ride?” Kermit 
demanded. 

Evan glared angrily at his cousin. “Do you know what elephants do to 
mice?” he bellowed. Evan raised one foot and brought it down with a crunching 
thud to demonstrate to Kermit what elephants do to mice. 



Kermit swallowed hard and didn’t say anything more. 

Evan walked over to the stairway. He glanced up the stairs. “I don’t think I 
can make it,” he told Andy. “I’m too big.” 

“Give it a try,” she urged. “You’ve got to, Evan.” 

Evan stepped on to the first step. Leaning low, he raised himself to the next 

step. 

“You’re doing it!” Kermit cried happily. He stayed at the top of the stairs, 
watching Evan’s progress eagerly. 

Evan took another step. The wooden stairs creaked under his weight. He 
tried to lean on the banister. But it snapped beneath his hand. 

He climbed two more steps. 

He was a third of the way up when he became stuck. 

His body was just too wide for the narrow stairway. 

Kermit pulled both of Evan’s hands. Andy pushed him from behind. 

But they couldn’t budge him. 

“I—I can’t move,” Evan stammered. He felt panic choke his throat. “I’m 
jammed tight in here. There’s no way I’ll ever get out!” 

Then he felt his body start to tingle. And he knew he was growing even 


more. 



18 


As Evan grew, he heard a cracking sound. 

Soft at first. Then louder. Very close by. 

He cried out as the wall to his left crumbled. His expanding body had 
broken the wall away. 

As the wall cracked and fell, Evan took a deep breath and lurched up the 
stairs. 

“Made it!” he cried as he squeezed through the doorway. 

A few seconds later, he burst out through the kitchen door, into the sunlit 
backyard. 

Dogface lay stretched out near the fence. The dog jumped to his feet as the 
gigantic Evan appeared. Frightened, Dogface gave a loud bark, his stubby tail 
wagging furiously, then turned and bolted from the yard. 

Kermit and Andy followed Evan into the backyard, cheering and shouting, 
“You made it! You’re free!” 

Evan turned to face them. “But now what?” he asked. “Now what do I do? 
I’m nearly as tall as the garage. How tall am I going to grow?” 

Kermit stepped closer to Evan. “Look—I’m standing in your shade!” he 
declared. 

Evan’s shadow fell across the yard like the shadow of a tree trunk. “Kermit, 
give me a break,” Evan muttered. “I have a little bit of a problem here, you 
know?” 

“Maybe we should get you to a doctor,” Andy suggested. 

“A doctor?” Evan cried. “What could a doctor do for me?” 

“Put you on a diet?” Andy joked. 

Evan leaned over her, squinting down at her menacingly. “Andy, I’m 
warning you. One more bad joke, and—” 

“Okay, okay.” Andy raised her hands as if trying to shield herself from him. 
“Sorry. Just trying to keep it light.” 

“Evan isn’t light. He’s heavy!” Kermit chimed in. His idea of a joke. 

Evan let out an unhappy growl. “I don’t think a doctor can help me. I mean, 
I couldn’t fit into a doctor’s office.” 

“But maybe if we brought the can of Monster Blood along, the doctor could 



figure out an antidote,” Andy suggested. “Some kind of cure.” 

Evan started to reply. But shrill voices on the other side of the tall wooden 
fence at the back of the yard made him stop. 

“Cut it out, Conan!” a girl pleaded. 

“Yeah. Leave us alone, Conan!” Evan heard a boy shout. 

Evan lumbered over to the fence and peered into Conan’s yard. He saw 
Conan Barber furiously swinging a baseball bat, swinging it hard, forcing a little 
boy and girl to back up against the fence. 

“Let us go!” the little girl screamed. “Why are you so mean?” 

Conan swung the bat, bringing it close to the boy and girl, making them cry 

out. 

Evan leaned over the fence. His broad shadow fell over Conan. “Want to 
play ball with me, Conan?” Evan thundered. 

The two little kids spun around. They stared up at the enormous Evan. It 
took them a long time to realize they were staring at a real, giant human. 

Then they began to scream. 

Conan’s mouth dropped open and a strangled gurgling sound escaped his 
throat. 

“Hey, Conan, how about a little batting practice?” Evan asked, his voice 
booming over the backyard. Evan reached over the fence and plucked the bat 
from Conan’s hand. 

The little boy and girl ran away screaming. They darted through the hedge 
at the side of Conan’s yard and kept running until they vanished from view. 

Evan took the bat and snapped it in two between his hands. It cracked apart 
like a toothpick. 

Conan froze in place, staring up at Evan in disbelief. He pointed a 
trembling finger. “Evan—you—you—you—” he stammered. 

Evan tossed the two pieces of the cracked bat at Conan’s feet, forcing 
Conan to hop out of the way. 

“You ate Monster Blood!” Conan accused. “That sticky green stuff. The 
stuff that Cuddles the hamster ate last year! You ate some—didn’t you!” 

Evan didn’t want to be reminded of Cuddles the hamster. The little creature 
had turned into a huge, vicious beast after eating Monster Blood. Cuddles had 
returned to hamster size only because the Monster Blood was old and stale. 

But the Monster Blood Evan had swallowed was new and fresh. 

Now I’m a huge, vicious beast, Evan thought sadly. 



“Are you crazy? Are you totally messed up? Why did you eat Monster 
Blood?” Conan demanded. 

“It was an accident,” Evan told him. 

Conan continued to stare up at Evan, but his fearful expression faded. 
Conan suddenly started to laugh. “I’m glad it happened to you and not me!” he 
exclaimed. 

“Huh? Why?” Evan demanded. 

“Because I’m afraid of heights!” Conan replied. He laughed again. “I 
always thought you were a nerd, Evan!” Conan declared. “But now you’re a BIG 
nerd!” 

Evan let out an angry growl and lurched forward. He tried to climb over the 
fence. But he didn’t step high enough. Conan’s fence splintered beneath Evan’s 
heavy sneaker. 

“Hey—!” Conan cried in alarm. 

He tried to turn and run, but Evan was too fast for him. 

Evan grabbed Conan under the shoulders and lifted him off the ground as if 
he weighed nothing. 

“Let go! Let go of me!” Conan screamed. He kicked his arms and legs like 
a baby. 

“I never knew you were afraid of heights,” Evan said. Holding Conan in 
both hands, he raised him high in the air. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” Conan cried. “What are you going to do?” 

“Let’s see if you know how to fly!” Evan exclaimed. 

“Noooooo!” Conan’s shrill cry rose up over the yard. He kicked and 
thrashed as Evan raised him even higher. “Put me down! Put me down!” 

“Okay,” Evan agreed. “I’ll put you down.” He set Conan down on a high 
tree branch. 

Conan clung to the trunk for dear life, trembling and crying. “Evan—don’t 
leave me up here! Please! I told you, I’m afraid of heights! Evan—come back! 
Evan!” 

A huge grin on his huge face, Evan turned away from Conan. “That was a 
lot of fun!” he called down to his friends. 

Conan continued to weep and wail up in the tree. Evan took a few steps 
toward the front yard. “That was excellent!” Evan said, still grinning. 
“Excellent!” 

“Where are you going?” he heard Andy call up to him. 



“Yeah! What are you going to do now?” Kermit asked eagerly. 

“This is kind of cool!” Evan declared. Having his revenge on Conan had 
put him in a better mood. “Let’s go see if we can have some more fun!” 

“Yaaaay!” Kermit cried, racing to keep up with Evan. 

Evan ducked his head to keep from banging it on a low tree branch. He took 
several big steps toward the street. 

“Oh!” He stopped and cried out when he felt himself step on something. He 
heard a cracking, then a crunch beneath his enormous sneaker. 

He turned to see Kermit raise both hands to his face. “Oh, no!” Kermit 
shrieked. “You squashed Andy! Evan—you squashed Andy!” 



19 


Evan gasped and jerked up his foot. 

Kermit let out a high-pitched laugh. “Gotcha, Evan!” 

Andy came running over from the driveway. “That wasn’t funny!” she 
scolded Kermit. “That was a really dumb joke, Kermit. You scared Evan to 
death.” 

“I know!” Kermit laughed, very pleased with himself. 

Evan let out a sigh of relief. He bent down to see what he had stepped on. 
Conan’s skateboard. It lay crushed and splintered, flat on the grass. 

He turned angrily to Kermit. “No more stupid jokes,” he thundered. “Or I’ll 
put you up in the tree with Conan.” 

“Okay. Okay,” Kermit mumbled. “You think you’re tough just because 
you’re so big.” 

Evan held up a pointer finger. “Careful, Kermit,” he warned. “I could knock 
you over with one finger.” 

“Conan is still yelling for help back there,” Andy reported. 

Evan smiled. “Let’s see who’s hanging out at the playground. Maybe we 
can surprise some other kids.” 

Evan crossed the street, taking long, heavy strides. He felt as if he were 
walking on stilts. This is kind of cool, he told himself. I’m the biggest person in 
the world! 

He passed by the neighbors’ basketball hoop, which stood on a pole at the 
curb. Hey—I’m at least six feet taller than the basket! he realized. 

“Hey—wait up!” Andy called breathlessly. “Don’t walk so fast!” 

“I can’t help it!” Evan called back. 

A small blue car rolled by, then squealed to a stop. Evan could see a woman 
and two kids in the car. They were all staring out at him. 

A little girl on a bike turned the corner. She started pedaling toward Evan. 
He saw the look of surprise on her face when she spotted him. 

She braked her bike hard, nearly toppling over the handlebars. Then she 
wheeled around and sped out of sight. 

Evan laughed. 

Another car screeched to a halt. 



As he started to cross another street, Evan turned to see who was in the car. 
He didn’t watch where he was going. 

A loud crunch made him stop. 

With a gasp, he peered down—and saw that he had stepped on a car. 

“Oh, no!” Evan cried. His sneaker had crushed in the top of the car—as if it 
were made of tinfoil. 

Evan backed away in horror. Was someone inside? 

He dropped to his knees to stare in the window. “Thank goodness!” he cried 
when he saw that the car was empty. 

“Wow!” Kermit exclaimed, walking around and around the smashed-in car. 
“You must weigh at least a ton, Evan!” 

Andy stepped up beside Evan, who remained on his knees. “Be careful,” 
she warned. “You’ve got to watch every step.” 

Evan nodded in agreement. “At least I think I’ve stopped growing,” he 
called down to her. 

As they reached the playground, Evan saw several kids shouting and 
pointing excitedly at a tall maple tree on the corner. 

What’s going on? Evan wondered. 

As he lumbered closer, he saw the problem. Their yellow kite had become 
stuck up in the tree. 

“Hey—no problem!” Evan boomed. 

The kids screamed and cried out in surprise as Evan stepped up to them. 
They all backed away, their faces tight with fear. 

Evan reached up easily and tugged the kite loose from the tree limb. Then 
he leaned down and gently handed it to the nearest kid. 

“Hey, thanks!” A grin spread across the kid’s freckled face. 

The other kids all cheered. Evan took a bow. 

Andy laughed. “You need a red cape and a pair of blue tights,” she shouted 
up to him. “It’s Super Evan!” 

“Super Evan!” the kids shouted as they ran off happily with their kite. 

Evan leaned down to talk to Andy. “If I stay big like this, do you think I 
really could get a job as a superhero?” 

“I don’t think it pays very well,” Kermit chimed in. “In the comic books, 
you never see those guys getting paid.” 

They crossed the street and headed toward the playground. Evan glanced at 
the redbrick school building on the corner. It’s so small, he thought. 



He suddenly realized that he stood at least two stories tall. If I walk over 
there, I can see into the second-floor classrooms, he thought. 

How will I go to school? Evan wondered. I can’t squeeze through the door. 
I won’t fit in Mrs. McGrady’s room anymore. 

Feeling a wave of sadness roll over him, he turned away from the school 
building. He heard cheers and shouts. A softball game was underway on the 
practice diamond. 

Evan recognized Billy Denver and Brian Johnson and some of the other 
kids. He always had to beg to play softball with them. They never wanted Evan 
on their team because he wasn’t a very good hitter. 

He strolled over the grass to the practice diamond. Andy and Kermit ran 
behind him, struggling to keep up. 

Brian was starting to pitch the ball. But he stopped short when he spotted 
Evan. The ball dropped from his hand and dribbled to the ground. 

Players on both teams gasped and shouted. 

Evan strode up to Brian on the pitcher’s mound. Brian’s eyes bulged in fear 
as Evan drew near. Brian raised his hands to shield himself. “Don’t hurt me!” he 
pleaded. 

“Hey—it’s Evan!” Billy exclaimed. “Look, guys! It’s Evan!” 

Kids from both teams gathered around, murmuring excitedly, nervously. 

Brian slowly lowered his hands and stared up at the giant Evan. “Wow! It 
really is you! Evan—how did you do that?” 

“What happened to you?” another kid cried. 

“He’s been working out!” Andy told them. 

The kids laughed. Very tense laughter. 

Andy always has a joke for everything, Evan thought. 

“Uh... want to play?” Brian asked. “You can be on my team.” 

“No. My team!” Billy insisted. 

“No way! He’s on my team!” Brian shouted. “We’re one man short, 
remember?” 

“Don’t say short around Evan!” Andy joked. 

Everyone laughed again. 

Billy and Brian continued to fight over which team would get Evan. Evan 
stood back and enjoyed the argument. He picked up a wooden bat. It had always 
seemed so heavy before. Now it felt as light as a pencil. 

Billy won the argument. “You can bat now, Evan,” he said, grinning up at 



him. 

“How can I pitch to him? He’s a giant!” Brian complained. 

“Pitch it really high,” Evan suggested. 

“Evan, do your mom and dad know you grew like this?” Billy asked, 
walking to home plate beside Evan. 

Evan swallowed hard. He hadn’t thought about his parents. They’d be 
getting home from work soon. They weren’t going to be happy about this. How 
would he break the news to them? he wondered. 

And then he thought: I won’t have to break the news to them. They’ll see 
for themselves what has happened! 

He stepped up to the plate and swung the bat onto his shoulder. “Wish we 
had a bigger bat,” he muttered. It was a little larger than a drinking straw. 

“Get a hit!” Billy shouted from behind the backstop. 

“Get a hit, Evan!” several other players called. 

Brian’s first pitch sailed past Evan’s ankles. 

“Higher!” Evan called out to him. “You’ll have to throw it higher.” 

“I’m trying!” Brian grumbled. He pulled the softball back and tossed it 
again. 

This time, the pitch flew past Evan’s knees. 

“It’s hard to throw that high,” Brian complained. “This isn’t fair.” 

“Strike him out, Brian!” the first baseman cried. “You can do it. Evan 
always strikes out!” 

It’s true, Evan thought unhappily. I do usually strike out. 

He gripped the little bat tighter, poising it over his shoulder. He suddenly 
wondered if being so big would make a difference. 

Maybe he’d just strike out bigger ! 

Brian’s next pitch sailed higher. Evan swung hard. The bat hit the softball 
with a deafening thwack —and cracked in two. 

The ball sailed up, up, up. Off the playground. Over the school. And out of 
sight, somewhere in the next block. 

Cheers and cries of amazement rang out over the diamond. 

Evan watched the ball fly out of sight. Then he leaped joyfully in the air 
and began running the bases. 

The longest home run in the history of the world! 

It took only four steps between bases. He had just rounded second base 
when he heard the sirens. 



Evan turned his eyes to the street in time to see two fire trucks squeal 
around the corner. The trucks pulled right up onto the playground grass and 
came roaring toward the softball diamond, sirens blaring. 

Evan stopped at third base. 

The sirens cut off as the two fire engines skidded to a halt along the first 
base line. 

Evan’s mouth dropped open as Conan Barber leaped out of the first truck. 
Several black-uniformed firefighters dropped to the ground behind Conan. 

“There he is!” Conan cried, pointing furiously at Evan. “That’s him! Get 
him!” 



20 


Grim-faced firefighters began hoisting heavy firehoses off the trucks. Others 
moved toward Evan, hatchets clutched menacingly in their hands. 

“That’s him!” Conan shrieked. “He’s the one who put me in the tree and 
wrecked my parents’ fence!” 

“Huh?” Still standing on third base, Evan froze in shock. 

Was this really happening? 

The playground rang out with shouts of surprise. But the voices were 
drowned out by more sirens. 

Evan saw flashing red lights. And then two black-and-white police cars 
roared over the grass, screeching up behind the fire engines. 

A man and woman came running behind the police cars. “That’s the one!” 
they called breathlessly, pointing at Evan. “That’s the one who crushed the car. 
We saw him do it!” 

The firefighters were busily connecting the hoses to hydrants at the curb. 
Blue-uniformed police swarmed on to the field. The kids on the two softball 
teams huddled together on the pitcher’s mound. They all seemed dazed and 
frightened. 

“He tried to kill me!” Conan was shouting to a woman police officer. “That 
giant put me in a tree and left me there!” 

“He crushed a car!” a woman screamed. 

Evan hadn’t moved from third base. He gazed past the fire engines to Andy 
and Kermit. They stood near the backstop. Kermit had the dumb, toothy grin on 
his face. 

Andy had her hands cupped around her mouth. She was shouting something 
to Evan. But he couldn’t hear her over the wail of sirens and the excited shouts 
and cries of everyone in the playground. 

Some of the police and fire officers huddled together, talking rapidly. They 
kept glancing up at Evan as they talked. 

What are they going to do to me? Evan wondered, frozen in fear. 

Should I run? Should I try to explain? 

More people came hurrying across the playground. As soon as they spotted 
Evan, their expressions turned to surprise and amazement. 



They’re all staring at me, Evan realized. They’re pointing at me as if I’m 
some kind of freak. 

I am some kind of freak! he admitted to himself. 

Firefighters formed a line, holding their hatchets waist-high. Others readied 
the firehoses, aiming them up at Evan’s chest. 

Evan heard more sirens. More police cars rolled on to the playground. 

A young police officer with wavy red hair and a red mustache stepped up to 
Evan. “What—is—your—name?” he shouted, speaking each word slowly, as if 
maybe Evan didn’t speak English. 

“Uh... Evan. Evan Ross,” Evan called down. 

“Do you come from another planet?” the officer shouted. 

“Huh?” Evan couldn’t help himself. He burst out laughing. 

He heard some of the softball players laughing, too. 

“I live in Atlanta,” he shouted down to the officer. “Around the corner. On 
Brookridge Drive.” 

Several officers and firefighters held their ears. Evan’s voice came out 
louder than he had planned. 

Evan took a step toward them. 

The firefighters raised a firehose. Several others readied their hatchets. 

“He’s dangerous!” Evan heard Conan shout. “Watch out! He’s really 
dangerous!” 

That got everyone shouting and screaming. 

The playground was filling with people. Neighborhood people. Kids and 
their parents. Cars stopped and people climbed out to see why the crowd had 
gathered. 

More police cars bumped over the grass. Their wailing sirens added to the 
deafening noise, the shouts and cries, the frightened murmurs. 

The noise. The staring eyes. The pointed fingers. 

It all started to make Evan dizzy. 

He felt his legs tremble. His forehead throbbed. 

The police had formed a line. They started to circle Evan. 

As they closed in, Evan felt himself explode. “I can’t take any more!” he 
screamed, raising his fists. “Stop it! Stop it! All of you! Get away! Leave me 
alone! I mean it!” 

Silence as the sirens cut off. The voices hushed. 

And then Evan heard the red-haired police officer shout to the others: “He’s 



turned violent. We have to bring him down!” 



21 


Evan didn’t have time to be frightened. 

The firehoses chugged and gurgled—then shot out thick streams of water. 

Evan ducked low. Dove forward. Tried to get away from the roaring water. 

The force of the water stream ripped the ground to his side. 

Evan dodged to the other side. 

Wow! That’s powerful! he thought, horrified. The water is strong enough to 
knock me over! 

Frightened shouts rose up over the roar of the water. 

Evan plunged through the line of dark-uniformed police officers—and kept 
mnning. “Don’t shoot!” he screamed. “Don’t shoot me! I’m not from another 
planet! I’m just a boy!” 

He didn’t know if they could hear him or not. 

He dodged past several startled onlookers. A long hook-and-ladder stood in 
his path. 

He stopped. Glanced back. 

Firefighters were turning the hoses. The powerful spray arced high. Water 
crashed to the ground just behind Evan, loud as thunder. 

Kids and parents were running in all directions, frantic, frightened 
expressions locked on their faces. 

Evan took a deep breath. Bent his knees. And leaped over the fire truck in 
his path. 

He heard shouts of surprise behind him. He vaulted high over the truck. 
Landed hard on the other side. Stumbled. Caught his balance. 

Then, ducking low, his arms stretched out in front of him, Evan ran. 

His long legs carried him away quickly. As he reached the street, a low tree 
branch popped up as if from nowhere. 

Evan dipped his head just in time. 

Leaves scratched over his forehead, but he kept running. 

Got to watch out for tree branches, he warned himself. Got to remember 
that I’m two stories tall. 

Breathing hard, he plunged across the street. The late afternoon sun was 



lowering behind the trees. The shadows were longer now, and darker. Evan’s 
shadow seemed a mile long as it stretched out in front of him. 

He heard the rise and fall of shrill sirens behind him. Heard angry shouts. 
Heard the thud of footsteps, people running after him. 

Where can I hide? he asked himself. Where will I be safe? 

Home? 

No. That’s the first place the police will look. 

Where? Where? 

It was so hard to think clearly. They were close behind him, he knew. 
Chasing him. Eager to bring him down. 

If only he could stop somewhere, close his eyes, shut them all out, and 
think. Then maybe he could come up with a plan. 

But he knew he had to keep running. 

His head throbbed. His chest ached. 

His long legs were taking him quickly away from the playground. But he 
still felt awkward, with his sneakers so far below him and his head so high in the 
trees. 

I’ll hide out at Kermit’s house, he thought. 

Then he quickly decided that was a bad idea, too. 

“I can’t get in Kermit’s house!” he cried out loud. “I’m too big!” 

And then he had a truly frightening thought: “I can’t fit in any house!” 

Where will I sleep? he wondered. And then: Will they let me sleep? 

Can’t the police see I’m just a boy? Evan asked himself bitterly. He turned 
the corner and ran past his house. The lights were all off. The door closed. No 
car in the driveway. 

His parents hadn’t come home from work. 

He kept running. Running across yards. Ducking low. Trying to hide behind 
shrubs and tall hedges. 

Can’t they see I’m a boy? Not a creature from another planet? 

Why do they think I’m so dangerous? 

It’s all Conan’s fault, Evan decided. Conan got the firefighters and police all 
crazy with his wild stories. 

His wild, true stories. 

And now where can I run? Where can I hide? 

The answer came to him as he neared Kermit’s house. Two doors down, a 
lot had been cleared. And an enormous stack of lumber had been piled at the 



back. Someone was about to build a house on the lot. 

Breathing hard, sweat pouring down his broad forehead, Evan turned and 
ran across the lot. He ducked behind the tall pile of lumber. And stopped. 

He dropped to his knees and leaned against the lumber stack, struggling to 
catch his breath. He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T- 
shirt. 

Maybe I’ll hide here for a while, he thought. He lowered himself to a sitting 
position. 

If I sit down and hunch my shoulders, the lumber pile hides me from the 
street. And it’s shady and cool behind it. And I can keep an eye on Kermit’s 
house from here. 

Yes. This is a good hiding spot for now, Evan decided. Then, after dark, I’ll 
sneak over to my house and try to explain to my parents what happened. 

He leaned his back against the lumber pile and shut his eyes. 

He had just started to relax a little when he heard a voice cry: “Got him!” 



22 


Evan’s eyes shot open. 

He tried to scramble to his feet. 

But then he saw who had shouted. 

“Kermit!” he cried angrily. “You scared me to death!” 

Kermit flashed his annoying grin. “I knew you’d hide here, Evan,” he said, 
smirking. “I’m so smart.” 

Kermit turned and called out, “He’s back here! I was right!” 

A few seconds later, Andy gingerly poked her head behind the stack of 
lumber. Her eyes studied Evan for a few seconds. Then a smile crossed her face. 

“You’re okay?” she asked softly. “I was so worried—” 

“Yeah. I’m okay—for now,” Evan replied bitterly. 

“The whole town is after you!” Kermit exclaimed. “It’s really awesome! It’s 
like a movie!” 

“I don’t want to be in a movie!” Evan griped. “This movie is too scary.” 

“They’ve got guns and everything!” Kermit continued excitedly, ignoring 
Evan’s complaint. “And did you see those firehoses? It’s amazing! They all want 
to catch you!” 

“They think you’re an alien from outer space,” Andy added, shaking her 
head. 

“And who told them that? Conan?” Evan asked bitterly. 

“Conan made them believe you’re real dangerous,” Kermit said, grinning 
that grin Evan hated so much. 

“I am dangerous!” Evan declared. He growled menacingly at Kermit. 

The growl shocked the grin off Kermit’s face. 

Evan turned to Andy. “What am I going to do? I can’t run and hide for the 
rest of my life. They’re going to catch me. If you two tracked me down, the 
police will track me down, too.” 

Evan let out a long, frightened sigh. “There’s nowhere I can hide. I’m too 
big to hide! So what can I do? What?” 

Andy scratched her arm. She knotted up her face, thinking hard. “Well...” 

And suddenly Evan knew exactly what to do. 



Watching Andy, Evan knew how to solve the whole problem. 



23 


Evan jumped to his feet. His heart began to pound. For the first time in hours, a 
big smile spread across his face. 

“Evan—what’s wrong?” Andy demanded. His sudden move had startled 
her. 

“I know what we can do!” Evan declared. “Everything is going to be okay!” 

“Get down!” Kermit cried. “I hear sirens. They’ll see you.” 

In his excitement, Evan had forgotten that he was taller than the lumber 
pile. He dropped back to his knees. Even on his knees, he was a lot taller than 
Kermit and Andy. 

The sirens blared louder. Closer. 

Evan gazed around. The sun had fallen behind the trees. The sky was 
evening gray now. The air grew cooler. 

“We’ve got to hurry,” Evan told them. He put a hand on Kermit’s slender 
shoulder. “Kermit, you’ve got to help me.” 

Behind his glasses, Kermit’s little mouse eyes bulged with excitement. 
“Me? What can I do?” 

“The blue mixture,” Evan said, holding on to his cousin’s shoulder. 
“Remember the blue mixture?” 

“Wh-which one?” Kermit stammered. 

“The one that shrank my mosquito bite!” Andy chimed in. She suddenly 
realized what Evan was thinking. 

“That’s right,” Evan explained to Kermit. “Watching Andy scratch her arm 
reminded me. That blue mixture of yours shrank the mosquito bite instantly.” 

“Maybe it can shrink Evan, too!” Andy exclaimed excitedly. 

Kermit nodded, thinking hard. “Yeah. Maybe it can.” 

“I’ll rub it all over my body, and I’ll shrink back to my normal size,” Evan 
said happily. 

“It’ll work! I know it will!” Andy cried enthusiastically. She let out a cheer 
and jumped up and down. Then she tugged Kermit’s arm. “Come on, Kermit. 
Hurry! Let’s get to your basement. You still have the blue mixture, don’t you?” 

Kermit narrowed his eyes, trying to remember. “I think so,” he told them. 
“A lot of stuff got wrecked, remember? But I think I have it.” 



“He has to have it!” Evan cried. “He has to!” 

Evan climbed to his feet. “Come on. Hurry.” 

They heard sirens. Loud and near. 

Kermit peered around the lumber pile toward the street. “A police car!” he 
whispered. “They’re cruising this block.” 

“You’d better wait here,” Andy warned Evan. 

Evan shook his head. “No way. I’m coming with you. I want to get that blue 
mixture as fast as I can.” 

He ducked his head. “We can walk through the backyards. No one will see 

us.” 

“But, Evan—” Andy started to protest. 

She stopped when Evan stepped away from the lumber pile and started 
loping quickly across the backyard toward Kermit’s house. 

Dogface greeted them in the driveway. The sheepdog barked happily, 
jumping up on Kermit, nearly knocking him to the ground. 

“Shhh. Quiet, boy! Quiet!” Kermit cried, petting the dog, trying to stop his 
barks. “We don’t want anyone to hear us.” 

Dogface gazed up at Evan—and got very quiet. The dog slumped across the 
driveway. It stared up suspiciously at Evan, panting hard, its stubby tail wagging 
furiously. 

Evan’s eyes darted up and down the driveway. No car. “Your mom isn’t 
home yet, Kermit,” he said. 

“She must be working late,” Kermit replied. “That’s good news. This is our 
lucky day!” 

Evan let out a bitter laugh. “For sure. Lucky day,” he muttered. 

Kermit and Andy hurried to the kitchen door. Evan started to follow. Then 
he remembered he didn’t fit in the house. 

“Wait right there,” Andy instructed him. “Make sure no one sees you.” 

Evan nodded. “Hurry—please!” 

He watched them disappear through the door. Then he sat down behind the 
house. He motioned for Dogface to come over to him. He felt like holding on to 
something. 

But the big dog just stared back and wouldn’t budge. 

The whole town is looking for me, Evan thought unhappily. The whole 
town is looking for a giant me. But they’ll never find the giant me. Because in a 
few seconds, I’ll shrink back to normal size. 



Then everything will be okay again. 

He raised his eyes to the house. What is keeping Andy and Kermit? he 
wondered. Can’t they find the bottle of blue liquid? 

He took a deep breath. Don’t panic, Evan, he instructed himself. They’ve 
only been in the house a few seconds. They’ll be out soon. And everything will 
be okay. 

To pass the time, he counted slowly to ten. Then he counted slowly to ten 
again. 

He was about to start counting one more time when the screen door flew 
open. Kermit stepped out, carrying the blue beaker. Andy followed right behind. 

“Found it!” Kermit cried happily. 

Evan jumped to his knees. He reached out eagerly. “Quick—let me have it.” 

Kermit stretched up his hand. Evan grabbed for the glass beaker. 

It slipped out of his grasp. 

It started to fall. 

“Ohhh!” Evan let out a horrified moan—and caught the beaker just before it 
crashed against the driveway. 

“Wow! Nice catch!” Kermit exclaimed. 

Evan’s heart had leaped to his mouth. He took a deep breath. He grasped 
the beaker tightly in his hand. “Close one,” he murmured. The beaker was so 
tiny in his hand, like something made for a dollhouse. 

They heard sirens in the distance. 

The search for the giant Evan was still on. 

“I—I hope this mixture works,” Evan declared. 

He raised the beaker. Tilted it upside down over his other hand. Waited. 

And waited. 

Finally, a tiny blue drop of liquid dripped on to Evan’s palm. 

Nothing more. 

He shook the beaker. Hard. Harder. The way he shook a ketchup bottle 
when the ketchup stuck. 

Then he raised the beaker to his eye and peered inside. 

A few seconds later, he let out a long, sad sigh. He tossed the bottle 
disgustedly onto the grass. “It’s empty,” Evan reported. “Totally empty.” 



24 


“I knew there wasn’t much left,” Kermit murmured, shaking his head. 

The empty bottle rolled under a shrub. Dogface walked over and sniffed it. 

“I’m doomed,” Evan muttered. Forgetting how strong he was, he angrily 
kicked a pebble down the driveway. The pebble sailed up into the air and 
disappeared over the house across the street. 

“Be careful,” Andy warned. “You could break a window.” 

“Who cares?” Evan snapped. “My life is ruined.” 

“No way!” Kermit cried. “You’ll be okay, Evan.” He started running to the 
house. “Be right back!” 

“Kermit, where are you going?” Evan called glumly. 

“To mix up another batch!” Kermit replied. “It will only take me a few 
seconds, Evan. I’ve got all the ingredients.” 

Evan could feel his sadness lifting. “Do you really think you can do it?” he 
asked his cousin. 

“No problem,” Kermit replied, flashing Evan a thumbs-up sign. “I think I 
remember what I put in it. I’ll mix up more blue shrinking stuff and be back in a 
jiffy.” 

Kermit disappeared into the house. “I’m coming, too!” Andy called after 
him. She turned back to Evan. “I can try to clean up some of the lab while 
Kermit mixes the liquid. If Kermit’s mom gets home and sees the basement, 
you’ll be in big trouble.” 

Evan let out a weak laugh. “Big trouble. Very funny, Annnndrea. You’re a 

riot.” 

“Don’t call me Andrea,” she shot back, ignoring his sarcasm. He watched 
her hurry into the house. 

Dogface got tired of sniffing the blue bottle. The sheepdog lumbered across 
the yard to inspect the fence that Evan had knocked down earlier. 

Evan sighed. I wonder if my own dog will recognize me now? he thought. 
Trigger, Evan’s cocker spaniel, had been the first to eat Monster Blood. The dog 
had grown bigger than a horse. 

I wonder if Trigger ever has nightmares about that? Evan asked himself. 

He knew he’d be having nightmares about today for a long time to come. 



He glanced at his watch. Almost dinnertime. His parents would be getting 
home soon. And Kermit’s mom would be pulling up the driveway at any minute. 

“Wow. She’ll be surprised when she sees me!” Evan exclaimed out loud. 

He turned to the house in time to see Kermit step out. He was carrying a 
fresh bottle of blue liquid. “See? No problem!” Kermit declared. 

Evan carefully took the bottle from Kermit’s hand. 

Andy walked over, her eyes raised to Evan’s. “Go ahead. Rub it all over,” 
she urged. “Hurry!” 

Evan carefully poured a puddle of blue liquid into his palm. Then he rubbed 
it onto his cheeks, his forehead, his neck. 

He poured more into his hand. He rubbed blue liquid onto his arms. Then 
he raised his T-shirt and rubbed some on his chest. 

Please let it work, he prayed silently. Please let it work. 

He turned to Andy and Kermit. “See any change?” 



25 


Andy’s mouth dropped open. 

Kermit’s eyes bulged, and he uttered a choking sound. 

“Well?” Evan demanded eagerly. “Do you see any change? Do you?” 

“Uh... well... uh...” Kermit sputtered. 

“You turned blue! ” Andy cried. 

“Excuse me?” Evan demanded. He knew he hadn’t heard her correctly. 

“Your skin—it’s bright blue!” Andy wailed, pressing her hands against her 
cheeks. 

“My—what?” Evan shrieked. “You mean—HIC!—” A powerful hiccup 
made his entire body shake. 

Evan stared down at his hands. 

“They—they’re blue!” he cried. “HIC!” 

Another hiccup burst from his open mouth. His enormous body shook as if 
struck by an earthquake. 

Frantically, he pulled up the T-shirt and stared at his stomach. His blue 
stomach. 

His arms. His chest. All blue. Bright blue. 

“HIC!” 

“I don’t believe it!” Evan screamed. “I’m bright blue, and—HIC!—I’ve got 
the hiccups!” 

He glared down furiously at Kermit. 

Kermit was so frightened, his legs trembled and his knees actually knocked 
together. “I—I can fix it,” he called up to Evan. “N-no problem! I just mixed it 
up wrong. I’ll be right back with another mixture.” 

He ran to the house. At the screen door, he turned back to Evan. “Don’t go 
anywhere—okay?” 

Evan let out a furious roar, interrupted by a deafening hiccup. “Where can I 
go?” he shrieked at the top of his lungs. “Where can I — HIC! — go?!” 

The door slammed behind Kermit. 

Evan let out another roar, clenching his blue fists and shaking his blue arms 
over his head. He paced back and forth on the driveway, hiccupping every few 



seconds. 

“Try to calm down a little,” Andy called up to him. “People will hear you.” 

“I—I—HIC!—can’t calm down!” Evan complained bitterly. “Look at me!” 

“But the neighbors will hear you. Or see you,” Andy warned. “They’ll call 
the police.” 

Evan replied with a hiccup that nearly knocked him off his feet. 

Kermit came running out of the house. He raised another bottle of blue 
liquid to Evan. “Here! Try this!” 

“HIC!” Evan declared. He grasped the bottle in his blue hand. 

Without saying another word, he turned the bottle upside down. With quick, 
frantic motions, he splashed the blue liquid all over him. Over his cheeks. His 
forehead. His hands and arms. His chest. 

He rolled up his jeans and rubbed the mixture onto his knees and legs. He 
pulled off his socks and sneakers and smoothed the blue liquid over his ankles 
and feet. 

“It’s got to work!” he cried. “This time, it’s got to!” 

Andy and Kermit stared up at him eagerly. 

They waited. 

Evan waited. 

Nothing happened. No change at all. 

Then Evan began to feel it. 

“Hey—I’m tingling!” he announced happily. 

He felt the same electric tingling he had felt before. The itchy feeling he 
had every time he was about to grow a little more. 

“Yes!” Evan cheered. “Yes!” 

The tingling grew sharper, stronger, as it spread over his entire body. 

“It’s working! I can—HIC!—feel it!” Evan shouted. “It’s really working! 
I’m tingling! I’m itching! I can feel it! It’s working!” 

“No, it isn’t,” Andy murmured quietly. 



26 


“Huh?” Evan narrowed his eyes at her. 

The tingling became a violent itch. He started to scratch. But pulled back 
his hand because his skin felt so strange. 

“It... didn’t... work....” Andy said sadly, her voice trembling. 

“Yuck! He looks so gross!” Kermit declared, making a disgusted face. 

“Huh? HIC!” Evan replied. 

He uttered a horrified gasp as he stared at his arms. “F-f-feathers!” he 
stammered in a high, shrill voice. 

He checked out his arms. His stomach. His legs. 

“Noooooo!” Along, low wail burst from his chest. 

His entire body was covered in fluffy white feathers. 

“Noooo—HIC! —oooooooo! ” 

“I’m sorry,” Kermit said, shaking his head. “I don’t know what I’m doing 
wrong. I thought I had the mixture right this time.” 

“You look like a big eagle,” Andy commented. “Except eagles aren’t blue.” 

“HIC!” Evan cried. 

“And eagles don’t get hiccups,” Andy added. She gazed up at him with 
concern. “Poor Evan. That must itch like crazy. You’re having a real bad day.” 

Evan frantically scratched his feathery chest. “It can’t get any worse than 
this,” he muttered. 

And then he saw a police car pull up in front of the house. 



27 


“HIC!” Evan cried. He backed off the driveway and crouched low against the 
back wall of the house. “The police!” he whispered. 

His throat tightened in panic. His feathers all stood up on end. 

What should I do? he asked himself, pressed against the house, ducking his 
head. Should I run? Should I give myself up? 

“One more try!” Kermit cried, leaping into the house. “Let me try one more 
mixture. I think I can get it this time!” 

The door slammed behind him. 

“Hurry!” Andy called from the driveway. “The police—they’re climbing 
out of their car.” 

“How many are there?” Evan whispered. His feathers itched, but he was too 
frightened to scratch. 

“Two,” Andy replied, staring through the gray evening light to the street. 
“They look kind of mean.” 

A sudden cool gust of wind ruffled Evan’s feathers. His huge body 
trembled. 

“They’re walking up the driveway,” Andy reported. “They’re going to be 
here in a few seconds!” 

“I’d better make a run for it,” Evan declared. He took one step away from 
the house and nearly fell. It was hard to run when your feet were covered with 
stiff, prickly feathers. 

His entire body itched. He pressed himself against the house again. “I’m 
doomed,” he murmured to himself. 

“They stopped to check out the front door,” Andy told him. “You’ve still 
got a few seconds.” 

“Hurry, Kermit! Hurry!” Evan urged out loud. 

He turned to the kitchen door. No sign of Kermit. 

Would Kermit get the mixture right this time? Could he get the mixture to 
Evan before the two police officers entered the backyard? 

The screen door opened. Kermit burst out. He tripped on the back stoop. 
The blue bottle nearly went flying. 

He caught his balance. He handed the bottle up to Evan. “Good luck!” 



Kermit called up to Evan. Kermit raised both hands. He had his fingers tightly 
crossed on both hands. 

“Here come the police,” Andy warned. “They’re walking really fast now.” 

The bottle trembled in Evan’s hand. He turned it upside down. It puddled in 
his enormous, feathery palm. 

Frantically, he began rubbing it over his feathers, over his blue skin. 
Splashing it wildly. Pouring it over his body. 

Please work! he silently urged it. Please work! 

He waited. 

Kermit stared up at him hopefully, his fingers still crossed. 

“They’re here!” Andy reported from the driveway. 

Evan gulped. 

The mixture hadn’t worked. 

He hadn’t changed. Not a bit. 

The two dark-uniformed officers approached the back of the house. “Hello, 
there,” one of them called to Andy. 



28 


Evan heard a loud POP. 

He uttered a startled cry as he felt himself falling. Falling to the ground. 

He reached out a hand and steadied himself against the house. 

It took him a second or two to realize that he hadn’t fallen. He had shrunk. 

The two officers stepped into the backyard. One was very tall. The other 
was short and plump. “Sorry to bother you kids,” the tall one said. “But we got a 
call from a neighbor.” 

“A call? About what?” Andy demanded. She cast a surprised glance at 
Evan. She didn’t expect to see him back to normal. 

“Did you kids see a giant in the neighborhood?” the short officer asked. He 
narrowed his eyes at them, trying to appear tough. 

“A giant? What kind of giant?” Kermit asked innocently. 

“A giant kid,” the short officer replied. 

Evan, Andy, and Kermit shook their heads. “He didn’t come back here,” 
Andy told them. 

“No. We didn’t see him,” Evan said. He couldn’t keep a smile from 
crossing his face. His voice was back to normal, too. 

The tall officer pushed his cap back on his head. “Well, if you see him, be 
careful,” he warned. “He’s dangerous.” 

“He’s very dangerous,” the short officer added. “Call us right away— 
okay?” 

“Okay,” all three kids replied in unison. 

The officers gave the backyard one last look. Then they turned and headed 
back down the driveway to their car. 

As soon as they were gone, Evan burst into a long, happy cheer. Andy and 
Kermit joined in, clapping him joyfully on the back, slapping high fives all 
around. 

“Am I a genius or what?” Kermit demanded, grinning his toothy grin. 

“Or what!” Evan joked. 

They were still laughing and celebrating Evan’s return to Evan-size when 
Kermit’s mom pulled up the driveway. As she climbed out of her car, she 
appeared surprised to find them outdoors. 



“Sorry I’m so late,” she called. She hugged Kermit. “How was your 
afternoon?” 

Kermit glanced at Evan. Then he smiled at his mother. “Oh, it was kind of 
boring,” he told her. 

“Yeah. Kind of boring,” Andy repeated. 

“Kind of boring,” Evan agreed. 

Evan knew he’d have nightmares about what had happened to him. And that 
night, he had a really scary one. In the dream, he was a giant boy being chased 
by giant rats. The rats all looked like Kermit. 

Evan sat up in the dark, shivering all over. 

“Just a nightmare,” he murmured, glancing at his clock radio. Midnight. “It 
was just a nightmare.” 

He sat up straight, wiping sweat off his forehead with his pajama-top 
sleeve. I need a glass of cold water, he decided. 

He started to climb out of bed—but stopped when he saw what a steep drop 
it was to the floor. 

Huh? What’s going on? he asked himself. 

He tried to click on the bedtable lamp. But it towered high above him, way 
beyond his reach. 

He stood up on the bed. As his eyes adjusted to the dim light, he saw that 
his bed seemed to stretch on forever. A lump in the bedspread curled up over 
Evan’s head. 

I—I’m short! he realized. I’m as short as a mouse! 

Kermit! 

Kermit strikes again! Evan thought bitterly. 

He made the blue shrinking mixture too powerful. 

I shrank—and shrank—and shrank. And now I’m as tiny as a mouse. 

“I’ll pound Kermit! I really will!” Evan cried. His voice came out as tiny 
mouse squeaks. 

Standing on the edge of his bed, staring down, down—miles down—to the 
floor, Evan heard a rumbling sound. Loud panting that sounded like a strong 
wind through the trees. 

A big head popped up in front of him. Two dark eyes. 

“No! Trigger! Go back to sleep!” Evan pleaded in his little mouse voice. 
“No! Trigger—down!” 



Evan’s squeaks had awakened the cocker spaniel. 

Evan felt the dog’s hot breath blow across his face. 

“Yuck! Dog breath!” he squeaked. 

Then he felt sharp teeth close around his waist. Felt himself tilted sideways. 
Felt the hot, wet saliva of Trigger’s mouth as the dog secured Evan between its 
teeth. 

“Trigger—down! Put me down!” Evan begged. 

He was bounced hard now. The dog teeth tightened their grip. 

“Trigger! Put me down! Where are you taking me?” 

Through the dark hallway. The hot breath blowing over Evan’s helpless 
body. 

Into his parents’ room. Evan gazed up to see his mom and dad getting ready 
for bed. 

Mr. Ross leaned over the dog. “What have you got there, Trigger? Did you 
find a bone?” 

“Uh... Dad? Dad?” Evan squeaked up at him. “Dad? It’s me? Do you see 
me? Dad? Uh... I think we have a little problem!” 




IT CAME FROM 
BENEATH THE SINK! 

Goosebumps - 30 
R.L. Stine 

1 


Before my brother and I found the strange little creature under the sink, we were 
a normal happy family. In fact, I’d have to say we were very lucky. 

But our luck quickly changed when we pulled the creature from its dark 
hiding place. 

The sad, frightening story begins on the day we moved. 

“Here we are, kids.” Dad honked the horn happily as we rounded the corner 
onto Maple Lane and pulled up in front of our new house. “Ready for the big 
move, Kitty Kat?” 

My dad is the only one who can get away with calling me Kitty Kat. My 
real name is Katrina (ugh!) Merton, but only the teachers call me Katrina. To 
everyone else I’m simply Kat. 

“Definitely, Dad!” I shouted. I jumped out of the station wagon. 

“Rowf! Rowf!” Killer, our cocker spaniel, barked in agreement and 
followed me out onto the sidewalk. 

Daniel, my goofy little brother, is the one who named the dog. What a 
dumb name. Killer is afraid of everything. The only thing he kills is his rubber 
ball! 

Daniel and I had hiked past the new house plenty of times already. It’s only 
three blocks away from where we used to live, on East Main. 

But I still couldn’t believe we’d be living here. I mean, I always thought our 
old house was pretty great. But this place is awesome! 

Three stories high, sitting up on its own little hill, with butter-yellow 
shutters and at least a dozen windows. A wide porch wraps around the whole 
house. The front yard must be about the size of a football field. 

It’s not a house—it’s a mansion! 

Well, practically a mansion. Enormous—but not exactly fancy. What Mom 
calls “a comfortable old shoe kind of house.” 

Actually, today it really looked messy and old. A few of the shutters hung 
crookedly, the grass needed mowing, and the whole place seemed to be covered 
with an inch of dust. 

But as Mom said, “Nothing that can’t be taken care of with a good cleaning, 
a coat of paint, and a few bangs with the hammer.” 



Mom, Dad, and Daniel climbed out of the car, and we all stood staring 
excitedly at the house. Today, I’d finally get to see the inside! 

Mom pointed to the second floor. “See that big balcony?” she asked. 
“That’s the room where your father and I will sleep. The next room over is 
Daniel’s.” 

She gave my hand a little squeeze. “The little balcony—that’s outside your 
room, Kat.” She beamed. 

My very own private porch! I leaned over and gave Mom a big hug. “I love 
it already,” I whispered into her ear. 

Naturally, Daniel started whining immediately. He’s ten years old, but most 
of the time he acts as if he’s about two. 

“How come Kat’s room has a balcony—and mine doesn’t?” he complained. 
“It’s not fair! I want a balcony, too!” 

“Get a life, Daniel,” I muttered. “Mom, tell him to be quiet. Don’t I get 
something for being two years older?” 

Well, almost two years older. My birthday was in four days. 

“Quiet, kids,” Mom ordered. “Daniel, you don’t have a balcony. But you 
are getting something neat, too—bunk beds. So Carlo can sleep over whenever 
you want.” 

“Excellent!” Daniel shouted. Carlo is Daniel’s best friend. They’re always 
together—and always bugging me. 

Daniel is okay—most of the time. But he insists on being right. Dad calls 
him Mr. Know-It-All. 

And sometimes Dad calls Daniel the Human Tornado, because he runs 
around like a whirlwind and makes unbelievable messes. 

I’m a lot more like my Dad—sort of calm and quiet. Well, usually calm. 
And we both have the same favorite foods—lasagna, really sour garlic pickles, 
and mocha-chip ice-cream. 

I even look like my father, tall and thin with a lot of freckles and reddish 
hair. I usually wear my hair in a ponytail. Dad doesn’t have much hair to worry 
about. 

Daniel looks more like my mother. Straight, light brown hair that’s always 
falling in his eyes, and what Mom calls a “sturdy” build. (That means he’s 
chunky.) 

Today, Daniel was definitely in Human Tornado mode. He ran up onto the 
big green lawn and began spinning around in a circle. “It’s huge,” he shouted. 



“It’s gigantic. It’s... it’s... it’s super-house!” 

He collapsed in a heap on the grass. “And this is the super-yard! Hey, Kat, 
look at me—I’m Super-Daniel!” 

“You’re super-dumb,” I told him, messing up his hair with both hands. 

“Hey, quit it!” Daniel yelped. He pulled out his super-soaker gun and 
squirted the front of my T-shirt. “You’re captured,” he announced. “You are my 
prisoner!” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied, tugging on the water pistol. “Give up the gun!” 
I commanded. I pulled harder. “Let go!” 

“Okay!” Daniel grinned. He loosened his grip so suddenly that I staggered 
backwards—and fell on to the sidewalk. 

“What a klutz!” Daniel snickered. 

I knew how to get him. I zoomed up the porch steps. “Hey, Daniel,” I 
called, “I’m going to be first in the new house!” 

“No way!” he exclaimed, scrambling up off the lawn. He hurled himself at 
the steps and grabbed me by the ankle. “Me first! Me first!” 

That’s when Dad walked up the driveway, carrying an overstuffed 
cardboard box with Kitchen written on the side. Two moving men followed, 
hauling our big blue couch. 

“Hey, stop goofing around! Mom and I really need your help today. That’s 
why we allowed you to miss a school day,” he called. “Daniel, walk Killer—and 
make sure he has food and water. Kat, keep an eye on Daniel. 

“And Kat, clean the inside of the kitchen cabinets, okay?” Dad added. 
“Mom wants to start putting the dishes and pots away.” 

“Sure, Dad,” I answered. I saw Daniel rummaging through a box on the 
lawn. The box was marked Cards and Comics. 

“Hey, where’s the dog?” I yelled to him. 

He shrugged. 

“Daniel!” I frowned. “I don’t see Killer anywhere. Where is he?” 

He dropped a stack of baseball cards. “Okay, okay, I’ll go find him,” he 
mumbled. He stood up and made his way to the driveway, calling the dog’s 
name. 

As soon as he disappeared around the side of the house, I hurried to the box 
marked Cards and Comics and checked through it. Sure enough, the little brat 
had stolen some of my comics. 

I tucked them under my arm and walked inside to the kitchen to clean out 



the cabinets. One quick glance made me groan. 

Cabinets filled just about every square inch of the big bright room! Sighing, 
I yanked paper towels and a bottle of cleaner out of the Cleaning Supplies box 
and started scrubbing. 

Spritz, rub, spritz, rub. 

This could take hours! 

After I finished a cabinet, I stepped back to admire my work. Then I knelt 
down in front of the cabinet under the sink. 

But something—a squeaky noise, like the sound of a footstep on an old 
wooden stair—made me stop short. 

What is that? I wondered, my heart beating faster. 

I slowly opened the cabinet. Tried to peek inside. 

I opened it a little wider. A little wider. 

I heard the noise again. 

My heart was pounding now. 

I opened the cabinet door another inch. 

And then it grabbed me. 

A dark, hairy claw. 

It wouldn’t let go. 

I screamed. 



2 


“Daniel! You scared me to death!” I screamed. I pounded him on the back. 

Laughing his head off, my brother yanked off the stupid rat costume he had 
insisted on packing. “You should have seen your face!” he cried. “Know what? 
I’m going to start calling you Scaredy-Kat!” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Did I mention that Daniel 
also thinks he’s the king of practical jokes? 

I suddenly remembered what my brother was supposed to be doing. “Dad 
asked you to find Killer. Where is he?” 

“I didn’t have to find him.” Daniel snickered. “He was never lost.” 

“What do you mean?” I demanded. 

“I stuck Killer in the basement,” he said proudly. “While you were hanging 
around on the porch, I ran in through the side door and hid under the sink.” 

“You really are a big rat!” I exclaimed. 

I heard a funny tap-tapping on the linoleum floor. “What’s that noise?” I 
asked. 

Daniel’s mouth dropped open. “Oh, no, it’s a real rat!” he shrieked. “Kat, 
look out! Move!” 

Without thinking, I jumped on to a kitchen chair as... Killer came trotting 
into the kitchen. 

Daniel let out a high-pitched laugh. “Twice on the same trick!” He was very 
pleased with himself. 

I dove at my brother, ready to tickle him. “Prepare to die laughing!” I 
yelled. 

“Stop! Help! No!” he gulped. “Kat, please. Stop, please. I... can’t... take... 
it!” 

“Give up?” I asked. 

Daniel nodded. “Yes!” he half-gasped, half-laughed. 

“All right,” I said generously. “You can get up now.” 

“Thanks!” he said. “Hey, what’s Killer doing over there?” 

“No way. I’m not falling for another one of your tricks,” I declared. 

But when I glanced over, the cocker spaniel did seem very interested in 
something inside the sink cabinet I’d left open. 



He pulled it out, then sniffed. Pushed it with his nose and gave a head¬ 
tossing growl. 

That’s weird, I thought. Killer never growls. 

“What do you have there, boy?” I called to him. 

The dog didn’t even look up. 

Sniff, sniff, sniff... growl. 

I leaned in for a closer view. 

“What is it, Kat?” Daniel asked. 

“Nothing much,” I answered casually. “Just an old sponge, I think.” 

Sniff, sniff, sniff... growl. 

It seemed perfectly ordinary—small, round, and light brown. A little bigger 
than an egg. 

But the sponge had Killer all excited and nervous. The dog danced around 
it, barking and growling. 

I snatched the sponge from him to get a better look. And my sweet dog tried 
to bite me! 

“Killer!” I yelled. “Bad boy!” 

He slunk to a corner. And with an embarrassed howl, he lay his head down 
sadly on his paws. 

I held the sponge up close to my face, to study it better. 

Whoa! Wait a minute! 

I suddenly understood Killer’s strange behavior. 

“Daniel—check it out!” I exclaimed. “Wow! I don’t BELIEVE this!” 



3 


“Huh? What is it, Kat?” Daniel cried. 

I stared in shock at the tiny sponge. 

“Maybe my eyes are playing tricks on me,” I muttered. “It’s totally weird!” 

“Come on, Kat,” Daniel insisted. “What is it?” 

I studied the sponge some more. “Wow!” I gasped. My eyes weren’t fooling 
me. 

The round sponge moved in my hand, gently and slowly, in and out, in and 
out in a lazy rhythm. 

As if it were breathing! 

But sponges don’t breathe. Do they? 

This one sure did! 

I could even hear its little breaths: Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

“Daniel! I don’t think this is just a sponge,” I stammered. “I think it’s 
alive!” I tossed it back into the sink cabinet. I admit it. I felt a little scared. 

My brother put his hands on his hips. “That’s a pretty lame joke,” he 
snickered. 

“But, Daniel—” I started. 

“You can’t get me with that one, Kat. It’s an old sponge,” he insisted, 
grinning. “A dirty old sponge that’s probably been here for a hundred years.” 

“All right, don’t believe me!” I exclaimed. “When I’m famous for 
discovering this thing, I won’t tell them you’re my brother.” 

Mom walked by, carrying an armload of winter coats. I knew that she 
would believe me. 

“Mom!” I yelled. “The sponge! It’s alive!” 

“That’s nice, dear,” she murmured. “Only a few more things to bring in. 
Now, where did I put that box of silverware?” 

My mother acted as if she didn’t even hear me! “Mom,” I started again, 
even louder this time. “The sponge! Under the sink! It’s breathing!” 

She ignored me and kept walking through the kitchen and right out the 
screen door into the backyard. 

Nobody cared about my amazing find. 



Except for Killer. He seemed really interested. 

Maybe too interested. 

Killer bent his neck down low, poked his head into the cabinet, gave the 
sponge a long stare—and growled, deep in his throat. 

Grrrr. Grrrr. 

Why was he growling again? 

Killer touched his wet nose to the sponge. He shoved it around, sniffing and 
sniffing. He gazed up at me for a moment, a puzzled expression on his dog face. 
Grrrr. Grrrr. 

Killer opened his mouth and grabbed the sponge in his teeth. 

“Hey, that’s not lunch!” I yelped, grabbing Killer by his collar and yanking 
him out from under the sink. “That could be a very important discovery.” 

I turned to my brother. 

“See, Daniel? Killer knows it’s alive,” I insisted. “Honest, it’s not a trick. 
Look closer—I promise that you’ll see it breathing.” 

Daniel smirked as if he didn’t believe me. But he poked his head into the 
cabinet. 

“Hey, whoa! You might be right,” he admitted. He pulled himself up to face 
me. “I think it is alive! And I also think... it’s mine!” 

With that, he dove under the sink to grab the sponge. 

“No way!” I protested. I grabbed the back of his T-shirt and hauled him out. 
“I saw it first. The sponge belongs to me!” 

He shook me off and dove back down again. “Finders, keepers!” he cried. 

I made another grab for him. 

But before I could touch him, Daniel uttered a bloodcurdling scream of 

pain! 



4 


“AAAAAIIIIIIII!” 

You could probably hear Daniel’s wail for blocks. 

That got Mom’s attention. She came banging through the screen door from 
the backyard. 

“What happened? Who screamed? What’s wrong? What’s going on?” Mom 
demanded. 

Daniel backed out from under the sink, holding his head. He squinted up at 
us. “I hit my head on the sink,” he wailed. “Kat pushed me!” 

Mom knelt down and put her arm around Daniel. “You poor thing,” she said 
soothingly. She patted his head softly. 

“I did not push him,” I declared. “I didn’t even touch him.” 

Daniel groaned and rubbed the side of his head. “It really hurts,” he 
complained. “I’ll probably have a huge bump there.” 

He glared at me. “You did it on purpose! And it’s not your sponge, anyway. 
It was in the house. So it belongs to all of us!” 

“It is so my sponge!” I insisted. “What’s your problem, Daniel? Why do 
you always want what’s mine?” 

“That’s enough!” Mom cried impatiently. “I can’t believe you’re fighting 
over a stupid sponge!” 

Mom turned to me. “Kat, you are supposed to be keeping an eye on your 
brother, aren’t you?” she demanded. “And, Daniel, don’t take things that aren’t 
yours.” 

She turned to leave the room. “Not one more word about a silly sponge! Or 
you’ll both be sorry!” 

As soon as Mom left the room, Daniel stuck out his tongue at me and 
crossed his eyes. “Thanks for getting me in trouble,” he grumbled. 

He stomped off, with Killer at his heels. 

Alone in the kitchen, I bent down, reached my hand under the sink, and 
picked up the sponge. 

“Everyone’s yelling and screaming around here,” I whispered to it. “You’re 
causing a lot of trouble—aren’t you?” 

I felt sort of dumb talking to a sponge. 



But it didn’t feel like a sponge. Not at all. 

It’s warm, I thought in surprise. Warm and damp. 

“Are you alive?” I asked the wrinkled little ball. 

I closed my hand around it softly—and the weirdest thing happened. The 
sponge started moving in my hand. 

Well, not exactly moving. 

Pulsing—slowly and gently. 

Ca-chunk. Ca-chunk. 

It moved like the plastic model heart we used in science class. 

Could I be feeling a heartbeat? 

I peered curiously at the thing. I ran my fingertips over the wrinkles that 
covered it, pushing back the folds of spongy, moist material. 

“Whoa!” I cried, startled. Two wet, black eyes stared out at me. 

I shuddered. “Yuck!” 

You aren’t a sponge at all, I thought. Sponges don’t have eyes, do they? 
What are you? 

I needed some answers. Quick. But who could I talk to? 

Not Mom. She didn’t want to hear about the sponge. 

“Dad! Dad!” I called out, dashing through the living room and dining room. 
“Where are you?” 

“Mmmmph,” he shouted. “Mmmmmpph.” 

“What?” I yelled, running through the house. “Oh, here you are.” 

Dad stood at the top of a ladder in the front hall. He had a hammer in one 
hand and a big roll of black electrician’s tape in the other. 

And a bunch of nails in his mouth. “Mmmmpph,” he mumbled. 

“Dad, what are you trying to say?” I asked. 

He spit the nails out. 

“Sorry,” Dad grumbled. “I’ve got to get this hall light working. These darn 
old wires.” 

He stared down at a pile of tools on the floor. “Kat, hand me those pliers. If 
this doesn’t do it, I’ll have to call an electrician.” 

Dad is great at getting flowers to bloom and grass to grow. But when it 
comes to handyman stuff, he messes up. A lot. 

One time, he tried to fix a fan—and knocked out the electricity all over the 
neighborhood. 

“Here, Dad.” I handed him the pliers and held up the sponge. 



“Check this out,” I urged. I stood on tiptoes so he could see the sponge up 
close. “I found it under the sink, and it’s warm and it has eyes and it’s alive. I 
can’t figure out what it is.” 

Dad peered out from under his baseball cap. “Let’s have a look at that,” he 
offered. 

I shoved the sponge up so he could reach it. 

He leaned down to grab the sponge from me. 

I didn’t see the ladder wobble. 

And I didn’t see it start to tilt over. 

I only saw Dad’s expression change. I saw his eyes go wide. And his mouth 
open in a startled scream. 

As he started to fall, he grabbed at the light in the ceiling for support. 

“Nooooooo!” 

The light came crashing down on his head. Dad sailed off the top of the 
ladder. He lay on the hall floor, perfectly still. “Mom! Mo-om! Mom!” I 
shrieked. “Come quick! It’s Dad!” 



5 


Mom, Daniel, and I huddled around Dad. His eyes fluttered open. He blinked. 

“Huh?” he murmured. “What happened?” 

Dad shook his head and pushed himself up onto his elbows. “I think I’m 
okay, guys,” he said shakily. 

Dad tried to stand up. But he collapsed to the floor. “My ankle. I think it 
may be broken.” He groaned in pain. 

With me on one side and Mom on the other, we helped Dad to the couch. 
“Oof, that really hurts,” he moaned. He rubbed the ankle tenderly. 

“Daniel, go put some ice into a towel for your father,” Mom instructed. 
“Kat, get him a cold drink.” 

“Now, honey,” Mom whispered, wiping Dad’s brow, “tell me what 
happened.” 

When I came running back into the living room with a tall glass of ice 
water, Mom and Dad had the weirdest expressions on their faces. 

“Kat,” said Mom angrily, “did you push your father?” 

“Why did you push the ladder?” Dad asked, rubbing his ankle. 

“Huh? Excuse me?” I spluttered. “I didn’t push you! I wouldn’t!” 

“We’ll discuss this later, young lady,” Mom said sternly. “For now, I’ve got 
to take care of your father.” 

She leaned over and applied the ice pack to Dad’s swelling ankle. 

I felt a hot red flush of embarrassment creep over my face. How could Dad 
think I pushed him? 

I lowered my eyes and realized I still held the sponge. 

And I realized something else. Something strange and scary. 

Instead of pulsing gently, the sponge throbbed in my hand. Throbbed 
wildly. 

Ba-boom, ba-boom, ba-boom. 

Vibrating—as if someone had turned a blender to high speed. The sponge 
practically purred with excitement. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I sat down on the hall floor, feeling shaky. 



What’s going on here? I wondered. Daniel thought I pushed him. And then 
Dad said the same thing. 

They both think I pushed them. Why? 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. Ba-boom. The sponge throbbed warmly in my hand. 

I shivered with fear. Suddenly, the sponge seemed kind of scary. I didn’t 
want the thing anywhere near me—or my family. 

I ran outside. I found a big metal garbage can near the garage. I lifted the 
lid. Dropped the sponge inside. Pushed the lid shut firmly. 

Back inside the house, Mom called me into the living room. “I think Dad’s 
ankle is only sprained,” she said. “Now, tell me what happened.” 

Thursday, I sat at my desk, writing down the names of guests for my birthday 
party. The big day was only two days away. 

I had to give the list to Mom today, so she could buy enough favors by 
Saturday. 

I heard Daniel babbling away to Carlo as the two boys clambered noisily up 
the stairs. 

“Check it out—it looks like an old sponge. But it’s alive!” Daniel 
explained. “I bet it’s a prehistoric creature, like a dinosaur or something.” 

I jumped up and ran out of my room. 

“Hey!” I yelled at Daniel. “What are you doing with that?” I pointed at the 
sponge in his hands. “I threw that thing away.” 

“I found it in the garbage can,” Daniel replied. “It’s too cool to throw away. 
Right, Carlo?” 

Carlo shrugged, his shaggy black hair touching his shoulders. “It looks like 
an old sponge. What’s the big deal?” 

“It’s a very big deal,” I shot back. “And that thing is definitely not a 
sponge.” 

I pulled a large book from my new bookcase. “I checked the encyclopedia,” 
I explained. “Under sponges. You should have left it in the trash, Daniel. You 
really should have.” 

“What did the encyclopedia say?” Daniel asked eagerly, plopping down on 
my bed. He held the sponge between his hands. 

“It said that sponges do not have eyes,” I replied. “And they can live only in 
the water. If they’re out of the water for more than thirty minutes, they die.” 

“See, Carlo? It’s not a sponge,” Daniel declared. “Our creature has eyes. It’s 



been out of water since we found it.” 

“Well, I don’t see any eyes. And it sure doesn’t look alive to me,” said 
Carlo doubtfully. 

Daniel leaped off the bed and offered his friend the sponge. “Hold it. You’ll 

see.” 

Carlo carefully cradled the sponge in his hands. His big brown eyes grew 
wide. “It’s warm! And... and... it’s moving. It’s squirming! It is alive.” 

Carlo spun around to face me. “But if it’s not a sponge, then... then, what is 

it?” 

“I haven’t figured that out yet,” I admitted. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of a super-sponge,” Daniel offered. “So powerful 
that it can live on land.” 

“It could be part sponge and part another animal,” added Carlo, gazing at it. 
“Can I take it home for a while? It’ll really spook Sandy.” 

Sandy is Carlo’s baby-sitter. “I’ll bring it right back,” Carlo promised. 

“No way, Carlo,” I said quickly. “I think I’ll keep the sponge right here until 
I know exactly what it is. Here—stick it in this old gerbil cage.” 

“Aw, come on,” Carlo begged, petting the sponge on the top of its wrinkled 
head. “See? It likes me.” 

“No way!” I replied. “Daniel, tell your friend to quit bugging me.” 

“Okay, okay,” Carlo muttered. “Hey, what does this little guy eat, anyway?” 
“I don’t know,” I replied. “But it seems to be fine without eating. Put it in 
the cage.” 

Carlo reached into the gerbil cage and set the creature down. As he did, his 
face filled with horror. 

I saw his arm tremble. 

Then he let out a terrified scream. 

“Aaagh! My hand! It ate my hand!” 



6 


“Noooo!” I shrieked. 

His mouth twisted in horror, Carlo yanked his arm from the gerbil cage— 
and shoved it in my face. 

“Oh!” I gasped. 

Carlo wiggled his hand in my face and began to laugh. His hand was 
perfectly okay. 

“You are horrible!” I yelled. “That is so completely not funny. It’s sick!” 

Carlo and Daniel collapsed with laughter. 

“Excellent joke!” Daniel grinned. “Hey, Carlo. Give me a... hand! Haw, 
haw, haw.” 

He and Carlo slapped each other high fives. “Way to go, dude!” Daniel 
cried. 

I glared at the dumb, immature brats. 

“You know, guys, this isn’t funny,” I said seriously. “We don’t know what 
kind of creature the sponge is.” 

“We don’t know what kind of creature you are, either!” Daniel announced 
with a big grin. 

“If I’m a creature, you’re a creature’s baby brother!” I shot back. 

“Hey, I have an idea,” said Carlo, winking at Daniel. “Maybe you should 
put the sponge on a leash and take it for a walk. The exercise will give it an 
appetite!” He hooted with laughter. 

He really cracked himself up. 

“But it doesn’t have legs,” Daniel chimed in. 

“She can roll it down Maple Lane!” Carlo suggested. 

More laughter. 

“That’s it, you guys. Get out!” I shouted. “Leave me and the sponge alone! 
Now!” 

Slapping each other another high five, Daniel and Carlo turned to leave. 

I could hardly wait for them to go. I needed to be by myself for a while. To 
sit and figure out what I should do with the little round creature. 

But before Carlo and Daniel got out the bedroom door, a scream made me 



nearly jump to the ceiling. 

I turned to see Carlo hopping frantically up and down on one foot. 

“Oh, right,” I said. “Like I’m going to believe another one of your stupid 
jokes.” 

Carlo, his face twisted in pain, pointed wildly to his foot. Falling back onto 
the bed with a groan, he yanked off his sneaker. 

Blood oozed through his white sock. 

“A nail!” he gasped. “I stepped on a nail!” 

I dropped my eyes to the sneaker on the floor. 

Along nail had poked through the thick rubber sole—and into Carlo’s foot! 

Weird, I thought. Where did a nail come from? 

“Hey, it’s really bleeding!” Carlo wailed. “Do something!” 

I searched around frantically for something to use as a bandage. As I did, 
my eyes rested on the sponge in the gerbil cage. 

“Whoa!” I cried. 

The sponge quivered and shook. 

It shook with what seemed like joy\ 

And it breathed—so loudly that I could hear the eerie sound from the other 
side of the room! 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

As I wrapped an old T-shirt around Carlo’s foot, two questions ran through 
my mind—what in the world is happening here? Why did the sponge creature 
suddenly get so excited? 

I wouldn’t find out the frightening truth about the sponge creature until the 
next day. 

When I learned it, I understood why there were so many accidents in our 
new house. 

And it made me wish that I had never opened that cabinet, never reached 
under the sink, and never found the spongy... thing. 

Because now it was too late. 

Too late for us all. 



7 


“Kat, it’s all set.” Mom grinned at me the next morning when I walked into the 
kitchen for breakfast. 

“What’s all set?” I asked sleepily. 

“Your birthday party tomorrow!” Mom replied, giving me a quick hug. 
Mom’s very big on hugging. 

“How could you forget?” she asked in surprise. “We’ve been planning your 
birthday for weeks!” 

“My party!” I breathed with delight. “Oh, I can’t wait!” I sat down at the 
table for cornflakes and orange juice. 

Birthday parties are a really big deal around the Merton house. Mom 
always orders a big cake. And she makes all the invitations and decorations by 
hand. 

This year, I helped with the invitations. We cut them out of purple 
construction paper and used a pink sparkle pen to write the words. 

I usually have a theme for my parties. Last year’s theme was “Make your 
own pizza.” And it was awesome! My friends talked about it for weeks. 

Now that I’m going to be twelve, I decided I’m too old for a theme. So 
Mom and Dad are taking me and five of my best friends to WonderPark—for the 
entire day. 

WonderPark is definitely the coolest. It has two wave pools, a whole bunch 
of water slides, and the Monster Masher. That’s the scariest upside-down roller 
coaster I’ve ever been on! 

Just how cool is it? Well, last summer, Carlo lost his lunch after a ride on 
the Masher. 

Pretty cool. 

“This is going to be my best birthday ever!” I exclaimed, smiling across the 
table at Mom. I turned to Daniel. “Sorry, you’re not invited. This is for twelve- 
year-olds only.” 

“No fair! Why can’t I come along?” he complained, banging his spoon into 
his cereal and splashing milk all over the table. “I promise I won’t talk to any of 
Kat’s friends. Who would want to? Please let me come!” 

I started to feel sort of bad. I started to change my mind. 



And then Daniel totally mined his chance. 

He folded his arms over his chest. “Kat gets everything around here,” he 
grumbled. “She won’t even share the sponge with me!” 

“That old thing Kat found under the sink?” Mom asked in surprise. “Who’d 
want it?” 

“Me!” yelled Daniel. 

“Well, I found it, so it’s mine. And I’m bringing my sponge to school 
today,” I informed Daniel. 

“Why?” Mom asked. 

“I’m going to show it to Mrs. Vanderhoff,” I explained. “Maybe she’ll 
know what it is. Now I need to find a carrier for my sponge.” 

I searched around in the kitchen cabinets. “Perfect!” I proclaimed, holding 
up a plastic container labeled Deli. It still smelled faintly of potato salad. 

With an old pair of scissors, I punched a few air holes in the top of the 
container. Then I ran upstairs to get the sponge. 

Back in the kitchen, I set the sealed container on the floor and opened the 
refrigerator. 

“Mom,” I called, “which lunch bag is mine?” 

“The blue one, honey,” she replied. 

I grabbed my lunch and shut the refrigerator. 

I heard a sniffing sound coming from the kitchen floor. I looked down. 

“Killer, what are you doing, boy?” I smiled at the floppy-eared dog. 

Snrff. Snrff. Snrff. 

He sniffed at the container. 

Grrr. Grrr. 

He pawed the ground and growled. 

Here we go again, I thought. 

Killer set his ears back, circling the container suspiciously. 

And barked. 

And barked. And barked. 

“Killer! Get back!” I shouted. 

But the dog was way too excited to listen to me. 

“Mom, Daniel!” I called. “Help me get Killer away. I think he wants to eat 
the sponge for breakfast!” 

Mom grabbed Killer by his collar and hauled him, still growling, away from 
the container. She pushed the door open and shooed the dog into the backyard. 



“Go outside, boy, there you go,” she said gently. 

Mom turned to me. “What’s got that dog so upset? He sure is acting 
strange. Now get a move on, or you’ll be late for school. And then I’ll be 
growling and barking!” 

Throwing my backpack over my shoulder, I gave Mom a quick kiss good¬ 
bye and followed Daniel out the door. 

“Watch this!” he yelled, dashing across the street to the Johnsons’ house 
and planting himself underneath their basketball hoop. 

Daniel faked a dribble and a pass, and ran madly around in circles. “Bet you 
can’t jump this high!” he said, pretending to sink a basket. 

“Come on, Daniel,” I replied, walking quickly down the street. “Mrs. 
Vanderhoff will keep me after school if I show up late.” 

Daniel trotted over to me. Suddenly, his eyes bulged! 

“Kat! Look out!” he screamed. 

Craaack! 

I heard a frightening sound above my head. A loud cracking. As if someone 
had cracked about a thousand knuckles at the same time. 

I glanced up in time to see a huge dead tree branch hurtling down through 
the air. 

I froze. 

I couldn’t scream. I couldn’t move. 

I couldn’t move a muscle. 

I was about to be crushed into Kat litter! 



8 


“Ohhhhhhh.” A terrified moan escaped my throat. 

I felt someone shove me hard from behind. 

The force of it sent me flying to the ground. 

I lay there in shock and watched the huge tree branch crash down to the 
ground, cracking and shattering. 

It landed a few feet behind me. 

As I struggled to pull myself up, the sponge container rolled out of my 
hand. The little creature came spilling out onto the sidewalk. 

“Saved your life!” cried Daniel. “Now you owe me big!” 

I barely heard him. 

The sponge. I could only stare at the sponge. 

Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

Breathing louder and faster and deeper than I’d ever heard before. 

Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

Throbbing its little heart out. Practically hopping around on the ground in 
excitement. 

Ba-boom, ba-boom. 

Very weird. I’d almost been killed by the falling branch. And the sponge 
seemed really excited. As if it enjoyed my near accident. As if my accident made 
it really happy. 

“Mrs. Vanderhoff!” I called, rushing into the classroom. “I have to show you 
something!” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff is a brain. She basically knows everything about 
everything. 

She’s very smart. And she takes us on great class trips. At Halloween, we 
visited a spooky old theater that’s supposed to be haunted by the ghosts of dead 
actors. 

But Mrs. Vanderhoff is also really strict. Anyone who goofs off or talks out 
of turn stays after school for a week! 

One other problem. She has no sense of humor at all. I’ve never even seen 
her crack a smile. 



“Check this out, Mrs. Vanderhoff,” I blurted out, shoving the sponge under 
her nose. “I found it under the kitchen sink of our new house. And when Daniel 
went to grab it, he hit his head. And my Dad thought I pushed him, and—and—” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff peered at me over her wire-rim glasses. “Kat, sshh,” she 
ordered sharply. “Now, start over—slowly and clearly.” 

I took a deep breath and began again, starting with moving day and ending 
with the falling tree branch. 

“And you say it throbs and breathes?” Mrs. Vanderhoff asked, staring hard 
at me. 

“Yes!” I exclaimed. 

“Let me see it,” Mrs. Vanderhoff replied. I handed over the container. 

Hesitantly, she stuck her hand in and lifted the sponge out. 

“Oh, wow.” I groaned in disappointment. The sponge appeared dry and 
shriveled. 

It didn’t breathe. It didn’t throb. 

Mrs. Vanderhoff glared at me. “Kat, what’s the meaning of this?” she 
huffed. “This is an ordinary kitchen sponge.” 

She made a face. “A dirty one, I might add.” 

“You’re wrong!” I cried shrilly, desperate for her to believe me. “It’s much 
more than a sponge. It’s alive. It has eyes—see? You’ve got to see!” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff squinted at me, shaking her gray-haired head. 

“Oh, all right,” she said with a sigh. She bent her head and examined the 
sponge closely. She ran her fingers over its wrinkled surface. 

“I don’t know what in the world you’re talking about,” she said angrily, 
motioning for me to take my seat. “This thing doesn’t have eyes. And it’s not 
alive. It’s a dirty, dried-up old sponge.” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff glared at me. “If this is your idea of a joke, Katrina, I don’t 
get it. I don’t get it at all.” 

“But...” I started. 

Mrs. Vanderhoff held up her hand. “Not another word,” she instructed. She 
handed the sponge back—dropping it into my hand like a piece of junk. 

My stomach churned with disappointment. 

Couldn’t I say anything else to convince her? 

The sharp rap of a ruler on her desk interrupted my thoughts. “I’m going to 
pass back the papers from your math test last week,” Mrs. Vanderhoff 
announced. 



Everyone groaned. The surprise quiz on long division had been a major 
disaster for all of us. 

“Settle down,” Mrs. Vanderhoff snapped. 

She reached into her desk to pull out the test papers, and —slammed her 
fingers in the drawer! 

With a howl of pain, she shrieked, “My fingers! Owww—I think I broke 
my fingers! ” 

I was still standing beside her desk. Holding her hand, she turned to me. 
“Help me, Katrina. I’ve got to get to the nurse’s office!” 

I opened the classroom door for Mrs. Vanderhoff. Then I helped her down 
the hall to the infirmary. 

“What’s happened?” Mrs. Twitchell, the school nurse, jumped up from her 
desk and came running up to us. Her starchy white uniform rustled as she 
moved. She sat Mrs. Vanderhoff in a comfortable chair. 

“My fingers,” groaned Mrs. Vanderhoff, holding up her red, swollen hand. 
“I smashed them in the desk drawer!” 

“All right,” Mrs. Twitchell said soothingly. “We’ll put some ice on that 
hand. And I’ll make sure the principal sends somebody to watch your class.” 

“Thank you,” Mrs. Vanderhoff moaned. “Katrina, you can go on back to 
class now. You’ve been very helpful.” 

Helpful? 

Everywhere I went these days, I told myself, somebody seemed to get badly 

hurt! 

Unhappily, I shuffled my way back toward classroom 6B. 

“Kat! Kat!” I heard someone shouting my name. 

Daniel raced out of the library, nearly tripping over his untied shoelaces. He 
crashed right into me. 

“I found it!” he cried breathlessly. “I found the sponge creature! In a book! I 
know what it is!” 



9 


I grabbed Daniel by the front of his shirt. “What is it? What?” I demanded. “I 
have to know!” 

“Whoa. Take it easy. Cool your jets.” Daniel pushed my hands off his shirt. 
“Til show you,” he promised. “I have a picture in here.” 

“In where?” I asked. 

Daniel gazed around the hall. No one in sight. 

He pulled a book out from under his shirt and handed it to me. A big black 
volume. 

I glanced quickly at the title: Encyclopedia of the Weird. 

“Is your picture in there?” I teased. 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” he replied. He grabbed the book away from me. “Do 
you want to see your sponge?” 

“Definitely!” 

Daniel flipped the pages quickly, muttering to himself, “Grebles, Griffins, 
Grocks. Here it is!” 

He shoved the book under my nose. It smelled funny—sort of musty. I 
guessed it had been sitting on the library shelf a long, long time. 

Daniel pointed to a drawing on page 89.1 lowered my eyes to the page. 

Wrinkly skin. Tiny black eyes. “It does look like the sponge,” I gasped. 

I began reading the story underneath the drawing. 

“This is a Grool. ” 

A Grool? I thought. What in the world is that? I returned to the book: 

“The Grool is an ancient and mythical creature. ” 

“Mythical?” I cried. “That means it’s not real—that it’s made up! But it is 
real!” 

“Keep reading,” Daniel urged. 

“The Grool does not eat food or drink water. Instead, it gets its strength 
from luck. Bad luck. ” 

“Daniel,” I stammered. “This is weird. Really weird.” He nodded, his eyes 
wide. 

“The Grool has always been known as a bad-luck charm. It feeds on the 



bad luck of other people. The Grool becomes stronger each time something bad 
happens around it. ” 

“This book is crazy,” I muttered. I eagerly read some more: 

“Bad luck for the Grool owner never ends. The Grool cannot be killed—by 
force or by any violent means. And it cannot — ever—be given away or tossed 
aside. ” 

Why not? I wondered. 

The next lines gave me the answer: 

“A Grool is only passed on to a new owner when an owner dies. Anyone 
who gives the Grool away will DIE within one day. ” 

“That is so stupid!” I exclaimed. “Stupid. Stupid. Stupid.” 

Turning to Daniel, I said in a low voice, “There is no such thing as a 
creature that lives on bad luck.” 

“How do you know, genius?” Daniel demanded. 

“Everything needs food and water,” I replied. “Everything that’s alive, 
anyway.” 

“I don’t know,” Daniel said. “I think the book could be right.” 

The drawing of a creature on another page caught my eye. “Hey, what’s 
this?” I asked. 

It looked like a potato—oval and brown. But it had a mouth full of sharp, 
pointy teeth. 

I quickly read the description. 

“The Lanx is a cousin of the Grool. But it is much more dangerous. ” 

“Yuck!” Daniel cried, making a face. 

I kept reading: 

“Once the Lanx latches on to someone, it never lets go—until it has drained 
every drop of energy from that person. ” 

I slammed the encyclopedia shut. “Here, Daniel, take this dumb book!” I 
shoved the Encyclopedia of the Weird back into my brother’s arms. “This stuff is 
totally crazy. I don’t believe any of it.” 

“But I thought you wanted to know more about the sponge,” Daniel said. 

“I do. But not this made-up stuff!” I told him. 

I knew I was acting sort of rotten to Daniel. And that he only wanted to 

help. 

But give me a break. After all that had been happening, I was a little 
stressed out. 



I mean, it had been a bad couple of days—with Dad falling off the ladder, 
and Mrs. Vanderhoff slamming her hand in the desk. 

And me nearly being crushed by the tree branch! 

I stomped down the hall back to class. “Stupid book,” I muttered to myself. 
But another thought kept forcing its way into my mind: What if the book is 
right? 

I stared at the Grool, still sitting in its container on the corner of Mrs. 
Vanderhoff’s desk. I walked up to it. 

It was wet again. And breathing. Its cold, black eyes stared back. 

I felt a chill of fear and a prickling all over my skin. 

“Mythical creatures don’t exist,” I whispered to the creature. “I’m not going 
to believe that book. I’m not!” 

The sponge stared up at me, breathing softly. 

I picked up the container and shook it angrily. “What are you?” I cried. 
“What?” 

Daniel told Carlo the whole story on the walk home. I walked behind them, 
trying to think about something else. Anything else. 

“It’s called a Grool. And it’s a bad-luck charm,” Daniel explained excitedly. 
“Right, Kat?” 

“I think you’re the bad-luck charm,” I snapped. “And I don’t think that 
book makes any sense.” 

“Oh, yeah?” he cried. He grabbed my backpack. 

“You don’t need these books, do you?” he teased. “You’re so smart, you 
know more than the encyclopedia.” 

Dancing down the street with my books, Daniel turned on to Maple Lane. 
“Hey, Mom’s outside!” he cried, surprised. He started to run. 

Carlo and I hurried to catch up with Daniel. 

Mom stood at the door, waiting for us. Her face wore a tense, worried 
expression. “Hi, kids. Come on inside,” she said. 

Daniel, Carlo, and I followed Mom into the kitchen. 

“I’m afraid I have some very bad news,” she began sadly. 



10 


“Killer is gone,” Mom announced. She bit her lower lip. 

“Gone?” Daniel and I shrieked at once. 

“He ran away,” Mom explained. “I can’t find him anywhere. He must have 
slipped out when I went to put some things in the garage.” 

“But, Mom—” I protested. “Killer never runs away. He’s never done it 
before.” 

“Kat is right!” Daniel agreed. “He’s not brave enough to run away.” 

“Don’t worry,” Mom said. “I’m sure we’ll find him. I’ve called the police, 
and they’re out searching for him right now.” 

“I’ll find Killer,” Daniel cried. “Bet I can find him before the police! Come 
on, Carlo!” 

Daniel grabbed a handful of doggie treats and ran out. Carlo followed close 
behind. 

The door slammed shut behind them. 

Poor Killer, I thought. Out somewhere alone. Probably lost. Bet he’s scared. 

Our new house is so close to the highway—to all those speeding cars. What 
will happen to my little dog? 

I suddenly felt like crying. I grabbed the sponge in its container and ran up 
the stairs. 

“It’s all your fault, isn’t it?” I accused the creature. “I bet you are a Grool 
after all!” 

As I talked, the Grool pulsed. It shook so hard, I expected it to throb right 
out of the container. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

And it breathed fast and deep. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I yanked the Grool out. “We’ve had enough bad luck!” I wailed. “Maybe 
this will stop you!” I hurled the horrible thing as hard as I could against the wall. 

The Grool hit the wall with a sickening splat. 

And I let out a shrill cry of pain. 



11 


I glanced down and saw red. 

Red blood. 

Flowing over my left hand. 

As I threw the Grool, I slammed the hand down on my desk—onto the 
sharp point of a pair of scissors! 

“Ohhh!” I moaned, checking out my hand. A deep, nasty cut. 

I wrapped some tissues around the cut to slow the bleeding. Then I spotted 
the Grool down on the floor. 

Dead, I hoped. 

I bent down. 

“Gross!” I yelped. The Grool was breathing and throbbing—faster and 
harder than ever before. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I leaned in closer. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

“Hey, what’s that?” I murmured. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

I guess you’d call the noise a laugh. A dry, cruel snicker that sounded more 
like a cough. 

Then, as I listened to that evil laugh, the Grool began changing. 

Its color suddenly brightened—from dull brown to light pink. As I stared in 
amazement, the Grool turned bright tomato-red. 

As red as the blood on my cut hand. 

My hand! Yuck! Blood seeped through the tissues and dripped slowly onto 
the floor. 

I needed help with this. Mom’s help. 

“Mom!” I called, leaping up. “I need a Band-Aid. A big one!” 

As I hurried down the hall, a jumble of questions ran through my mind. 

Why did the Grool change color? I wondered. And that laugh—I’d never 
heard it before. What did it mean? Was it really laughing? 

Did I hurt the Grool when I threw it against my bedroom wall? Is that why 



it turned red? 

So many frightening questions.... 

I listened at the door, cupping my hand around my ear. 

Voices. Inside my room. 

“Who’s there?” I called out shakily. 

The door flew open. 

“It’s the ghost of the Grool,” Daniel whispered in a spooky voice. 
“Owoooooooo.” 

Daniel and Carlo stood over the gerbil cage, giggling. 

“Oh, I’m so scared,” I sneered. “Did you find Killer?” 

“No,” Daniel replied sadly. “Carlo and I searched all over the 
neighborhood. Mom says the police will find him.” 

I turned my eyes to the gerbil cage. “How did the Grool get back in there?” 

“I found it on the floor, so I stuck it back in the cage,” Daniel replied. “How 
did it get out?” 

“Beats me.” I shrugged. I didn’t feel like explaining. 

Carlo, who’d been studying the Grool closely, stared at me. “Hey, what 
happened to your hand?” he asked, pointing to my bandage. 

I didn’t want to tell them. 

“Oh, uh, nothing,” I replied. “Just a little cut. Why are you guys standing 
there staring at the Grool?” 

“Carlo still wants to borrow it,” Daniel explained, tapping the side of the 
cage to get the creature’s attention. “I told him no.” 

Carlo turned to me. “Please,” he begged. “I promise I’ll be careful. Please, 
please, please, please...” 

That stupid Grool! “Oh, take it and keep it!” I snapped. 

“Excellent!” Carlo’s eyes lit up, and he reached eagerly into the plastic cage 
to grab his prize. 

“Wait!” Daniel cried, grabbing Carlo’s arm to stop him. “Kat, remember 
what the Encyclopedia of the Weird said.” 

Daniel began reciting the Grool entry from memory, staring at me all the 
while. 

“You cannot give a Grool away. Anyone who gives the Grool away will DIE 
within one day. ” 

A feeling of dread grew in my stomach. 



But I couldn’t believe that stupid book. Could I? 

Did the encyclopedia say that Grools laugh? Or change color? 

No. 

Carlo and Daniel stared at me. Waiting for my decision. Should I give the 
sponge creature to Carlo? 

I studied the Grool. 

“Don’t do it, Kat,” Daniel urged. “Please don’t give it away. It’s too 
dangerous.” 

I knew only one thing. I wanted to get the Grool away from me as quickly 
as I could. And if Carlo wanted it so badly, I decided, let him have it! 

“Go ahead, Carlo,” I said. “Take the gross, disgusting thing.” 

Daniel grabbed the Grool out of the cage and held it tightly. “No!” he cried. 
“Carlo is not taking it. I don’t care what you say. I won’t let him take it!” 

“Now who’s the scaredy-cat?” I asked, giving Daniel a poke in the arm. 

“I’m trying to save you!” Daniel exclaimed. “Don’t you understand?” 

Poor Daniel. He seemed so serious, so frightened. I decided to give him a 
break. 

“Well, okay. Carlo, I guess you’d better not take the Grool,” I announced. 

Daniel heaved a sigh of relief. 

Carlo frowned. “Okay. Bye. I’m out of here.” 

“I’ll go with you,” Daniel said, tossing the Grool back into the cage. “Come 
on, let’s ride our bikes to the park. Maybe Killer’s there.” As he hurried out of 
the bedroom, Daniel turned and gave me a thumbs-up. 

After the boys left, I collapsed on my bed. What’s going to happen next? I 
wondered. 

I lifted my eyes to the plastic cage and glared at the Grool. I felt a deep 
hatred for the little creature. 

“If one more bad thing happens around here, I’ll bury you,” I promised it. 
“I’ll bury you so far in the ground that no one will ever find you or see you 
again. Ever.” 

It was a promise I would soon have to keep. 



12 


The next morning I woke up with a jolt. 

Toot! Toot! Daniel stood at the foot of my bed, blowing away on a party 

horn. 

“Time to get up, Kat!” he squealed. 

I reached out to grab the noisy horn away. “Quit it, you loser!” I grumbled. 
Then I remembered. 

My birthday! Finally! Something to celebrate. 

I jumped out of bed. Time to get ready to go to WonderPark! 

I planned to be on the Seattle Log Flume and the Wild Wave Slide all day 

long! 

Running to the window, I peeked out through the glass. “No!” I cried in 
disappointment. “No! It can’t be!” 

Rain poured down. Lightning crackled through the sky. Thunder boomed so 
loud, I felt the house shake. 

How could we go to WonderPark in this mess? 

“Kat,” Mom called from downstairs. “Breakfast.” 

I threw on my purple-and-pink-striped leggings and a purple T-shirt and ran 
to the kitchen. On my birthday Mom always makes my favorite—waffles with 
strawberries and powdered sugar. 

“Here’s the birthday girl. Happy birthday, honey.” Mom beamed, giving me 
a big hug. 

“I’m dressed for my party,” I said hopefully as I sat down at the table. 

“Oh, honey, I’m afraid we’ll have to cancel your party,” Mom said sadly. 
“We certainly can’t go to WonderPark in this storm.” 

Cancel? I poked unhappily at my waffles. 

“Can’t we have the party here—indoors?” I pleaded. “We’ll order pizza and 
play computer games in the den.” 

“You know that we can’t do that,” Mom said. “The painters will be here all 
day in the living room and dining room. With all those ladders and buckets of 
paint, I can’t have your friends running around.” 

What rotten luck. 

“But, Mom, it’s my birthday!” I protested, throwing down my fork. “And 



you promised I could have a party. You promised!” 

Mom sighed. “I know how disappointed you are, Kat. We’ll have your party 
another day. Maybe next weekend.” 

Another day wouldn’t be my birthday. “Everything’s going wrong!” I cried. 
“Ever since we moved!” 

I hated this new house. I even hated my birthday. 

Most of all, I hated the Grool. 

Leaving my waffles on the plate, I ran up to my room. I snatched the Grool 
out of its cage and shook it as hard as I could. 

“I warned you!” I threatened. “You ruined my birthday! Now you’ll pay!” 

The Grool throbbed happily in my hand, and I hurled it back into the gerbil 
cage. “I hate you!” I shrieked. “I really hate you! You and your bad luck!” 

Plopping down at my desk, I decided I had to take action. Strong action. 

No birthday party. No more Grool. 

“I’m keeping my promise,” I told the creature. 

I pulled a notebook out of my desk drawer and began to make some plans 
to get rid of it. 

“Daniel, it’s not raining anymore,” I whispered to my brother. “Come on, it’s 
time.” 

The Grool vibrated in its plastic container. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

Daniel glanced up from his computer screen. “Now?” he asked. “Give me a 
break, Kat. I’m on level ten, and I need to slay only one more troll before I can 
open the treasure chest.” 

“This is important. Really important,” I insisted. 

Daniel sighed. “Do you think you should do it? You know what the book 
said.” 

“I’ve got to!” I cried. “Remember, it’s the Grool’s fault that Killer ran 
away.” 

Daniel was definitely nervous. And scared. 

But he obediently hit the save button on Troll Terror and followed me 
outside to the backyard. It had rained all day. But now a few stars shone high 
above us in the charcoal night sky. 

“Here. You hold the Grool,” I whispered. I shoved the creature into his 
trembling hands. 



I skipped over to the garage—feeling happy for the first time in days. “I’m 
getting rid of the Grool,” I sang to myself. 

Grabbing the biggest shovel I could find, I made my way back to Daniel. 
Then I started to dig. 

This had to be a serious hole, a deep hole. Something the Grool could 
never, ever climb out of. 

A cool breeze blew around me. But digging in the damp ground was hard 
work. Sweat rolled down my back and forehead. 

I didn’t feel scared at all. I had to do something to make life normal again. I 
had to stop all the bad luck. 

And if it meant burying a living sponge, fine. As long as I never had to see 
that stupid, snickering creature again. 

I peered down into the hole. It seemed pretty deep, about as long as my 

arm. 

“I’m finished,” I told my brother. “Pass me the Grool.” 

Daniel silently handed the sponge to me. 

As I held it over the deep hole, the sponge didn’t throb. It didn’t breathe. It 
didn’t even feel warm. 

It felt dry and dead, like an ordinary kitchen sponge. 

But I knew better. 

I dropped the Grool into the hole and watched happily as it tumbled down 
the steep dirt sides to the bottom. 

Picking up the shovel again, I began throwing dirt onto the creature—heap 
after heap. 

Dig. Throw. Dig. Throw. 

Finally, the hole was filled up. I used the back of the shovel to smooth the 
dirt flat. “There,” I said. “No one but us will know the Grool is buried here.” 

I lowered my eyes to the soft, wet dirt. “Bye, bye Grool,” I called out 
happily. “Daniel, I think our luck is going to change now.” 

Daniel didn’t reply. 

I spun around. “Daniel? Daniel? Where are you?” 

My brother had disappeared. 



13 


What had I done? 

I dropped the shovel in a panic. “Daniel!” I shrieked. “Where are you?” 

Had I made my brother disappear? Did burying the Grool somehow make 
Daniel vanish into thin air? 

“Daniel? Daniel?” I called in a trembling voice. 

I heard a soft rustling sound coming from behind the garage. 

I crept quietly toward it. “Daniel,” I whispered. “Is that you?” 

No reply. 

I peeked behind the garage. 

Daniel sat with his arms locked around his knees. Safe and sound. 

“Daniel!” I cried. I felt so relieved that I pinched him. 

“Cut it out,” he snapped. He leaped to his feet. 

“What are you doing back here? I was so worried—I thought the Grool got 
you!” 

Daniel didn’t reply. He lowered his eyes to the ground. 

“Why did you hide?” I demanded. 

“I was scared,” he murmured. “I thought the Grool might explode or fight 
back or something.” 

“You were scared?” I asked. “Why didn’t you at least answer me when I 
called you?” 

“I thought maybe the Grool was chasing you,” he confessed, his face 
turning red. 

“Daniel, don’t worry,” I said. The poor guy was really frightened. And 
embarrassed that he had hid. 

I put both hands on his shoulders. “The Grool is gone. It’s buried deep in 
the ground.” 

He swallowed hard. “But what if it comes back? What if what the book said 
comes true?” 

“We’ll never see the Grool again,” I said quietly. “And don’t forget—the 
book said Grools don’t really exist. It’s all made up. Just a myth, a fairy tale.” 

Daniel sighed. “I hate to admit it, but you’re right, Kat,” he said. “At least 



this time.” 

“This time?” I shot back. “How about all the time?” I slugged Daniel on the 

arm. 

“Oh, that hurts so much I think I’m going to pass out!” Daniel cried 
sarcastically. He fell on to the wet lawn and pretended to faint. 

“Come on, let’s go in,” I urged. “You’re getting soaked. And I’m covered 
with dirt.” 

Daniel scrambled up and elbowed me aside. 

“Race you!” he cried, running toward the house. 

I leaped up the steps and beat him into the house by about a second. I 
slammed the screen door and held it closed, so Daniel couldn’t open it. 

“I won!” I shouted. 

“Only because I let you,” Daniel cried. He banged on the door. 

“Do you want to get in here?” I asked. 

Daniel nodded. 

“Then say, ‘Kat beat me fair and square’,” I commanded. 

“No way!” he replied. 

“Stay out there all night, then—with the Groooooooool!” I told him. I let 
out a ghostly howl. 

“Okay, okay. Kat beat me fair and square,” Daniel grumbled. “But I’ll win 
next time!” 

Actually, I didn’t really care about the race. I felt so glad that I buried the 
Grool, I would have let Daniel win ten races. 

As we burst into the living room, Mom and Dad raised their eyes from their 
newspapers. The house smelled of fresh paint. 

“Where were you?” Dad asked. 

“Oh, just fooling around in the yard,” I replied. 

“Is everything all right?” Mom asked with concern. “You’re filthy!” 

“Everything is fine,” I answered. “Now.” 

“Okay, go and wash up,” Mom ordered. “Then come into the kitchen.” 

Daniel and I crowded into the bathroom, leaned over the sink, pushing and 
bumping each other, and cleaned ourselves up. 

“Do you know what time it is?” Mom asked as I raced back into the 
kitchen. 

“Yes!” I shouted happily. “It’s time for my birthday cake.” 

Mom beamed. “Well, sit right down here.” 



I dropped excitedly into the chair she offered. Finally, I thought, things are 
going right again. 

Daniel perched on the chair next to mine. He grabbed my arm. “Something 
bad is going to happen,” he whispered. “I know it. I just know it.” 

I’m not going to let anything wreck tonight, I thought. 

“Don’t be such a wimp,” I whispered. “Everything’s fine.” 

At the kitchen counter, Mom hovered over the cake. She touched a match to 
each of the thirteen candles—one for each year and an extra one for luck. 

What an awesome cake! Mom had ordered it from the bakery down the 
street. It had all my favorites: pink frosting roses, chocolate icing, and a layer of 
strawberries. A tiny chocolate Ferris wheel sat on top. 

“Ready, Kat?” Mom asked. She carried the cake to the table. Her faced 
glowed happily in the candlelight. Dad flashed me a big grin. 

They all began to sing “Happy Birthday”. 

I saw Daniel watching me closely as he sang. 

They finished the song. I shut my eyes and made my wishes. 

“I wish Killer would come home,” I said to myself. “And I wish the Grool 
would never return. And that Daniel is wrong—that nothing bad will happen.” 

I leaned forward, closer to the candles, and blew hard. 

Pop! 

The loud noise from the kitchen nearly made me fall into my cake! 



14 


“Boy, that cork was loud!” chirped Mom. 

She set down a tray of glasses and a large green bottle. “It’s your favorite— 
sparkling apple cider,” she announced. “I know it’s not as good as a day at 
WonderPark....” 

“Oh, Mom!” I gasped, my heart still pounding. “It’s great. Everything is 
going to be great.” 

An excellent birthday. Cake, sparkling cider, and presents—two new video 
games, a Discman and some CDs, a purple backpack, and a sweatshirt in pink 
and purple—my favorite colors. 

That night before bed, I stuffed my school books into my new backpack. I 
stared at the gerbil cage. Empty and clean—as if the Grool had never even 
existed. 

I got rid of the disgusting creature, I thought happily. I really did. 

My family will finally be safe from bad luck. 

The clock in the hall chimed ten. Time for bed. I climbed into my nightshirt 
and dove under the covers. 

When the alarm rang the next morning, I bounced out of bed and ran to the 
window to check the weather. 

“Oh, nooo!” 

I uttered a low moan of horror. 

The backyard—it looked like a desert! 

Overnight, the grass had all burned brown. All the pink begonias dropped to 
the ground, dead and brown. Dad’s red roses had shriveled and turned black. 

Poor Dad, I thought. He worked so hard to make the yard beautiful. And, 
now... 

As I stared at the ugly, dead yard, I tried to force the thought from my mind. 
But deep down inside, I knew exactly how it all happened. 

The Grool. 

From its grave, the Grool had turned its evil powers on the lawn. And it 
killed every single living plant, flower, and blade of grass! 

What should I do? I wondered, staring out at the burned, dried-out, dead, 



dead yard. 

Should I remove the Grool from the ground? 

Did I have a choice? 

Not really. 

I quickly pulled on my new sweatshirt and a pair of jeans. Then I crept 
downstairs. I sneaked out to the spot where I had buried the Grool. 

And I began to dig. 

Brown, dry leaves rained down on my head. My shoulder ached from lifting 
the damp, heavy dirt. My stomach didn’t feel too great, either. 

Dig, toss. Dig, toss. 

The more I dug, the worse I felt. 

I wanted to throw the shovel down and run from the spot. To leave the 
terrible creature buried for good. 

But I had to face the truth. 

If I left the Grool buried, it would keep on punishing me. It would punish 
my whole family. 

I dug to the bottom of the hole. Then I bent down and pushed the dirt away 
with both hands. 

Slowly, before my frightened eyes, the Grool throbbed into view. More 
alive and excited than ever. 

“I should smash you with this shovel!” I yelled at it. 

The Grool vibrated crazily, almost as if what I said made it happy. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. I could hear it breathe. 

And then once again, it turned from brown to pink to tomato-red. And it 
kept changing color as it breathed. 

Brown. Pink. Red. 

Brown. Pink. Red. 

I grabbed the Grool from its grave. It pulsed so hard that it throbbed right 
out of my hand and fell to the ground. 

“Stay still!” I shrieked, snatching it up. 

The Grool stared at me. Its tiny, round eyes glowed red with evil. 

I shivered. 

I gritted my teeth and shoved the Grool into the pocket of my new 
sweatshirt. I trudged back to the house, through the kitchen door, and into the 
hall that led to the stairs. 

At the bottom of the stairs, I heard a noise. It came from Mom and Dad’s 



bedroom. 

They’re awake, I thought. I’ve got to hurry before they see me and ask 
questions. That’s all I need. 

I leaped up the stairs, taking them two at a time. 

Whomp! I slipped and landed hard on my right knee. “Ouch!” I shrieked. 

I felt the Grool shake in my pocket. I heard its ugly, soft snicker. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

It was laughing at me! 

I jerked it out of my pocket and squeezed it so hard that my fingers hurt. 
Then I ran to my room and threw the Grool into the gerbil cage. 

“I’ll find a way to destroy you,” I promised. I rubbed my aching knee and 
glared at the little beast. “Before you can bring us any more bad luck, I will 
destroy you!” I cried. 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 



15 


“Kids, Aunt Louise is coming tomorrow,” Mom told Daniel and me the next 
morning. “So I want you both to clean up your rooms after school today.” 

“Aunt Louise is coming?” I asked. “Great!” 

Aunt Louise is my favorite aunt. Even though she^s a grown-up, she^s 
completely cool. 

She wears long, flowery dresses and drives a bright yellow convertible. 

And Aunt Louise blows the biggest bubble gum bubbles! And she knows a 
lot of really funny jokes. 

Mom says Aunt Louise has her head in the clouds. I guess that means she 
has a wild imagination. I don’t know about that, but she does know a lot about 
things like astrology and tarot cards. 

And, maybe—about Grools. 

That night, after I cleaned my room and before I went to bed, I said a 
special good night to the Grool. 

“My aunt is coming tomorrow and she’s going to help me get rid of you 
forever,” I whispered. It stared up at me, breathing softly. 

After school the next afternoon, Daniel and I turned the corner onto our block. 
And we saw Aunt Louise’s yellow convertible in the driveway. We ran the rest 
of the way home. 

“Hey—what’s up?” Aunt Louise called as we burst into the house. A floppy 
yellow straw hat covered her black curly hair. 

Before Daniel could get to her, I threw my arms around Aunt Louise and 
whispered in her ear, “Come upstairs with me. Now. It’s super-important.” 

My aunt pulled off her hat and set it on my head. She admired me in the hat. 
“Super-important?” she asked. 

“Yes,” I whispered, grabbing her hand and tugging her toward the stairs. 

“Have you ever heard of a Grool?” I asked. 

“A Grool? Hmmm. I’ll have to think about that one for a minute,” she 
replied thoughtfully. “No, I don’t think so. What is a Grool?” 

“Well,” I explained, “Daniel found a picture in an encyclopedia. And the 
book said it was an ancient, mythical creature....” 



“Well, if it’s mythical, honey, that means it doesn’t exist,” Aunt Louise 
interrupted. 

“But it’s not mythical!” I cried impatiently. “I should know because I have 
one. And it causes trouble, lots of trouble.” 

Aunt Louise followed me to my room. 

“Have you ever heard of a Lanx?” I asked. 

She shook her head. 

“That’s another creature in that encyclopedia. It looks like a potato, but it 
has a mouth full of sharp teeth.” 

“Good heavens. It sounds disgusting!” Aunt Louise exclaimed. “But tell me 
about this... Grool. What does it look like?” 

“Here. I’ll show you,” I said. I pulled her into my room. 

I pointed at the gerbil cage. The Grool squatted in the corner. 

Aunt Louise walked up to the cage. “So you’re a Grool,” she said, leaning 
down. She reached over to pick it up. 

“Wait,” I cried. “Maybe you shouldn’t touch it.” 

But I was too late. 



16 


Aunt Louise picked up the Grool and placed it in the palm of her hand. She 
studied it for a long while. 

Then she turned to me. “Kat, it’s only a dried-up sponge. What’s the big 
idea?” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Oh, I get it!” she laughed. “You really had me fooled! I thought you were 
serious!” She tossed the Grool to me. 

I tried to catch it, but I didn’t want to touch it. It plopped to the floor. 

“Pretty funny, kid.” She chuckled as she turned to leave. “You have a great 
imagination. Just like your aunt.” 

I picked up the Grool and examined it closely. 

Not warm. 

Not breathing. 

Not moving at all. 

Dry and hard. 

An ordinary sponge. 

Aunt Louise thought I was joking. But the joke was on me. 

The Grool had tricked me again! 

I hurled the creature back into the gerbil cage. It lay there lifeless. “I hope 
you rot in there!” I exploded. 

Before my amazed eyes, the dry brown sponge began plumping-up. In a 
few seconds, it became fuller and moister. 

“Yuck!” I groaned, watching it turn pink and then red. 

The Grool huffed and puffed. Whoa-ahhhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

Those little black eyes peered out at me excitedly. 

The Grool snickered softly. 

Why was it so pleased with itself? I wondered. Nothing horrible had 
happened. 

Or had it? 

I thought of Dad’s fall off the ladder. The tree branch. Mrs. Vanderhoff’s 
fingers. Killer running away. My spoiled birthday party. Our dry, rotted 



backyard. 

It was all too much. Too much! 

With a desperate cry, I yanked the evil thing out of its cage. Then I 
slammed it down hard on my desk. 

Breathing hard, my heart pounding, I grabbed one of my heaviest 
textbooks. And I slammed it down onto the Grool. 

“Die!” I shouted. “Please! Die!” 

I raised the book high. Pounded the Grool with it. 

Again. Again. 

I pounded hard enough to kill anything. 

Finally, I stopped. Gasping for breath, my arms aching, I stared down at 
what I’d done. 

Yuck. What a mess. 

Brown and pink shreds of Grool littered my desk. 

I had smashed it to pieces. 

“Yes!” I cried breathlessly. “Yes!” 

Finally! I had finally destroyed the evil creature! 

“Yes!” I cried again. 

But the cry stuck in my throat. 

As the pink and brown shreds started to move, I stared down in horror—and 
began to shake all over. 



17 


“This can’t be happening,” I whispered. 

But it was. 

The pieces—the shreds of Grool—they were sliding across the desktop. 
Slithering. Rolling together. 

Coming back together. 

Forming a brown ball. A sponge. 

It didn’t take long. A minute at the most. 

And now the Grool stared up at me again. And it vibrated so hard that my 
desk actually began to rock. 

Its cruel snicker cut through my shocked silence. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

“Shut up! Shut up!” I screamed. 

But it snickered even louder. 

Frantic, I grabbed a dirty sock from the clothes hamper. I used it to pick up 
the Grool. And then I hurled the thing back into the cage. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

With a cry, I threw myself face down on my bed and covered my ears. “Will 
I have this bad luck for the rest of my life? Is there anything I can do?” 

I was so frightened. So angry. So confused. 

I couldn’t even pretend to be my usual cheery self. 

When Aunt Louise took me and Daniel out to an ice-cream parlor, I 
couldn’t even finish a small butterscotch sundae. Usually, I’m good for a triple 
decker. 

But how could I ever be happy again? I was stuck with the Grool—forever. 

“Wake up, Kat! Wake up!” A frantic voice whispered in my ear. 

I slowly raised my head off the pillow. “Huh?” 

Daniel was waving his bookbag back and forth about an inch above my 
head. “Get that away!” I shouted, grabbing for it. 

“Hey, I’m only trying to help you,” he replied, snatching the pack away. 
“You’re going to be late for school. You’d better get moving!” 



He ran out of the room. 

I tore the covers off and raced to the closet. I slipped on my Save the Earth 
sweatshirt and purple flowered leggings. Then I remembered. 

“Daniel, you little dweeb!” I bellowed. “We have no school today! There’s 
a teachers’ conference!” 

He peeked back into my room. 

“Got you!” he gloated. 

I hurled a pillow at his head and hit him in the face. A nice shot. 

“You’re a bad sport,” he said, laughing. “Carlo’s coming over after 
breakfast. We can play Mega Monster Warriors. ” 

I slammed the door in his face. 

Daniel’s stupid tricks usually don’t bother me too much. 

And a day off from school always puts me in a great mood. 

But how could I enjoy myself? I just kept wondering what bad thing was 
going to happen next. 

What bad luck would the evil Grool bring today? 

After breakfast, I hung around on the back porch, reading a magazine. And 
trying to ignore Daniel’s and Carlo’s shrieks and wild laughter as they played 
computer games. 

I really missed Killer. He usually sits next to me when I read. 

After about an hour, I got bored. I decided to go up to my room and work 
on my social studies assignment. 

I had to write an essay for Mrs. Vanderhoff. My Family and What They 
Mean to Me. 

But I kept thinking about the Grool and how it was totally ruining my 
family. 

So far, all I had written was: “I’m Kat Merton and my family means an 
awful lot to me.” 

Not exactly grade-A material. And the paper was due tomorrow morning. 

I decided to take a break. I went to the kitchen and poured myself a glass of 
chocolate milk and grabbed a handful of oatmeal cookies. 

On my way back upstairs, I peeked into the den. Things seemed very quiet 
in there. 

I didn’t see Carlo. Only Daniel, playing Underwater Adventure Quest. 

“Where is Carlo?” I asked. 

“Um,” Daniel replied, his eyes glued to the submarines and torpedoes 



flashing across the computer screen. 

“Was my question too hard for you?” I asked sarcastically. “I’ll go slower 
now. Where... is... Carlo?” 

“Home,” he mumbled. 

“Did he get mad because you sank more enemy submarines than he did?” I 
joked. 

Daniel didn’t answer. 

I headed upstairs to my room. I set down my milk and cookies. I couldn’t 
help but glance at the gerbil cage. 

It wasn’t what I saw that made a prickle of fear run down my back. It was 
what I didn’t see. 

The cage stood empty. 

The Grool was gone. 

Escaped. 



18 


How had it escaped? The Grool had never even tried to get out of its cage 
before. 

In fact, the stupid sponge never seemed very interested in going anywhere. 

Why did it disappear now? And where did it go? 

And what kind of trouble was it planning to make? 

It couldn’t get very far, I told myself. It had no legs. 

I started to call to Daniel. But my throat choked with panic. 

I frantically started to search for the Grool. I slid on my stomach under the 
bed. Not there. 

I pulled everything out of my closet. I opened dresser drawers. No sign of 
it. 

I checked every inch of the room. I even called out to it: “Here Grool, here 
Grool.” 

No. No way. The creature was gone. 

The words from the Encyclopedia of the Weird suddenly flashed into my 
mind: “Anyone who gives the Grool away will DIE within one day.” 

“Daniel!” I shrieked. “Daniel!” I tore downstairs and into the TV room. I 
shook him so hard, he dropped his computer mouse. 

“The Grool is gone!” I cried. “It escaped!” 

Daniel turned away from the computer screen. “Excuse me? What do you 
mean—gone?” 

“It’s gone! The cage is empty!” I wailed. 

Daniel scrunched up his face, thinking hard. “I know where it is,” he said. 
“Carlo.” 

“Huh?” I cried. “How could you? How could you let Carlo take it?” 

“I didn’t let him!” Daniel snapped. “He must have grabbed it when he left. 
Carlo thinks it’s all a big joke. He said there’s no way a little sponge can do 
anything bad.” 

“What a jerk!” I sputtered. “Maybe we should let him keep the Grool. It 
would teach him a lesson—a real nasty lesson!” 

“Kat, we can’t!” Daniel exclaimed. “He’s my best friend. We have to get 
the Grool back from him—before something terrible happens!” 



Daniel and I pulled our jackets out of the hall closet. Then we ran out to the 
garage. We jumped on our bikes and pedaled furiously down Maple Lane. 

“Where do you think he went?” I shouted. 

“Let’s try the school playground,” Daniel suggested. “There’s always a 
bunch of kids there.” 

“Yeah, and Carlo’s a big show-off,” I exclaimed. “He probably went 
straight to the playground to show off the Grool.” 

“He is not a show-off,” Daniel protested. 

“Is too!” I argued. Pedaling furiously, I shot way ahead of Daniel. 

I made it to Chestnut Street a few minutes later. “Only two more blocks!” I 
called breathlessly. I slowed down so that Daniel could catch up. 

I turned the corner. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. 

I squeezed on the brakes. Stopped short. 

Who was that lying in the middle of the street? 

Was it Carlo? 

Yes! 

Carlo. Sprawled on his stomach. His arms and legs stretched over the 
pavement. 

“We’re too late!” Daniel cried. “We’re too late!” 



19 


Our bikes crashed to the ground as Daniel and I leaped off them. We bent over 
Carlo, calling his name. 

“Ohhhh, wow.” Carlo let out a low moan. He clutched his right leg. 

“Carlo!” I yelled breathlessly. “What is it? What happened? Are you okay?” 

Carlo bent his leg carefully and winced. “My knee really hurts. I twisted it 
when I fell off my bike.” 

I looked up and saw his bike, on its side under a tree. 

“How did it happen?” Daniel asked weakly. My brother hates the sight of 
blood. 

“Some of the older kids wanted to race me,” Carlo groaned. “I didn’t really 
want to race them—but they dared me.” 

He sat up, still rubbing his knee. “Man, I was flying! Then, well, I hit some 
gravel—and skidded into a tree. Those kids all thought it was a riot. They just 
rode off and left me.” 

“Daniel, help me get him up,” I instructed. We put our arms around Carlo 
and guided him over to the curb. 

Then we just sat there, staring at Carlo’s mangled bicycle. The handlebars 
looked like a giant metal pretzel. 

“You know what?” Carlo finally said. “I didn’t even see that stupid tree 
until I was right on top of it.” 

Daniel poked me. I knew he was thinking what I was thinking. 

The Grool strikes again. 

We had to get the Grool back. 

“Carlo, where is the Grool?” I asked. 

“Right there in my bike basket.” He pointed. 

I reached over the tangled handlebars and felt around the basket with my 
hand. 

And felt again. 

Nothing in the basket. Completely empty. 

“Carlo, give me a break,” I complained. “There’s no Grool in there. Where 
is it?” My voice got high and shrill. I could feel the panic sweeping over me. 



“Huh? It’s got to be in there!” Carlo declared. “That’s where I stuck it. I 
was going to take it right home.” 

“Oh, sure, Carlo,” I snapped. “Like you weren’t going to bring it to the 
playground and show it off?” 

Carlo hung his head. “Well, maybe for a couple of minutes.” 

“Great! Just great!” I fumed. “Because of you, the Grool is missing.” 

Daniel leaned close to me, his face pale with fear. “We’ve got to find the 
Grool, Kat,” he whispered. “Remember what the encyclopedia said. If you don’t 
find it in a day, you’ll die!” 

“I remember,” I replied with a shudder. “But how are we ever going to find 
it now? Where can it be?” 



20 


“I don’t even know where to start looking.” I sighed. 

“Maybe it fell out of the basket when I hit the tree,” Carlo suggested. 
“Maybe it rolled somewhere around here.” 

Daniel tugged on my sleeve. “Come on,” he urged. “Let’s start looking.” 

Carlo stood up. “I’d better get home,” he said. He limped away. Luckily, his 
house was on the next block. 

Daniel and I hunted all over the block. In doorways, underneath cars, in 
flower beds—anywhere the Grool might have rolled. 

No luck. 

As we were about to give up, I spotted a sewer grating a few feet away 
from Carlo’s bike. Could the Grool have tumbled down there? 

Daniel saw the sewer, too. “Kat? I’ll bet it rolled down into the sewer! It’s 
down there. I know it is!” 

I dropped to the pavement. On my stomach. I peered into the darkness 
through the grating. 

“It’s way too dark to see anything,” I reported. “Somebody will have to go 
down there.” 

“Uh... somebody? Maybe... maybe I could go,” my brother offered in a 
shaky voice. 

Daniel acts really brave. But I know he’s afraid of a lot of things. Like dark 
sewers. 

He’d freak out down in the sewer. 

“No. I’ll do it,” I said. “The Grool knows me better.” 

We lifted off the heavy grate. I felt around with my sneaker. It slid against a 
narrow ladder built into the side of the sewer. 

“I guess this is the only way down,” I said softly. “Here I go.” 

Slowly, I lowered myself into the dark wet hole. The ladder rungs were wet 
and slippery. The walls were thick with sewer slime. 

“This place really stinks /” I called up. “I can’t believe I’m doing this.” 

Squishhhhh! 

As I reached the sewer floor, my sneaker landed on something wet and 
oozy. 



“Gross!” I screamed, pulling my foot back up. 

“Are you okay?” Daniel called from above. He sounded ten miles away. 

“Yeah,” I shouted back. “I think I stepped in a pile of slime. Wow, it’s really 
dark down here.” 

I carefully touched my feet down again, and gripped the ladder tightly with 
one hand—afraid I would never find my way back if I let go. 

It’s too dark, I realized. I’ll never find the Grool down here. 

Then I heard it. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

Breathing! 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

The Grool! But where? 

I held my breath and stood completely still. I concentrated really hard, 
trying to figure out exactly where in the inky blackness the breathing came from. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

Somewhere to my right? 

I knew I had to walk over there and snatch the Grool. But I was afraid to let 
go of the ladder. Finally, I decided to count my steps there, find the Grool—then 
count the same number of steps back to the ladder. 

I swallowed hard and let go of the ladder. I stepped into the blackness and 
started counting. 

“One... two... three... four...” 

The breathing sounded a little closer. 

“Five... six...” 

I stopped. I listened hard. 

“Huh?” I cried to myself. “What’s that scratching sound?” Then I saw the 
eyes. Not the Grool’s small, round eyes. Big, bright eyes. Several pairs of them. 
All glowing at me in the dark. 



21 


The scratching grew louder. The eyes stared up at me. 

Yellow eyes. Glowing in the darkness. 

I heard a creature scrabble over the floor. Felt something warm and furry 
brush against my leg. 

Were they raccoons? Rats? 

I didn’t want to know. 

Another one brushed against me. They were all starting to scrape around on 
the sewer floor. They were growing restless. 

I forced myself to breathe. 

Turned. 

And started to run. 

Get me out of here! I thought. Get me out of here before they attack! 

My sneakers slid over the damp, slimy floor. 

“Please let me find my way out of here,” I prayed as I stumbled through the 
darkness. 

“Oww!” 

My knee slammed into something hard. 

I cried out and reached for something to lean on. 

And caught hold of the ladder. 

“Yes! Yes!” I cried happily. 

Ignoring my throbbing knee, I scrambled up the slimy rungs. Up, up, up 
toward the light. 

“Daniel—help me out!” I cried. 

Daniel leaned down and grabbed my hands. He helped pull me out of that 
awful hole. 

I fell on to the pavement and nearly sobbed with relief. 

Daniel dropped down next to me. “Did you get it?” he asked eagerly. “Did 
you find it?” 

I wiped my sludge-covered hands on my jeans. “No,” I told him. “No 
Grool.” 

“I should have gone down there,” he declared. “I definitely would have 



found it.” 

“You definitely would have been terrified!” I replied angrily. “There were 
animals down there. Rats, maybe. Dozens of them.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” he said, rolling his eyes. He sighed. “Now what do we do?” 
He kicked a pebble across the street. 

I sighed. “Don’t worry—we’ll find the Grool.” 

“But how?” he cried. “We can’t even find Killer. We’ll never find a little 
sponge.” 

I had never seen Daniel this upset. “Daniel, the police will find Killer. I 
know they will,” I said softly. 

“We must have missed the sponge,” he said, ignoring my words. “We have 
to check everywhere again.” 

We started to search again. In the street. In the grass. Behind hedges. Under 
trees. 

Carlo appeared as we were about to give up. He was walking fine. He 
examined his mangled bike. Then he helped us with our search. 

The afternoon sun was settling behind the trees. The air felt cooler. Evening 
was approaching. 

I sank down on the sidewalk, feeling totally hopeless. 

The warning in the encyclopedia kept running through my mind. Was it 
possible? Could it be true? If we didn’t find the Grool, would my life really be 
over by tomorrow? 

“There it is!” 

Daniel’s excited shout interrupted my frightening thoughts. 

“There it is!” my brother cried happily. “I see it! I see the Grool!” 



22 


Daniel took off, running full speed. 

“Way to go!” My heart pounding, I leaped up from the sidewalk. “You are 
the most awesome brother in the entire universe!” 

I was so excited and happy, I threw my arms around Carlo. “He saved my 
life!” I shouted. “He saved my life!” 

“Hey—give me a break!” Carlo cried, squirming away. 

I hurried after Daniel. I watched him bend down to pick up something. 
Something small and round and brown. 

But a gust of wind rolled the Grool away from him. 

“Hey—!” he cried out. He stumbled after it. The wind blew it out of his 
reach again. 

“Got you!” Daniel cried, pouncing on it. 

“Bring it here!” I yelled. 

“Oh, wow,” he murmured. His face fell. “Sorry about that. It’s not the 
Grool.” 

I grabbed the thing from his hands. “No, it’s not,” I whispered sadly. 

Not the Grool. Only a brown paper bag, all wadded up in a ball. 

Daniel hurled the paper bag to the ground and stomped on it. 

My stomach lurched. I really felt sick. 

Time is running out, I thought. And we have no idea where the Grool might 
be. 

A tear came to my eye, and I blinked it away quickly. I didn’t want Daniel 
and Carlo to see how scared I was. 

The panic rose in my chest. Would I really die if we didn’t find that evil 
creature? 

I suddenly pictured Mom and Dad sitting around crying and missing me. I 
pictured Aunt Louise wailing, “It’s all my fault. I didn’t believe her.” 

I imagined Daniel walking to school all alone. 

I gazed down at my brother, who slumped sadly on the curb with Carlo. 

And I had a truly terrifying idea. Maybe the Grool xvasn ’t lost. 

Maybe the creepy little creature had decided to hide. 



To hide from me. 

So it could perform its most evil trick of all. 

Hide for twenty-four hours so that I’d have the ultimate bad luck. 

Death! 

Carlo startled me by jumping to his feet. His dark eyes glowed excitedly. “I 
—I have an idea!” he cried. 

“An idea?” I demanded. “What kind of idea?” 

He smiled at me and grabbed my arm. “Come on. Hurry. I think I know 
where the Grool might be!” 



23 


“You know those guys who raced me?” Carlo asked, tugging me forward along 
the street. “The ones who hang out at the playground?” 

“Yeah. What about them?” I asked. 

“HI bet one of them picked up the Grool. I kind of remember—” 

Daniel didn’t even wait for Carlo to finish the sentence. “Let’s go!” he 
shouted. He sprang onto his bike and raced off toward the playground. 

I picked up my bike and started pedaling after my brother. Carlo ran behind 
us, calling, “Wait up! Wait up!” 

We pedaled to the playground and walked our bikes to the baseball field. 
That’s where the older kids usually hang out. 

“There they are,” Carlo said. He pointed to a group of boys taking turns 
batting and fielding balls. 

“Carlo,” Daniel whispered nervously. “Those guys are really big. They look 
like they’re in high school.” 

I spotted two older boys standing on the side of the baseball field. Their 
heads were bent, and they were staring at something in the taller boy’s hands. 

Something small and round and brown. 

The Grool! 

I ran up to them. “Hey, how’s it going?” I said in my friendliest voice. “I 
know this sounds dumb, but you’ve got my favorite sponge. Can I have it back?” 

The tall boy narrowed his eyes at me. He was kind of good-looking, with 
bright green eyes, and straight blond hair down over his shoulders. 

“Your favorite sponge?” he repeated. He grinned. “Sorry. You’re mistaken. 
This is my favorite sponge.” 

“No. Really,” I insisted. “It fell off that kid’s bike.” I pointed to Carlo. He 
and Daniel stood watching from a distance. “I really need it.” 

“Can you prove it’s yours?” the boy demanded. He rolled it around in his 
hand. “I don’t see your name on it.” 

I narrowed my eyes and gave him my meanest glare. “You’d better give it 
back to me,” I threatened. “Because it’s not really a sponge. It’s evil. It brings 
bad luck to anyone who has it.” 

“Oooh, I’m really scared,” he teased. “Maybe it’s bad luck for you— 



because you’re not getting it back!” 

He waved the Grool in front of my face, then called to his friend, “Hey, 
Dave. Catch!” 

He tossed the Grool to Dave. “Here,” he snickered. “Catch some bad luck!” 

“Hey, give me that!” I leaped for the Grool. But the sponge sailed high over 
my head. 

Back and forth they threw the Grool, laughing, keeping it high over my 
head, out of my reach. 

They were having fun. I wasn’t. 

After ten minutes of their stupid keep-away game, I gave up. 

Fine, I thought. Let them play with the Grool. 

They would soon find out that it didn’t play fair, I thought nastily. 

As I backed off, I shouted at the two older boys, “You’ll be sorry.” 

The blond guy shrugged his shoulders, laughed, and hurried off to take his 
turn at bat. He made a big show of tucking the sponge into his back pocket— 
where he knew I couldn’t get it. 

He stepped to the plate, crouched in a batter’s stance... 

Thwock! 

The very first pitch beaned the guy in the head. 

His eyes rolled around wildly. He wobbled, then sank to the ground. He 
collapsed in a heap and didn’t move. 

“Help!” the other boys were shouting. “Somebody—help!” 

The Grool had done its work. The bad luck had struck again! 

“Is he okay?” Daniel asked. “Is he—?” 

I didn’t answer. I saw the Grool roll out of the boy’s back pocket and onto 
the ground. 

I darted forward and dove for the evil sponge. 

But my hands closed around dry grass. 

Dave, the blond boy’s friend, snatched the Grool before I could reach it. 

“Go chase it!” he cried. He heaved the little creature high into the sky. 



24 


I made a desperate grab. But Dave was much taller than me. He caught the Grool 
easily. 

“Here. Take it,” he said. He tossed it at me. Then he hurried over to check 
on his friend. 

The blond boy was sitting up now, rubbing his head. “I’m okay,” he kept 
repeating. “Really. I’m okay. What hit me?” 

Daniel and I hurried to our bikes. Carlo came running after us. I tossed the 
Grool into my bike basket. 

The sponge creature pulsed so violently that the basket shook as I rode. Its 
body changed from red to black, red to black, changing in time to its horrible 
breathing. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

It snickered with joy. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

It acted so pleased with itself. So happy it had knocked the blond boy out. 

“You’re disgusting!” I shouted. “I’m taking you home and locking you in 
that cage!” 

I pedaled rapidly, standing up for an extra boost of speed. Home, I thought. 
Get me home. 

I zoomed down Oak Street, hunching over the bike with my head down. 
Faster, faster I pedaled. 

The wind whipped my hair into my eyes. 

I heard Daniel calling out from behind me. 

But I was riding too fast. The wind rushed past me. I couldn’t make out 
Daniel’s words. 

I heard him call out again. 

And then I heard the blare of a horn and the shrill squeal of brakes. 

I turned around in time to see an enormous black and silver truck skidding 
over the street, about to crush me like a bug. 



25 


I squeezed my brakes hard. 

The truck skidded up behind me, tires scraping the pavement, horn blaring. 

My bike lurched to a stop—and I tumbled off. 

Hit the pavement hard on my elbows and knees. 

The bike bounced on to the curb. Toppled over. 

I rolled on to the grass. 

As the truck swerved away. Squealed to a stop. 

Missed me by less than a foot. 

I climbed shakily to my feet. And stood there on the side of the road, too 
terrified to move. 

I turned to see the truck driver toss open the door of his cab. “What were 
you doing in the middle of the street?” he shouted at me. “I could have killed 
you! Do your parents know you’re out here like this?” 

Great, I thought bitterly. First this guy almost squashes me into a pancake— 
then he yells at me. 

“Sorry!” I called. 

What else could I say? 

I waited for the truck driver to back up and drive away. 

And all the time, I kept thinking: Bad luck forever. I’m going to have bad 
luck forever. 

I called to Daniel and Carlo that I was okay. Then I raced down Oak Street 
and turned on to Maple. 

Only two houses to go, I thought. I pushed down harder on the pedals. 

Blam! 

My front tire hit something. A broken bottle, I think. 

The bike toppled on to its side, and I fell with it. 

“Ow!” I cried. I’m spending a lot of time on the ground, I realized. 

I examined the tire. Completely shredded. 

Bad luck. Bad luck forever. 

Heh, heh, heh. I heard the Grool’s wicked laugh. 

The sound filled me with rage. I kicked the bicycle and stubbed my toe on 



the metal wheel rim. 

“Oww!” I yelped, grabbing my foot. 

Bad luck. Bad luck forever. 

With a furious cry, I grabbed the evil sponge and flung it to the ground. 
Then I jumped back on my bike and started to run over the Grool. 

Back and forth, back and forth. 

Squishing the evil creature into the ground. 

“Stop it! Stop!” Daniel screamed, riding up onto the grass. “You can’t kill 
the Grool. You’re only giving it what it wants.” 

I glared at my brother. I struggled to catch my breath. 

“Look at it!” Daniel shouted, pointing. “The Grool is getting even more 
excited. You’re helping it, not hurting it!” 

I lowered my eyes to the Grool. It pulsed faster than before. An evil light 
shone from its ugly little eyes. Its blood-red body gleamed in the afternoon sun. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

The cruel snicker cut through the air like fingernails on a blackboard. 

I grabbed my bike and wheeled it to our driveway. I let it fall on to the 
asphalt. 

Then I ran back to the Grool, gripped it tightly in one hand, and carried it 
into the house. 

Daniel followed close behind me. “Now what are you going to do?” he 
asked. 

“You’ll see,” I said. I made my way into the kitchen. 

My heart pounded. I could feel the blood racing at my temples. 

I jammed the Grool into the kitchen sink drain. Then I grabbed a wooden 
spatula and stabbed at the Grool, shoving it deep into the pipe. 

Daniel stood beside me, watching in silence. 

I turned the hot water on full force. I flicked a switch next to the sink and 
smiled at my brother. 

The garbage disposal gurgled on. 

The gurgle became a whine. 

The whine became a roar as the grinding teeth went to work. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. “Yes!” 

A few seconds later, the disposal had ground up the Grool. 

“That’s the end of that,” I told Daniel, sighing happily. I listened to the 
pipes run clean. “Down the drain! Yaaay!” 



Carlo came running into the kitchen. “What’s happening?” he cried 
breathlessly. “Where’s the Grool?” 

I turned to Carlo, grinning. “It’s gone. The Grool is gone!” I announced 
gleefully. 

Then I heard my brother gasp. 

I saw his mouth drop open as he stared down at the sink. “No, it’s not.” His 
voice was so low, I could barely hear him. “No, it’s not gone,” he whispered. 



26 


I lowered my eyes to the sink. 

And realized at once what had horrified Daniel. 

The hot water had started to back up. 

It splashed and spurted up from the drain. As if something were pushing it 
with great force. 

The hot water churned quickly—rolling up from the pipe below. 

“I don’t believe it!” Carlo cried. 

The Grool popped up, bobbing in the churning hot water. 

There it was. Still in one piece. It had turned bright purple, an angry purple. 
As I stared down at it in horror, it thumped wildly in the sink. 

“No!” I screamed. “It’s impossible! You can’t be back!! You can’t!” 

I grabbed the sopping wet Grool and squeezed it as hard as I could. 

A river of water ran out of the slimy thing and into the sink. 

The harder I gripped, the warmer the Grool felt. 

Warmer and warmer and... 

“Ow!” I dropped it as it became scorching hot. Quickly, I ran my hands 
under soothing cold water. 

The Grool perched on the side of the sink. It throbbed with joy, leered up at 
me with its creepy eyes, and let out an evil cackle. 

“Daniel, Carlo,” I moaned. “There has to be a way to kill this thing! There 
has to! Think, guys!” 

But the two of them stared in silence at the throbbing Grool. 

“Come on, Daniel—think!” I waved my hand in front of Daniel’s face. 
“Help me! I’m all out of ideas.” 

Suddenly, his eyes came back into focus. “I’ve got an idea,” he said quietly. 

He rushed out of the kitchen. “I’ll be right back,” he shouted, leaving Carlo 
and me alone with the nasty creature. 

“I hate you!” I shouted at it. But my anger seemed to make it pulse faster. 

A short while later, Daniel hurried back into the room. “Maybe this will 
help,” he announced. He set the Encyclopedia of the Weird on the kitchen table. 

“I borrowed it from the library,” he explained. “I thought we might need it.” 



He started to search for “Grool” in the index. 

“Oh, Daniel,” I sighed wearily. “We’ve already read everything in that book 
about Grools. It can’t help us.” 

“But maybe you missed something important,” Carlo insisted. 

Daniel flipped through the pages of the encyclopedia. “Here’s the part about 
killing the Grool,” he said. “Let’s see what it says.” 

He started reading: “The Grool cannot be killed—by force or by any violent 
means. ” 

“That’s it?” I demanded. “There’s nothing else?” 

Daniel slammed the book shut. “Nothing else,” he replied sadly. “Kat, it 
really can’t be killed. It’s the most evil creature in the world and it can’t be 
killed. Not by force. Not by violence. Not by anything.” 

“Not by force,” I repeated, thinking hard. “Not by violence.” 

I stared at the throbbing, purple creature. 

“Hmmmm.” I couldn’t help but smile. 

“Kat? What’s your problem?” Daniel demanded. “Are you totally losing it? 
Why are you smiling?” 

“Because the Grool can be killed,” I announced. “And I’ve just figured out 
how to do it.” 

“Huh?” Carlo cried. “You’ve really figured it out?” 

“What are you going to do?” Daniel demanded. “You can’t kill it. It always 
conies back to life.” 

I shook my head. “We’ll see,” I replied. 

I wanted to think my plan through before I explained it to them. 

Actually, it turned out to be pretty simple. 



27 


Much as I hated to, I picked up the throbbing Grool from the sink and held it 
gently in my hands. 

I patted the disgusting creature tenderly on its wrinkled head. Then I sang to 
it sweetly: 

“Lullaby and good night, little Grool, I love you. Please sleep tight, little 
Grool, la la la, la la la.” 

“Kat, I’m worried about you,” Daniel groaned. “Stop it, okay? You’re a 
little messed up. You need to lie down.” 

But I just kept singing as sweetly as I could. 

“What is she doing?” Daniel asked Carlo. “Do you get it?” 

Carlo shook his head. 

I didn’t pay any attention to them. 

I had to concentrate. 

I forced myself to stroke the Grool lovingly. I hugged the slimy thing and 
cuddled it in my arms—as I would a soft puppy. 

I cooed in its ear: 

“Little Grool, cute Grool, you are so nice, so sweet, so wonderful. I love 
you, Grool.” 

“Kat, please stop,” Daniel begged. “You’re upsetting me. I’m really worried 
about you, Kat.” 

“How can you pet the thing?” Carlo demanded. “It’s so gross!” 

“Sweet, Grool,” I whispered. “So sweet.” I cuddled it tenderly and stroked 
its wrinkled skin. 

If this doesn’t work, I told myself, nothing will. 

“I’m going to get Mom and Dad,” Daniel threatened. He started backing 
toward the kitchen door. 

“Ssshhh.” I raised a finger to my lips. Then I pointed down at the Grool 
cradled in my arms. “Look, guys.” 

The Grool’s violent throbbing had slowed to a gentle pulse. 

I sang some more, softly, gently, sweetly. 

And we all watched in amazement as the Grool’s color faded. From red to 



pink, and—finally—back to its ordinary dull brown color. 

“Wow!” Daniel whistled. 

“Keep watching,” I said, hugging the Grool closely. I sang another lullaby. 

The Grool let out a low sigh. I could see it shrinking, see it drying up in my 
arms. 

Its eyes closed. The dry, brown skin covered them up. 

“It—it’s getting weaker, Kat,” Daniel whispered excitedly. 

“Keep watching,” I told him. Then I cooed to the Grool, “There, there little 
Grool. What a sweet Grool.” I rocked it like a baby. 

The Grool’s breathing slowed—slowed—then stopped. 

The Grool slumped lifelessly in my hand. Not a sound. Not a throb. Not a 
twitch. 

“Now, check this out!” I announced to Daniel and Carlo. 

I raised the wrinkled sponge to my face—and planted a big fat kiss on it. 



28 


The two boys made disgusted faces. 

But I knew what I was doing. 

I lowered the Grool from my face and studied it carefully. 

“Aaaaaaaah. ” The sponge let out a long, slow sigh—and shrank into a tiny 

ball. 

I took a deep breath and blew. 

The tiny ball flew apart. Dry, brown puffs floated into the air. 

I watched the feathery puffs float to the floor. Then I wiped my hands off on 
a towel. “All done.” 

“It—it’s gone!” Carlo declared. 

“But how?” Daniel demanded. 

“Well, you helped give me the idea,” I told him. 

“I did?” 

“Yes,” I replied. “When you read that part of the encyclopedia that said the 
Grool can’t be killed by force or violence.” 

I smiled. “I kept going over that in my mind. And finally, it hit me.” 

“What hit you?” Carlo asked. 

“I knew the Grool couldn’t be killed by force or violence,” I explained. 
“But what about the opposite? I guessed that no one had ever tried being nice to 
it before.” 

Both boys stared at me in rapt silence. “That gave me the idea that being 
kind was the secret to destroying the Grool,” I continued. “And it worked. The 
Grool was so evil that it couldn’t stand being loved.” 

“Wow!” Carlo breathed. 

“Excellent!” Daniel exclaimed. “I’m glad I came up with it.” 

“Yeah, it’s great to have a genius in the family,” I said sarcastically. 

I reached into my back pocket and pulled out the twelve dollars my 
grandma had sent for my birthday. “What do you say we celebrate with ice¬ 
cream?” I suggested with a grin. 

“Excellent!” the two boys cried happily. 

“Maybe our luck will change now,” I told Daniel. “I bet we become the 



luckiest family on the block.” 

Then I heard it. That familiar, terrifying, breathing sound again. 

I swung around and faced the door. 

“What’s that?” I cried, my heart sinking. “Do you hear it, too?” 

Yes. We all heard it. 

My throat felt dry. Cold chills ran down my back. The breathing grew 
louder. Closer. “I didn’t kill it,” I moaned. “It’s back. It’s back!” 



29 


Daniel grabbed my hand. I could see the fear on his face. 

Carlo took a step back from the door. He backed up till he bumped against 
the kitchen counter. 

We huddled together in the kitchen, afraid to move. Afraid to go look. 

“We have no choice,” I choked out finally. “If it’s back, we have to let it 

in.” 

I took a deep breath. My legs didn’t want to carry me. They felt as if they 
were made of lead. 

But I forced myself to the back door. 

My entire body trembled as I reached for the doorknob. And yanked the 
door open. 

“Oh!” I let out a startled cry. 

Killer gazed up at me, breathing noisily, his stub of a tail wagging furiously. 

“Killer!” I yelled joyfully. “You’re back!” I bent down to hug him. But the 
dog ran past me, into the kitchen. 

Daniel let out a happy cry and pulled the wiggling dog into his arms. Killer 
covered Daniel’s face with wet licks. 

“Our luck has changed!” I declared. 

I looked outside. 

Wow! Healthy green grass covered the ground. The flowers lifted their 
drooping heads and burst back into dazzling color as I watched. 

All of the Grool’s evil seemed to be disappearing. 

I grabbed Killer and hugged him hard. “Killer, Killer,” I crooned. “We got 
rid of the Grool.” 

“Come on,” Daniel cried. “Ice-cream time!” 

I set Killer back on the floor and kissed him on the head. “We’ll be back 
soon, boy,” I said. 

“To the ice-cream parlor!” Daniel shouted as he dashed outside. “Race 
you!” he cried as he ran down the street. “The winner gets a triple-decker 
sundae!” 

Carlo and I took off after Daniel. I pumped my legs hard and pulled out in 
front. 



But at the last minute, Daniel pushed past me and tagged the door of the 
restaurant. “I won!” Daniel cried happily. 

We hurried into the ice-cream parlor. “Table for three,” Daniel said with a 
grin. The waitress seated us, handed out menus, and wiped the table with a... 
sponge! 

“Yuck! Get that thing out of here!” Daniel shrieked. 

The waitress didn’t understand. But we all laughed—for the first time in 
weeks. 

“Don’t mind my brother,” I said. “He’s got a thing about sponges.” He 
kicked me under the table, and I pinched him back hard. 

The waitress rolled her eyes. Then she took our orders. 

As we shoveled down our sundaes, I realized how hungry I was—and how 
happy I was. 

The Grool was gone—forever. 

We were so full that we practically rolled back home. 

“Killer. Here, boy!” I pushed the back door open and stepped into the 
kitchen. 

“Hey—Killer? Come here! Aren’t you glad to see us?” 

Killer didn’t turn around. 

He stood at the sink, growling and wagging his tail. He had his nose pressed 
up against the cabinet door, trying to push it open. 

“All right, Killer. We had our ice-cream. Now it’s time for your treat,” I 

said. 

I put down a fresh bowl of dog food—and added a few small pieces of last 
night’s turkey. 

“Come on Killer. Dinnertime,” I called. 

He growled at the cabinet underneath the sink. 

What’s going on? This dog never walks away from a meal, I thought. 
“Killer,” Daniel said, “what are you doing under there? Killer?” 

I bent down and petted the dog’s back. “Killer, there’s nothing in there. The 
Grool is gone.” 

But Killer kept growling. 

“Okay, okay.” I yanked the cabinet door open for the dog. “See?” 

Killer shoved his head inside. 

I grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and pulled him out. He carried 



something in his teeth. 

“What is that, boy?” Daniel asked. 

Killer dropped his find on the floor, then gazed up at me. 

I picked it up. Hmmm. Something hard. Lumpy. 

“What is it?” Daniel asked, stepping close. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. “No problem. It’s only a potato.” 
I started to hand it to Daniel. 

But something sharp pricked my finger. 

“Ow!” I cried, startled. 

I rolled the potato over in my hand. 

It felt warm. I could feel it breathing. 

“Daniel, I don’t like the looks of this,” I murmured. 

The potato had a mouth full of teeth. 




NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY II 

Goosebumps - 31 
R.L. Stine 


1 


My name is Amy Kramer, and every Thursday night I feel a little dumb. That’s 
because Thursday is “Family Sharing Night” at my house. 

Sara and Jed think it’s dumb, too. But Mom and Dad won’t listen to our 
complaints. “It’s the most important night of the week,” Dad says. 

“It’s a family tradition,” Mom adds. “It’s something you kids will always 
remember.” 

Right, Mom. It’s something I’ll always remember as really painful and 
embarrassing. 

You’ve probably guessed that on Family Sharing Night, every member of 
the Kramer family—except for George, our cat—has to share something with the 
rest of the family. 

It isn’t so bad for my sister, Sara. Sara is fourteen—two years older than me 
—and she’s a genius painter. Really. One of her paintings was chosen for a show 
at the art museum downtown. Sara may go to a special arts high school next 
year. 

So Sara always shares some sketches she’s working on. Or a new painting. 

And Family Sharing Night isn’t so bad for Jed, either. My ten-year-old 
brother is such a total goof. He doesn’t care what he shares. One Thursday night, 
he burped really loud and explained that he was sharing his dinner. 

Jed laughed like a lunatic. 

But Mom and Dad didn’t think it was funny. They gave Jed a stern lecture 
about taking Family Sharing Night more seriously. 

The next Thursday night, my obnoxious brother shared a note that David 
Miller, a kid at my school, had written to me. A very personal note! Jed found 
the note in my room and decided to share it with everyone. 

Nice? 

I wanted to die. I really did. 

Jed just thinks he’s so cute and adorable, he can get away with anything. He 
thinks he’s really special. 

I think it’s because he’s the only redhead in the family. Sara and I both have 
straight black hair, dark green eyes, and very tan skin. With his pale skin, 
freckled face, and curly red hair, Jed looks like he comes from another family! 



And sometimes Sara and I both wish he did. 

Anyway, I’m the one with the most problems on Family Sharing Night. 
Because I’m not really talented the way Sara is. And I’m not a total goof like 
Jed. 

So I never really know what to share. 

I mean, I have a seashell collection, which I keep in a jar on my dresser. But 
it’s really kind of boring to hold up shells and talk about them. And we haven’t 
been to the ocean for nearly two years. So my shells are kind of old, and 
everyone has already seen them. 

I also have a really good collection of CDs. But no one else in my family is 
into Bob Marley and reggae music. If I start to share some music with them, they 
all hold their ears and complain till I shut it off. 

So I usually make up some kind of a story—an adventure story about a girl 
who survives danger after danger. Or a wild fairy tale about princesses who turn 
into tigers. 

After my last story, Dad had a big smile on his face. “Amy is going to be a 
famous writer,” he announced. “She’s so good at making up stories.” Dad gazed 
around the room, still smiling. “We have such a talented family!” he exclaimed. 

I knew he was just saying that to be a good parent. To “encourage” me. Sara 
is the real talent in our family. Everyone knows that. 

Tonight, Jed was the first to share. Mom and Dad sat on the living room 
couch. Dad had taken out a tissue and was squinting as he cleaned his glasses. 
Dad can’t stand to have the tiniest speck of dust on his glasses. He cleans them 
about twenty times a day. 

I settled in the big brown armchair against the wall. Sara sat cross-legged 
on the carpet beside my chair. 

“What are you going to share tonight?” Mom asked Jed. “And I hope it isn’t 
another horrible burp.” 

“That was so gross!” Sara moaned. 

“Your face is gross!” Jed shot back. He stuck out his tongue at Sara. 

“Jed, please—give us a break tonight,” Dad muttered, slipping his glasses 
back on, adjusting them on his nose. “Don’t cause trouble.” 

“She started it,” Jed insisted, pointing at Sara. 

“Just share something,” I told Jed, sighing. 

“I’m going to share your freckles,” Sara told him. “I’m going to pull them 
off one by one and feed them to George.” 



Sara and I laughed. George didn’t glance up. He was curled up, napping on 
the carpet beside the couch. 

“That’s not funny, girls,” Mom snapped. “Stop being mean to your brother.” 

“This is supposed to be a family night,” Dad wailed. “Why can’t we be a 
family?” 

“We are!” Jed insisted. 

Dad frowned and shook his head. He looks like an owl when he does that. 
“Jed, are you going to share something?” he demanded weakly. 

Jed nodded. “Yeah.” He stood in the center of the room and shoved his 
hands into his jeans pockets. He wears loose, baggy jeans about ten sizes too big. 
They always look as if they’re about to fall down. Jed thinks that’s cool. 

“I... uh... learned to whistle through my fingers,” he announced. 

“Wow,” Sara muttered sarcastically. 

Jed ignored her. He pulled his hands from his pockets. Then he stuck his 
two little fingers into the sides of his mouth—and let out a long, shrill whistle. 

He whistled through his fingers two more times. Then he took a deep bow. 
The whole family burst into loud applause. 

Jed, grinning, took another low bow. 

“Such a talented family!” Dad declared. This time, he meant it as a joke. 

Jed dropped down on the floor beside George, startling the poor cat awake. 

“Your turn next, Amy,” Mom said, turning to me. “Are you going to tell us 
another story?” 

“Her stories are too long!” Jed complained. 

George climbed unsteadily to his feet and moved a few feet away from Jed. 
Yawning, the cat dropped on to his stomach beside Mom’s feet. 

“I’m not going to tell a story tonight,” I announced. I picked up Dennis 
from behind my armchair. 

Sara and Jed both groaned. 

“Hey—give me a break!” I shouted. I settled back on the edge of the chair, 
fixing my dummy on my lap. “I thought I’d talk to Dennis tonight,” I told Mom 
and Dad. 

They had half-smiles on their faces. I didn’t care. I’d been practicing with 
Dennis all week. And I wanted to try out my new comedy routine with him. 

“Amy is a lousy ventriloquist,” Jed chimed in. “You can see her lips move.” 

“Be quiet, Jed. I think Dennis is funny,” Sara said. She scooted toward the 
couch so she could see better. 



I balanced Dennis on my left knee and wrapped my fingers around the 
string in his back that worked his mouth. Dennis is a very old ventriloquist’s 
dummy. The paint on his face is faded. One eye is almost completely white. His 
turtle-neck sweater is torn and tattered. 

But I have a lot of fun with him. When my five-year-old cousins come to 
visit, I like to entertain them with Dennis. They squeal and laugh. They think 
I’m a riot. 

I think I’m getting much better with Dennis. Despite Jed’s complaints. 

I took a deep breath, glanced at Mom and Dad, and began my act. 

“How are you tonight, Dennis?” I asked. 

“Not too well,” I made the dummy reply in a high, shrill voice. Dennis’ 
voice. 

“Really, Dennis? What’s wrong?” 

“I think I caught a bug. ” 

“You mean you have the flu?” I asked him. 

“No. Termites!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. Sara smiled. Jed groaned loudly. 

I turned back to Dennis. “Well, have you been to a doctor?” I asked him. 

“No. A carpenter! ” 

Mom and Dad smiled at that one, but didn’t laugh. Jed groaned again. Sara 
stuck her finger down her throat, pretending to puke. 

“No one liked that joke, Dennis,” I told him. 

“Who’s joking?” I made Dennis reply. 

“This is lame,” I heard Jed mutter to Sara. She nodded her head in 
agreement. 

“Let’s change the subject, Dennis,” I said, shifting the dummy to my other 
knee. “Do you have a girlfriend?” 

I leaned Dennis forward, trying to make him nod his head yes. But his head 
rolled right off his shoulders. 

The wooden head hit the floor with a thud and bounced over to George. The 
cat leaped up and scampered away. 

Sara and Jed collapsed in laughter, slapping each other high fives. 

I jumped angrily to my feet. “Dad!” I screamed. “You promised you’d buy 
me a new dummy!” 

Jed scurried over to the rug and picked up Dennis’ head. He pulled the 
string, making the dummy’s mouth move. “Amy reeks! Amy reeks!” Jed made 



the dummy repeat over and over. 

“Give me that!” I grabbed the head angrily from Jed’s hand. 

“Amy reeks! Amy reeks!” Jed continued chanting. 

“That’s enough!” Mom shouted, jumping up off the couch. 

Jed retreated back to the wall. 

“I’ve been checking the stores for a new dummy,” Dad told me, pulling off 
his glasses again and examining them closely. “But they’re all so expensive.” 

“Well, how am I ever going to get better at this?” I demanded. “Dennis’ 
head falls off every time I use him!” 

“Do your best,” Mom said. 

What did that mean? I always hated it when she said that. 

“Instead of Family Sharing Night, we should call this the Thursday Night 
Fights,” Sara declared. 

Jed raised his fists. “Want to fight?” he asked Sara. 

“It’s your turn, Sara,” Mom replied, narrowing her eyes at Jed. “What are 
you sharing tonight?” 

“I have a new painting,” Sara announced. “It’s a watercolor.” 

“Of what?” Dad asked, settling his glasses back on his face. 

“Remember that cabin we had in Maine a few summers ago?” Sara replied, 
tossing back her straight black hair. “The one overlooking the dark rock cliff? I 
found a snapshot of it, and I tried to paint it.” 

I suddenly felt really angry and upset. I admit it. I was jealous of Sara. 

Here she was, about to share another beautiful watercolor. And here I was, 
rolling a stupid wooden dummy head in my lap. 

It just wasn’t fair! 

“You’ll have to come to my room to see it,” Sara was saying. “It’s still 
wet.” 

We all stood up and trooped to Sara’s room. 

My family lives in a long, one-story ranch-style house. My room and Jed’s 
room are at the end of one hallway. The living room, dining room, and kitchen 
are in the middle. Sara’s room and my parents’ room are down the other hall, 
way at the other end of the house. 

I led the way down the hall. Behind me, Sara was going on and on about all 
the trouble she’d had with the painting and how she’d solved the problems. 

“I remember that cabin so well,” Dad said. 

“I can’t wait to see the painting,” Mom added. 



I stepped into Sara’s room and clicked on the light. 

Then I turned to the easel by the window that held the painting—and let out 
a scream of horror. 



2 


My mouth dropped open in shock. I stared at the painting, unable to speak. 

When Sara saw it, she let out a shriek. “I—I don’t believe it!” she screamed. 
“Who did that?” 

Someone had painted a yellow-and-black smile face in the corner of her 
painting. Right in the middle of the black rock cliff. Mom and Dad stepped up to 
the easel, fretful expressions on their faces. They studied the smile face, then 
turned to Jed. 

Jed burst out laughing. “Do you like it?” he asked innocently. 

“Jed—how could you!” Sara exploded. “I’ll kill you! I really will!” 

“The painting was too dark,” Jed explained with a shrug. “I wanted to 
brighten it up.” 

“But... but... but...” my sister sputtered. She balled her hands into fists, 
shook them at Jed, and uttered a loud cry of rage. 

“Jed—what were you doing in Sara’s room?” Mom demanded. 

Sara doesn’t like for anyone to go into her precious room without a written 
invitation! 

“Young man, you know you’re never allowed to touch your sister’s 
paintings,” Dad scolded. 

“I can paint, too,” Jed replied. “I’m a good painter.” 

“Then do your own paintings!” Sara snapped. “Don’t sneak in here and 
mess up my work!” 

“I didn’t sneak,” Jed insisted. He sneered at Sara. “I was just trying to 
help.” 

“You were not!” Sara screamed, angrily tossing her black hair over her 
shoulder. “You ruined my painting!” 

“Your painting reeks!” Jed shot back. 

“Enough!” Mom shouted. She grabbed Jed by both shoulders. “Jed—look 
at me! You don’t seem to see how serious this is. This is the worst thing you’ve 
ever done!” 

Jed’s smile finally faded. 

I took another glance at the ugly smile face he had slopped on to Sara’s 
watercolor. Since he’s the baby in the family, Jed thinks he can get away with 



anything. 

But I knew that this time he had gone too far. 

After all, Sara is the star of the family. She’s the talented one. The one with 
the painting that hung in a museum. Messing with Sara’s precious painting was 
bound to get Jed in major trouble. 

Sara is so stuck-up about her paintings. A few times, I even thought about 
painting something funny on one of them. But of course I only thought it. I 
would never do anything that horrible. 

“You don’t have to be jealous of your sister’s work,” Dad was telling Jed. 
“We’re all talented in this family.” 

“Oh, sure,” Jed muttered. He has this weird habit. Whenever he’s in trouble, 
he doesn’t say he’s sorry. Instead, he gets really angry. “What’s your talent, 
Dad?” Jed demanded, sneering. 

Dad’s jaw tightened. He narrowed his eyes at Jed. “We’re not discussing 
me,” he said in a low voice. “But I’ll tell you. My talent is my Chinese cooking. 
You see, there are all kinds of talents, Jed.” 

Dad considers himself a Master of the Wok. Once or twice a week, he 
chops a ton of vegetables into little pieces and fries them up in the electric wok 
Mom got him for Christmas. 

We pretend it tastes great. 

No point in hurting Dad’s feelings. 

“Is Jed going to be punished or not?” Sara demanded in a shrill voice. 

She had opened her box of watercolor paints and was rolling a brush in the 
black. Then she began painting over the smile face with quick, furious strokes. 

“Yes, Jed is going to be punished,” Mom replied, glaring at him. Jed 
lowered his eyes to the floor. “First he’s going to apologize to Sara.” 

We all waited. 

It took Jed a while. But he finally managed to mutter, “Sorry, Sara.” 

He started to leave the room, but Mom grabbed his shoulders again and 
pulled him back. “Not so fast, Jed,” she told him. “Your punishment is you can’t 
go to the movies with Josh and Matt on Saturday. And... no video games for a 
week.” 

“Mom—give me a break!” Jed whined. 

“What you did was really bad,” Mom said sternly. “Maybe this punishment 
will make you realize how horrible it was.” 

“But I have to go to the movies!” Jed protested. 



“You can’t,” Mom replied softly. “And no arguing, or I’ll add on to your 
punishment. Now go to your room.” 

“I don’t think it’s enough punishment,” Sara said, dabbing away at her 
painting. 

“Keep out of it, Sara,” Mom snapped. 

“Yeah. Keep out of it,” Jed muttered. He stomped out of the room and down 
the long hall to his room. 

Dad sighed. He swept a hand back over his bald head. “Family Sharing 
Night is over,” he said sadly. 


* * * 


I stayed in Sara’s room and watched her repair the painting for a while. She kept 
tsk-tsking and shaking her head. 

“I have to make the rocks much darker, or the paint won’t cover the stupid 
smile face,” she explained unhappily. “But if I make the rocks darker, I have to 
change the sky. The whole balance is ruined.” 

“I think it looks pretty good,” I told her, trying to cheer her up. 

“How could Jed do that?” Sara demanded, dipping her brush in the water 
jar. “How could he sneak in here and totally destroy a work of art?” 

I was feeling sorry for Sara. But that remark made me lose all sympathy. I 
mean, why couldn’t she just call it a watercolor painting? Why did she have to 
call it “a work of art”? 

Sometimes she is so stuck-up and so in love with herself, it makes me sick. 

I turned and left the room. She didn’t even notice. 

I went down the hall to my room and called my friend Margo. We talked for 
a while about stuff. And we made plans to get together the next day. 

As I talked on the phone, I could hear Jed in his room next door. He was 
pacing back and forth, tossing things around, making a lot of noise. 

Sometimes I spell the word “Jed” B-R-A-T. 

Margo’s dad made her get off the phone. He’s real strict. He never lets her 
talk for more than ten or fifteen minutes. 

I wandered into the kitchen and made myself a bowl of Frosted Flakes. My 
favorite late snack. When I was a little kid, I used to have a bowl of cereal every 
night before bed. And I just never got out of the habit. 

I rinsed out the bowl. Then I said good night to Mom and Dad and went to 



bed. 


It was a warm spring night. A soft breeze fluttered the curtains over the 
window. Pale light from a big half-moon filled the window and spilled on to the 
floor. 

I fell into a deep sleep as soon as my head hit the pillow. 

A short while later, something woke me up. I’m not sure what. 

Still half asleep, I blinked my eyes open and raised myself on my pillow. I 
struggled to see clearly. 

The curtains flapped over the window. 

I felt as if I were still asleep, dreaming. 

But what I saw in the window snapped me awake. 

The curtains billowed, then lifted away. 

And in the silvery light, I saw a face. 

An ugly, grinning face in my bedroom window. Staring through the 
darkness at me. 



3 


The curtains flapped again. 

The face didn’t move. 

“Who—?” I choked out, squeezing the sheet up to my chin. 

The eyes stared in at me. Cold, unblinking eyes. 

Dummy eyes. 

Dennis. 

Dennis stared blankly at me, his white eye catching the glow of the 
moonlight. 

I let out an angry roar, tossed off the sheet, and bolted out of bed. To the 
window. 

I pushed away the billowing curtains and grabbed Dennis’ head off the 
window ledge. “Who put you there?” I demanded, holding the head between my 
hands. “Who did it, Dennis?” 

I heard soft laughter behind me. From the hallway. 

I flew across the room, the head still in my hands. I pulled open my 
bedroom door. 

Jed held his hand over his mouth, muffling his laughter. “Gotcha!” he 
whispered gleefully. 

“Jed—you creep!” I cried. I let the dummy head drop to the floor. Then I 
grabbed Jed’s pajama pants with both hands and jerked them up as high as I 
could—nearly to his chin! 

He let out a gasp of pain and stumbled back against the wall. 

“Why did you do that?” I demanded in an angry whisper. “Why did you put 
the dummy head on my window ledge?” 

Jed tugged his pajama pants back into place. “To pay you back,” he 
muttered. 

“Huh? Me?” I shrieked. “I didn’t do anything to you. What did I do?” 

“You didn’t stick up for me,” he grumbled, scratching his red curly hair. His 
eyes narrowed at me. “You didn’t say anything to help me out. You know. About 
Sara’s painting.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “How could I help you out? What could I say?” 

“You could have said it was no big deal,” Jed replied. 



“But it was a big deal!” I told him. “You know how seriously Sara takes her 
paintings.” I shook my head. “I’m sorry, Jed. But you deserve to be punished. 
You really do.” 

He stared at me across the dim hallway, thinking about what I’d said. Then 
an evil smile spread slowly over his freckled face. “Hope I didn’t scare you too 
much, Amy.” He snickered. Then he picked Dennis’ head up off the carpet and 
tossed it at me. 

I caught it in one hand. “Go to sleep, Jed,” I told him. “And don’t mess with 
Dennis again!” 

I stepped back into my room and closed the door. I tossed Dennis’ head 
onto a pile of clothes on my desk chair. Then I climbed wearily back into bed. 

So much trouble around here tonight, I thought, shutting my eyes, trying to 
relax. 

So much trouble... 

Two days later, Dad brought home a present for me. A new ventriloquist’s 
dummy. That’s when the real trouble began. 



4 


Margo came over the next afternoon. Margo is real tiny, sort of like a mini¬ 
person. She has a tiny face, and is very pretty, with bright blue eyes, and delicate 
features. 

Her blond hair is very light and very fine. She let it grow this year. It’s just 
about down to her tiny little waist. 

She’s nearly a foot shorter than me, even though we both turned twelve in 
February. She’s very smart and very popular. But the boys like to make fun of 
her soft, whispery voice. 

Today she was wearing a bright blue tank top tucked into white tennis 
shorts. “I bought the new Beatles collection,” she told me as she stepped into the 
house. She held up a CD box. 

Margo loves the Beatles. She doesn’t listen to any of the new groups. In her 
room, she has an entire shelf of Beatles CDs and tapes. And she has Beatles 
posters on her walls. 

We went to my room and put on the CD. Margo settled on the bed. I 
sprawled on the carpet across from her. 

“My dad almost didn’t let me come over,” Margo told me, pushing her long 
hair behind her shoulder. “He thought he might need me to work at the 
restaurant.” 

Margo’s dad owns a huge restaurant downtown called The Party House. It’s 
not really a restaurant. It’s a big, old house filled with enormous rooms where 
people can hold parties. 

A lot of kids have birthday parties there. And there are bar mitzvahs and 
confirmations and wedding receptions there, too. Sometimes there are six parties 
going on at once! 

One Beatles song ended. The next song, “Love Me Do”, started up. 

“I love this song!” Margo exclaimed. She sang along with it for a while. I 
tried singing with her, but I’m totally tone deaf. As my dad says, I can’t carry a 
tune in a wheelbarrow. 

“Well, I’m glad you didn’t have to work today,” I told Margo. 

“Me, too,” Margo sighed. “Dad always gives me the worst jobs. You know. 
Clearing tables. Or putting away dishes. Or wrapping up garbage bags. Yuck.” 



She started singing again—and then stopped. She sat up on the bed. “Amy, 
I almost forgot. Dad may have a job for you.” 

“Excuse me?” I replied. “Wrapping up garbage bags? I don’t think so, 
Margo.” 

“No. No. Listen,” Margo pleaded excitedly in her mouselike voice. “It’s a 
good job. Dad has a bunch of birthday parties coming up. For teeny tiny kids. 
You know. Two-year-olds. Maybe three- or four-year-olds. And he thought you 
could entertain them.” 

“Huh?” I stared at my friend. I still didn’t understand. “You mean, sing or 
something?” 

“No. With Dennis,” Margo explained. She twisted a lock of hair around in 
her fingers and bobbed her head in time to the music as she talked. “Dad saw 
you with Dennis at the sixth-grade talent night. He was really impressed.” 

“He was? I was terrible that night!” I replied. 

“Well, Dad didn’t think so. He wonders if you’d like to come to the 
birthday parties and put on a show with Dennis. The little kids will love it. Dad 
said he’d even pay you.” 

“Wow! That’s cool!” I replied. What an exciting idea. 

Then I remembered something. 

I jumped to my feet, crossed the room to the chair, and held up Dennis’ 
head. “One small problem,” I groaned. 

Margo let go of her hair and made a sick face. “His head? Why did you take 
off his head?” 

“I didn’t,” I replied. “It fell off. Every time I use Dennis, his head falls off.” 

“Oh.” Margo uttered a disappointed sigh. “The head looks weird all by 
itself. I don’t think little kids would like it if it fell off.” 

“I don’t think so,” I agreed. 

“It might frighten them or something,” Margo said. “You know. Give them 
nightmares. Make them think their own head might fall off.” 

“Dennis is totally wrecked. Dad promised me a new dummy. But he hasn’t 
been able to find one.” 

“Too bad,” Margo replied. “You’d have fun performing for the kids.” 

We listened to more Beatles music. Then Margo had to go home. 

A few minutes after she left, I heard the front door slam. 

“Hey, Amy! Amy—are you home?” I heard Dad call from the living room. 

“Coming!” I called. I made my way to the front of the house. Dad stood in 



the entryway, a long carton under his arm, a smile on his face. 

He handed the carton to me. “Happy Un-birthday!” he exclaimed. 

“Dad! Is it—?” I cried. I tore open the carton. “Yes!” Anew dummy! 

I lifted him carefully out of the carton. 

The dummy had wavy brown hair painted on top of his wooden head. I 
studied his face. It was kind of strange. Kind of intense. His eyes were bright 
blue—not faded like Dennis’. He had bright red painted lips, curved up into an 
eerie smile. His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the 
other lip. 

As I pulled him from the box, the dummy appeared to stare into my eyes. 
The eyes sparkled. The grin grew wider. 

I felt a sudden chill. Why does this dummy seem to be laughing at me? I 
wondered. 

I held him up, examining him carefully. He wore a gray, double-breasted 
suit over a white shirt collar. The collar was stapled to his neck. He didn’t have a 
shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 

Big, black leather shoes were attached to the ends of his thin, dangling legs. 

“Dad—he’s great!” I exclaimed. 

“I found him in a pawnshop,” Dad said, picking up the dummy’s hand and 
pretending to shake hands with it. “How do you do, Slappy.” 

“Slappy? Is that his name?” 

“That’s what the man in the store said,” Dad replied. He lifted Slappy’s 
arms, examining his suit. “I don’t know why he sold Slappy so cheaply. He 
practically gave the dummy away!” 

I turned the dummy around and looked for the string in his back that made 
the mouth open and close. “He’s excellent, Dad,” I said. I kissed my dad on the 
cheek. “Thanks.” 

“Do you really like him?” Dad asked. 

Slappy grinned up at me. His blue eyes stared into mine. He seemed to be 
waiting for an answer, too. 

“Yes. He’s awesome!” I said. “I like his serious eyes. They look so real.” 

“The eyes move,” Dad said. “They’re not painted on like Dennis’. They 
don’t blink, but they move from side to side.” 

I reached my hand inside the dummy’s back. “How do you make his eyes 
move?” I asked. 

“The man showed me,” Dad said. “It’s not hard. First you grab the string 



that works the mouth.” 

“I’ve got that,” I told him. 

“Then you move your hand up into the dummy’s head. There is a little lever 
up there. Do you feel it? Push on it. The eyes will move in the direction you 
push.” 

“Okay. I’ll try,” I said. 

Slowly I moved my hand up inside the dummy’s back. Through the neck. 
And into his head. 

I stopped and let out a startled cry as my hand hit something soft. 

Something soft and warm. 

His brain! 



5 


“Ohhh.” I uttered a sick moan and jerked my hand out as fast as I could. 

I could still feel the soft, warm mush on my fingers. 

“Amy—what’s wrong?” Dad cried. 

“His—his brains—!” I choked out, feeling my stomach lurch. 

“Huh? What are you talking about?” Dad grabbed the dummy from my 
hands. He turned it over and reached into the back. 

I covered my mouth with both hands and watched him reach into the head. 
His eyes widened in surprise. 

He struggled with something. Then pulled his hand out. 

“Yuck!” I groaned. “What’s that!” 

Dad stared down at the mushy, green and purple and brown object in his 
hand. “Looks like someone left a sandwich in there!” he exclaimed. 

Dad’s whole face twisted in disgust. “It’s all moldy and rotten. Must have 
been in there for months!” 

“Yuck!” I repeated, holding my nose. “It really stinks! Why would someone 
leave a sandwich in a dummy’s head?” 

“Beats me,” Dad replied, shaking his head. “And it looks like there are 
wormholes in it!” 

“Yuuuuuck!” we both cried in unison. 

Dad handed Slappy back to me. Then he hurried into the kitchen to get rid 
of the rotted, moldy sandwich. 

I heard him run the garbage disposal. Then I heard water running as he 
washed his hands. A few seconds later, Dad returned to the living room, drying 
his hands on a dish towel. 

“Maybe we’d better examine Slappy closely,” he suggested. “We don’t 
want any more surprises —do we?” 

I carried Slappy into the kitchen, and we stretched him out on the counter. 
Dad examined the dummy’s shoes carefully. They were attached to the legs and 
didn’t come off. 

I put my finger on the dummy’s chin and moved the mouth up and down. 
Then I checked out his wooden hands. 

I unbuttoned the gray suit jacket and studied the dummy’s painted shirt. 



Patches of the white paint had chipped and cracked. But it was okay. 

“Everything looks fine, Dad,” I reported. 

He nodded. Then he smelled his fingers. I guess he hadn’t washed away all 
of the stink from the rotted sandwich. 

“We’d better spray the inside of his head with disinfectant or perfume or 
something,” Dad said. 

Then, as I was buttoning up the jacket, something caught my eye. 

Something yellow. A slip of paper poking up from the jacket pocket. 

It’s probably a sales receipt, I thought. 

But when I pulled out the small square of yellow paper, I found strange 
writing on it. Weird words in a language I’d never seen before. 

I squinted hard at the paper and slowly read the words out loud: 

“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 

I wonder what that means? I thought. 

And then I glanced down at Slappy’s face. 

And saw his red lips twitch. 

And saw one eye slowly close in a wink. 



6 


“D-d-dad!” I stuttered. “He—moved!” 

“Huh?” Dad had gone back to the sink to wash his hands for a third time. 
“What’s wrong with the dummy?” 

“He moved!” I cried. “He winked at me!” 

Dad came over to the counter, wiping his hands. “I told you, Amy—he 
can’t blink. The eyes only move from side to side.” 

“No!” I insisted. “He winked. His lips twitched, and he winked.” 

Dad frowned and picked up the dummy head in both hands. He raised it to 
examine it. “Well... maybe the eyelids are loose,” he said. “I’ll see if I can 
tighten them up. Maybe if I take a screwdriver I can—” 

Dad didn’t finish his sentence. 

Because the dummy swung his wooden hand up and hit Dad on the side of 
the head. 

“Ow!” Dad cried, dropping the dummy back onto the counter. Dad grabbed 
his cheek. “Hey—stop it, Amy! That hurt!” 

“Me?” I shrieked. “I didn’t do it!” 

Dad glared at me, rubbing his cheek. It had turned bright red. 

“The dummy did it!” I insisted. “I didn’t touch him, Dad! I didn’t move his 
hand!” 

“Not funny,” Dad muttered. “You know I don’t like practical jokes.” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but no words came out. I decided I’d better 
just shut up. 

Of course Dad wouldn’t believe that the dummy had slapped him. 

I didn’t believe it myself. 

Dad must have pulled too hard when he was examining the head. Dad 
jerked the hand up without realizing it. 

That’s how I explained it to myself. 

What other explanation could there be? 

I apologized to Dad. Then we washed Slappy’s face with a damp sponge. We 
cleaned him up and sprayed disinfectant inside his head. 



He was starting to look pretty good. 

I thanked Dad again and hurried to my room. I set Slappy down on the chair 
beside Dennis. Then I phoned Margo. 

“I got a new dummy,” I told her excitedly. “I can perform for the kids’ 
birthday parties. At The Party House.” 

“That’s great, Amy!” Margo exclaimed. “Now all you need is an act.” 

She was right. 

I needed jokes. A lot of jokes. If I was going to perform with Slappy in 
front of dozens of kids, I needed a long comedy act. 

The next day after school, I hurried to the library. I took out every joke 
book I could find. I carried them home and studied them. I wrote down all the 
jokes I thought I could use with Slappy. 

After dinner, I should have been doing my homework. Instead, I practiced 
with Slappy. I sat in front of the mirror and watched myself with him. 

I tried hard to speak clearly but not move my lips. And I tried hard to move 
Slappy’s mouth so that it really looked as if he were talking. 

Working his mouth and moving his eyes at the same time was pretty hard. 
But after a while, it became easier. 

I tried some knock-knock jokes with Slappy. I thought little kids might like 
those. 

“Knock knock,” I made Slappy say. 

“Who’s there?” I asked him, staring into his eyes as if I were really talking 
to him. 

“Jane,” Slappy said. 

“Jane who?” 

“Jane jer clothes. You stink!” 

I practiced each joke over and over, watching myself in the mirror. I wanted 
to be a really good ventriloquist. I wanted to be excellent. I wanted to be as good 
with Slappy as Sara is with her paints. 

I practiced some more knock-knock jokes and some jokes about animals. 
Jokes I thought little kids would find funny. 

I’ll try them out on Family Sharing Night, I decided. It will make Dad 
happy to see how hard I’m working with Slappy. At least I know Slappy’s head 
won’t fall off. 

I glanced across the room at Dennis. He looked so sad and forlorn, 
crumpled in the chair, his head tilted nearly sideways on his shoulders. 



Then I propped Slappy up and turned back to the mirror. 

“Knock knock.” 

“Who’s there?” 

“Wayne.” 

“Wayne who?” 

“Wayne wayne, go away! Come again another day!” 

On Thursday night, I was actually eager to finish dinner so that Sharing Night 
could begin. I couldn’t wait to show my family my new act with Slappy. 

We had spaghetti for dinner. I like spaghetti, but Jed always ruins it. 

He’s so gross. He sat across the table from me, and he kept opening his 
mouth wide, showing me a mouth full of chewed-up spaghetti. 

Then he’d laugh because he cracks himself up. And spaghetti sauce would 
run down his chin. 

By the time dinner was over, Jed had spaghetti sauce smeared all over his 
face and all over the tablecloth around his plate. 

No one seemed to notice. Mom and Dad were too busy listening to Sara 
brag about her grades. For a change. 

Report cards were being handed out tomorrow. Sara was sure she was 
getting all A’s. 

I was sure, too. Sure I wasn’t getting all A’s! 

I’d be lucky to get a C in math. I really messed up the last two tests. And I 
probably wasn’t going to do real well in science, either. My weather balloon 
project fell apart, so I hadn’t handed it in yet. 

I finished my spaghetti and mopped up some of the leftover sauce on my 
plate with a chunk of bread. 

When I glanced up, Jed had stuck two carrot sticks in his nose. “Amy, 
check this out. I’m a walrus!” he cried, grinning. He let out a few urk urks and 
clapped his hands together like a walrus. 

“Jed—stop that!” Mom cried sharply. She made a disgusted face. “Get 
those out of your nose.” 

“Make him eat them, Mom!” I cried. 

Jed stuck his tongue out at me. It was orange from the spaghetti sauce. 

“Look at you. You’re a mess!” Mom shouted at Jed. “Go get cleaned up. 
Now! Hurry! Wash all that sauce off your face.” 

Jed groaned. But he climbed to his feet and headed to the bathroom. 



“Did he eat anything? Or did he just rub it all over himself?” Dad asked, 
rolling his eyes. Dad had some sauce on his chin, too, but I didn’t say anything. 

“You interrupted me,” Sara said impatiently. “I was telling you about the 
State Art Contest. Remember? I sent my flower painting in for that?” 

“Oh, yes,” Mom replied. “Have you heard from the judges?” 

I didn’t listen to Sara’s reply. My mind wandered. I started thinking again 
about how bad my report card was going to be. I had to force myself to stop 
thinking about it. 

“Uh... I’ll clear the dishes,” I announced. 

I started to stand up. 

But I stopped with a startled cry when I saw the short figure creep into the 
living room. 

A dummy! 

My dummy. 

He was crawling across the room! 



7 


I let out another cry. I pointed to the living room with a trembling finger. “M- 
mom! Dad!” I stammered. 

Sara was still talking about the art competition. But she turned to see what 
everyone was gaping at. 

The dummy’s head popped out from behind the armchair. 

“It’s Dennis!” I cried. 

I heard muffled laughter. Jed’s muffled laughter. 

The dummy reached up both hands and pulled off his own head. And Jed’s 
head popped up through the green turtleneck. He still had spaghetti sauce 
smeared on his cheeks. He was laughing hard. 

Everyone else started to laugh, too. Everyone but me. 

Jed had really frightened me. 

He had pulled the neck of his sweater way up over his head. Then he had 
tucked Dennis’ wooden head inside the turtleneck. 

Jed was so short and thin. It really looked as if Dennis were creeping into 
the room. 

“Stop laughing!” I shouted at my family. “It isn’t funny!” 

“I think it’s very funny!” Mom cried. “What a crazy thing to think of!” 

“Very clever,” Dad added. 

“It’s not clever,” I insisted. I glared furiously at my brother. “I always knew 
you were a dummy!” I screamed at him. 

“Amy, you really were scared,” Sara accused. “You nearly dropped your 
teeth!” 

“Not true!” I sputtered. “I knew it was Dennis—I mean—Jed!” 

Now everyone started laughing at me! I could feel my face getting hot, and 
I knew I was blushing. 

That made them all laugh even harder. 

Nice family, huh? 

I climbed to my feet, walked around the table, and took Dennis’ head away 
from Jed. “Don’t go in my room,” I told him through clenched teeth. “And don’t 
mess with my stuff.” I stomped away to put the dummy head back in my room. 



“It was just a joke, Amy,” I heard Sara call after me. 

“Yeah. It was just a joke,” Jed repeated nastily. 

“Ha-ha!” I shouted back at them. “What a riot!” 

My anger had faded away by the time we started Family Sharing Night. We 
settled in the living room, taking our usual places. 

Mom volunteered to go first. She told a funny story about something that 
had happened at work. 

Mom works in a fancy women’s clothing store downtown. She told us 
about a really big woman who came into the store and insisted on trying on only 
tiny sizes. 

The woman ripped every piece of clothing she tried on—and then bought 
them all! “They’re not for me,” the woman explained. “They’re for my sister!” 

We all laughed. But I was surprised Mom told that story. Because Mom is 
pretty chubby. And she’s very sensitive about it. 

About as sensitive as Dad is about being bald. 

Dad was the next to share. He brought out his guitar, and we all groaned. 
Dad thinks he’s a great singer. But he’s nearly as tone deaf as I am. 

He loves singing all these old folk songs from the sixties. There’s supposed 
to be some kind of message in them. But Sara, Jed, and I have no idea what he’s 
singing about. 

Dad strummed away and sang something about not working on Maggie’s 
farm anymore. At least, I think that’s what he was saying. 

We all clapped and cheered. But Dad knew we didn’t really mean it. 

It was Jed’s turn next. But he insisted that he had already shared. “Dressing 
up like Dennis—that was it,” he said. 

No one wanted to argue with him. “Your turn, Amy,” Mom said, leaning 
against Dad on the couch. Dad fiddled with his glasses, then settled back. 

I picked up Slappy and arranged him on my lap. I was feeling a little 
nervous. I wanted to do a good job and impress them with my new comedy act. 

I’d been practicing all week, and I knew the jokes by heart. But as I slipped 
my hand into Slappy’s back and found the string, my stomach felt all fluttery. 

I cleared my throat and began. 

“This is Slappy, everyone,” I said. “Slappy, say hi to my family.” 

“Hi to my family! ” I made Slappy say. I made his eyes slide back and forth. 

They all chuckled. 



“This dummy is much better!” Mom commented. 

“But it’s the same old ventriloquist,” Sara said cruelly. 

I glared at her. 

“Just joking! Just joking!” my sister insisted. 

“I think that dummy reeks,” Jed chimed in. 

“Give Amy a break,” Dad said sharply. “Go ahead, Amy.” 

I cleared my throat again. It suddenly felt very dry. “Slappy and I are going 
to tell some knock-knock jokes,” I announced. I turned to face Slappy and made 
him turn his head to me. “Knock knock,” I said. 

“Knock it off! ” came the harsh reply. 

Slappy spun around to face my Mom. “Hey — don’t break the sofa, fatso!” 
he rasped. “Why don’t you skip the French fries and have a salad once in a 
while?” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped in shock. “Amy—” 

“Amy, that’s not funny!” Dad cried angrily. 

“What’s your problem, baldy?” Slappy shouted. “Is that your head—or are 
you hatching an ostrich egg on your neck?” 

“That’s enough, Amy!” Dad cried, jumping to his feet. “Stop it—right 
now!” 

“But—but—Dad—!” I sputtered. 

“Why don’t you put an extra hole in your head and use it for a bowling 
ball?” Slappy screamed at Dad. 

“Your jokes are horrible!” Mom exclaimed. “They’re hurtful and insulting.” 

“It’s not funny, Amy!” Dad fumed. “It’s not funny to hurt people’s 
feelings.” 

“But, Dad—” I replied. “I didn’t say any of that! It wasn’t me! It was 
Slappy! Really! I wasn’t saying it! I wasn’t!” 

Slappy raised his head. His red-lipped grin appeared to spread. His blue 
eyes sparkled. “Did I mention you are all ugly?” he asked. 



8 


Everyone started shouting at once. 

I stood up and dropped Slappy facedown on the armchair. 

My legs were trembling. My entire body was shaking. 

What’s going on here? I asked myself. I didn’t say those things. I really 
didn’t. 

But Slappy can’t be talking on his own —can he? 

Of course not, I realized. 

But what did that mean? Did that mean I was saying those horrible, 
insulting things to my parents without even knowing it? 

Mom and Dad stood side by side, staring at me angrily, demanding to know 
why I insulted them. 

“Did you really think that was funny?” Mom asked. “Didn’t you think it 
would hurt my feelings to call me fatso?” 

Meanwhile, Jed was sprawled on his back in the middle of the floor, 
giggling like a moron. He thought the whole thing was a riot. 

Sara sat cross-legged against the wall, shaking her head, her black hair 
falling over her face. “You’re in major trouble,” she muttered. “What’s your 
problem, Amy?” 

I turned to Mom and Dad. My hands were balled into tight fists. I couldn’t 
stop shaking. 

“You’ve got to believe me!” I shrieked. “I didn’t say those things! I really 
didn’t!” 

“Yeah. Right. Slappy is a baaad dude!” Jed chimed in, grinning. 

“Everybody, just be quiet!” Dad screamed. His face turned bright red. 

Mom squeezed his arm. She didn’t like it when he got too angry or excited. 
I guess she worried he might totally explode or something. 

Dad crossed his arms in front of his chest. I saw that he had a sweat stain on 
the chest of his polo shirt. His face was still red. 

The room suddenly fell silent. 

“Amy, we’re not going to believe you,” Dad said softly. 

“But—but—but—” 



He raised a hand to silence me. 

“You’re a wonderful storyteller, Amy,” Dad continued. “You make up 
wonderful fantasies and fairy tales. But we’re not going to believe this one. I’m 
sorry. We’re not going to believe that your dummy spoke up on his own.” 

“But he did! ” I screamed. I felt like bursting out in sobs. I bit my lip hard, 
trying to force them back. 

Dad shook his head. “No, Slappy didn’t insult us. You said those things, 
Amy. You did. And now I want you to apologize to your mother and me. Then I 
want you to take your dummy and go to your room.” 

There was no way they’d ever believe me. No way. I wasn’t sure I believed 
it myself. 

“Sorry,” I muttered, still holding back the tears. “Really. I’m sorry.” 

With an unhappy sigh, I lifted Slappy off the chair. I carried him around the 
waist so that his arms and legs dangled toward the floor. “Good night,” I said. I 
walked slowly toward my room. 

“What about my turn?” I heard Sara ask. 

“Sharing Night is over,” Dad replied grumpily. “You two—get lost. Leave 
your mom and me alone.” 

Dad sounded really upset. 

I didn’t blame him. 

I stepped into my room and closed the door behind me. Then I lifted Slappy 
up, holding him under the shoulders. I raised his face to mine. 

His eyes seemed to stare into my face. 

Such cold blue eyes, I thought. 

His bright red lips curled up into that smirking grin. The smile suddenly 
seemed evil. Mocking. 

As if Slappy were laughing at me. 

But of course that was impossible. My wild imagination was playing tricks 
on me, I decided. 

Frightening tricks. 

Slappy was just a dummy, after all. Just a hunk of painted wood. 

I stared hard into those cold blue eyes. “Slappy, look at all the trouble you 
caused me tonight,” I told him. 

Thursday night had been awful. Totally awful. 

But Friday turned out to be much worse. 



9 


First I dropped my tray in the lunchroom. The trays were all wet, and mine just 
slipped out of my hand. 

The plates clattered on the floor, and my lunch spilled all over my new 
white sneakers. Everyone in the lunchroom clapped and cheered. 

Was I embarrassed? Take three guesses. 

Later that afternoon, report cards were handed out. 

Sara came home grinning and singing. Nothing makes her more happy than 
being perfect. And her report card was perfect. All A’s. 

She insisted on showing it to me three times. She showed it to Jed three 
times, too. And we both had to tell her how wonderful she was each time. 

I’m being unfair to Sara. 

She was happy and excited. And she had a right to be. Her report card was 
perfect— and her flower painting won the blue ribbon in the State Art Contest. 

So I shouldn’t blame her for dancing around the house and singing at the 
top of her lungs. 

She wasn’t trying to rub it in. She wasn’t trying to make me feel like a 
lowly slug because my report card had two C’s. One in math and one in science. 

It wasn’t Sara’s fault that I had received my worst report card ever. 

So I tried to hold back my jealous feelings and not strangle her the tenth 
time she told me about the art prize. But it wasn’t easy. 

The worst part of my report card wasn’t the two C’s. It was the little note 
Miss Carson wrote at the bottom. 

It said: Amy isn’t working to the best of her ability. If she worked harder, she 
could do much better than this. 

I don’t think teachers should be allowed to write notes on report cards. I 
think getting grades is bad enough. 

I tried to make up some kind of story to explain the two C’s to my parents. I 
planned to tell them that everyone in the class got C’s in math and science. “Miss 
Carson didn’t have time to grade our papers. So she gave us all C’s—just to be 
fair.” 

It was a good story. But not a great story. 

No way Mom and Dad would buy that one. 



I paced back and forth in my room, trying to think of a better story. After a 
while, I noticed Slappy staring at me. 

He sat in the chair beside Dennis, grinning and staring. 

Slappy’s eyes weren’t following me as I paced—were they? 

I felt a chill run down my back. 

It really seemed as if the eyes were watching me, moving as I moved. 

I darted to the chair and turned Slappy so that his back was to me. I didn’t 
have time to think about a stupid dummy. My parents would be home from work 
any minute. And I needed a good story to explain my awful report card. 

Did I come up with one? No. 

Were my parents upset? Yes. 

Mom said she would help me get better organized. Dad said he would help 
me understand my math problems. The last time Dad helped me with my math, I 
nearly flunked! 

Even Jed—the total goof-off—got a better report card than me. They don’t 
give grades in the lower school. The teacher just writes a report about you. 

And Jed’s report said that he was a great kid and a really good student. That 
teacher must be sick! 

I stared at Jed across the dinner table. He opened his mouth wide to show 
me a mouth full of chewed-up peas. 

Sick! 

“You reek,” he said to me. For no reason at all. 

Sometimes I wonder why families were invented. 

Saturday morning, I called Margo. “I can’t come over,” I told her with a sigh. 
“My parents won’t let me.” 

“My report card wasn’t too good, either,” Margo replied. “Miss Carson 
wrote a note at the bottom. She said I talk too much in class.” 

“Miss Carson talks too much,” I said bitterly. 

As I chatted with Margo, I stared at myself in the dresser mirror. I look too 
much like Sara, I thought. Why do I have to look like her twin? Maybe I’ll cut 
my hair really short. Or get a tattoo. 

I wasn’t thinking too clearly. 

I was too angry that my parents weren’t allowing me to go over to Margo’s 
house. 

“This is bad news,” Margo said. “I wanted to talk to you about performing 



with Slappy at my dad’s place.” 

“I know,” I replied sadly. “But they’re not letting me go anywhere until my 
science project is finished.” 

“You still haven’t turned that in?” Margo demanded. 

“I kind of forgot about it,” I confessed. “I did the project part—for the 
second time. I just have to write the report.” 

“Well, I told you, Daddy has a birthday party for a dozen three-year-olds 
next Saturday,” Margo said. “And he wants you and Slappy to entertain them.” 

“As soon as I finish the science report, I’m going to start rehearsing,” I 
promised. “Tell your dad not to worry, Margo. Tell him I’ll be great.” 

We chatted for a few more minutes. Then my mom shouted for me to get 
off the phone. I talked for a little while longer—until Mom shouted a second 
time. Then I said good-bye to Margo and hung up. 

I slaved over my computer all morning and most of the afternoon. And I 
finished the science report. 

It wasn’t easy. Jed kept coming into my room, begging me to play a 
Nintendo game with him. “Just one! ” And I had to keep tossing him out. 

When I finally finished writing the paper, I printed it out and read it one 
more time. I thought it was pretty good. 

What it needs is a really great-looking cover, I decided. 

I wanted to get a bunch of colored markers and do a really bright cover. But 
my markers were all dried up. 

I tossed them into the trash and made my way to Sara’s room. I knew that 
she had an entire drawer filled with colored markers. 

Sara was at the mall with a bunch of her friends. Miss Perfect could go out 
and spend Saturday doing whatever she wanted. Because she was perfect. 

I knew she wouldn’t mind if I borrowed a few markers. 

Jed stopped me outside her door. “One game of Battle Chess!” he pleaded. 
“Just one game!” 

“No way,” I told him. I placed my hand on top of his head. His red, curly 
hair felt so soft. I pushed him out of my way. “You always murder me at Battle 
Chess. And I’m not finished with my work yet.” 

“Why are you going in Sara’s room?” he demanded. 

“None of your business,” I told him. 

“You reek,” he said. “You double reek, Amy.” 

I ignored him and made my way into Sara’s room to borrow the markers. 



I spent nearly an hour making the cover. I filled it with molecules and 
atoms, all in different colors. Miss Carson will be impressed, I decided. 

Sara returned home just as I finished. She was carrying a big shopping bag 
filled with clothes she’d bought at Banana Republic. 

She started to her room with the bag. “Mom—come see what I bought,” she 
called. 

Mom appeared, carrying a stack of freshly laundered towels. 

“Can I see, too?” I called. I followed them to Sara’s room. 

But Sara stopped at her door. 

The bag fell from her hand. 

And she let out a scream. 

Mom and I crowded behind her. We peered into the bedroom. 

What a mess! 

Someone had overturned about a dozen jars of paint. Reds, yellows, blues. 
The paint had spread over Sara’s white carpet, like a big, colorful mud puddle. 

I gasped and blinked several times. It was unreal! 

“I don’t believe it!” Sara kept shrieking. “I don’t believe it!” 

“The carpet is ruined!” Mom exclaimed, taking one step into the room. 

The emptied paint jars were on their sides, strewn around the room. 

“Jed!” Mom shouted angrily. “Jed—get in here! Now!” 

We turned to see Jed right behind us in the hall. “You don’t have to shout,” 
he said softly. 

Mom narrowed her eyes angrily at my brother. “Jed—how could you?” she 
demanded through clenched teeth. 

“Excuse me?” He gazed up at her innocently. 

“Jed—don’t lie!” Sara screamed. “Did you do this? Did you go in my room 
again?” 

“No way!” Jed protested, shaking his head. “I didn’t go in your room today, 
Sara. Not once. But I saw Amy go in. And she wouldn’t tell me why.” 



10 


Sara and Mom both turned accusing eyes on me. 

“How could you?” Sara screamed, walking around the big paint puddle. 
“How could you?” 

“Whoa! Wait! I didn’t! I didn’t!” I cried frantically. 

“I asked Amy why she was going in here,” Jed chimed in. “And she said it 
was none of my business.” 

“Amy!” Mom cried. “I’m horrified. I’m truly horrified. This—this is sick!” 

“Yes, it’s sick,” Sara repeated, shaking her head. “All of my poster paint. 
All of it. What a mess. I know why you did it. It’s because you’re jealous of my 
perfect report card.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I wailed. “I didn’t! I didn’t! I didn’t!” 

“Amy—no one else could have,” Mom replied. “If Jed didn’t do it, then—” 

“But I only came in here to borrow markers!” 

I cried in a trembling voice. “That’s all. I needed markers.” 

“Amy—” Mom started, pointing to the huge paint puddle. 

“I’ll show you!” I cried. “I’ll show you what I borrowed.” 

I ran to my room. My hands were shaking as I scooped Sara’s markers off 
my desk. My heart pounded. 

How could they accuse me of something so terrible? I asked myself. 

Is that what everyone thinks of me? That I’m such a monster? 

That I’m so jealous of my sister, I’d pour out all her paints and ruin her rug? 

Do they really think I’m crazy? 

I ran back to Sara’s room, carrying the markers in both hands. Jed sat on 
Sara’s bed, staring down at the thick red, blue, and yellow puddle. 

Mom and Sara stood over it, gazing down and shaking their heads. Mom 
kept making clucking noises with her tongue. She kept pressing her hands 
against her cheeks. 

“Here! See?” I cried. I shoved the markers toward them. “That’s why I 
came in here. I’m not lying!” 

Some of the markers fell out of my hands. I bent to pick them up. 

“Amy, there were only three of us home this afternoon,” Mom said. She 



was trying to keep her voice low and calm. But she spoke through gritted teeth. 
“You, me, and Jed.” 

“I know—” I started. 

Mom raised a hand to silence me. “I certainly didn’t do this horrible thing,” 
Mom continued. “And Jed says that he didn’t do it. So...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Mom—I’m not a sicko!” I shrieked. “I’m not!” 

“You’ll feel better if you confess,” Mom said. “Then we can talk about this 
calmly, and—” 

“But I didn’t do it! ” I raged. 

With a cry of anger, I flung the markers to the floor. Then I spun around, 
bolted from Sara’s room, and ran down the long hall to my room. 

I slammed the door and threw myself facedown onto my bed. I started 
sobbing loudly. I don’t know how long I cried. 

Finally, I stood up. My face was sopping wet, and my nose was running. I 
started to the dresser to get a tissue. 

But something caught my eye. 

Hadn’t I turned Slappy around so that his back was turned to me? 

Now he was sitting facing me, staring up at me, his red-lipped grin wider 
than ever. 

Did I turn him back around? Did I? 

I didn’t remember. 

And what did I see on Slappy’s shoes? 

I wiped the tears from my eyes with the backs of my hands. Then I took a 
few steps toward the dummy, squinting hard at his big leather shoes. 

What was that on his shoes? 

Red and blue and yellow... paint? 

Yes. 

With a startled gasp, I grabbed both shoes by the heels and raised them 
close to my face. 

Yes. 

Drips of paint on Slappy’s shoes. 

“Slappy—what is going on here?” I asked out loud. “What is going on?” 



11 


When Dad came home and saw Sara’s room, he nearly exploded. 

I was actually worried about him. His face turned as red as a tomato. His 
chest started heaving in and out. And horrible gurgling noises came up from his 
throat. 

The whole family gathered in the living room. We took our Sharing Night 
places. Only, this wasn’t Family Sharing Night. This was What Are We Going 
To Do About Amy Night. 

“Amy, first you have to tell us the truth,” Mom said. She sat stiffly on the 
couch, squeezing her hands together in her lap. 

Dad sat on the other end of the couch, tapping one hand nervously against 
the couch arm, chewing his lower lip. Jed and Sara sat on the floor against the 
wall. 

“I am telling the truth,” I insisted shrilly. I slumped in the armchair across 
from them. My hair fell over my forehead, but I didn’t bother to brush it back. 
My white T-shirt had tear stains on the front, still damp. “If you would only 
listen to me,” I pleaded. 

“Okay, we’re listening,” Mom replied. 

“When I went into my room,” I started, “there were splashes of paint on 
Slappy’s shoes. And—” 

“Enough!” Dad cried, jumping to his feet. 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“Enough!” he insisted. He pointed a finger at me. “No more wild stories, 
young lady. Storytime is over. We don’t want to hear about paint stains on 
Slappy. We want an explanation for the crime that was committed in Sara’s room 
today.” 

“But I am giving an explanation!” I wailed. “Why did Slappy have paint on 
his shoes? Why?” 

Dad dropped back onto the couch with a sigh. He whispered something to 
Mom. She whispered back. 

I thought I heard them mention the word “doctor”. 

“Are you—are you going to take me to a psychiatrist?” I asked timidly. 

“Do you think you need one?” Mom replied, staring hard at me. 



I shook my head. “No.” 

“Your father and I will talk about this,” Mom said. “We will figure out the 
best thing to do.” 

The best thing to do? 

They grounded me for two weeks. No movies. 

No friends over. No trips to the mall. No trips anywhere. 

I heard them talking about finding me a counselor. But they didn’t say 
anything about it to me. 

All week, I could feel them watching me. Studying me as if I were some 
kind of alien creature. 

Sara was pretty cold to me. Her room had to be emptied out and a new rug 
installed. She wasn’t happy about it. 

Even Jed treated me differently. He kind of tiptoed around me and kept his 
distance, as if I had a bad cold or something. He didn’t tease me, or tell me that I 
reek, or call me names. 

I really missed it. No kidding. 

How did I feel? I felt miserable. 

I wanted to get sick. I wanted to catch a really bad stomach flu or 
something so they’d all feel sorry for me and stop treating me like a criminal. 

One good thing: They said I could perform with Slappy at The Party House 
on Saturday. 

Whenever I picked Slappy up, I felt a little weird. I remembered the paint 
on his shoes and the mess in my sister’s room. 

But I couldn’t come up with one single explanation. So I practiced with 
Slappy every night. 

I had put a lot of good jokes together. Silly jokes I thought little three-year- 
olds would find funny. 

And I studied myself in the mirror. I was getting better at not moving my 
lips. And it was getting easier to make Slappy’s mouth and eyes move correctly. 

“Knock knock,” I made Slappy say. 

“Who’s there?” I asked. 

“Eddie.” 

“Eddie who?” I asked. 

“Eddie-body got a tissue? I hab a teddible cold!” 

And then I pulled back Slappy’s head, opened his mouth really wide, and 



jerked his whole body as I made him sneeze and sneeze and sneeze. 

I thought that would really crack up the three-year-olds. 

Every night, I worked and worked on our comedy act. I worked so hard. 

I didn’t know that the act would never go on. 

On Saturday afternoon, Mom dropped me off at The Party House. “Have a good 
show!” she called as she drove away. 

I carried Slappy carefully in my arms. Margo met me at the door. She 
greeted me with an excited smile. 

“Just in time!” she cried. “The kids are almost all here. They’re total 
animals!” 

“Oh, great!” I muttered, rolling my eyes. 

“They’re total animals, but they’re so cute!” Margo added. 

She led me through the twisting hallway to the party room in back. Clusters 
of red and yellow balloons covered the ceiling. I saw a brightly decorated table, 
all yellow and red. A balloon on a string floated up from each chair around the 
table. Each balloon had the name of a guest on it. 

The kids really were cute. They were dressed mostly in jeans and bright T- 
shirts. Two of the girls wore frilly party dresses. 

I counted ten of them, all running wildly, chasing each other in the huge 
room. 

Their mothers were grouped around a long table against the back wall. 
Some of them were sitting down. Some were standing, huddled together, 
chatting. Some were calling to their kids to stop being so wild. 

“I’m helping out, pouring the punch and stuff,” Margo told me. “Dad wants 
you to do your act first thing. You know. To quiet the kids down.” 

I swallowed hard. “First thing, huh?” 

I had been excited. I could barely choke down my tuna fish sandwich at 
lunch. But now I began to feel nervous. I had major fluttering in my stomach. 

Margo led me to the front of the room. I saw a low wooden platform there, 
painted bright blue. That was the stage. 

Seeing the stage made my heart start to pound. My mouth suddenly felt 
very dry. 

Could I really step up on that stage and do my act in front of all these 
people? Kids and mothers? 

I had forgotten that the mothers would all be there. Seeing adults in the 



audience made me even more nervous. 

“Here is the birthday girl,” a woman’s voice said. 

I turned to see a smiling mother. She held the hand of a beautiful little girl. 
The girl gazed up at me with sparkling blue eyes. She had straight black hair, a 
lot like mine, only silkier and finer. She had a bright yellow ribbon in her hair. It 
matched her short yellow party dress and yellow sneakers. 

“This is Alicia,” the mother announced. 

“Hi. I’m Amy,” I replied. 

“Alicia would like to meet your dummy,” the woman said. 

“Is he real?” Alicia asked. 

I didn’t know how to answer that question. “He’s a real dummy,” I told 
Alicia. 

I propped Slappy up in my arms and slipped my hand into his back. “This is 
Slappy,” I told the little girl. “Slappy, this is Alicia.” 

“How do you do?” I made Slappy say. 

Alicia and her mother both laughed. Alicia stared up at the dummy with her 
sparkling blue eyes. 

“How old are you?” I made Slappy say. 

Alicia held up three fingers. “I’m fffree,” she told him. 

“Would you like to shake hands with Slappy?” I asked. 

Alicia nodded. 

I lowered the dummy a little. I pushed forward Slappy’s right hand. “Go 
ahead,” I urged Alicia. “Take his hand.” 

Alicia reached up and grabbed Slappy’s hand. She giggled. 

“Happy Birthday,” Slappy said. 

Alicia shook his hand gently. Then she started to back away. 

“We can’t wait to see your show,” Alicia’s mother said to me. “I know the 
kids are going to love it.” 

“I hope so!” I replied. My stomach fluttered again. I was still really 
nervous. 

“Let go!” Alicia cried. She tugged at Slappy’s hand. She giggled. “He won’t 
let go!” 

Alicia’s mom laughed. “What a funny dummy!” She grabbed Alicia’s other 
hand. “Let go of the dummy, honey. We have to get everyone in their seats for 
the show.” 

Alicia tugged a little harder. “But he won’t let go of me, Mommy!” she 



cried. “He wants to shake hands!” 

Alicia gave a hard tug. But her tiny hand was still wrapped up inside 
Slappy’s. She giggled. “He likes me. He won’t let go.” 

“Oh, look,” her mother said, glancing to the door. “Phoebe and Jennifer just 
arrived. Let’s go say hi.” 

Alicia tried to follow her mom, but Slappy held tight to her hand. Alicia’s 
smile faded. “Let go!” she insisted. 

I saw that several kids had gathered around. They watched Alicia tug at 
Slappy’s hand. 

“Let go! Let me go!” Alicia cried angrily. 

I leaned over to examine Slappy’s hand. To my surprise, it appeared that his 
hand had clenched tightly around hers. 

Alicia gave a hard tug. “Ow! He’s hurting me, Mommy!” 

More kids came over to watch. Some of them were laughing. Two little 
dark-haired boys exchanged frightened glances. 

“Please—make him let go!” Alicia wailed. She tugged again and again. 

I froze in panic. My mind whirred. I tried to think of what to do. 

Had Alicia gotten her hand caught somehow? 

Slappy’s hand couldn’t really close around hers—could it? 

Alicia’s mother was staring at me angrily. “Please let Alicia’s hand out,” 
she said impatiently. 

“He’s hurting me!” Alicia cried. “Ow! He’s squeezing my hand!” 

The room grew very quiet. The other kids were all watching now. Their 
eyes wide. Their expressions confused. 

I didn’t know what to do. I had no control for Slappy’s hands. 

My heart pounded in my chest. I tried to make a joke of it. “Slappy really 
likes you!” I told Alicia. 

But the little girl was sobbing now. Little tears rolled down her cheeks. 
“Mommy—make him stop!” 

I pulled my hand out from Slappy’s back. I grabbed his wooden hand 
between my hands. “Let go of her, Slappy!” I demanded. 

I tried pulling the fingers open. 

But I couldn’t budge them. 

“What is wrong?” Alicia’s mother was screaming. “Is her hand caught? 
What are you doing to her?” 

“He’s hurting me!” Alicia wailed. “Owwww! He’s squeezing me!” 



Several kids were crying now. Mothers rushed across the room to comfort 
them. 

Alicia’s sobs rose up over the frightened cries of the other three-year-olds. 
The harder she tugged, the tighter the wooden hand squeezed. 

“Let go, Slappy!” I shrieked, pulling his fingers. “Let go! Let go!” 

“I don’t understand!” Alicia’s mother cried. She began frantically tugging 
my arm. “What are you doing? Let her go! Let her go!” 

“Owwwww!” Alicia uttered a high, heartbreaking wail. “Make him stop! It 
hurts! It hurts!” 

And then Slappy suddenly tilted his head back. His eyes opened wide, and 
his mouth opened in a long, evil laugh. 



12 


I burst into the house and let the screen door slam behind me. I had taken the city 
bus to Logan Street. Then I had run the six blocks to my house with Slappy 
hanging over my shoulder. 

“Amy, how did it go?” Mom called from the kitchen. “Did you get a ride? I 
thought we were supposed to come pick you up.” 

I didn’t answer her. I was sobbing too hard. I ran down the hall to my room 
and slammed the door. 

I hoisted Slappy off my shoulder and tossed him into the closet. I never 
wanted to see him again. Never. 

I caught a glimpse of myself in the dresser mirror. My cheeks were swollen 
and puffy from crying. My eyes were red. My hair was wet and tangled, and 
matted to my forehead. 

I took several deep breaths and tried to stop crying. 

I kept hearing that poor little girl’s screams in my ears. Slappy finally let go 
of her after he uttered his ugly laugh. 

But Alicia couldn’t stop crying. She was so frightened! And her little hand 
was red and swollen. 

The other kids were all screaming and crying, too. 

Alicia’s mother was furious. She called Margo’s dad out from the kitchen. 
She was shaking and sputtering with anger. She said she was going to sue The 
Party House. 

Margo’s dad quietly asked me to leave. He led me to the front door. He said 
it wasn’t my fault. But he said the kids were too frightened of Slappy now. There 
was no way I could do my show. 

I saw Margo hurrying over to me. But I turned and ran out the door. 

I had never been so upset. I didn’t know what to do. A light rain had started 
to come down. I watched rainwater flow down the curb and into the sewer drain. 
I wanted to flow away with it. 

Now I threw myself onto my bed. 

I kept picturing little Alicia, screaming and crying, trying to twist out of 
Slappy’s grasp. 

Mom knocked hard on my bedroom door. “Amy? Amy—what are you 



doing? What’s wrong?” 

“Go away!” I wailed. “Just go away.” 

But she opened the door and stepped into the room. Sara came in behind 
her, a confused expression on her face. 

“Amy—the show didn’t go well?” Mom asked softly. 

“Go away!” I sobbed. “Please!” 

“Amy, you’ll do better next time,” Sara said, stepping up to the bed. She put 
a hand on my trembling shoulder. 

“Shut up!” I cried. “Shut up, Miss Perfect!” 

I didn’t mean to sound so angry. I was out of control. 

Sara stepped back, hurt. 

“Tell us what happened,” Mom insisted. “You’ll feel better if you tell us.” 

I pulled myself up until I was sitting on the edge of the bed. I wiped my 
eyes and brushed my wet hair off my face. 

And then, suddenly, the whole story burst out of me. 

I told how Slappy grabbed Alicia’s hand and wouldn’t let go. And how all 
the kids were crying. And the parents were all screaming and making a fuss. And 
how I had to leave without doing my act. 

And then I leaped to my feet, threw my arms around my mom, and started 
to sob again. 

She petted my hair, the way she used to do when I was a little girl. She kept 
whispering, “Ssshh shhhh shhhh.” 

Slowly, I began to calm down. 

“This is so weird,” Sara murmured, shaking her head. 

“I’m a little worried about you,” Mom said, holding my hands. “The little 
girl got her hand caught. That’s all. You don’t really believe that the dummy 
grabbed her hand—do you?” 

Mom stared at me hard, studying me. 

She thinks I’m crazy, I realized. She thinks I’m totally messed up. 

She doesn’t believe me. 

I decided I’d better not insist that my story was true. I shook my head. 
“Yeah. I guess her hand got caught,” I said, lowering my eyes to the floor. 

“Maybe you should put Slappy away for a while,” Mom suggested, biting 
her bottom lip. 

“Yeah. You’re right,” I agreed. I pointed. “I already put him in the closet.” 

“Good idea,” Mom replied. “Leave him in there for a while. I think you’ve 



been spending too much time with that dummy.” 

“Yeah. You need a new hobby,” Sara chimed in. 

“It wasn’t a hobby!” I snapped. 

“Well, leave him in the closet for a few days—okay, Amy?” Mom said. 

I nodded. “I never want to see him again,” I muttered. 

I thought I heard a sigh from inside the closet. But, of course, that was my 
imagination. 

“Get yourself cleaned up,” Mom instructed. “Wash your face. Then come to 
the kitchen and I’ll make you a snack.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

Sara followed Mom out the door. “Weird,” I heard Sara mutter. “Amy is 
getting so weird.” 

Margo called after dinner. She said she felt terrible about what had happened. 
She said her dad didn’t blame me. “He wants to give you another chance,” 
Margo told me. “Maybe with older kids.” 

“Thanks,” I replied. “But I put Slappy away for a while. I don’t know if I 
want to be a ventriloquist anymore.” 

“At the party today—what happened?” Margo asked. “What went wrong?” 
“I don’t really know,” I said. “I don’t really know.” 

That night, I went to bed early. Before I turned out the light, I glanced at the 
closet door. It was closed tightly. 

Having Slappy shut up in the closet made me feel safer. 

I fell asleep quickly. I slept a deep, dreamless sleep. 

When I awoke the next morning, I sat up and rubbed my eyes. 

Then I heard Sara’s angry screams down the hall. 

“Mom! Dad! Mom! Hurry!” Sara was shouting. “Come see what Amy did 
now!” 



13 


I shut my eyes, listening to my sister’s screams. 

What now? I thought with a shudder. What now? 

“Ohh!” I let out a low cry when I saw that my closet door was open a crack. 
My heart pounding, I climbed out of bed and began running down the hall 
to Sara’s room. Mom, Dad, and Jed were already on their way. 

“Mom! Dad! Look what she did!” Sara screamed. 

“Oh, no!” I heard Mom and Dad shriek. 

I stopped in the doorway, peered in—and gasped. 

Sara’s bedroom walls! They were smeared with red paint! 

Someone had taken a thick paintbrush and had scrawled AMY AMY AMY 
AMY in huge red letters all over Sara’s walls. 

“Noooo!” I moaned. I covered my mouth with both hands to stop the sound. 
My eyes darted from wall to wall, reading my name over and over. 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

Why my name? 

I suddenly felt sick. I swallowed hard, trying to force back my nausea. 

I blinked several times, trying to blink the ugly red scrawls away. 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

“Why?” Sara asked me in a trembling voice. She adjusted her nightshirt and 
leaned against her dresser. “Why, Amy?” 

I suddenly realized that everyone was staring at me. 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. 

“Amy, this cannot continue,” Dad said solemnly. His expression wasn’t 
angry. It was sad. 

“We’ll get you some help, dear,” Mom said. She had tears in her eyes. Her 
chin trembled. 

Jed stood silently with his arms crossed in front of his pajama shirt. 

“Why, Amy?” Sara demanded again. 

“But—I didn’t!” I finally choked out. 

“Amy—no stories,” Mom said softly. 

“But, Mom—I didn’t do it!” I insisted shrilly. 



“This is serious,” Dad murmured, rubbing his whiskery chin. “Amy, do you 
realize how serious this is?” 

Jed reached out two fingers and rubbed them over one of the red paint 
scrawls. “Dry,” he reported. 

“That means it was done early in the night,” Dad said, his eyes locked on 
me. “Do you realize how bad this is? This isn’t just mischief.” 

I took a deep breath. My whole body was shaking. “Slappy did it!” I blurted 
out. “I’m not crazy, Dad! I’m not! You’ve got to believe me! Slappy did it!” 
“Amy, please—” Mom said softly. 

“Come with me!” I cried. “I’ll prove it. I’ll prove that Slappy did it. Come 

on!” 

I didn’t wait for them to reply. I turned and bolted from the room. 

I flew down the hall. They all followed silently behind me. 

“Is Amy sick or something?” I heard Jed ask my parents. 

I didn’t hear the answer. 

I burst into my room. They hurried close behind. 

I stepped up to the closet and pulled the door open. 

“See?” I cried, pointing to Slappy. “See? That proves it! Slappy did it!” 



14 


I pointed triumphantly at Slappy. “See? See?” 

The dummy sat crossed-legged on the closet floor. His head stood erect on 
his narrow shoulders. He appeared to grin up at us. 

Slappy’s left hand rested on the closet floor. His right hand was in his lap. 

And in his right hand he clutched a fat paintbrush. 

The bristles on the brush were caked with red paint. 

“I told you Slappy did it!” I cried, stepping back so the others could get a 
better view. 

But everyone remained silent. Mom and Dad frowned and shook their 
heads. 

Jed’s giggle broke the silence. “This is dumb,” he told Sara. 

Sara lowered her eyes and didn’t reply. 

“Oh, Amy,” Mom said, sighing. “Did you really think you could blame it 
on the dummy by putting the paintbrush in his hand?” 

“Huh?” I cried. I didn’t understand what Mom was saying. 

“Did you really expect us to believe this?” Dad asked softly. His eyes stared 
hard into mine. 

“Did you think you could put the brush into Slappy’s hand, and make us 
think he painted your name on Sara’s walls?” 

“But I didn’t /” I shrieked. 

“When did he learn how to spell?” Jed chimed in. 

“Be quiet, Jed,” Dad said sharply. “This is serious. It isn’t a joke.” 

“Sara, take Jed out of here,” Mom instructed. “The two of you go to the 
kitchen and get breakfast started.” 

Sara began to guide Jed to the door. But he pulled away. “I want to stay!” 
he cried. “I want to see how you punish Amy.” 

“Get!” Mom cried, shooing him away with both hands. 

Sara tugged him out of the room. 

I was shaking all over. I narrowed my eyes at Slappy. Had his grin grown 
even wider? 

I stared at the paintbrush in his hand. The red paint on the bristles blurred, 



blurred until I saw only red. 

I blinked several times and turned back to my parents. “You really don’t 
believe me?” I asked softly, my voice trembling. 

They shook their heads. “How can we believe you, dear?” Mom replied. 

“We can’t believe that a wooden dummy has been doing these horrible 
things in Sara’s room,” Dad added. “Why don’t you tell us the truth, Amy?” 

“But I am!” I protested. 

How could I prove it to them? How? 

I let out an angry cry and slammed the closet door shut. 

“Let’s try to calm down,” Mom urged quietly. “Let’s all get dressed and 
have some breakfast. We can talk about this when we’re feeling better.” 

“Good idea,” Dad replied, still squinting at me through his glasses. He was 
studying me as if he’d never seen me before. 

He scratched his bald head. “Guess I’ll have to call a painter for Sara’s 
room. It’ll take at least two coats to cover up the red.” 

They turned and made their way slowly from my room, talking about how 
much it was going to cost to have my sister’s room painted. 

I stood in the center of the room and shut my eyes. Every time I closed 
them, I saw red. All over Sara’s wall: 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried out loud. 

My heart pounding, I spun around. I grabbed the knob and jerked open the 
closet door. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders of his gray jacket and pulled him up from 
the floor. 

The paintbrush fell from his hand. It landed with a thud beside my bare 

foot. 

I shook the dummy angrily. Shook him so hard that his arms and legs 
swung back and forth, and his head snapped back. 

Then I lifted him so that we were eye to eye. 

“Admit it!” I screamed, glaring into his grinning face. “Go ahead! Admit 
that you did it! Tell me that you did it!” 

The glassy blue eyes gazed up at me. 

Lifelessly. 

Blankly. 

Neither of us moved. 



And then, to my horror, the wooden lips parted. The red mouth slowly 
opened. 

And Slappy let out a soft, evil, “Hee hee hee. ” 



15 


“I can’t come over,” I told Margo glumly. I was sprawled on top of my bed, the 
phone pressed against my ear. “I’m not allowed out of my room all day.” 

“Huh? Why?” Margo demanded. 

I sighed. “If I told you, Margo, you wouldn’t believe me.” 

“Try me,” she replied. 

I decided not to tell her. I mean, my whole family thought I was crazy. Why 
should my best friend think it, too? 

“Maybe I’ll tell you about it when I see you,” I said. 

Silence at the other end. 

Then Margo uttered, “Wow.” 

“Wow? What does wow mean?” I cried. 

“Wow. It must be pretty bad if you can’t talk about it, Amy.” 

“It—it’s just weird,” I stammered. “Can we change the subject?” 

Another silence. “Daddy has a birthday party for six-year-olds coming up, 
Amy. And he wondered—” 

“No. Sorry,” I broke in quickly. “I put Slappy away.” 

“Excuse me?” Margo reacted with surprise. 

“I put the dummy away,” I told her. “I’m finished with that. I’m not going 
to be a ventriloquist anymore.” 

“But, Amy—” Margo protested. “You loved playing with those dummies. 
And you said you wanted to make some money, remember? So Daddy—” 

“No,” I repeated firmly. “I changed my mind, Margo. I’m sorry. Tell your 
dad I’m sorry. I—I’ll tell you about it when I see you.” 

I swallowed hard. And added: “If l ever see you.” 

“You sound terrible,” Margo replied softly. “Should I come over to your 
house? I think I could get my dad to drop me off.” 

“I’m totally grounded,” I said unhappily. “No visitors.” 

I heard footsteps in the hall. Probably Mom or Dad checking up on me. I 
wasn’t allowed to be on the phone, either. 

“Got to go. Bye, Margo,” I whispered. I hung up the phone. 

Mom knocked on my bedroom door. I recognized her knock. “Amy, want to 



talk?” she called in. 

“Not really,” I replied glumly. 

“As soon as you tell the truth, you can come out,” Mom said. 

“I know,” I muttered. 

“Why don’t you just tell the truth now? It’s such a beautiful day,” Mom 
called in. “Don’t waste the whole day in your room.” 

“I—I don’t feel like talking now,” I told her. 

She didn’t say anything else. But I could hear her standing out there. Finally 
I heard her footsteps padding back down the hall. 

I grabbed my pillow and buried my face in it. 

I wanted to shut out the world. And think. 

Think. Think. Think. 

I wasn’t going to confess to a crime I didn’t do. No way. 

I was going to find a way to prove to them that Slappy was the culprit. And 
I was going to prove to them that I wasn’t crazy. 

I had to show them that Slappy wasn’t an ordinary dummy. 

He was alive. And he was evil. 

But how could I prove it? 

I climbed to my feet and began pacing back and forth. I stopped at the 
window and gazed out at the front yard. 

It was a beautiful spring day. Bright yellow tulips bobbed in the flower 
patch in front of my window. The sky was a solid blue. The twin maple trees in 
the center of the yard were starting to unfurl fresh leaves. 

I took a deep breath. The air smelled so fresh and sweet. 

I saw Jed and a couple of his friends. They were Rollerblading down the 
sidewalk. Laughing. Having a good time. 

And I was a prisoner. A prisoner in my room. 

All because of Slappy. 

I spun away from the window and stared at the closet door. I had shoved 
Slappy into the back of the closet and shut the door tightly. 

I’m going to catch you in the act, Slappy, I decided. 

That’s how I’m going to prove I’m not crazy. 

I’m going to stay up all night. I’m going to stay up every night. And the 
first time you creep out of that closet, I’ll be awake. And I’ll follow you. 

And I’ll make sure that everyone sees what you are doing. 

I’ll make sure that everyone sees that you are the evil one in this house. 



I felt so upset. I knew I wasn’t really thinking clearly. 

But having a plan made me feel a little better. 

Taking one last glance at the closet door, I crossed the room to my desk and 
started to do my homework. 


* * * 


Mom and Dad let me come out for dinner. 

Dad had grilled hamburgers in the backyard, the first barbecue of spring. I 
loved grilled hamburgers, especially when they’re charred real black. But I could 
barely taste my food. 

I guess I felt too excited and nervous about trapping Slappy. 

No one talked much. 

Mom kept chattering to Dad about the vegetable garden and what she 
wanted to plant. Sara talked a little about the mural she had started to paint in her 
room. Jed kept complaining about how he wrecked his knee Rollerblading. 

No one spoke to me. They kept glancing over the table at me. Studying me 
like I was some kind of zoo animal. 

I asked to be excused before dessert. 

I usually stay up till ten. But a little after nine, I decided to go to bed. 

I was wide awake. Eager to trap Slappy. 

I turned out the light and tucked myself in. Then I lay staring up at the 
shifting shadows on the bedroom ceiling, waiting, waiting... 

Waiting for Slappy to come creeping out of the closet. 

I must have fallen asleep. 

I tried not to. But I must have drifted off anyway. 

I was startled awake by sounds in the room. 

I raised my head, instantly alert. And listened. 

The scrape of feet on my carpet. A soft rustling. 

A shiver of fear ran down my back. I felt goose-bumps up and down my 
arms. 

Another low sound. So near my bed. 

I reached forward quickly. Clicked on the bed table lamp. 

And cried out. 



16 


“Jed—what are you doing in here?” I shrieked. 

He stood blinking at me in the center of the room. One leg of his blue 
pajama pants had rolled up. His red hair was matted against one side of his head. 

“What are you doing in my room?” I demanded breathlessly. 

He squinted at me. “Huh? Why are you yelling at me? You called me, 
Amy.” 

“I—I what?” I sputtered. 

“You called me. I heard you.” He rubbed his eyes with his fingers and 
yawned. “I was asleep. You woke me up.” 

I lowered my feet to the floor and stood up. My legs felt shaky and weak. 
Jed had really scared me. 

“I was asleep, too,” I told him. “I didn’t call you.” 

“Yes, you did,” he insisted. “You told me to come to your room.” He bent to 
pull down the pajama leg. 

“Jed, you just woke me up,” I replied. “So how could I call you?” 

He scratched his hair. He yawned again. “You mean I dreamed it?” 

I studied his face. “Jed—did you sneak into my room to play some kind of 
prank?” I demanded sternly. 

He wrinkled his face up, tried to appear innocent. 

“Did you?” I demanded. “Were you going into the closet to do something 
with Slappy?” 

“No way!” he protested. He started to back out of the room. “I’m telling the 
truth, Amy. I thought you called me. That’s all.” 

I squinted hard at him, trying to decide if he was telling the truth. I let my 
eyes wander around the room. Everything seemed okay. Dennis lay in the 
armchair, his head in his lap. 

The closet door remained closed. 

“It was a dream, that’s all,” Jed repeated. “Good night, Amy.” 

I said good night. “Sorry I got upset, Jed. It’s been a bad day.” 

I listened to him pad back to his room. 

The cat poked his head into my room, his eyes gleaming like gold. “Go to 



sleep, George,” I whispered. “You go to sleep, too, okay?” He obediently turned 
and disappeared. 

I clicked off the bed table lamp and settled back into bed. 

Jed was telling the truth, I decided. He seemed as confused as I was. 

My eyes suddenly felt heavy. As if there were hundred-pound weights over 
them. I let out a loud yawn. 

I felt so sleepy. And the pillow felt so soft and warm. 

But I couldn’t let myself fall back to sleep. 

I had to stay awake. Had to wait for Slappy to make his move. 

Did I drift back to sleep? I’m not sure. 

Aloud click made my eyes shoot open wide. 

I raised my head in time to see the closet door start to open. 

The room lay in darkness. No light washed in from the window. The door 
was a black shadow, sliding slowly, slowly. 

My heart began to pound. My mouth suddenly felt dry as cotton. 

The closet door slid slowly, silently. 

A low creak. 

And then a shadow stepped out from behind the dark door. 

I squinted hard at it. Not moving a muscle. 

Another creak of the door. 

The figure took another silent step. Out of the closet. Another step. Another. 
Making its way past my bed, to the bedroom door. 

Slappy. 

Yes! 

Even in the night blackness I could see his large, rounded head. I watched 
his skinny arms dangle at his sides, the wooden hands bobbing as he moved. 

The heavy leather shoes slid over my carpet. The thin, boneless legs nearly 
collapsed with each shuffling step. 

Like a scarecrow, I thought, gripped with horror. 

He walks like a scarecrow. Because he has no bones. No bones at all. 

Up and down, his whole body bobbed as he crept away. 

I waited until he slithered and scraped out the door and into the hall. Then I 
jumped to my feet. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I tiptoed through the darkness after him. 



Here we go! I told myself. Here we go! 



17 


I stopped at the bedroom door and poked my head into the hall. Mom keeps a 
small night-light on all night just outside her bedroom door. It cast dim yellow 
light over the other end of the hall. 

Peering into the light, I watched Slappy pull himself silently toward Sara’s 
room. The big shoes shuffled along the carpet. Slappy’s body bobbed and bent. 
The big, wooden hands nearly dragged along the floor. 

When my chest started to ache, I realized I hadn’t taken a breath. As 
silently as I could, I let out a long whoosh of air. Then I took another deep breath 
and started to follow Slappy down the hall. 

I had a sudden impulse to shout: “Mom! Dad!” 

They would burst out of their room and see Slappy standing there in the 
middle of the hall. 

But, no. 

I didn’t want to shout for them now. I wanted to see where Slappy was 
heading. I wanted to see what he planned to do. 

I took a step. The floorboard creaked under my bare foot. 

Did he hear me? 

I pressed my back against the wall, tried to squeeze myself flat in the deep 
shadows. 

I peered through the dim yellow light at him. He kept bobbing silently 
along. His shoulders rode up and down with each shuffling step. 

He was just outside Sara’s room when he turned around. 

My heart stopped. 

I ducked low. Dropped back into the bathroom. 

Had he seen me? 

Had he turned around because he knew I was there? 

I shut my eyes. Waited. Listened. 

Listened for him to come scraping back. Listened for him to turn around 
and come back to get me. 

Silence. 

I swallowed hard. My mouth felt so dry. My legs were trembling. I grabbed 
the tile wall to steady myself. 



Still silent out there. 

I gathered up my courage and slowly, slowly poked my head out into the 

hall. 

Empty. 

I squinted toward Sara’s room in the yellow light. 

No one there. 

He’s in Sara’s room, I told myself. He’s doing something terrible in Sara’s 
room. Something I’ll be blamed for. 

Not this time, Slappy! I silently vowed. 

This time you’re going to be caught. 

Pressing against the wall, I crept down the hall. 

I stopped in Sara’s doorway. 

The night-light was plugged in across from Sara’s room. The light was 
brighter here. 

I squinted into her bedroom. I could see the mural she had started to paint. 
A beach scene. The ocean. A broad, yellow beach. Kites flying over the beach. 
Kids building a sand castle in one corner. The mural was tacked up, nearly 
covering the entire wall. 

Where was Slappy? 

I took a step into the room—and saw him. 

Standing at her paint table. 

I saw his big wooden hand fumble over the table of supplies. Then he 
grabbed a paintbrush in one hand. 

He raised and lowered the brush, as if pretending to paint the air. 

Then I saw him dip the paintbrush in a jar of paint. 

Slappy took a step toward the mural. Then another step. 

He stood for a moment, admiring the mural. 

He raised the paintbrush high. 

That’s when I burst into the room. 

I dove toward the dummy just as he raised the paintbrush to the mural. 

I grabbed the paintbrush with one hand. Wrapped my other hand around his 
waist. And tugged him back. 

The dummy kicked both legs and tried to punch me with his fists. 

“Hey—!” a startled voice shouted. 

The light clicked on. 

Slappy went limp on my arm. His head dropped. His arms and legs dangled 



to the floor. 

Sitting up in bed, Sara gaped at me in horror. 

I saw her eyes stop at the paintbrush in my hand. 

“Amy—what are you doing?” she cried. 

And, then, without waiting for an answer, Sara began to shout: “Mom! Dad! 
Hurry! She’s in here again!” 



18 


Dad came rumbling in first, adjusting his pajama pants. “What’s going on? 
What’s the problem?” 

Mom followed right behind him, blinking and yawning. 

“I—I took this from Slappy,” I stammered, holding up the paintbrush. “He 
—he was going to ruin the mural.” 

They stared at the paintbrush in my hand. 

“I heard Slappy sneak out of the closet,” I explained breathlessly. “I 
followed him into Sara’s room. I grabbed him just before—before he did 
something terrible.” 

I turned to Sara. “You saw Slappy—right? You saw him?” 

“Yeah,” Sara said, still in bed, her arms crossed over her chest. “I see 
Slappy. You’re carrying him on your arm.” 

The dummy hung over my arm, its head nearly hitting the floor. 

“No!” I cried to Sara. “You saw him sneak into your room—right? That’s 
why you turned on the light?” 

Sara rolled her eyes. “I saw you come into my room,” she replied. “You’re 
carrying the dummy, Amy. You’re holding the dummy—and the brush.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

My eyes darted from face to face. They ah stared back at me as if I had just 
landed on Earth in a flying saucer. 

No one in my family was going to believe me. No one. 

The next morning, Mom hung up the phone as I came down for breakfast. 
“You’re wearing shorts to school?” she asked, eyeing my outfit—olive-green 
shorts and a red, sleeveless T-shirt. 

“The radio said it’s going to be hot,” I replied. 

Jed and Sara were already at the table. They glanced up from their cereal 
bowls, but didn’t say anything. 

I poured myself a glass of grape juice. I’m the only one in my family who 
doesn’t like orange juice. I guess I am totally weird. 

“Who were you talking to on the phone?” I asked Mom. I took a long drink. 

“Uh... Dr. Palmer’s secretary,” she replied hesitantly. “You have purple 



above your lip,” she told me, pointing. 

I wiped the grape juice off with a napkin. “Dr. Palmer? Isn’t she a shrink?” 
I asked. 

Mom nodded. “I tried to get an appointment for today. But she can’t see 
you until Wednesday.” 

“But, Mom—!” I protested. 

Mom placed a finger over her mouth. “Sssshhh. No discussion.” 

“But, Mom—!” I repeated. 

“Ssshhh. Just talk to her once, Amy. You might enjoy it. You might think 
it’s helpful.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered. 

I turned to Sara and Jed. They stared down at their cereal bowls. 

I sighed and set the juice glass down in the sink. 

I knew what this meant. It meant that I had until Wednesday to prove to my 
family that I wasn’t a total wack job. 

In the lunchroom at school, Margo begged me to tell her what was going on with 
me. “Why were you locked up in your room all day yesterday?” she demanded. 
“Come on, Amy—spill.” 

“It’s no big deal,” I lied. 

No way I was going to tell her. 

I didn’t need the story going around school that Amy Kramer believes her 
ventriloquist dummy is alive. 

I didn’t need everyone whispering about me and staring at me the way 
everyone in my family did. 

“Dad wants to know if you’ll change your mind about the birthday party,” 
Margo said. “If you want to perform with Slappy, you can—” 

“No. Forget it!” I interrupted. “I put Slappy in the closet, and he’s staying 
there. Forever.” 

Margo’s eyes went wide. “Okay. Okay. Wow. You don’t have to bite my 
head off.” 

“Sorry,” I said quickly. “I’m a little stressed out these days. Here. Want 
this?” I handed her the brownie Mom had packed. 

“Thanks,” Margo replied, surprised. 

“Later,” I said. I crinkled up my lunch bag, tossed it in the trash, and 
hurried away. 



In my room that night, I couldn’t concentrate on my homework. I kept staring at 
the calendar. 

Monday night. I had only two nights to prove that I wasn’t crazy, that 
Slappy really was doing these horrible things. 

I slammed my history book shut. No way I could read about the firing on 
Fort Sumter tonight. 

I paced back and forth for a while. Thinking. Thinking hard. But getting 
nowhere. 

What could I do? 

What? 

After a while, my head felt about to split open. I reached up both hands and 
tugged at my hair. 

“Aaaaagh!” I let out a furious cry. Of anger. Of frustration. 

Maybe I’ll just get rid of Slappy, I decided. 

Maybe I’ll take him outside and toss him in the trash. 

And that will end the whole problem. 

The idea made me feel a little better. 

I turned and took two steps toward the closet. 

But I stopped with a gasp when I saw the doorknob slowly turn. 

As I stared in shock, the closet door swung open. 

Slappy stepped out. 

He slumped forward and stopped a few feet in front of me. 

His blue eyes glared up at me. His grin grew wider. 

“Amy,” he rasped, “it’s time you and I had a little talk.” 



19 


“Amy, now you are my slave,” Slappy said. His threat came out in a harsh, cold 
rasp. The eerie voice made me shiver. 

I stared back at him. I couldn’t reply. 

I gaped into those glassy blue eyes, that red-lipped smirk. 

“You read the ancient words that bring me to life,” the dummy whispered. 
“And now you will serve me. You will do everything I ask.” 

“No!” I finally managed to choke out. “No! Please—!” 

“Yes!” he cried. The grinning wooden head bobbed up and down, nodding. 
“Yes, Amy! You are my slave now! My slave forever!” 

“I w-won’t!” I stammered. “You can’t make me—” My voice caught in my 
throat. My legs wobbled like rubber. My knees buckled, and I nearly fell. 

Slappy raised one hand and grabbed my wrist. I felt the cold, wooden 
fingers tighten around me. 

“You will do as I tell you—from now on,” the dummy whispered. “Or 
else...” 

“Let go of me!” I cried. I struggled to tug my arm free. But his grasp was 
too tight. “Or else what?” I cried. 

“Or else I will destroy your sister’s mural,” Slappy replied. His painted grin 
grew wider. The cold eyes glared into mine. 

“Big deal,” I muttered. “Do you really think I’ll be your slave because you 
wreck her painting? You’ve already wrecked Sara’s room—haven’t you? That 
doesn’t mean I’ll be your slave!” 

“I’ll keep on destroying things,” Slappy replied, tightening his grip on my 
wrist, tugging me down toward him. “Maybe I’ll start wrecking your brother’s 
things, too. And you will be blamed, Amy. You will be blamed for it all.” 

“Stop—” I cried, trying to twist free. 

“Your parents are already worried about you—aren’t they, Amy?” the 
dummy rasped in that harsh, cold whispery voice. “Your parents already think 
you’re crazy!” 

“Stop! Please—!” I pleaded. 

“What do you think they’ll do when you start wrecking everything in the 
house?” Slappy demanded. “What do you think they’ll do to you, Amy?” 



“Listen to me!” I shrieked. “You can’t—” 

He jerked my arm hard. “They’ll send you away!” he rasped, his eyes 
flashing wildly. “That’s what your parents will do. They’ll send you away. And 
you’ll never see them again—except on visiting days!” 

He tilted back his wooden head and uttered a shrill laugh. 

A low moan escaped my throat. My entire body shuddered with terror. 

Slappy tugged me closer. “You will be an excellent slave,” he whispered in 
my ear. “You and I will have many good years together. You will devote your 
life to me.” 

“No!” I cried. “No, I won’t!” 

I sucked in a deep breath. Then I swung my arm hard, as hard as I could. 

I caught the dummy by surprise. 

Before he could let go of my wrist, I pulled him off balance. 

He let out a startled grunt as I lifted him off the floor. 

He’s just a dummy, I told myself. Just a dummy. I can handle him. I can 
beat him. 

His hand fell off my wrist. 

I ducked low. Grabbed his boneless arm with both hands. Swung my 
shoulder. Flipped him over my back. 

He landed hard on his stomach. His head made a loud clonk as it hit the 
floor. 

Breathing hard, my heart thudding wildly, I dove. 

I can handle him. I can beat him. 

I tried to pin him to the floor with my knees. 

But he spun away and scrambled up, faster than I could believe. 

I cried out as he swung his wooden fist. 

I tried to dodge away. But he was too fast. 

The heavy fist hit me square in the forehead. 

My face felt as if it had exploded. Pain shot down my body. 

Everything went bright red. 

And, holding both sides of my head, I crumpled to the floor. 



20 


I can handle him. I can beat him. 

The words repeated in my mind. 

I blinked my eyes. Raised my head. 

I refused to give up. 

Through the haze of red, I reached up with both hands. 

I grabbed Slappy by the waist and pulled him down. 

Ignoring my throbbing forehead, I wrestled him to the ground. He kicked 
both feet and thrashed his arms wildly. He swung at me, trying to land another 
blow. 

But I dug my knee into his middle. Then I wrapped my hands around his 
thrashing arms and pinned them to the floor. 

“Let go, slave!” he squealed. “I command you—let go!” He struggled and 
squirmed. 

But I held tight. 

His eyes darted frantically from side to side. 

His wooden jaw clicked open and shut, open and shut, as he strained to 
squirm free. 

“I command you to let go, slave! You have no choice! You must obey me!” 

I ignored his shrill cries and swung his arms behind his back. Holding them 
tightly in place, I climbed to my feet. 

He tried to kick me with both shoes. But I let go of the arms and grabbed 
his legs. 

I swung him upside down. Once again, his head hit the floor with a clonk. 

It didn’t seem to hurt him a bit. 

“Let go! Let go, slave! You will pay! You will pay dearly for this!” He 
screamed and protested, squirming and swinging his arms. 

Breathing hard, I dragged him across the rug—and swung him into the open 
closet. 

He dove quickly, trying to escape. 

But I slammed the door in his face. And turned the lock. 

With a sigh, I leaned my back against the closet door and struggled to catch 



my breath. 

“Let me out! You can’t keep me in here!” Slappy raged. 

He began pounding on the door. Then he kicked the door. 

“ITl break it down! I really will!” he threatened. He pounded even harder. 
The big wooden hands thudded against the wooden door. 

I turned and saw the door start to give. 

He’s going to break it open! I realized. 

What can I do? What can I do now? I tried to fight back my panic, 
struggled to think clearly. 

Slappy furiously kicked at the door. 

I need help, I decided. 

I bolted into the hall. Mom and Dad had their bedroom door closed, I saw. 
Should I wake them up? 

No. They wouldn’t believe me. 

I’d drag them into my room. Slappy would be slumped lifelessly on the 
closet floor. Mom and Dad would be even more upset about me. 

Sara, I thought. Maybe I can convince Sara. Maybe Sara will listen to me. 

Her door was open. I burst into her bedroom. 

She stood at the mural, brush in hand, dabbing yellow paint on the beach. 

She turned as I ran in, and her face tightened in anger. “Amy—what do you 
want?” she demanded. 

“You—you’ve got to believe me!” I sputtered. “I need your help! It wasn’t 
me who did those horrible things. It really wasn’t, Sara. It was Slappy. Please— 
believe me! It was Slappy!” 

“Yes. I know,” Sara replied calmly. 



21 


“Huh?” My mouth dropped open. I stared at her in surprise. “What did you say?” 

Sara set down the paintbrush. She wiped her hands on her gray smock. 
“Amy—I know it’s Slappy,” she repeated in a whisper. 

“I—I—” I was so stunned, I couldn’t speak. “But, Sara—you—” 

“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry!” she cried with emotion. She rushed forward and 
threw her arms around me. She hugged me tightly. 

I still didn’t believe what she had said. My head was spinning. 

I gently pushed her away. “You knew all this time? You knew it was Slappy 
and not me?” 

Sara nodded. “The other night, I woke up. I heard someone in my room. I 
pretended to be asleep. But I had my eyes open partway.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“I saw Slappy,” Sara confessed, lowering her eyes. “I saw him carrying a 
red paintbrush. I saw him painting AMY AMY AMY AMY all over my walls.” 

“But you didn’t tell Mom and Dad?” I cried. “You made them think it was 
me? And the whole time, you knew the truth?” 

Sara kept her eyes on the floor. Her black hair fell over her face. She 
brushed it back with a quick, nervous sweep of one hand. 

“I—I didn’t want to believe it,” she confessed. “I didn’t want to believe that 
a dummy could walk on its own, that it could be... alive.” 

I glared at her. “And, so—?” 

“So I accused you,” Sara said with a sob. “I guess the truth was just too 
scary. I was too frightened, Amy. I wanted to believe it was you doing those 
horrible things. I wanted to pretend it wasn’t the dummy.” 

“You wanted to get me in trouble,” I accused. “That’s why you did it, Sara. 
That’s why you lied to Mom and Dad. You wanted to get me in trouble.” 

She finally raised her face to me. I saw two tears trailing down her cheeks. 
“Yeah, I guess,” she murmured. 

She wiped the tears off with her hands. Her green eyes locked on mine. “I 
—I guess I’m a little jealous of you,” she said. 

“Huh?” My sister had stunned me again. I squinted at her, trying to make 
sense of her words. “You?” I cried. “You’re jealous of me?” 



She nodded. “Yeah. I guess. Everything is easy for you. You’re so relaxed. 
Everyone likes your sense of humor. It’s not like that for me,” Sara explained. “I 
have to paint to impress people.” 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. 

This had to be the biggest surprise of all. Sara jealous of me? 

Didn’t she know how jealous I was of her? 

I suddenly had a funny feeling in my chest. My eyes brimmed with tears. 
Strong emotion swept over me like an ocean wave. 

I rushed forward and hugged Sara. 

For some reason, we both started laughing. I can’t explain it. We stood there 
in the middle of her room, laughing like lunatics. 

I guess we were just so glad that the truth was out. 

Then Slappy’s painted face flashed back into my mind. And I remembered 
with a chill why I had burst into my sister’s room. 

“You have to help me,” I told her. “Right now.” 

Sara’s smile vanished. “Help you do what?” she demanded. 

“We have to get rid of Slappy,” I told her. “We have to get rid of him for 
good.” 

I tugged her hand. She followed me down the hall. 

“But—how?” she asked. 

Stepping into my room, we both cried out at once. 

We heard a final kick—and the closet door swung open. 

Slappy burst out, his eyes wild with rage. 

“Guess what, slaves?” he rasped. “Slappy wins!” 



22 


“Grab him!” I cried to my sister. 

I reached out both arms and made a frantic dive for the dummy. But he 
scampered to the side and slipped away from my tackle. 

His blue eyes flashed excitedly. His red lips twisted in an ugly grin. 

“Give up, slaves!” he rasped. “You cannot win!” 

Sara held back, hands against the door frame. I could see the fear in her 

eyes. 

I made another grab for Slappy. Missed again. 

“Sara—help me!” I pleaded. 

Sara took a step into the room. 

I leaped at Slappy, grabbed one boneless ankle. 

With a grunt, he pulled out of my grasp. He darted toward the door—and 
ran right into Sara. 

The collision stunned them both. 

Sara staggered back. 

Slappy teetered off balance. 

I threw myself at him, caught his arms, and pulled them behind his back. 

He squirmed and twisted. He kicked out furiously. 

But Sara grabbed both of his big leather shoes. “Tie him in a knot!” she 
cried breathlessly. 

He kicked and thrashed. 

But we held tight. 

I twisted his arms behind him. Twisted them around each other. Twisted. 
Twisted. Then tied them in as tight a knot as I could. 

Slappy squirmed and bucked, grunting loudly, his wooden jaws clicking. 
When I glanced up from my work on the arms, I saw that Sara had wrapped 
his legs in a knot, too. 

Slappy tilted back his head and uttered a roar of rage. His eyes slid up into 
his head so that only the whites showed. “Put me down, slaves! Put me down at 
once!” 

With one hand, I grabbed a wad of tissues from my bed table and jammed it 



into Slappy’s mouth. 

He uttered a grunt of protest, then went silent. 

“Now what?” Sara cried breathlessly. “Where should we put him?” 

My eyes shot around the room. No, I decided. I don’t want him in my room. 
I don’t want him in the house. 

“Outside,” I instructed my sister, holding on to the knotted arms with both 
of my hands. “Let’s get him outside.” 

Struggling to hold on to the bucking legs, Sara glanced at the clock. “It’s 
after eleven. What if Mom and Dad hear us?” 

“I don’t care!” I cried. “Hurry! I want him out of here! I never want to see 
him again!” 

We dragged Slappy out into the hall. Mom and Dad’s door remained closed. 

Good, I thought. They hadn’t heard our struggle. 

Sara carried him by the knotted legs. I held on to the arms. 

Slappy had stopped struggling and squirming. I think he was waiting to see 
what we were going to do with him. The wad of tissues had silenced his cries. 

I didn’t know where to take him. I only knew I wanted him out of the 
house. 

We carried him through the darkened living room and out the front door. 
We stepped into a hot, sticky night, more like summer than spring. A pale sliver 
of a moon hovered low in a blue-black sky. 

There was no breeze. No sounds of any kind. Nothing moved. 

Sara and I carried the dummy to the driveway. “Should we take him 
somewhere on our bikes?” she suggested. 

“How will we balance him?” I asked. “Besides, it’s too dark. Too 
dangerous. Let’s just carry him a few blocks and dump him somewhere.” 

“You mean in a trash can or something?” Sara asked. 

I nodded. “That’s where he belongs. In the trash.” 

Luckily, the dummy didn’t weigh much at all. We made our way to the 
sidewalk, then carried him to the end of the block. 

Slappy remained limp, his eyes rolled up in his head. 

At the corner, I spotted two circles of white light approaching. Car 
headlights. “Quick—!” I whispered to Sara. 

We slipped behind a hedge just in time. The car rolled by without slowing. 

We waited for the glow of red taillights to disappear in the darkness. Then 
we continued down the next block, carrying the dummy between us. 



“Hey—how about those?” Sara asked, pointing with her free hand. 

I squinted to see what she had spotted. A row of metal trash cans lined up at 
the curb in front of a dark house across the street. 

“Looks good,” I said. “Let’s shove him in and clamp down the lid. Maybe 
the trash guys will haul him away tomorrow.” 

I led the way across the street—and then stopped. “Sara—wait,” I 
whispered. “I have a better idea.” 

I dragged the dummy toward the corner. I motioned to the metal drain down 
at the curb. 

“The sewer?” Sara whispered. 

I nodded. “It’s perfect.” Through the narrow opening at the curb, I could 
hear running water far down below. “Come on. Shove him in.” 

Slappy still didn’t move or protest in any way. 

I lowered his head to the drain opening. Then Sara and I pushed him in 
headfirst. 

I heard a splash and a hard thud as he hit the sewer floor. 

We both listened. Silence. Then the soft trickle of water. 

Sara and I grinned at each other. 

We hurried home. I was so happy, I skipped most of the way. 

The next morning, Sara and I came to the kitchen for breakfast together. Mom 
turned from the counter, where she was pouring herself a cup of coffee. 

Jed was already at the table, eating his Frosted Flakes. “What’s he doing 
down here?” Jed asked. 

He pointed across the table. 

At Slappy. Sitting in the chair. 



23 


Sara and I both gasped. 

“Yes. Why is that dummy down here?” Mom asked me. “I found him sitting 
there when I came in this morning. And why is he so dirty? Where has he been, 
Amy?” 

I could barely choke out a word. “I... uh... I guess he fell or something,” I 
finally mumbled. 

“Well, take him back upstairs,” Mom ordered. “He’s supposed to be kept in 
the closet—remember?” 

“Uh... yeah. I remember,” I said, sighing. 

“You’ll have to clean him up later,” Mom said, stirring her coffee. “He 
looks as if he’s been wallowing in the mud.” 

“Okay,” I replied weakly. 

I hoisted Slappy up and slung him over my shoulder. Then I started to my 
room. 

“I—I’ll come with you,” Sara stammered. 

“What for?” Mom demanded. “Sit down, Sara, and eat your breakfast. 
You’re both going to be late.” 

Sara obediently sat down across from Jed. I made my way down the hall. 

I was halfway to my room when Slappy raised his head and whispered in 
my ear, “Good morning, slave. Did you sleep well?” 

I tossed him into the closet and locked the door. I could hear him laughing 
inside the closet. The evil laugh made me shake all over. 

What am I going to do now? I asked myself. What can I do to get rid of this 
creature ? 

The day dragged by. I don’t think I heard a word my teacher said. 

I couldn’t get Slappy’s evil, grinning face out of my mind. His raspy voice 
rattled in my ears. 

I won’t be your slave! I silently vowed. I’ll get you out of my house—out of 
my life—if it’s the last thing I do! 


That night, I lay wide awake in my bed. How could I sleep, knowing that evil 



dummy sat in the closet a few feet away? 

The night was hot and steamy. I had pushed the window open all the way, 
but there was no breeze. A fly buzzed by my head, the first fly of spring. 

Staring up at the twisting shadows on the ceiling, I brushed the fly away 
with one hand. As soon as the buzzing vanished, another sound took its place. 

A click. A low squeak. 

The sound of the closet door opening. 

I raised myself up off the pillow. Squinting into the darkness, I saw Slappy 
creep out of the closet. 

He took a few shuffling steps, his big shoes sliding silently over my carpet. 
He turned. 

Was he coming toward my bed? 

No. 

His head and shoulders bobbed as he pulled himself to the door. Then out 
into the hall. 

He’s going to Sara’s room, I knew. 

But what was he going to do there? Did he plan to pay us back for what we 
did to him last night? 

What new horror was he going to create? 

I lowered my feet to the floor, climbed out of bed, and followed him out 
into the hall. 



24 


My eyes adjusted quickly to the dim yellow light from the night-light at the other 
end of the hall. I watched Slappy slither toward my sister’s room. He moved as 
silently as a shadow. 

I held my breath and kept my back against the wall as I followed behind 
him. When he turned into Sara’s room, I stepped away from the wall and started 
to run. 

I reached the bedroom doorway in time to see Slappy pick up a wide 
paintbrush from Sara’s supply table. He took a step toward the mural on the wall. 

One step. 

And then another small figure leaped out of the darkness. 

The lights flashed on. 

“Dennis!” I cried. 

“Stand back!” Dennis ordered in a high, shrill voice. He lowered his 
wooden head and charged at Slappy. 

Sara sat up in her bed and uttered a frightened cry. 

I could see the stunned expression on Slappy’s face. 

Dennis flew at Slappy. He slammed his head into Slappy’s middle. 

Slappy let out a loud “Oooof!” He staggered back. Fell. 

A loud thud rang through the room as the back of Slappy’s head hit Sara’s 
iron bedpost. 

I raised both hands to my cheeks and gasped as Slappy’s head cracked 
open. 

The wooden head split down the middle. 

I watched the evil face crack apart. The wide, shocked eyes slid in different 
directions. The red lips cracked and fell away. 

The head dropped to the floor in two pieces. And then the body collapsed in 
a heap beside them. 

My hands still pressed against my face, my heart pounding, I took a few 
steps into the room. 

Dennis ran past me, out to the hall. 

But my eyes were locked on the two pieces of Slappy’s head. I stared in 
horror as an enormous white worm crawled out of one of the pieces. The fat 



worm slithered and curled to the wall—and vanished into a crack in the molding. 

Sara climbed out of bed, breathing hard, her face bright red from the 
excitement. 

The closet door swung open. Mom and Dad came bursting out. 

“Girls—are you okay?” Dad cried. 

We nodded. 

“We saw the whole thing!” Mom exclaimed. She threw her arms around 
me. “Amy, I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry. We should have believed you. I’m so sorry 
we didn’t believe you.” 

“We believe you now!” Dad declared, staring down at Slappy’s broken 
head, his crumpled body. “We saw everything!” 

It was all planned. Sara and I had worked it out before dinner. 

Sara convinced Mom and Dad to hide in the closet. Mom and Dad were 
really creeped out by the way I was acting. They were willing to do anything. 

So Sara pretended to go to sleep. Mom and Dad hid in the closet. 

I left the closet door unlocked to make it easier for Slappy to get out. 

I knew Slappy would creep into Sara’s room. I knew Mom and Dad would 
finally see that I’m not crazy. 

And then Jed burst out dressed as Dennis, with Dennis’ head propped up on 
top of his turtleneck sweater. 

We knew that would shock Slappy. We knew it would give us a chance to 
grab him. 

We didn’t know what a great job Jed would do. We didn’t know that Jed 
would actually destroy the evil dummy. We didn’t know that Slappy’s head 
would crack apart. That was just good luck. 

“Hey—where is Jed?” I asked, my eyes searching the room. 

“Jed? Jed?” Mom called. “Where are you? You did a great job!” 

No reply. 

No sign of my brother. 

“Weird,” Sara muttered, shaking her head. 

We all trooped down the hall into Jed’s room. 

We found him in bed, sound asleep. He groggily raised his head from the 
pillow and squinted at us. “What time is it?” he asked sleepily. 

“It’s nearly eleven,” Dad replied. 

“Oh, no!” Jed cried, sitting up. “I’m sorry! I forgot to wake up! I forgot I 
was supposed to dress up like Dennis!” 



I felt a shiver run down my back. I turned to my parents. “Then who fought 
Slappy?” I asked. “Who fought Slappy?” 





THE BARKING GHOST 
Goosebumps - 32 
R.L. Stine 


1 


For the zillionth time that night, I threw the covers off my legs and bolted up 
from the bed. 

I definitely heard something that time. 

And it wasn’t the wind, either. I’m always hearing things. But no matter 
what I hear, Mom says, “It’s just the wind, Cooper. Just the wind.” 

But the wind doesn’t sound like heavy footsteps crunching through the 
leaves. And that’s what I heard this time. Definitely. 

I stood next to my bedroom window. Then I leaned over and peered out. It 
sure was spooky out there. 

I squinted to see better in the dark. Don’t lean over too far, I thought. Don’t 
let whoever or whatever is out there see you. 

My eyes searched the backyard. I lifted my head—and spotted them. A few 
feet away. Huge, black, gnarly arms. Reaching out toward the window. 

Ready to grab me. 

No. It was only the branches of the old oak tree. 

Well, give me a break. I said it was dark out! 

My eyes swept over the yard again. The sound. There it was! 

I ducked. My legs trembled as I crouched beneath the window. I broke out 
into a cold sweat. 

Crunch. Crunch. 

Even louder than before. 

I swallowed hard and took another peek. Something moved in the shadows. 
Under the oak tree. I held my breath. 

Crunch. Crunch, crunch. 

A gust of wind blew the tree branches furiously. 

Crunch, crunch, crunch. 

The frightening sounds grew louder. Closer to the house. 

As I peered out, two eyes suddenly flashed in the dark. My throat went dry. 
I couldn’t cry out. 

The eyes flashed again. They were even closer to the house this time. Right 
outside my window. 



Staring at me. 

Moving toward me. 

The creature’s dark shape began to take form. It was a— 

—bunny rabbit?? 

I let out a long sigh. 

The first night in my new house—and I was already shaking in terror. 

I shuffled into the bathroom for a towel. As I mopped the sweat from my 
forehead, I stared at my reflection in the medicine chest mirror. 

Whenever I’m scared, my freckles really stand out. There they were. 
Millions of them. 

I ran my fingers through my hair. I wear it long. To help cover my big, 
droopy ears. 

I’ve had these huge ears my whole life. Mom keeps telling me not to worry. 
She says I’ll grow into them. But I’m twelve now, and nothing has changed. My 
ears are still huge. Huge and droopy. 

I wear a cap most of the time to help hide them. It’s my favorite cap from 
my favorite baseball team—the Red Sox. So I don’t mind wearing it. 

A bunny rabbit, I mumbled as I stared at myself in the mirror. Scared by a 
bunny rabbit. 

I’d made it through the entire day without being scared once. That’s pretty 
good for me. 

Back where I used to live—in Boston, Massachusetts—my best friends, 
Gary and Todd, always made fun of me. 

“Cooper,” they’d say, “you probably scare yourself on Halloween!” 

They were right. I get scared a lot. Some people just scare easier than 
others. I’m an easy scarer. 

Take last summer at camp. I got lost in the woods on my way to the 
bathroom cabin. What did I do? 

Nothing. I just stood there. 

When the kids from my bunk finally found me, I was shaking all over. 
Practically in tears. Turns out I was standing a few feet from the dining hall the 
whole time. 

So, okay. I admit it. When it comes to bravery, I’m not exactly Indiana 
Jones! 

When my parents announced we were moving from the city into a house in 
the woods, I was a little tense. 



Maybe even scared. 

Scared to leave the apartment I’d lived in my entire life. 

Scared of a house in the woods. 

And then I learned that our new house was deep in the woods, somewhere 
in Maine. Miles from the nearest town. 

The only two scary books I’d ever read took place in Maine. In the woods. 

But I had no choice. We were moving. Mom’s new job landed us in Maine, 
and there was nothing I could do about it. 

I left the bathroom and crept back to my bed. The floorboards creaked and 
cracked with each step. It was going to be hard getting used to that. 

It was also going to be hard getting used to all the other strange noises this 
old house made. The rattling pipes. The scraping shutters. And some weird noise 
that thumped really loudly every hour. 

At dinner, Mom said that the thumping noise was only the house “settling”. 

Whatever that means. 

At least she didn’t say, “It’s just the wind, Cooper.” 

I jumped into bed and pulled the covers up to my chin. Then I fluffed my 
pillows two or three times, trying hard to get comfortable. I felt a little safer in 
bed. 

I love my bed. Mom wanted to trash it when we moved. She said I needed a 
new one. But I said no way. It had taken me years to break this bed in. The 
mattress had just the right amount of lumps, and they were in all the right spots. 

In the dark, I glanced around my new room. It was so weird seeing all my 
things in this strange place. When the movers carried my stuff in here this 
morning, I had them put the furniture exactly the way it was in my old room. 

Across from my bed, my dad built a really cool bookcase for all my snow 
domes. It has a light in it and everything. 

I can’t wait to unpack my snow domes. I have seventy-seven of them from 
all over the world—even Australia and Hong Kong. I guess you could call me a 
snow dome collector. 

Anyway, I was finally beginning to relax, thinking about my snow domes— 
when I heard another noise. 

Not a bunch of little crunches like before—but one long, drawn-out crunch. 

I shot straight up in bed. This time I was sure. One hundred percent sure. 
Someone—or something—was creeping around out there. Right outside my 
window! 



I threw off the covers. Then I dropped to the floor on my hands and knees. 
Moving slowly, I crawled to the window. Then I carefully pulled myself up and 
peered outside. 

What was it? 

A snake? 

I flung open the window. I grabbed a softball from the floor and tossed it at 
the snake. Then I fell back down to my knees and listened. 

Silence. No crunching. No slithering. 

A direct hit. Great! 

I stood and leaned carefully out the window. I was feeling pretty proud of 
myself. After all, I had just saved my family from a deadly— 

—garden hose! 

I let out a disappointed sigh and shook my head. Get a grip, Cooper. 

If Gary and Todd were here, they would never let me hear the end of this. 
They’d be laughing their heads off. 

“Nice going, Coop!” Gary would say. “Saved your family from a poisonous 
garden hose!” 

“Yeah. Super Cooper strikes again!” Todd would say. Back in bed again, I 
fluffed up my pillows one more time. Then I closed my eyes as tightly as I 
could. 

That’s it, I said to myself. I am not getting up again. I don’t care what I hear 

next. 

I will not get up from this bed again. No matter what. 

And then I heard another noise. A different kind of noise. A sound that 
made my heart pound right through my chest. 

Breathing. 

Deep, heavy breathing. 

In my room. 

Under my bed! 



2 


I didn’t move. 

I couldn’t move. 

I stared at the ceiling. Listening. Listening to the raspy breathing under my 

bed. 

Okay, Cooper, I told myself. Calm down. It’s probably your imagination. 
Playing tricks on you again. 

The breathing grew louder. Raspier. 

I covered my ears and shut my eyes tight. 

It’s nothing. It’s nothing. It’s nothing. 

It’s an old house, I thought, still covering my ears. Old houses have to 
breathe—don’t they? 

Or, what was it that Mom said? Settling? Yeah, that’s what it must be. The 
house settling. 

Or maybe it’s the pipes. We had pipes in our apartment in Boston, and they 
made crazy noises all the time. I’ll bet that’s what it is—the pipes. 

I lowered my hands. 

Silence now. No settling. No pipes. No breathing. 

I must be losing my mind. 

If I told Gary and Todd about this one, they’d really laugh their heads off. 
And then the breathing started again. Raspy and wet. Hoarse breathing. 
Like a sick animal. 

I couldn’t just lie there. I had to see what it was. 

I swung my legs out of bed. I took a deep breath. Then I lowered myself to 
the floor. 

Carefully, I lifted the blanket from the bottom of the bed. Then carefully, 
carefully, I lowered my head and peeked under the bed. 

That’s when the hands darted out—and grabbed me. Two strong, cold 
hands. Slowly tightening their grip around my throat. 



3 


I screamed. 

So loudly, I surprised myself. 

My attacker must have been surprised, too. He quickly let go of my neck. I 
clutched my throat and sputtered for air. 

“Cooper, will you keep it down?” a voice whispered. “You’ll wake Mom 
and Dad!” 

Huh? 

Oh, man. 

It was Mickey. My totally obnoxious older brother. 

“Mickey! You jerk!” I cried. “You scared me to death!” 

Mickey slid out from under the bed and wiped some dust off his pajamas. 
“No big challenge,” he muttered. 

“Shut up,” I snapped, rubbing my sore neck. In the mirror I could see where 
Mickey’s hands had grabbed my throat. Dark red blotches circled my neck. 

“Look what you did!” I cried. “You know I bruise easily!” 

“Oh, don’t be such a baby! I got you, man!” Mickey cried, grinning. 

I stared furiously at my idiot brother. I wished I could wipe that grin off his 
face. And not get in trouble for it. 

“You’re a jerk!” was all I could think to say. 

“Grow up!” Mickey shot back. He headed for the door, then turned around. 
“Would Cooper like a little night-light next to his bed?” he asked in a tiny baby 
voice. 

That’s when I lost it. 

I leaped on to his back and pounded his head with my fists. 

“Hey!” he screamed, trying to shake me off. “What do you think you’re 
doing? Get off me!” 

Mickey’s legs buckled under him, and he fell to the floor. I clung to his 
back. I kept pounding him with my fists. 

Mickey is three years older than me, and he’s a lot bigger. But I had him in 
the right position, and landed a few good punches. 

Then he shifted to the right. 



And started pounding me back. Luckily, he got in only one really good 
wallop before Mom and Dad ran in to break it up. 

“Cooper! Mickey! What’s going on in here?” 

“He started it!” I called out, trying to duck Mickey’s fists. 

My father reached down and pulled Mickey off me. “I don’t care who 
started it!” he said angrily. “This is no way to act on the first night in your new 
house. Mickey, get back to your room!” 

“But, Dad, he—” 

“Never mind who started it. This behavior had better stop—now! Because 
if there is a next time, you’ll both start off the new school year grounded!” 

Grumbling, Mickey stomped out of the room. But not before sticking his 
tongue out at me. Mickey was the baby. Not me. 

“Really, Dad, Mickey started it,” I said when he was gone. 

“And you’re totally innocent, right?” my father asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Yes!” I insisted. 

Dad just shook his head. “Go to sleep, Cooper.” 

When my parents left the room, I paced back and forth, rubbing my neck. 

I was so steamed! 

It wasn’t the first time Mickey’s pulled something like this. For as long as I 
can remember, Mickey has played tricks on me, trying to terrify me. 

He usually succeeds, too. 

Once, when Mom and Dad went away for a weekend, he hid a tape recorder 
in my room. It played horrifying screams all night long. 

And another time, he didn’t come to get me after Little League practice. He 
left me standing there, all alone on the playground, while he hid out and watched 
me panic. 

But hiding under my bed tonight was the worst. He has to be one of the 
biggest jerks alive. 

I climbed back into bed and stared up at the ceiling. I had to think of a way 
to get Mickey back. 

What could I do? Hide outside his window and scream? 

Jump out from behind the shower curtain when he’s brushing his teeth? 

No. Too dumb. It would have to be something totally excellent. Something 
so creepy it would scare me. Even though I was the one doing it. 

I watched the spooky shadows move along my walls and ceiling. And 
listened to the frightening noises of my new house—noises I would have to hear 



for the rest of my life. 

The pipes rattling. The dogs barking. 

Wait a minute. 

Dogs? 

I sat up. We don’t have a dog. And there isn’t another house around here for 
miles. 

But I definitely heard a barking dog. 

I listened closely. The dog barked again. Then started to howl. 

I sighed and pulled off the covers again. I started to climb out of bed. Then 
it hit me. 

Mickey! 

This had to be another one of my brother’s stupid tricks. He was an 
excellent dog-barker. He practiced it all the time. 

Smiling, I settled back on my pillow. I wouldn’t get up. I wouldn’t go to the 
window. 

He wasn’t going to get me this time. No way. 

I lay there listening to Mickey make a fool of himself. Howling and barking 
like a big old dog. 

What a jerk. 

Then, suddenly, I sat up again. Whoa. I heard two dogs howling now. 

Even Mickey couldn’t pull that off. 

The howling turned to piercing cries. So close. Right under my window. 

As I said, I made it through a whole day without being scared. But, boy, 
was I making up for it tonight! 

For the zillionth and third time, I slowly crept to the window. I could hear 
them clearly. Two dogs. Wailing and howling. 

For the zillionth and third time, I gazed out the window. 

But for the first time, I couldn’t believe what I saw. 



4 


I didn’t see anything. 

Nothing at all. No dogs. Not one. 

I squinted into the yard. Empty. 

How could they have vanished so quickly? 

I stood at the window for a few more seconds, but no dogs appeared. 

I shivered. I’ll never sleep again, I thought. Not as long as I have to live 

here. 

I crept back to bed. I pulled the covers up to my chin. And counted the 
green and blue squigglies on the wallpaper by my head. 

I guess I finally fell asleep. When I opened my eyes, light streamed in 
through my window. 

Yawning, I glanced at the clock. Six-thirty. I’m usually an early bird. I like 
to start my day as soon as possible. 

I leaped out of bed and checked the yard. It didn’t seem half as scary in the 
morning light. 

I smiled when I noticed the jungle gym in the far corner. The last owners of 
the house built it. It had a slide and really high monkey bars. Yesterday, Dad 
hung a rope and tire from one of its beams, so now it had a swing, too. 

Behind the jungle gym, the woods stretched all around. Woods thick with 
all different kinds of trees and shrubs and weeds. The woods surrounded our 
house on three sides. It seemed to go on forever. 

I changed quickly, pulling a clean Red Sox T-shirt over my jeans. Grabbing 
my baseball cap, I flew through the house and ran outside. 

A great summer day! Sunny and warm. If I were back home in Boston, I 
would hop on my bike and ride over to Gary’s or Todd’s house. Then we would 
spend the day outdoors, playing softball at the playground. Or just messing 
around. 

But I’m not in Boston anymore. Better get used to that, I told myself. 

I hoped some cool kids lived in this neighborhood. When we drove up to 
our house yesterday, I didn’t see any other houses around. I guessed I’d have to 
spend the next few days alone—until school started next week. 

I wandered over to the jungle gym. I swung on the tire swing for a little 



while. Back and forth. Back and forth. Staring at my bedroom window from the 
outside. Back and forth. Back and forth. Remembering last night. 

Remembering just how brave Super Cooper had been. Yuck! 

Back and forth. Back and forth. 

Remembering the dogs. 

Hey. That’s weird, I thought. Those dogs I heard should have left paw prints 
all over the yard. But I couldn’t see a single one. 

I hopped off the swing and searched the ground all around the house. No 
sign of any dogs. 

That’s funny. I knew there were dogs out here last night. 

I glanced up at the edge of the woods. Maybe those dogs were lost, I 
thought. Maybe they came to the house last night searching for help. 

Maybe I should go track them down. 

I bit my lower lip. A kid could lose his way—forever—in those woods, I 
thought nervously. 

Well, I’m going in, I decided. Today is the first day of the new me. Super 
Cooper—for real. I wanted to find those dogs. To prove to myself that I wasn’t 
going crazy. 

Who knows? If I find the dogs, maybe Dad will let me keep one, I decided. 
It might be fun to have a dog. 

I’d always wanted a puppy. But Mom said the fur made her sneeze. Maybe 
she’d change her mind. 

I took one long, deep breath. Then I stepped into the woods. I saw some 
amazing trees. I saw beautiful old birch trees with smooth, white trunks. And I 
saw sassafras and maple trees. Their trunks were gnarled and thick. 

They could be over a hundred years old, I thought. Awesome. 

Maybe Dad can build a tree house back here, I told myself excitedly. That 
would be so cool. Then when Gary and Todd came to visit, we could hang out in 
it. 

I kept my eyes on the ground as I walked, searching for any sign of dogs. 

Nothing. No prints. No broken branches. 

How weird. I definitely heard dogs last night. 

Or maybe I just thought I’d heard those dogs. It was kind of late, and I was 
pretty sleepy. Maybe it was my imagination. 

Or maybe it was Mickey after all. 

Maybe he tape-recorded another dog and barked along with it. 



He would do something like that. 

He’s that sneaky. 

I really had to pay him back. Something way creepy. Maybe I could do 
something out here in the woods. 

I made my way through the thick trees and tall weeds, the whole time 
thinking of how to scare Mickey. 

I suddenly realized I hadn’t been paying attention to where I was going. 

I spun around and peered through the thick trunks. 

My house! I couldn’t see it! 

Okay, Cooper, keep cool. You can’t be that far away, I told myself. 

But my palms began to sweat. 

I swallowed hard, then tried to remember which way I’d come. 

Definitely the left. 

No, wait. Maybe right. 

I hung my head and moaned. It’s no use, I thought. 

I’m lost. Hopelessly lost. 



5 


I really didn’t want to cry. 

Who needed Mickey seeing me with wet, red eyes? 

I’d never hear the end of it. 

Besides, today was the first day of the new me. The new Super Cooper. 

I took a really deep breath and tried to calm down. 

I decided to walk a little to my right. If I didn’t see my house, I’d turn and 
double back to the left. 

It was worth a try. 

What did I have to lose? I was lost anyway. 

I turned to the right. I tried to take the straightest path possible. 

The snapping of branches behind me made me spin around. 

No one there. 

It’s just a harmless squirrel or something, I told myself. Just keep going. 

I returned to my straight path again. But with my first step, I heard leaves 
mstling behind me. 

I didn’t turn around. I quickened my pace. 

And I heard it again. 

Twigs snapping. Leaves rustling. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Don’t panic. Don’t panic. “Wh-who’s there?” I 
croaked. 

No answer. 

I turned back. 

Whoa! Which way had I been walking? My head began to spin. I suddenly 
felt dizzy. Too dizzy to remember where I had been. 

Snap. Snap. Crack. Crunch. 

“Who is there?” I called out again. My voice didn’t sound all that steady for 
Super Cooper. 

“Mickey, is that you? This isn’t funny! Mickey?” 

Then I felt something horrible scrape my cheek. Something cold. And 
sharp. 

I couldn’t help it. I started to scream. 



6 


A leaf. A dumb leaf. 

Come on, Cooper! Get a grip! 

I sat down on the ground for a second. I checked my watch. It was almost 
eight. 

Dad would be out in the yard soon. He planned to set up the new barbecue 
grill first thing this morning. I figured I could just wait for the hammering to 
start, then walk in the direction of the noise. 

I’d just sit here. And wait. Wait for the hammering. Good idea, I thought. 

I heard something rustle behind me. 

Just the leaves, I told myself. The dumb leaves. 

I stole a glance up at the trees. I tilted my head way back—and someone 
grabbed my arm. 

I jerked away. Sprang up. Started to run. 

And tripped over my own feet. 

Scrambling up, I gasped in surprise. 

A girl. 

She was about my age and had really long, red hair. It was frizzy, and it 
stuck out in a million directions. She had big green eyes. She wore a bright red 
T-shirt and red shorts. She reminded me of a rag doll Todd’s little sister used to 
carry around. 

“You okay?” she asked, her hands on her waist. 

“Yeah, sure. Fine,” I muttered. 

“Didn’t mean to scare you,” she said. 

“I wasn’t scared,” I lied. 

“Really,” she said. “I would have been scared, too, if someone grabbed me 
like that. I really didn’t mean to.” 

“I told you,” I said sharply, “I wasn’t scared.” 

“Okay. Sorry.” 

“What are you sorry about?” I asked. This had to be the weirdest girl I’d 
ever met. 

“I don’t know,” she replied, shrugging. “I’m just sorry.” 



“Well, you can stop apologizing,” I told her. I brushed the dirt off my 
clothes and picked up my baseball cap. I quickly set it back on my head. To 
cover my ears. 

The girl stared at me. She stood there and stared. Without saying a word. 
Was she staring at my ears? 

“Who are you?” I finally asked. 

“Margaret Ferguson,” she replied. “But people call me Fergie. Like the 
duchess.” 

I didn’t know what duchess she was talking about. But I pretended I did. 

“I live through the woods that way,” she said, pointing behind her. 

“I thought no one lived around here for miles,” I said. 

“Yeah. There are some houses around here, Cooper,” she replied. “They’re 
pretty spread out.” 

“Hey! How did you know my name?” I asked suspiciously. 

Margaret, or Fergie, or whatever her name was, turned beet-red. 

“I, uh, watched you move in yesterday,” she confessed. 

“I didn’t see you,” I replied. 

“That’s because I hid in the woods,” she said. “I heard your father call you 
Cooper. And I know your last name, too. It’s Holmes. I saw it written on all the 
boxes in the moving van. And I know you have a brother, Mickey,” she added. 
“He’s a jerk.” 

I laughed. “You got that right!” I exclaimed. “So how long have you lived 
around here?” 

She didn’t answer. She kept her eyes on the ground. 

“I said, how long have—” 

Suddenly, her head jerked up and she gazed into my eyes. 

“Wh-what’s wrong?” I asked when I saw her frightened face. 

Her face tightened, as if she were in pain. Her lips trembled. 

“Margaret!” I cried. “What? What is it?” 

She opened her mouth, but no words came out. She breathed deeply, 
gulping air. Finally, she clutched my shoulders and shoved her face right up 
close to mine. 

“Dogs,” she whispered. Then she let go of me and darted away. 

I froze for a moment. Then I chased after her. 

She made it to a big tree stump before I caught up. I grabbed hold of the 
back of her T-shirt and spun her around. 



“Margaret, what do you mean ‘dogs’?” I asked. 

“No! No!” she cried. “Just let me go! Let me go!” 

I held her tightly. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” she cried again. 

“Margaret, what did you mean back there?” I repeated. “This is important. 
Why did you say ‘dogs’?” 

“Dogs?” Her eyes grew wide. “I don’t remember saying that.” 

My jaw fell open. “You did!” I insisted. “You looked straight at me and 
said, ‘dogs’! I heard you!” 

She shook her head. “No, I don’t remember that,” she replied thoughtfully. 

Now I’ve met weird kids in my life, but Margaret here takes the cake. She 
almost makes Mickey seem normal. 

Almost. 

“Okay,” I said, trying to sound calm, “here’s what happened. You freaked 
out. Then you grabbed me. Then you said, ‘Dogs’. Then you freaked out again.” 

“Don’t remember,” she replied softly, shaking her head from side to side. 
“Why would I say that?” 

“I don’t know!” I screamed, starting to lose it. “I’m not the one who said 
it!” 

She gazed around in all directions, then focused those green, crazy eyes on 
me. 

“Listen to me, Cooper,” she whispered mysteriously. “Get away from here.” 

“Huh?” 

“I’m warning you, Cooper! Tell your parents they must leave at once!” She 
glanced nervously behind her, then turned back to me. 

“Please—listen to me. Get away from here! As fast as you can!” 



7 


Fergie let go of my shoulders and ran. 

For a few seconds, I stared after her, too shocked to move. Then I decided 
I’d better not let her get away. 

“Fergie!” I called out. “Wait up!” 

For a girl, Fergie ran pretty fast. Actually, most girls I know are fast 
mnners. 

Whoever said they were slower than boys in the first place? It isn’t true. 
Lots of girls in my class last year could beat any guy in a race. 

Anyway, / happen to be a very fast runner. When you’re afraid of 
everything, you learn to run—fast! 

“Fergie!” I called again. “Please! Tell me what’s going on!” But I couldn’t 
catch up. 

Then, to my surprise, she stopped and turned back to me. “Listen, Cooper,” 
she said, calmer than before. “The woods are haunted. Your house is probably 
haunted, too. Go home. Go home and tell your parents to move back to wherever 
you came from.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“It’s too dangerous here,” Fergie warned. “Get away, Cooper. As fast as you 
can!” 

With that, she turned and walked away in the direction of her house. 

I didn’t follow her this time. 

I should have. I totally forgot that I was lost. 

I turned around. My house is probably in the opposite direction, I decided. 

She disappeared through the trees. Fine with me, I thought angrily. It would 
be fine with me if I never saw her again. 

Why did she tell me all that? 

Why did she say the woods were haunted? 

Because it was tme? 

Leave it to my parents to buy a haunted house in haunted woods! 

I continued on, unable to shake the creepy feeling I had. I felt as if a 
hundred eyes were stalking me through the trees. 



I wished Fergie had kept her mouth shut. 

The longer I walked, the more frightened I became. Now I was positive that 
the woods were haunted. Haunted by ghosts tracking every step I made. 

Then, in the distance, I heard a faint banging. It startled me at first. When I 
realized it was Dad working on the grill, I shrieked with joy. 

“All right! I’m almost home!” My plan had worked. 

I followed the hammering sounds. 

Something rustled the branches above my head and made me jump. 

I gazed up. 

Just a bird. 

Staring up at the trees, I nearly fell headfirst into a stream. 

The water lapped quietly against the grassy shore. It reflected the pale blue 
morning sky above it. 

Funny, I hadn’t seen this stream here before. 

I bent down to touch the water. Cold. 

This is awesome! I thought. Areal stream, practically in my own backyard. 
Then I remembered that it wouldn’t be my backyard for long. As soon as I 
told my parents what Fergie had said, we’d pack up and move back to Boston. 

As I dried my hand on my shirt, I had that creepy feeling again. The feeling 
of eyes watching me. My head jerked up, and I gasped. 

There were eyes watching me. 

Four dark eyes glared at me from across the stream. 

The eyes of two enormous black Labradors. 

One dog panted loudly, its tongue hanging out. The other dog flashed its 
teeth at me. Ugly, yellow teeth. 

They both uttered low, menacing growls. 

Not friendly. Not friendly at all. 

Run! I urged myself. Run! 

But my legs wouldn’t budge. 

Growling, the dogs eyed me hungrily. 

Then they attacked. 



8 


Their heavy paws thudded the ground as they came bounding toward me. Their 
eyes glowed with excitement. Their large heads bobbed up and down. 

With a terrified cry, I turned and ran. 

If only I could fly! 

“Helllllp!” Was that me letting out that frightened wail? 

Yes. I think it was. 

Suddenly, I caught a glimpse of light through the trees. Sunlight glistening 
off the jungle gym slide! 

Yes! 

Almost home. 

The two black Labs ran at my heels. I could feel their hot breath on the 
backs of my legs. I felt a pair of sharp teeth scrape my ankle. 

With one last gasp of speed, I burst through the trees and out of the woods. 
“Dad!” I yelled, racing toward my father. 

“Help me!” I shrieked. “The dogs! The dogs!” I threw my arms around his 
waist and held on. 

“Cooper, calm down! What’s gotten into you?” my father asked, grabbing 
me by the shoulders. 

“The dogs!” I wailed, refusing to let go of him. 

“Cooper, what dogs?” Dad demanded. 

I blinked at him in confusion. Didn’t he hear them? Couldn’t he see them? 

I let go of him and pointed toward the woods. 

“Wild dogs. Big, black Labs, I think. They chased me, and—” 

I scanned the yard frantically. Dad and I were alone. 

No barking. 

No snarling. 

The sunlight glistened off the slide. 

The tire swung lazily from its rope. 

The dogs had vanished. 



9 


“Cooper, this is a joke—right?” Dad asked, shaking his head. 

“Huh? No way!” I cried. “They were right behind me. One almost bit me, 
and—” 

“And then they disappeared into thin air!” Dad declared. 

“Come into the woods with me,” I pleaded. “They’ve got to be there.” I ran 
to the edge of the woods, desperately searching for some sign of the dogs. Dad 
followed right behind. 

But there was nothing to see. 

I turned and slunk back to the house. 

Dad didn’t say anything until we were back in the yard. He sat down on the 
jungle gym slide. His eyes studied me. 

“Cooper, tell me what’s wrong,” Dad said in a low voice. I could tell he 
thought I had made all this up. 

“I told you, Dad. Two dogs chased me through the woods. They were 
inches from me! One tried to tear my leg off!” 

Dad continued to stare up at me, his expression thoughtful. 

“Dad, listen,” I pleaded. “We have to move. We can’t live here!” 

He climbed to his feet. “What are you talking about, Cooper?” 

“We have to move back to Boston,” I insisted. “We can’t stay here!” 

“Why not?” Dad asked. 

“It’s this house!” I shouted, my voice cracking. “It’s haunted!” 

“Now, Cooper—” 

“Dad! Listen to me,” I begged. “The woods... this house... they’re all 
haunted. Everybody around here knows it already! We never should have moved 
here!” 

“Cooper, you’re not making any sense,” Dad replied, keeping his voice low 
and calm. “You know, walking in the woods by yourself can be scary. Why don’t 
you come inside and calm down? Mom made a big breakfast. Have some French 
toast. You’ll feel better.” He put his arm around my shoulders. 

Now I really felt upset. My own father didn’t believe me. 

“But, Dad, it’s true!” I insisted. “The woods are haunted, and this weird girl 
I met warned me to move out! She—” 



“Cooper, I know you’re unhappy about the move,” Dad said. “But these 
wild stories aren’t going to change anything. This is where we live now.” 

“But—” 

“When school starts, you’ll make some new friends and everything will be 
fine. So come on in and have breakfast. You’ll feel better. You’ll see.” 

He led me back to the house. 

As Dad held the door open for me, I glanced back and took one last look at 
the woods. 

Two big black dogs stared at me from the trees. 



10 


When I blinked, the dogs vanished. 

Shaking my head, I made my way into the kitchen. 

Mickey had already finished half his breakfast when Dad and I entered the 
room. He leaned over his cereal bowl, snickering about something. I ignored 
him. 

“Cooper, have some French toast,” Mom said. “It’s on your plate, waiting 
for you.” 

I sat across from Mickey, trying hard not to look at his dumb face. I was 
still really steamed at him. 

“Mom, do you know who our neighbors are?” I asked, pouring maple syrup 
over the toast. 

“Why, sure,” Mom answered. “Your father and I met some of them a few 
weeks ago when we came to see the house.” 

“Did you meet the Fergusons?” I asked. 

Mom squinted her eyes, thinking. Then she shook her head. “No, I don’t 
think we met them. We met the Martells. Joel and Shirley. Very nice people.” 
Then she asked, “Who are the Fergusons?” 

I didn’t answer. I pressed on. “Did the Martells tell you our house was 
haunted?” 

Mom laughed. “No, Cooper, they didn’t. It must have slipped their minds,” 
she joked. 

“Ha-ha. It’s nothing to laugh about,” I insisted. “Our house is haunted. And 
so are the woods!” 

“Cooper, what are you talking about?” my mother demanded. 

“Enough, Cooper,” my father warned. “Eat your breakfast.” 

“Yeah,” Mickey said with a snort. “Eat your breakfast, Drooper.” 

I could feel my face turn red. I hated when Mickey called me Drooper. He 
called me that because of my big droopy ears. 

“Shut up, Sickey, ” I replied. 

“Cut it out, you two,” Dad snapped. 

I dug my fork into the French toast. How could they not believe me? Did 
they really think I made this story up? 



I lifted a chunk of toast to my mouth and stuffed it in. 

“Aghhhh!” 

Choking and coughing, I spit the food out on my plate. 

“Gross!” Mickey cried, grinning. “Gross! A guy could lose his appetite 
around here.” 

My eyes teared, and I coughed a few more times. 

“You okay, Cooper?” Mom asked. 

“Somebody dumped salt on my French toast!” I exclaimed angrily. 

Mickey started to laugh. 

That creep. 

My father climbed up from the table. Without saying a word, he stomped 
out of the room. 

That’s how my Dad acts when he’s angry. He gets all quiet, then just walks 
away. Punishments come later. 

I gulped down a glass of milk, trying to wash the salt out of my mouth. 
Mom returned to the stove to make another batch of French toast for me. 

“Mickey,” she said, sighing, “you know that wasn’t funny. Now apologize 
to your brother.” 

“Apologize? But it was just a joke!” Mickey complained. 

“We’re all cracking up,” I muttered bitterly, gulping down a second glass of 
milk. “You’re a real riot.” 

“Apologize!” my mother insisted again. 

Mickey hung his head and stared at the floor. 

I folded my arms across my chest. “I’m waiting!” I sang happily. 

Mickey made an ugly face at me. When Mom turned around, he changed 
his expression to an innocent smile. 

“I’m so sorry, Cooper,” Mickey oozed. “It won’t happen again.” He blinked 
innocently. 

Satisfied, Mom turned back to the stove. 

As soon as she did, Mickey pulled on his ears, trying to stretch them as big 
as mine. 

I’d had it with Mickey. I pushed my chair away from the table and hurried 
out of the room. I didn’t want to get into another fight with my stupid brother 
now. 

I had more important things to do. I had to talk to Dad about the dogs. I had 
to make him believe me. 



Dad sat in his favorite chair, which just didn’t look right in our new living 
room. Even he seemed to notice. He kept shifting uncomfortably. 

“Maybe it’s time for a new chair,” he muttered. 

“Dad, can I talk to you for a second?” I asked. 

“What is it, Cooper?” he asked as he moved Great-grandma’s lamp closer 
to the chair. 

“It’s about the dogs,” I said. 

Dad sighed. “Really, Cooper. Aren’t you making too big a deal about this? 
So what if you saw dogs in the woods? They could belong to anybody!” 

“But they chased me!” I replied, getting all worked up again. “And then 
they disappeared into thin air! And after that girl told me the woods were 
haunted—” 

“What girl?” my dad demanded. 

“She said her name was Margaret Ferguson,” I told him. “She said her 
family lived next door.” 

Dad rubbed his chin. “That’s strange,” he said. “The real estate broker 
never mentioned the Fergusons.” 

“Well, I met her this morning, and she told me everyone around here knows 
that our house is haunted!” 

“Maybe that’s why we got such a good deal on the house,” Dad muttered, 
chuckling. 

I didn’t see what was so funny. 

He stopped laughing and stared at me seriously. “Forget about the dogs for 
now, Cooper. We’ll deal with it if you see them again. In the meantime, I’ll ask 
around in town if anyone knows who owns them. Okay?” 

“But what about the house?” I asked. “Margaret said we should move as 
fast as we can.” 

“French toast is ready!” Mom called out, interrupting me. “Come on, 
Cooper. Before it gets cold.” 

“Go eat,” my father urged. “And please. Not another word about dogs or 
the house being haunted.” 

With a sigh, I headed back to the kitchen. As I stepped through the door, 
Mickey jumped in my face and let out a roar. 

Naturally, it scared me to death. 

“Mom!” I cried. 

“Mickey, enough!” my mother screamed. “Stop teasing Cooper. He’s 



having a hard time adjusting to the new house.” 

“No, I’m not!” I yelled at her. Why wasn’t anybody taking me seriously? 
“This house is haunted. You’ll be sorry you didn’t listen to me. You’ll be sorry!” 

Then I stormed out and stomped off to my room. I collapsed on my bed and 
gazed around. Same old stuff, but the room didn’t feel like my own. 

I stayed in there all day. I didn’t want to see Mickey. I didn’t want to see 
Mom and Dad. And I really didn’t want to see those dogs again. 

By dinnertime, I’d unpacked most of my things. The room felt a little better. 
More like my old bedroom back in Boston. 

After dinner, I lugged all seventy-seven snow domes into the bathroom and 
washed them, one by one. People don’t realize that you have to take care of 
snow domes and keep them clean and filled with water or they’ll dry out. 

When they were all sparkling clean, I arranged them carefully on my new 
bookcase. 

They looked awesome! 

I tried to organize them in some sort of size order, but that didn’t work. 
Instead, I alphabetized them—from Annapolis to Washington, D.C. Of course, I 
placed my absolute favorite dome—a Boston Red Sox snow dome—on the 
middle shelf, front and center. 

I finished at eleven, then got ready for bed. All that unpacking had tired me 

out. 

I had closed my eyes and was just drifting off to sleep when I heard it. 

Loud and clear. 

Barking. 

And growling. 

Outside my window. 

I bolted straight up in bed. 

I waited for my parents and Mickey to come running in. This time, they 
must have heard the dogs, too. 

I waited. And waited. 

The barking grew louder. 

No one else in the house stirred. 

I lowered one foot to the floor, then the other. I stood up, listening hard. 
Listening to the two dogs barking. 

And to my horror, I realized that this time the barking wasn’t outside my 
window. 



This time it was coming from inside my house! 



11 


Frantically, I searched for a weapon. Something to protect me from the barking 
dogs. 

I found my aluminum baseball bat in the closet. I gripped it tightly and 
crept across the room to my bedroom door. 

I pushed it open. And listened. 

Yes. 

The barking was definitely coming from inside the house. From the living 
room, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and slipped into the hallway. Where were my parents? 
Their bedroom is directly over the living room on the second floor. They had to 
hear this. 

Why hadn’t they come running out? 

Mickey’s room was on the first floor down the hall from mine. I peered 
down the hall and saw that his bedroom door was closed. 

What’s his problem? I wondered. Where is everyone? 

I crept quietly down the hall, inching my way to the living room. I could 
hear the dogs racing around in there. 

I gasped when I heard a loud crash. 

Something clattered to the floor. Great-grandma’s lamp, I guessed. 

I stared up at the ceiling—to my parents’ bedroom. Were they deaf or 
something? 

Holding the bat in front of me, I jumped into the living room and snapped 
on the ceiling light. 

The dogs were... 

The dogs were... 

NOT THERE! 

The room stood empty. 

“Huh?” I blinked a few times from the sudden brightness of the light, then 
stared around the room. 

No dogs. 

No growling. No barking. 



But, wait! Great-grandma’s lamp lay on its side on the floor. 

I took a step over to the sofa. Something crunched under my bare feet. 
Potato chips? 

Yes. Potato chips. Scattered across the room. 

I spotted the potato chip bag—ripped to shreds on the floor. 

My heart thumped so hard, I thought it might burst out of my chest. 

As I bent to pick up the torn bag, a shadow fell over me. 

I heard heavy breathing. 

And I felt a gust of hot, smelly breath shoot across my neck. 



12 


“Drooper, what are you doing?” 

I straightened up and spun around. 

“Mickey!” 

“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out,” he replied. 

“Mickey! Did you hear them? Did you?” 

Mickey glanced around the room. “Hear who?” he asked. Then, before I 
could answer, he snapped, “Cooper, you jerk, why did you throw potato chips 
around the living room?” 

“The dogs!” I cried. “The dogs did it! Did you hear them?” 

Mickey shook his head. “No way. I didn’t hear anything.” 

I was stunned. “You didn’t hear wild dogs mnning around the room a few 
minutes ago?” 

Mickey rolled his eyes and whistled. “You’re losing it, Cooper. Hearing 
invisible dogs is one thing. But feeding them potato chips? You’re really messed 
up, man.” 

“I didn’t do this!” I said angrily. “I told you. The dogs did.” 

Mickey shook his head. “Just promise me one thing,” he said seriously. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Promise me when school starts next week, you won’t tell anybody you’re 
related to me.” 

I wanted to throw something at him. I wished I had Great-grandma’s lamp 
in my hand, but I didn’t. So I threw what I did have—the empty potato chip bag. 

It flew about three inches, then dropped at my feet. 

“You’re pathetic!” Mickey laughed. “I know why you’re doing this, too. 
You’re trying to make Mom and Dad think the house is haunted. So then they’ll 
move back to Boston, and you can see your dweeby little friends Gary and Todd 
again.” 

He made a face at me. “Dumb, Drooper. Really dumb.” 

He shuffled away, shaking his head. 

Just you wait, Mickey, I thought. I’m going to get even with you. Just you 

wait. 



And I’m going to make everyone believe me about the dogs. I’m going to 
make everyone believe that I’m telling the truth. 

But how? I wondered, gazing around the empty, silent living room. 

How? 



13 


Sunday morning I woke up early as usual. I had only a few more things to 
unpack, and I knew I could finish before breakfast. 

I unrolled my Red Sox poster and tacked it to the wall, over my bed. Same 
place I’d hung it in Boston. 

Then I rummaged through a box, searching for my lucky pair of red socks. 
As I was slipping them on my feet, I heard the doorbell ring. 

“Cooper!” my mother called to me a few seconds later. “There’s someone 
here to see you!” 

Who could it be? I didn’t know anybody here. 

Then I had a thought. Maybe Gary asked his dad to drive him and Todd up 
to Maine to surprise me! 

Wow! What a great surprise! 

I closed the box and charged out of my room, down the hall, and to the 
front door. I was so excited! 

But no Gary and Todd. 

Fergie stared at me from the front doorway. I could see at first glance that 
she was kind of nervous. She kept shifting her weight from one foot to the other. 
And she twirled a lock of her bright red hair between her fingers. 

“Oh. Hi,” I mumbled, unable to hide my disappointment. 

“I need to talk to you,” she said. “Right away.” 

“Okay, sure,” I replied. 

“Not here,” she said, nudging her head toward the den where my mom and 
dad were reading the newspaper. 

I sighed. “Okay, wait a sec.” I ran back to my room and pulled on a pair of 
sneakers. 

“Let’s go out back,” I suggested. She nodded solemnly and followed me 
outside. 

I swung on the tire and listened to Fergie. “It was all your brother’s idea!” 
she blurted out. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“I don’t know why I agreed to do it, but it was really all his idea. Every bit 
of it.” 



“What was?” I asked. 

“Everything I told you yesterday. About your house. And the woods.” 

“You mean they’re not haunted?” I asked, confused. 

Fergie shook her head. “Of course not.” 

“But why did you tell me they were?” I asked. 

“I told you, it was all Mickey’s idea. I met Mickey the day you moved in,” 
Fergie explained. “He told me it would be funny if I played this trick on you.” 

“He what?” I cried. 

“He told me the two of you always played all kinds of tricks on each other,” 
Fergie replied. “He said you would think it was a riot.” 

“A joke?” I asked. “It was all one of Mickey’s jokes?” I couldn’t believe it. 

Fergie bit her bottom lip and nodded. “Mickey said to tell you the woods 
were haunted. He said to tell you the house was haunted, too.” Fergie sighed. 
“So I did it. But when I saw how scared you were, I felt really bad about it. I 
wished I hadn’t listened to your brother.” 

Mickey. That jerk. 

“But how did you know about the dogs?” I asked. 

Fergie stared blankly at me. “Dogs? What dogs?” 

“That’s the word you whispered to me,” I explained. “Dogs.” 

Fergie twisted her face, thinking hard. “No, I don’t remember saying that. 
Are you sure I said ‘dogs’?” 

I nodded. “Definitely. That was all you said. Dogs. And, then, after you ran 
off, two mean-looking black Fabradors chased me through the woods.” 

“Really?” 

I nodded. “They chased me all the way home. Then they just vanished.” 

“Weird,” Fergie mumbled. 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

“Where did you first see the dogs?” Fergie asked me. 

I pointed into the woods. “Back there. Near a stream.” 

“That’s the stream that leads to the Martells’ house,” Fergie said. “They’re 
friends of my parents. They don’t own any dogs, Cooper.” 

I shrugged, then batted a fly that buzzed in my ear. “Well, someone around 
here must have dogs,” I told her. 

“I’m scared of dogs,” Fergie admitted. “I’m glad I didn’t see them 
yesterday.” 

“They weren’t nice dogs,” I muttered. “You wouldn’t like them.” 



“Hey, did you see a big rock in the shape of an arrowhead when you were 
near the stream?” she asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I didn’t.” 

“It’s really cool,” she gushed. “You should check it out. I go there all the 
time. It’s a great rock for climbing.” 

“Let’s check it out now,” I suggested. I still thought the woods were scary 
—haunted or not. But I didn’t feel like hanging around the house. 

I hopped off the tire and followed Fergie into the woods. I spotted a long, 
thick stick and picked it up. “In case the dogs come back,” I told Fergie. 

We walked a little while until we reached the stream. Fergie searched 
around for her rock. 

“I know it’s here somewhere,” she said, turning to me. “I can never—” 

She stopped short when her eyes met mine. 

“Cooper!” she whispered. “What is it?” 

I stumbled backwards. My hand trembled as I pointed to the trees directly 
behind Fergie. 

“Mar—Margaret!” I whispered in terror. “The dogs! Look out! They’re 
coming! They’re coming right at us!” 



14 


Fergie spun around. She let out a frightened cry. 

“Here they come!” I shrieked. 

Fergie froze in terror. “Oh, no! Help me, Cooper! I told you! I’m afraid of 
dogs!” 

“Run!” I shouted at her. “Run!” 

In a flash, Fergie dashed past me. I’ve never seen anyone run so fast. 

She ran about ten steps. Then her hands flew up as she tripped over a rock. 

She uttered a shrill cry of panic and went sprawling on the ground. 

I had to laugh. “Got you back!” I cried gleefully. 

“Huh?” Fergie lifted her head. 

“I got you back,” I repeated. “For playing that mean trick on me. For 
helping Mickey.” 

I watched as the color slowly returned to Fergie’s face. “You scared me to 
death,” she muttered. “How could you play such a horrible joke?” 

“Easy,” I replied, still grinning. 

Fergie growled at me. “I told you, it wasn’t totally my fault. Your brother 
said you played tricks on each other all the time.” Then she stood up and shook 
her head. “That was mean, Cooper. Really mean.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I know. But now we’re even.” 

Fergie brushed some dirt off her jeans and examined a scrape on her elbow. 
“You know, we should both get back at Mickey,” she said. 

“I’ve been thinking about that all morning,” I told her. “And yesterday, too. 
Mickey’s been playing really mean tricks on me since we moved here. And I 
have to get back at him. But it has to be something totally awesome.” 

We walked along the stream a while longer, trying to figure out how to get 
back at Mickey. Then Fergie found the arrowhead rock. 

She climbed up first, and I followed. It was a big, craggy rock, great for 
climbing. 

We hung out on the rock, thinking up ways to get Mickey back. Fergie 
wanted to drag him deep into the woods blindfolded and leave him stranded. But 
I didn’t think that would scare Mickey one bit. 

I jumped off the rock and began circling it. Sometimes I think better on my 



feet. 


On my third trip around, I got my foot caught in a thick, leafy plant. I 
glanced down—and cried out. “Oh, perfect! I’m standing in poison ivy!” 

Fergie laughed. “It only looks like poison ivy,” she assured me. “My 
science teacher checked it out last year. She told us it’s a harmless weed.” 

I smiled a really evil smile. 

“I think I have a great idea. What if we pulled out a bunch of this stuff? 
What if it somehow ended up in Mickey’s bed? Would he freak—or what?” 

“He might,” Fergie agreed, grinning down at me. 

We gathered a bunch of the weeds. They grew all along the stream. So we 
picked some more as we walked slowly back to my house. 

Just past the stream, Fergie showed me a clearing in the trees I hadn’t 
noticed before. A small clearing filled with wildflowers. 

I knew right away Mom would flip out if she saw them. She always bought 
flowers at the Faneuil Hall market back in Boston. I started to pick some for her. 

I reached down for a few pretty violet and yellow flowers when something 
moving through the trees caught my eye. I glanced up just in time to see Mickey 
stagger into the clearing. 

Fergie and I both cried out when we spotted him. 

Mickey’s clothes were ripped and shredded. 

Dark scratches covered his face and arms. And bright red blood trickled 
down his neck. 

“Cooper,” he croaked weakly, barely able to talk. “Cooper—the dogs—” 

Those were the last words he spoke before he crumpled to the ground. 



15 


“Mickey!” I screamed in horror. 

I dropped the wildflowers and weeds and ran to his side. 

Fergie and I knelt down beside him. “Is he okay?” she asked, her voice 
barely above a whisper. 

I leaned over him and, with both hands, tugged on his tattered shirt. But I 
couldn’t pull him up. With each try, his limp body slumped back to the ground. 

“Mickey! Mickey!” I cried his name again and again. “Are you all right? 
The dogs! Did they—?” 

As I leaned in closer, Mickey’s arms shot up and clamped around my neck. 
He yanked me to the ground. Then he jumped up and sat on top of me. 

He was giggling like an idiot. 

“Oh, Mickey! Mickey!” he shrieked in a high voice. “Mickey! Are you all 
right?” 

I started to sputter, but no words came out. 

“What a wimp!” he teased. “Do you have to fall for the fake blood every 
single time?” He let out another long, high-pitched giggle. 

I shut my eyes and prayed that I’d disappear. I couldn’t believe my brother 
had tricked me again. In front of Fergie. 

My face grew hot. “I’ll pound you for this!” I shouted, struggling to push 
him off me. 

“Ooooh! I’m shaking!” Mickey snorted. 

“Don’t you have anything better to do than to try and scare me?” I yelled. 

“I don’t even have to try,” Mickey replied, grinning. 

Fergie stood over us, her arms crossed in front of her. 

“Were you in on this little joke, too?” I demanded angrily. 

“No! No way!” Fergie insisted. 

Mickey pinned my arms to the ground. “Say ‘Uncle’, wimp.” 

I’d never been so embarrassed in my life. 

Never. 

And that includes the time Mickey locked me out of the house in my 
underwear. 



“You’re dead meat!” I shouted in his face. 

“What are you going to do, Drooper? Knock me out with your bouquet of 
violets?” 

He threw his head back and laughed at his stupid joke. Lucky for me, it 
gave me a chance to bite his arm. 

“Ow! You mutant! Look what you did! I’m bleeding!” 

He jumped up and examined the bite mark on his arm. Then he growled at 
me, turned, and trotted away. 

I wanted to chase after him. But Margaret held me back. 

“Let him go,” she said, clutching my shirt. “He’s a creep. Really.” 

Grumbling to myself, I brushed off my clothes. Then I picked up the 
flowers for Mom. I couldn’t face Fergie. 

“Are you going home?” she asked. 

“Uh-huh,” I grunted. 

“Will I see you in school tomorrow?” 

I shrugged. I wished she would leave me alone. I wanted to be by myself. 

I grunted again. I think she got the message. 

“Well, guess I’ll head home now. Don’t worry, Cooper,” she said, starting in 
the direction of her house. “We’ll come up with a plan to get him back. I 
promise.” 

I didn’t answer. 

“See you tomorrow!” she called out, waving. 

I didn’t bother to wave back. I watched her leave. Then I made my way 
over to the stream to take a drink of cold water. The sight of Mickey all bloody 
had made my throat dry. And it was from screaming. 

I leaned over the sparkling, cool water and lowered my hand. I scooped 
some water up to my mouth and drank. 

But when I saw my reflection in the stream, I choked. 

It wasn’t me. 

The face staring back at me in the water was the face of a black dog! 

I jerked my head up. 

No dogs on the shore. 

No dogs anywhere in sight. 

“Whoa!” I cried aloud. 

I leaned over the stream again and peered into the water. 

The dog stared up at me from beneath the surface. 



I raised my head again. No dog on the shore. 

So how could I see a dog’s reflection in the water? 

Once again, I squinted into the clear stream. The dog appeared to ripple 
with the water. 

And as I gaped at the eerie reflection in horror, it pulled back its thin lips 
and bared its ugly yellow teeth in a silent growl. 



16 


I raced home without glancing back. 

I crashed through the front door and charged straight for the bathroom. I 
had to check myself out in the mirror. 

I don’t know what I thought I’d see. 

A dog face staring back at me? 

Even I know how stupid that sounds. 

But I couldn’t explain the dog reflection in the water. I should have seen my 
face in that stream—not the growling face of a black Lab. 

Stepping into the bathroom, I approached the mirror slowly. I peeked in. 
And I saw—my own freckled face. 

Did it make me feel better? 

Not much. 

I didn’t speak to anyone in my family for the rest of the afternoon. And at 
dinnertime, I nibbled a few bites, then asked to be excused. 

“Are you feeling okay, Cooper?” Mom asked, frowning. “Liver and onions 
is your favorite. I’ve never seen you leave liver and onions on your plate.” 

She walked over and felt my forehead. That’s what she always does 
whenever I act a little strange. Leels my forehead. 

“I’m fine, Mom,” I replied. “I’m just not very hungry. That’s all.” 

“Cooper is probably a little nervous about tomorrow. His first day in a new 
school,” Dad said to Mom. He turned to me. “Am I right?” 

“Yeah, that’s it,” I agreed. No sense in bringing up the dogs again. No one 
would believe me, anyway. 

“Aw. Poor little Drooper. Scared of his new school,” Mickey teased. 

Mom and Dad shot Mickey a warning glance. “Mickey—not tonight,” Dad 
muttered. 

I ignored my dumb brother. I climbed up from my chair and headed for my 
room. 

I couldn’t fall asleep that night. Every time I closed my eyes, I saw the face of 
the angry black dog, rippling in the stream. 



I finally dozed off after midnight. 

I awoke to Mom’s impatient cries. “Cooper. Cooper. You’ve overslept. 
Time to get up!” 

I couldn’t believe it. I’m always up early. I never oversleep. 

I’m going to be late for my first day of school! I thought unhappily. And it’s 
all because of those creepy dogs. 

I threw my T-shirt and jeans on and rushed down the hall to the kitchen. No 
time for a big breakfast. I gulped down a glass of milk. Then I opened the fridge 
and reached for the peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich for lunch. 

As I spread the peanut butter on the bread, I heard whimpering behind me. 

“Cut it out, Mickey,” I said without turning around. 

The whimpering grew louder. 

“Mickey! Quit it! Stop being such a—” 

They sprang out of nowhere. The dogs. 

They were in the kitchen! 



17 


Their jaws hung loose. They drooled hungrily. Thick yellow drool. 

My knees buckled. I clutched for the counter to steady myself. 

Their dark, furry bodies shimmered under the bright kitchen lights. 
Growling, their teeth bared, they stepped side by side away from the wall. 

I moved back slowly. One small step. 

Their dark eyes tracked my move. 

One more step back. Slowly. Then another. 

Their steady gaze followed me. 

The back door stood inches away. If I reached back, I could touch the 
doorknob now. 

I reached back. Slowly. Very slowly. 

My hand fumbled. Then I found it. The small round knob... 

Too late! 

They jumped. 

I screamed as their dark bodies hurtled toward me. 

I shut my eyes. 

I heard the sound of snapping jaws. 

I opened my eyes in time to see one of the dogs snatch my lunch from the 
counter. 

Then they disappeared. 

Through the kitchen door. They dove right through the wooden door. 
Breathing hard, I sank into a kitchen chair. 

I held my head tightly. I shut my eyes and tried to calm myself. 

I had just seen two dogs run right through a door. How could that be? 

Mom raced into the room. Dad followed. 

“Cooper, what’s wrong?” Mom cried. “What was that horrible scream we 
heard?” 

I had to tell them what happened. I had to. This was too weird. Too scary 
and too weird. 

Sol told them the whole story. 

“Two black dogs—they jumped through the wall. Into the kitchen. One of 



them grabbed my lunch. Then they dove through the door.” 

Big mistake. 

Mom and Dad gave me a lecture about the stress of moving. I think I heard 
them mention the word psychiatrist. 

They didn’t believe a word of it. 

I didn’t have the strength to argue. I shuffled out the door and headed for 
school. 

No way I could stop thinking about those dogs. Dogs that only I could see. Dogs 
that stole lunches. Dogs that could walk through doors. 

I didn’t see them again that week. But every morning I’d hear them barking 
somewhere around the house. Nobody else heard them. 

On Friday, I met Fergie after school and we walked home together. She 
talked nonstop about our math teacher, but I wasn’t really paying attention. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about the dogs. 

“What?” I asked Fergie. She’d just asked me something about math 
homework. 

“I said,” she repeated impatiently, “that we can do our math homework 
together this weekend.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah, whatever.” 

Fergie was going to stay at our house Saturday night. Her parents had to go 
to Vermont for the weekend. 

We had become pretty good friends this past week. So had our parents. 
Mom and Dad invited the Fergusons over for dinner on Tuesday, and the 
Fergusons had us over on Wednesday. 

Maybe having Fergie sleep over will be fun, I thought. If I can shut those 
dogs out of my mind. 

“We still have to come up with a trick to play on Mickey,” Fergie pointed 
out. “I’ve been thinking—” 

“Listen, Fergie,” I said, interrupting her. “There’s something I’ve been 
meaning to tell you all week.” 

She waited for me to begin. 

I took a deep breath, then blurted out the whole story. About the dog 
reflection in the stream. And the dogs in the kitchen. 

“I’ve been hearing them all week,” I confessed. “Sometimes outside the 
house, sometimes inside. It’s been a nightmare.” 



Fergie’s jaw dropped open. “How come you didn’t tell me before?” she 
asked. 

I sighed. “Because no one in my family believes me,” I said. “I thought you 
wouldn’t, either.” 

“I believe you, Cooper,” she replied solemnly. 

I smiled. “Thanks, Fergie. That means a lot.” 

Fergie’s expression turned thoughtful. “Well, maybe we’ll both hear them 
on Saturday night. Your parents will have to believe both of us.” 

I nodded. Fergie was right. Mom and Dad couldn’t think the two of us 
needed to see a doctor. I started to feel a little more cheerful. 

“Now about the get-back-at-Mickey plan,” Fergie said. “I have another 
idea.” 

I tried to listen to Fergie’s plan—it had something to do with rats and a rope 
—but I couldn’t concentrate on what she was saying. I could only think about 
the dogs. 

Would they turn up again this weekend? 



18 


I watched each minute tick away on the alarm clock near my bed. Finally— 
midnight. Time to get moving. 

I tiptoed down the hall to the guest room where Fergie slept. I knocked on 
the door. 

“Fergie,” I whispered. “Fergie, get up!” 

She appeared at the door in an instant, fully dressed. “The dogs? Are the 
dogs here?” she asked, eyes wide with fright. 

She seemed really spooked. And she had awful pillow-hair static. 

“No, dope.” I whispered. “It’s time to scare Mickey.” 

Fergie rubbed her eyes. “Oh, yeah, right.” 

Without saying another word, she slid under the bed and came out with a 
shoe box and some string. 

“Let me see it again,” I said eagerly. 

Fergie smiled, then opened the box. Inside sat a huge, hairy, totally gross, 
disgusting black rat. 

A fake, of course. But it looked so real! Real enough to fool another rat. A 
rat like Mickey. 

I lifted the rat from the box and shook it in Fergie’s face. 

She backed away and let out a yelp, even though she knew it was made of 
mbber or something. 

I tied the string around the rat’s neck and waved at Fergie to follow me. We 
crept silently into the hall and headed for Mickey’s room. 

This was going to be totally awesome! I couldn’t wait to see the look on 
Mickey’s face when our hairy rat slithered across his bed! 

We stopped in the hall outside Mickey’s room. His door stood slightly open. 
I poked my head in and checked out his bedroom. 

By the dim light in the hallway, I could see Mickey in bed, all covered up, 
fast asleep. Mickey never sleeps with a pillow. He always tosses it on the floor 
when he climbs into bed. There it was, next to his shoes. 

I stepped back from the door and pulled Fergie aside. 

“Okay, here’s the plan,” I whispered. “When we’re inside the room, go to 
the left. That’s where the closet is. I’ll tiptoe over to the bed and put the rat on 



Mickey. Then I’ll meet you in the closet.” 

“Check,” Fergie whispered solemnly. 

“And, remember,” I warned her, “be quiet!” 

“Check,” Fergie said again. 

With the rat in one hand, I carefully made my way into Mickey’s room. I 
glimpsed Fergie heading left to the closet. I headed right. 

I had nearly reached Mickey’s bed when I heard a loud crack. 

My heart jumped to my throat. I spun around and stared at Fergie in horror. 

I saw instantly what had happened. She had stepped on Mickey’s 
skateboard. 

We both turned to the bed. 

Mickey didn’t move a muscle. 

He hadn’t heard the noise. 

I let out a quiet sigh of relief, then shot Fergie a warning glance. 

She nodded nervously. 

I watched as she opened the closet door and ducked inside. 

I held the rat out in front of me and edged closer to Mickey’s bed. My hand 
shook, but I gripped the hairy creature tightly. 

I stared down at Mickey under the covers. He slept soundly. 

I crept closer. 

Bundled under the blankets, it was impossible to tell where Mickey’s body 
started. I set the rat down gently, near his stomach, I think. 

Then I tiptoed to the closet. Inside, I knelt next to Fergie and gave her a 
thumbs-up sign. 

Operation “Scare Mickey” was in effect. 

And I couldn’t be more excited. 

It served him right. 

I quietly pulled the closet door toward me, leaving it open just a crack. I 
held tightly onto the end of the string. 

“Ready?” I whispered. 

“Ready,” she whispered back. 

“Okay,” I said. “On three. One... two... uh, Fergie, stop kicking me.” 

“I’m not touching you,” she whispered sharply. 

“You are, too. Stop it, okay?” 

“No way. My feet are all the way over here,” Fergie protested. 



“Ow! You kicked me again!” I whispered. 

She raised her voice. “I did not!” 

I clamped my hand over her mouth. 

We both froze. 

I heard breathing. 

Heavy breathing. 

Not my breathing. Not Fergie’s breathing. 

I swallowed hard. 

“F-Fergie,” I stammered. “We’re not alone in here!” 



19 


A low, steady growl proved me right. 

Someone—or something —was hiding in the closet with us. 

We listened to the low growls for another second or two. 

Then we both flew out of the closet, screaming in horror. 

I only made it a few feet. I tripped over Mickey’s skateboard. Went 
sprawling headfirst. Landed flat on my face. 

As I struggled to my feet, I saw a dark figure step out of the closet. 

“You!” I screamed in a hoarse, frightened voice. 

Mickey grinned back at Fergie and me. “Oooohhh! Ooooooohhh! Look at 
me!” he cried. “I’m a killer poodle!” 

Fergie and I stared at him in disbelief. He had been in the closet the entire 

time. 

I dove to the bed and pulled down the blanket. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out when I saw a bunch of rolled up sheets and towels. 
“But how did you know?” Fergie asked him. “How did you know we were 
coming?” 

Mickey flashed us both a smug smirk. “When you showed up this morning 
clutching that dumb box and whispering to Cooper, I knew something was up. 
I’ve been spying on you two jerks all day.” 

“You sneak!” I cried. 

“A sneak? Me?” Mickey replied innocently. “What do you call what you’re 
doing, prowling around my room and hiding in my closet?” 

I was so angry. So disappointed. Our great revenge plan—totally ruined. 

I grabbed Fergie by the arm. “Come on. Let’s get out of here.” 

“That’s right!” Mickey called gleefully after us. “Running away with your 
tails between your legs!” Then he howled and barked some more. 

Great guy—huh? 

Fergie and I sat in the hall outside my room. We had really wanted to give 
Mickey a good scare. So he could see how it felt. 

But we had messed up. Totally. 

“We’ll get him next time,” Fergie offered. “We’ll come up with an even 



better plan. Maybe something with knives and fake blood.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to wait. I wanted to scare Mickey out of his skin 
— tonight! 

Not much chance of that. 

Fergie and I yawned at the same time. Then we both stood up. “Guess we 
should go back to bed. Maybe—” 

“Did you hear that?” I asked, cutting Fergie off. 

She nodded. “Yeah. I hear it. Barking.” 

“That’s not my brother,” I whispered. “It’s definitely the dogs!” 



20 


“I don’t get it!” Fergie cried in a trembling voice. “Where are your parents? 
Where’s Mickey?” 

I led her down the hall, in the direction of the barking. 

“I told you,” I whispered. “They can’t hear the dogs. I don’t know why. No 
one can hear them but us!” 

We turned into the living room and gasped. 

Two sets of red eyes glowed in the dark. 

I reached for Great-grandma’s lamp, but knocked it over. It crashed loudly 
to the floor. 

The dogs barked. 

Fergie clutched my shoulder. Her hand trembled. “Turn on the lights! 
Please!” she pleaded. 

But before I could reach the switch, the lights snapped on. 

We spun around. And there stood Mom on the stairway, glaring down at us. 
“Cooper! Margaret! What on earth are you two doing?” 

“It’s the dogs, Mom!” I cried. “See? They’re—” 

“What dogs?” Mom called. I spun around. 

No glaring red eyes. No dogs. Except for Fergie and me, the room stood 
empty. 

“Wow, your mom sure was upset,” Fergie whispered as we trudged back down 
the hall to our rooms. 

“But now you believe me, right, Fergie?” I asked. “You heard the dogs 
yourself!” 

Fergie nodded. “For sure. There were definitely dogs here.” 

“Go to sleep!” Mom called sternly. “Immediately!” 

“Okay, Mom!” I called back. I turned to Fergie. “We’ll check out the woods 
in the morning,” I told her. “Those dogs have to be somewhere!” 

“Good idea,” Fergie agreed. “See you in the morning.” 

Back in my room, I couldn’t fall asleep. I sat on my bed and tossed a 
baseball into the air. I watched the numbers slowly click by on my alarm clock. 



I thought about the dogs. They were definitely here tonight. Fergie had 
heard them, too. 

But how do they get in and out of my house? I wondered. 

And how do they vanish into thin air like that? 

And why do they keep bothering me? Why? 

I tossed down the baseball and crept into the hall. 

I knocked softly on Fergie’s door. “It’s me. Can I come in?” 

“What’s wrong?” she whispered, opening the door. 

“Listen,” I said. “I don’t think I can wait until tomorrow. Let’s search for 
those dogs now. ” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. “It—it might be dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“I don’t care,” I told her. “Let’s go.” 



21 


A few minutes later, Fergie and I skulked around the backyard with our 
flashlights. 

No moon tonight. No stars. A chilly mist hung in the air. 

We both shivered. 

I pointed my flashlight at the ground and searched for paw prints. 

None. As usual. 

“How come they never leave prints?” I muttered under my breath. 

Fergie shrugged, but didn’t answer. I could tell she was as scared as I was. 
She stuck close by my side. 

The beam of my flashlight fell on the jungle gym. As I stared down at the 
ground ahead of me, something suddenly grabbed my ankle. 

“Hey!” I yelled, tumbling in the dirt. 

I twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. “Help!” 

Fergie rushed over to help. Why was she laughing? 

“What a klutz! You’re all tangled up in the lawn sprinkler!” she exclaimed. 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. I was glad she couldn’t see me blush in the 
darkness. “I could have broken my leg or something!” 

Fergie bent down to help free me. Then she stopped. “Did you hear that?” 
she asked. 

“Hear what?” 

“Listen.” 

We waited silently in the dark. Hardly breathing. 

Then I heard it, too. A soft creaking coming from the house. It sounded like 
an old door swinging open and shut. 

We carefully made our way toward the sound. To my surprise, we found a 
small window low to the ground. I’d never noticed it before. 

The window was open, swinging back and forth, making the creaking noise. 

“It leads to the basement,” I said, poking my head in. “Do you think this is 
how the dogs get into the house?” 

Fergie didn’t answer me. 

“Fergie?” I called. 



No reply. 

A chill of fear shot down my back. 

I spun around. 

In time to see a dark form come charging at me. 

Startled, I stumbled. The back of my head hit the house with a hard thwack. 
The dark creature leaped on top of me. 

Pinned me to the ground. 

A sour smell filled my nostrils as I struggled to get up. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The creature panted. Its jaws opened wide. Hot saliva dripped on to my 

face. 

The big dog held me prisoner. 

What did it plan to do next? 



22 


“Get off me!” I choked out. 

I reached up both hands—and shoved with all my might. 

To my surprise, the big dog toppled off. 

I jumped to my feet, my heart pounding. Spinning around, I saw Fergie. 
Trapped. Backed up against the house by the other dog. 

“Go home!” she cried meekly to the dog. “Go home!” 

The dog didn’t budge. 

I picked up a stick. I waved it furiously in front of me to keep the dogs a 
good distance away. 

As I approached the animals, Fergie shook her arms wildly at them. 

They lowered their heads and growled softly. 

Then, one of them came running at me. The stick didn’t seem to bother him 
at all. 

I lost my balance and crashed into Fergie. 

Both dogs curled their lips into fierce, ugly snarls. 

My legs were shaking so hard, I could barely stand. 

Growling and snapping their jaws, the dogs backed Fergie and me against 
the house. 

“Now what?” Fergie cried, grabbing my arm. 

“G-good question,” I stammered as the dogs lowered their heads and moved 
closer. 



23 


I shut my eyes. 

I had this crazy idea that if I made them disappear, I’d disappear, too. 

Guess what? It didn’t work. 

I felt a sudden burst of hot, sour dog breath on my face. 

Then I felt tugging. On my sweatpants. 

I opened my eyes. The dog pulled furiously at my sweats. Not biting. 
Tugging. 

Fergie appeared as confused as I was. The other dog tugged at the hem of 
her T-shirt. 

“What do they want?” Fergie whispered. 

“I... I... I don’t know,” I answered. “They—they’re not biting or 
attacking!” 

“Cooper, I think they want us to go with them,” Fergie said. 

“That’s crazy!” I cried. The dog tugged harder on my sweatpants. “I saw 
this on a Lassie show once!” 

“I don’t think it’s crazy, Cooper,” Fergie said. “Watch.” She stepped 
forward slowly, and the dog’s tail began to wag. “See? They want us to go with 
them!” 

I hesitated. It seemed ridiculous. 

But when I edged forward, the dog that had been tugging on my pants 
began wagging his tail, too. 

“See?” Fergie whispered. 

Sorry, but I wasn’t buying it. I turned and started to run. 

“Cooper, don’t!” Fergie cried. 

Too late. 

The big creature took off after me. Leaped high. And knocked me to the 
ground. 

When I climbed to my feet, he started tugging again. 

“Come on. Let’s see what they want,” Fergie pleaded with me. “We don’t 
have much of a choice, anyway. They’re not going to leave us alone.” 

We followed the dogs through the woods. They stayed close by, never 



getting too far ahead. And always glancing back. 

I pointed my flashlight along the path. The dim light didn’t help very much 
at all. I had no idea where we were going. All I knew was that it was very dark 
out—and we were headed deeper and deeper into the woods. 

“I hope we can find our way back, ” I muttered to myself. 

Then, without warning, the dogs sped up. Their big paws trod heavily on 
the soft ground. 

A few seconds later, they began barking and scratching wildly at something 
between the trees. 

I lifted my flashlight and aimed it in their direction. 

In the center of a small clearing stood a broken-down wooden shack. The 
dogs clawed at the door. When they had pushed it open, they came back for us. 
They began tugging again, pulling us toward the shack. 

“Wha—what is this place?” I cried. “Where are we?” 

“I don’t know,” Fergie whispered. “I’ve never seen this shack before.” 

The dogs tugged—furiously now. They really wanted us to go in there. 

“What can be inside?” I whispered to Fergie. 

Fergie swallowed hard. “I don’t know,” she whispered back. “But I think 
we’re going to find out!” 



24 


“Fergie, I don’t like this,” I whispered. “Let’s get away from here—fast!” 

I felt the dog clamp its jaw tighter on my ankle. 

Had he understood what I’d said? 

“They’re not going to let us get away,” Fergie said softly. 

Snarling and growling, the dogs backed us up against the door to the shack. 
“Whoa!” I cried out as the dogs leaped at the side of the shack. 

“I don’t believe it!” Fergie screamed. 

The dogs jumped right through the wooden wall. They disappeared inside. 
“That’s impossible!” Fergie cried. 

“Tell that to the dogs,” I murmured. 

I had seen them do it before—in my own kitchen. 

“They’re ghosts or something!” Fergie cried. 

I grabbed her arm. “Let’s get out of here! Whatever happens... we can’t go 
in that shack!” 

We’d taken only a few steps when the dogs came tearing out through the 
shack wall. 

They edged in close, pressing us up against the shack again. Before we 
could struggle or try to get away, the dogs rose up on their hind legs. 

Standing up, they were taller than us! Fergie and I exchanged terrified 
glances. 

The dogs staggered forward. Pressed their front paws against our chests. 
And shoved us backwards into the shack. 

We screamed as we started to fall. 

The shack had no floor. 

We fell, hurtling down. Tumbling as we fell. 

Down, down, down. 

Into a deep, black hole. 

A deep, black hole that didn’t seem to end. 



25 


I landed softly on my feet. I didn’t even feel it. 

Had we fallen into some kind of well? Or a tunnel dug deep under the 
shack? 

I couldn’t tell. 

I took a deep breath and gazed around the heavy blackness. “Fergie—are 
you okay?” I called. My voice came out tiny and shrill. 

“I—I guess,” she replied after a few seconds. “Cooper— look!” 

I started to reply that it was too dark to see anything. But then I glimpsed 
the two pairs of red eyes, glaring at us through the darkness. 

I gasped. 

“Don ’t move! ” instructed a dry whisper of a voice. 

“Who are you?” I managed to choke out. “What do you want?” 

“Why did you dogs bring us here?” Fergie demanded. 

“We are not dogs,” the voice growled. “We are people.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Silence!” the voice commanded. “Silence while you are in the Changing 
Room.” 

“The what?” I cried. 

The red eyes flared. 

“Centuries ago, my friend and I had an evil spell cast upon us,” the voice 
continued, ignoring my question. “The spell forced us to roam these woods as 
dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Too bad,” I muttered. “But what do you want us for?” 

The dogs snickered. It sounded more like dry coughing than laughter. 

“You are in the Changing Room,” the voice told us. “For nearly a hundred 
years, we have tried to get two people in here. And now we have succeeded.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“We’re going to change places with you,” the voice said casually. 

“Excuse me?” Fergie cried. “You’re going to what?” 

“We will take your places,” the voice repeated. “And you shall take ours. 
You will be the ghost dogs. You will roam these woods as we did—forever!” 



“No way!” I cried. I wanted to run. 

But where? 

I was surrounded by heavy blackness on all sides. 

“Fergie—” I started. 

But I heard her gasp. And then I began to feel warm. As if someone had 
covered me with a heavy blanket. 

The warmth swept over my body. 

Simmering heat. As if I were in an oven. 

Warmer. Warmer. Until sweat dripped down my face, and I was panting in 
the heat. 

I can’t stand it anymore! I thought. I’m going to melt! 

I opened my mouth to scream. But the sounds that escaped my throat 
weren’t mine. 

In fact, they didn’t sound human at all. 



26 


I opened my eyes to bright sunshine. 

The woods around me appeared fuzzy. I struggled to focus. 

I yawned. Then I stretched my entire body and shook myself awake. 

Yes! That stretch felt good. 

I sniffed the air and shook myself again. Wow! Something smelled 
delicious. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized I must be starving. 

Still trying to focus, I took two steps and fell on my face. 

I stood again, feeling unsteady. What’s wrong? I wondered. 

I gazed around the woods. Why were the trees suddenly all black and 
white? Why was the sky gray? The grass gray? 

What had happened to all the color? 

Was this a dream? 

I heard a gruff sound behind me. Someone clearing his throat. 

I turned—and saw a black Labrador. 

I started to cry out—but hoarse barks escaped my throat. 

Startled, I glanced down at my own body. My own fur-covered body. 
“Ohhhh.” I dug my front paws into the dirt. I shook myself hard, trying to shake 
the dog body off. Trying to shake it away so I could see my real body. Cooper’s 
body. 

And as I shook, I jerked my head back. And saw a long, black tail! 

My tail! 

I let out a startled yip. I’m a dog, too, I realized. 

The ghosts in the Changing Room weren’t kidding around. They changed 
places with us. Fergie and I are dogs. 

Fergie whimpered. 

Trembling, we both began to trot, our tails hanging between our legs. 
Fergie’s whimpers turned into mournful howls. 

What was that? Strange! I thought Fergie said something. 

“I did say something,” she insisted. “Well, actually, I thought something. I 
think we can read each other’s thoughts, Cooper.” 



Okay, Fergie, then what am I thinking now? 

“You’re thinking of that leftover fried liver from last night that your mom 
put in the fridge,” Fergie thought. 

That’s right! 

We could read each other’s mind! Cool! 

I licked my lips a few times, thinking about the liver. I loved liver so much, 
Mom made it for me once a week. Man, did I want that liver now! 

Then I remembered I had other things to worry about. 

“Fergie, what are we going to do? We’re dogs!” 

“I can see that, Cooper,” she replied, swatting a fly from behind her floppy, 
black ear. 

“Well, we’ve got to do something!” I cried. “We can’t trot around like this 
forever. Those ghost dogs stole our bodies! They’re probably fooling my parents 
this very minute!” 

Fergie didn’t reply. Instead, she ran around in circles, chasing her tail. 
“Hey! This is fun!” 

“Fergie! Quit messing around! We’re in major trouble!” 

“Okay, okay! I’m sorry! I’m upset about this, too, you know!” 

Fergie dropped to the dirt. She buried her snout in her front paws. Deep in 
thought. “You know what, Cooper?” 

“What?” I asked as I paced back and forth, trying to think of a way to get us 
out of this mess. 

“Your droopy ears look pretty good—now that you’re a dog.” 

“Fergie! Get serious!” I growled. 

Then it hit me. 

“I know!” I cried. “I know what we can do. We have to drag those ghosts 
back to the shack and trade places with them again!” 

“Oh, sure, Cooper. No problem,” Fergie barked. “And how do you suppose 
we do that? Walk up to them and say, ‘Uh, excuse me, but can you come back to 
the shack with us? It’ll only be for a second.’” 

I stared at Fergie. She had become a dog. But her personality hadn’t 
changed one bit! 

“I heard that,” she mumbled. 

I sighed. “Well, do you have a better plan?” I asked, scratching furiously at 
my neck. 

“I’m thinking, I’m thinking,” Fergie answered with a yawn. “I’m really so 



tired. Maybe after a nap—” 

“No! No naps! We have to do something—now! Listen to me. We’ll get my 
parents to help. All we have to do is convince them that we’re the real Cooper 
and Margaret, and that those kids in the house are imposters.” 

“And how are we going to do that?” Fergie asked. 

Good question. Real good question. 



27 


Fergie and I trotted through the woods. I sniffed the ground. Sniffed the weeds. 
So many great smells! 

We stopped at the edge of the woods behind my house. I heard laughing, 
shouting voices. Then I saw my parents. In the backyard. Throwing a Frisbee 
around with Fergie and Cooper! 

Those fakes! 

I growled with anger. 

I bared my teeth. Prepared to attack. 

“Whoa!” Fergie cried. “Cooper, wait! You can’t just barge over there and 
attack them!” 

Fergie was right. That wouldn’t solve anything. 

I watched my dad send the Frisbee flying across the yard. 

I had a strong urge to jump up and go for that Frisbee. 

But I stopped myself. This was no time for playing. 

Then I had an idea. The greatest idea. The idea of a lifetime. 

“Come on!” I urged Fergie. I began loping toward the side of my house. 

“Cooper, where are you going?” she asked. 

I didn’t answer. I stopped outside the wall to Mickey’s room. “This will just 
take a second,” I told Fergie. 

She read my mind. She knew what I planned to do. 

Side by side, we leaped through the wall of the house. 

And burst into Mickey’s room. 

He was standing in his underwear. Leaning over his dresser, sorting out his 
T-shirts. He cried out and spun around as Fergie and I started to growl. 

My brother uttered a short, terrified whimper. He started backing up, his 
eyes wide with fright. 

Fergie and I began barking and jumping up on our hind legs. 

“How—how did you—?” Mickey stammered. 

Those were the only words he could choke out. 

Then he let out another whimper, stumbled past us, and bolted out through 
the bedroom door. “Mommy! Daddy! Help!” I heard him scream. “Mommy! 



Daddy!” 

Fergie and I didn’t want to miss seeing him run through the yard in his 
underwear. We trotted through the wall and watched until he disappeared around 
the garage. 

“Did you see his face?” I yelped happily. “Was that awesome?!” 

“Man, that was excellent!” Fergie cheered. 

“Hey, you two!” a stern voice called. 

I turned around. 

Dad! 

“How did you dogs get in this yard?” my father demanded sharply. “Come 
on. Out! Out!” 

“But, wait! Dad! It’s me, Cooper!” I tried to yell. But all that came out was 
Woof! Woof! Woof! 

“Out! Out!” Dad repeated angrily. 

“Dad! Wait! It’s really me! Listen! You’ve got to listen!” 

“Woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof!” 

My father armed himself with a broom and waved it wildly at Fergie and 
me. ♦Out!^ he cried, shaking the broom at us. 

“What’s going on?” Mom called from the doorway. 

“Mom! It’s me. Cooper!” I barked furiously. 

“Oh, Sam. Please get rid of those animals! You know I’m allergic to dogs!” 

“But, Mom!” I cried. “Can’t you tell it’s me?” 

Woof, woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof, woof! 

“Please, Sam! Call the pound! These dogs look dangerous. They might 
have to be put to sleep! Call the pound. They’ll know what to do.” 

I watched in horror as my dad picked up the phone and dialed. 



28 


Fergie and I bolted into the woods as fast as we could. Even as a dog, Fergie ran 
faster than I did. 

We hid among the trees and watched my parents and the fake Cooper and 
Fergie toss the Frisbee around in the backyard. 

The guys from the pound never showed up. But things still looked pretty 
bad. My parents thought we were stray dogs. And I couldn’t tell them who I was. 

All I could do was bark. 

Hey. Wait a minute. Maybe I could do more than bark. 

“Fergie, I have another idea!” I said, wagging my tail. “Follow me!” 

Fergie and I sneaked around the side of the house and stepped through the 
wall into the living room. I sniffed around, searching for a pen and some paper. 

“I’ll write them a note,” I explained to Fergie. “Mom will definitely 
recognize my handwriting.” 

I found a pen lying on the coffee table, next to some notepaper. 

I tried to lift the pen. 

It slipped out from under my paw. I couldn’t wrap my paw around it. 

Fergie tried to help me. She nosed the pen in my direction, but I still 
couldn’t pick it up. 

Impossible. Dogs can’t hold pens. 

I felt so disappointed. I pushed the pen away, then ripped the paper to 
shreds. That’s when my dad burst in. 

“Hey! I thought I told you two dogs to beat it!” my father yelled. 

My mother and the two phonies came running into the room. 

I started barking, trying to communicate with Dad. But that seemed to 
annoy him even more. 

“Stand up on your hind legs!” I instructed Fergie. “Maybe he’ll think we’re 
trying to tell him something!” 

I hopped up, trying to balance on my back legs. But I wasn’t very good at it. 
I mean, give me a break. I’d only been a dog for a few hours. 

I toppled over onto my stomach. 

I must have looked pretty stupid, because everyone started laughing. 



“Weird dogs,” the Cooper imposter said. 

Fergie and I hopped up again and again. But nobody understood what we 
were doing. And after a while, they grew bored with our little act. Dad picked up 
the broom again. 

I probably could have yanked that stupid broom right out of his hands and 
pinned him to the ground. But what would that prove? 

Dad chased Fergie and me out the back door and into the woods. 

“You’re right,” I told her when we were safely hidden by the trees. “We’re 
going to be dogs for the rest of our lives. And not even real dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Don’t worry, Cooper,” Fergie replied, reading my mind. “We’ll convince 
them. There’s got to be a way to show them who we are.” 

I sighed, then rolled on to my back. 

If only Gary and Todd were here. They’d know what to do. 

I rolled back again. And, suddenly, I felt hot. Burning hot. I sprang up on all 
fours. 

“What is it?” Fergie cried out. “What’s wrong?” 

I shook violently from head to tail. Out of control. I couldn’t stop shaking. 
Something had taken over my body. 



29 


“Fleas!” I shrieked. 

There must have been thousands of them! Clinging all over my body! And I 
couldn’t reach them. 

“My back!” I cried helplessly. “My back!” 

Fergie lifted her front paws and scratched the part of my back I couldn’t 
reach. 

“Higher,” I pleaded. “Higher. Aaaaahhhhh, that’s it!” 

My ears drooped low, and I sighed with relief. 

Fergie found us a nice spot under a tall birch tree. I stretched out my body 
and rested my face on my paws. Fergie curled up into a tight ball. It was time to 
think up another plan. 

And time to nap. I couldn’t believe how tired I’d suddenly become. 

The day passed slowly. I think we both dozed off once or twice. 

Around lunchtime, we ran to the stream in the woods for water. Some fleas 
still nipped at my skin. And I thought a cool dip in the stream might help. 

We returned to our spot under the shady birch. Now we were both starving. 

“Maybe we can find some scraps of food at my house—in the garbage,” I 
suggested. 

“Yuck! I’m not eating garbage,” Fergie wailed. “No way.” But she knew we 
had no choice. 

We returned to my house and quietly made our way to the side door, where 
Dad stored the garbage pails. 

As we sniffed around for some food, Mickey and my parents opened the 
back door and stepped out into the yard. 

“I’m telling you, Mom!” Mickey cried. “They’re ghost dogs! They walked 
right through my bedroom wall! They’re not normal!” 

“Save your jokes for Cooper,” my father snapped. 

“Hey, Fergie, maybe Mickey can help us,” I suggested, watching my 
brother. “He’s the only one who believes we’re not normal dogs. Maybe we can 
find a way to tell him who we are.” 

Fergie sighed. “For sure,” she said sarcastically. “Then what? Can you see 
your parents’ faces when Mickey tells them the two dogs hanging around their 



house are really Cooper and Margaret Ferguson?” 

I hung my head. Fergie was right. They’d never believe Mickey, either. 

“Well, we have to do something!” I said, scratching behind my ear. “These 
fleas are driving me crazy! I can’t live like this!” 

“Maybe we can get you a flea collar,” Fergie suggested. 

“Oh, right. I’ll just trot into the Main Street drugstore, put five dollars on 
the counter, and ask for a flea collar. Nobody will think that’s weird.” I rolled my 
eyes. 

Fergie snapped at me. “Well, excuse me, Cooper. I was only trying to help!” 

Fergie and I spent the rest of the day snapping at each other, getting on each 
other’s nerves. 

When dinnertime rolled around, my stomach rumbled loudly. Then I 
smelled the most wonderful smell. 

I raised my nose high in the air and sniffed excitedly. 

I’d know that aroma anywhere. 

Liver! The leftover liver from last night! 

“Come on!” I barked to Fergie. “I’ve got to get some of that liver!” 

We trotted over to the back door and peered inside. My whole family had 
gathered around the table, ready to eat. 

“You’re drooling,” Fergie said to me in disgust. “Gross.” 

Like I cared. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the plate of liver Mom carried to the table. I 
watched hungrily as she placed a big slab on my father’s plate. 

Then she served some to Mickey. Mickey seemed edgy, nervous. I hoped he 
was still upset from my little trick this morning. 

Then Mom placed a piece of liver on the phony Cooper’s plate. He jumped 
from his seat. “Yuck!” he cried out in disgust. “I hate liver!” 

Mom’s jaw dropped. “Cooper! What are you saying? You love liver!” 

The phony Cooper began to stutter. 

“Oh, uh, did I say I hated it? Oh, no. I’m, uh, just joking, Mom. I love liver. 
Everyone knows that!” 

Mom stared at him suspiciously. “Really, Cooper. You haven’t been 
yourself all day!” 

My eyes widened. 

This was my chance! 

Now was the perfect time to show Mom he wasn’t himself! He was a total 



phony! 

“I’m going in!” I told Fergie. 

I burst through the kitchen door and headed straight for the plate of liver. 
I’ll show Mom who the real Cooper is, I thought happily. The Cooper who loves 
liver. She’ll know it’s me instantly! 

This has got to work. 

It’s our last chance, I knew. Our only chance. 



30 


Panting excitedly, I charged into the kitchen and leaped up at the table. 

Mom screamed and dropped the plate of liver on the floor. 

In a flash, I bent down and began lapping it up. Delicious! 

“See, Mom? Look, it’s me! Your son, Cooper!” I yelped in between bites. 

“Sam! Do something! That animal is eating our dinner!” 

Huh? Animal? “No, Mom! It’s me! Your son! Look, I love liver!” 

But it was no use. 

All Mom heard was, “Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof, 
woof, woof! ” 

Dad shoved his chair away from the table and grabbed a newspaper from 
the counter. He rolled it up, then swatted my nose. 

“Ow!” 

That hurt! 

“I’ll see if the line to the pound is still busy,” Mom said, picking up the 
phone. “Try to chase the dogs into the pantry and lock the door. We’ll hold them 
in there until the pound can come get them.” 

The fake Cooper and Margaret helped Dad back us toward the pantry. “Bad 
dogs! Bad!” the phony Margaret shouted. 

“Dad, do you think the pound will use a tranquilizer gun on them?” the 
phony Cooper asked. 

“Maybe,” Dad replied. 

I glanced over at Fergie. 

Tranquilizer guns? No thank you! 

I never ran so fast in all my life. I even ran faster than Fergie. 

“Got any other bright ideas, fleabag?” she asked when we were safely in the 
woods. 

I growled at her and turned away. The sun was setting over the trees. The 
air felt cool. It would be dark soon. 

“And thanks for saving some of that liver for me,” Fergie snapped. “I’m 
hungry, too, you know!” 



I ignored her. 

I gazed longingly through the trees. Through the window of my house as 
Mom and Dad washed the dishes. 

I couldn’t help myself. I felt so bad. I started whimpering. 

If only I could be inside my warm, comfortable house right now. In a short 
while, it would be dark. I didn’t want to spend a night in the woods. 

Think, Cooper! Think! I urged myself. There must be a way to get our 
human bodies back. 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I cried. “I just thought of something!” 

Fergie awoke from a nap. “What?” she asked lazily. 

“We’re dogs, right?” 

“Right.” 

“So we should act like dogs!” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes. “Cooper, what are you talking about?” 

I took a deep breath. “Okay, listen,” I explained. “Remember how those 
ghost dogs got us out to the shack?” 

Fergie nodded. 

“That’s what we should do! We should pull those kids back there, the way 
they pulled us! That’s what dogs would do!” 

Fergie raised her head. Her ears perked up. “Not bad! Not bad at all!” 

“We’re dogs,” I continued. “We have sharp teeth, right? Very sharp teeth. 
We’ll drag them into the woods and into the Changing Room—and before you 
know it, we’ll be Cooper and Fergie again!” 

Fergie bounced up and began panting happily and wagging her tail. 
“Excellent!” she cried. 

“Okay, here’s the plan.” With my paw, I drew a diagram in the dirt. “The 
phonies are here, in the den. We’ll walk through the wall and haul them out 
through the kitchen door. It’s okay if Mom and Dad follow. We can outrun 
them.” 

“I’m ready. Let’s do it!” Fergie exclaimed. 

We trotted to the house and pushed through the wall, as planned. 

Inside, the fake Cooper and Fergie were watching MTV on the den TV. We 
burst through the den wall and surprised them. 

“Mom!” the fake Cooper screamed at the top of his lungs. “Dad! Help! It’s 
the dogs!” 

Fergie and I moved in on them, snarling as ferociously as we knew how. 



I clamped on to the fake Cooper’s ankle just as my parents and Mickey 
burst into the room. I motioned to Fergie to get on with it. In a flash, she leaped 
on to the phony Fergie and clamped her jaws around her wrist. 

Then we tugged. 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” the phony Cooper yelled. 

“Mr. Holmes!” the phony Fergie cried. “Do something! They’re attacking 

us!” 

Mom ran for the broom. But before Dad could swing into action, Fergie and 
I had dragged the imposters through the kitchen. 

I caught a glimpse of Mickey as I tugged. He was hiding in the corner, 
shaking all over. 

Too bad I didn’t have time to enjoy that picture. 

We were out the door now. Everything was working perfectly. Fergie and I 
would be back to normal in no time. 

The phonies knew where we were taking them. But there was nothing they 
could do about it. Fergie and I were too strong, too ferocious. 

“Dad! Help!” the fake Cooper cried again. 

“Don’t worry!” Dad called out to him. “The dogs don’t seem to want to hurt 
you! I think they want us to follow them!” 

Way to go, Dad! 

A short while later, I spotted the clearing where the old shack stood. It 
won’t be long now, I thought happily. In a few minutes, Fergie and I will walk 
home with my parents. On two legs. No more fleas. No more food from garbage 
pails. I couldn’t wait! 

We panted wildly as the struggling imposters attempted to break free. But 
Fergie and I held on to them for dear life, tugging them, tugging with all our 
canine strength. 

And, then, finally, we were there. The old shack. We pushed the phonies up 
against the door. 

I released the fake Cooper from my grip for a second. I had no choice. I had 
to scratch a flea. 

The phony tried to make a run for it. 

“Cooper! He’s getting away!” Fergie barked. 

“No way!” I barked back. I bounded off after him and clamped my jaws 
down on the hem of his shirt. Then I dragged him back to the shack. 

The fake Fergie screamed with all her might. “No! No! Not in there again!” 



I glared up at her. 

“Hold on, Margaret,” I heard Mom call. “Don’t be afraid. Let’s see what the 
dogs are trying to show us.” 

It was time. Time to make the switch. 

“Now!” I yelped. 

Fergie and I jumped on the imposters and sent them tumbling into the 
shack. Then we leaped in after them. 

All four of us fell down, down, down. Down into the solid blackness. 

Once again, I felt dizzy and warm. 

Warmer. Warmer. As if the warm blanket were being pulled over me. 

I could feel myself changing. Changing in the darkness, in the sweltering 

heat. 

I gazed above my head. A glowing shadow hovered over me. A shadow 
with tiny red eyes. 

My body shuddered. I began to shake. 

And all at once I knew. Something wasn’t right. 

“Fergie!” I cried out in a harsh whisper. “It’s not working! Something is 
wrong! Something is very wrong!” 



31 


“Cooper!” my mom cried happily, running toward the shack with outstretched 
arms. “Are you okay?” 

“Margaret, what happened in there?” Dad called. “What happened to the 
dogs?” 

“We’re okay,” Margaret muttered. “It’s just an empty shack. That’s all.” 

“I’m going to call the pound again as soon as we get home,” Mom 
announced. “Those dogs shouldn’t be allowed to roam free. They’re dangerous!” 

“Let’s just get out of here, okay, Dad?” Cooper said. 

Fergie nodded in agreement. “We’re okay, Let’s go home.” 

“What an adventure!” Mom sighed. 

“At least it isn’t boring up here in our new home,” Dad added. 

“For sure,” Cooper agreed. 


* * * 


“What happened?” I asked, rubbing my eyes. 

I watched my parents walking away from the shack, their arms around two 

kids. 

“Hey! Those kids!” I cried. “They’re not us!” 

The door to the shack opened, and two black Labs stumbled out in a daze. 
Their eyes met, then they bolted away, barking frantically. 

What’s their problem? I wondered. 

I watched the dogs disappear into the trees. 

What’s going on? I asked myself, totally confused. 

I’m not a kid—and I’m not a dog, either! 

“Hey, Fergie? Fergie?” 

Where was she? 

When she popped up next to me, we both gasped. 

“Oh, no! Please—no! No! No! Noooo!” she wailed. 

Her head cocked to one side, and her little brown nose twitched furiously. 
“Tell me we’re not!” I begged her. “Please, Fergie—tell me we’re not...” 



“We are!” Fergie squeaked. “We... we’re chipmunks !” 

We both squeaked and chittered our surprise. 

Fergie gazed down at her furry little body. “How did this happen, Cooper? 
How did this happen?” 

“The woods are filled with chipmunks,” I sighed. “Two of them must have 
wandered into the Changing Room. And we—” 

“We switched with the chipmunks—not the kids!” Fergie cried. Her bushy 
tail thumped furiously on the ground. 

I examined my tiny black paws. I moved my teeny little fingers. I twitched 
my button nose. 

Cute. I was so cute! 

“Now what?” Fergie wailed. “What do we do now?” 

“Uh... hunt for acorns?” I suggested. 

Fergie’s beady little eyes squinted into mine. “Excuse me?” 

“Let’s hunt for acorns!” I said. “I’m starving!” 




THE HORROR AT 
CAMP JELLY JAM 

Goosebumps - 33 
R.L. Stine 


1 


Mom pointed excitedly out the car window. “Look! A cow!” 

My brother, Elliot, and I both groaned. We had been driving through 
farmland for four hours, and Mom had pointed out every single cow and horse. 

“Look out your side, Wendy!” Mom cried from the front seat. “Sheep!” 

I stared out the window and saw about a dozen gray sheep—fat, woolly 
ones—grazing on a grassy green hill. “Nice sheep, Mom,” I said, rolling my 
eyes. 

“There’s a cow!” Elliot exclaimed. 

Now he was doing it! 

I reached across the backseat and gave him a hard shove. “Mom, is it 
possible to explode from boredom?” I moaned. 

“BOOOOOOM!” Elliot shouted. The kid is a riot, isn’t he? 

“I told you,” Dad muttered to Mom. “A twelve-year-old is too old to go on 
a long car trip.” 

“So is an eleven-year-old!” Elliot protested. 

I’m twelve. Elliot is eleven. 

“How can you two be bored?” Mom asked. “Look—horses!” 

Dad sped up to pass a huge yellow truck. The road curved through high, 
sloping hills. In the far distance, I could see gray mountains, rising up in a heavy 
mist. 

“There’s so much beautiful scenery to admire,” Mom gushed. 

“After a while, it all looks like some boring old calendar,” I complained. 

Elliot pointed out of his window. “Look! No horses!” 

He doubled over, laughing. He thought that was the funniest thing anyone 
had ever said. Elliot really cracks himself up. 

Mom turned in the front seat. She narrowed her eyes at my brother. “Are 
you making fun of me?” she demanded. 

“Yes!” Elliot replied. 

“Of course not,” I chimed in. “Who would ever make fun of you, Mom?” 

“When do you ever stop?” Mom complained. 

“We’re leaving Idaho,” Dad announced. “That’s Wyoming up ahead. We’ll 



be up in those mountains soon.” 

“Maybe we’ll see Mountain Cows!” I exclaimed sarcastically. 

Elliot laughed. 

Mom sighed. “Go ahead. Ruin our first family vacation in three years.” 

We hit a bump. I heard the trailer bounce behind us. Dad had hooked one of 
those big, old-fashioned trailers to the back of our car. We had dragged it all over 
the West. 

The trailer was actually kind of fun. It had four narrow beds built into the 
sides. And it had a table we could sit around to eat or play cards. It even had a 
small kitchen. 

At night, we’d pull into a trailer camp. Dad would hook the trailer up to 
water and electricity. And we spent the night inside, in our own private little 
house. 

We hit another bump. I heard the trailer bounce behind us again. The car 
lurched forward as we started to climb into the mountains. 

“Mom, how do I know if I’m getting carsick or not?” Elliot asked. 

Mom turned back to us, frowning. “Elliot, you never get carsick,” she said 
in a low voice. “Did you forget?” 

“Oh. Right,” Elliot replied. “I just thought it might be something to do.” 

“Elliot!” Mom screamed. “If you’re so bored, take a nap!” 

“That’s boring,” my brother muttered. 

I could see Mom’s face turning an angry red. Mom doesn’t look like Dad, 
Elliot, and me. She is blond and has blue eyes and very fair skin, which turns red 
very easily. And she’s kind of plump. 

My dad, brother, and I are skinny and sort of dark. The three of us have 
brown hair and brown eyes. 

“You kids don’t know how lucky you are,” Dad said. “You’re getting to see 
some amazing sights.” 

“Bobby Harrison got to go to baseball camp,” Elliot grumbled. “And Jay 
Thurman went to sleepaway camp for eight weeks!” 

“I wanted to go to sleepaway camp, too!” I protested. 

“You’ll go to camp next summer,” Mom replied sharply. “This is the chance 
of a lifetime!” 

“But the chance of a lifetime is so boring!” Elliot complained. 

“Wendy, entertain your brother,” Dad ordered. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “How am I supposed to entertain him?” 



“Play Car Geography,” Mom suggested. 

“Oh, no! Not again!” Elliot wailed. 

“Go ahead. I’ll start,” Mom said. “Atlanta.” 

Atlanta ends with an A. So I had to think of a city that starts with an A. 
“Albany,” I said. “Your turn, Elliot.” 

“Hmmmmm. A city that starts with a Y...” My brother thought for a 
moment. Then he twisted up his face. “I quit!” 

My brother is such a bad sport. He takes games too seriously, and he really 
hates to lose. Sometimes he gets so intense when he’s playing soccer or softball, 
I really worry about him. 

Sometimes when he thinks he can’t win, he just quits. Like now. 

“What about Youngstown?” Mom asked. 

“What about it?” Elliot grumbled. 

“I have an idea!” I said. “How about letting Elliot and me ride in the trailer 
for a while?” 

“Yeah! Cool!” Elliot cried. 

“I don’t think so,” Mom replied. She turned to Dad. “It’s against the law to 
ride in a trailer, isn’t it?” 

“I don’t know,” Dad said, slowing the car. We were climbing through thick 
pine woods now. The air smelled so fresh and sweet. 

“Let us!” Elliot pleaded. “Come on—let us!” 

“I don’t see any harm in letting them ride back there for a while,” Dad told 
Mom. “As long as they’re careful.” 

“We’ll be careful!” Elliot promised. 

“Are you sure it’s safe?” Mom asked Dad. 

Dad nodded. “What could happen?” 

He pulled the car to the side of the highway. Elliot and I slid out. We ran to 
the trailer, pulled open the door, and hurried inside. 

A few seconds later, the car pulled back onto the highway. We bounced 
along behind it in the big trailer. 

“This is so cool!” Elliot declared, making his way to the back window. 

“Do I have good ideas or what?” I asked, following him. He slapped me a 
high five. 

We stared out the back window. The highway seemed to tilt down as we 
headed up to the mountains. 

The trailer bounced and swayed as the car tugged it. 



The road tilted up steeper. And steeper. 
And that’s when all our troubles began. 



2 


“I win!” Elliot cried. He jumped up and raised both fists in triumph. 

“Three out of five!” I demanded, rubbing my wrist. “Come on—three out of 
five. Unless you’re chicken.” 

I knew that would get him. Elliot can’t stand to be called a chicken. He 
settled back in the seat. 

We leaned over the narrow table and clasped hands. We had been arm 
wrestling for about ten minutes. It was kind of fun because the table bounced 
every time the trailer rolled over a bump in the road. 

I am as strong as Elliot. But he’s more determined. A lot more determined. 
You never saw anyone groan and sweat and strain so much in arm wrestling! 

To me, a game is just a game. But to Elliot, every game is life or death. 

He had won two out of three about five times. 

My wrist was sore, and my hand ached. But I really wanted to beat him in 
this final match. 

I leaned over the table and squeezed his hand harder. I gritted my teeth and 
stared menacingly into his dark brown eyes. 

“Go!” he cried. 

We both strained against each other. I pushed hard. Elliot’s hand started to 
bend back. 

I pushed harder. I nearly had him. Just a little harder. 

He let out a groan and pushed back. He shut his eyes. His face turned beet- 
red. I could see the veins push out at the sides of his neck. 

My brother just can’t stand to lose. 

SLAM! 

The back of my hand hit the table hard. 

Elliot had won again. 

Actually, I let him win. I didn’t want to see his whole head explode because 
of a stupid arm-wrestling match. 

He jumped up and pumped his fists, cheering for himself. 

“Hey—!” he cried out as the trailer swayed hard, and he went crashing into 
the wall. 



The trailer lurched again. I grabbed the table to keep from falling off my 
seat. “What’s going on?” 

“We changed direction. We’re heading down now,” Elliot replied. He edged 
his way back toward the table. 

But we bumped hard, and he toppled to the floor. “Hey—we’re going 
backwards!” 

“I’ll bet Mom’s driving,” I said, holding on to the table edge with both 
hands. 

Mom always drives like a crazy person. When you warn her that she’s 
going eighty, she always says, “That can’t be right. It feels as if I’m going thirty- 
five!” 

The trailer was bouncing and bumping, rolling downhill. Elliot and I were 
bouncing and bumping with the trailer. 

“What is their problem?” Elliot cried, grabbing on to one of the beds, 
struggling to keep his balance. “Are they backing up? Why are we going 
backwards?” 

The trailer roared downhill. I pushed myself up from the table and stumbled 
to the front to see the car. Shoving aside the red plaid curtain, I peered out 
through the small window. 

“Uh... Elliot...” I choked out. “We’ve got a problem.” 

“Huh? A problem?” he replied, bouncing harder as the trailer picked up 
speed. 

“Mom and Dad aren’t pulling us anymore,” I told him. “The car is gone.” 



3 


Elliot’s face filled with confusion. He didn’t understand me. Or maybe he didn’t 
believe me! 

“The trailer has come loose!” I screamed, staring out the bouncing window. 
“We’re rolling downhill—on our own!” 

“N-n-n-no!” Elliot chattered. He wasn’t stuttering. He was bouncing so 
hard, he could barely speak. His sneakers hopped so hard on the trailer floor, he 
seemed to be tap dancing. 

“OW!” I let out a pained shriek as my head bounced against the ceiling. 
Elliot and I stumbled to the back. Gripping the windowsill tightly, I struggled to 
see where we were heading. 

The road curved steeply downhill, through thick pine woods on both sides. 
The trees were a bouncing blur of greens and browns as we hurtled past. 

Picking up speed. Bouncing and tumbling. 

Faster. 

Faster. 

The tires roared beneath us. The trailer tilted and dipped. 

I fell to the floor. Landed hard on my knees. Reached to pull myself up. But 
the trailer swayed, and I went sprawling on my back. 

Pulling myself to my knees, I saw Elliot bouncing around on the floor like a 
soccer ball. I threw myself at the back of the trailer and peered out the window. 

The trailer bumped hard. The road curved sharply—but we didn’t curve 
with it! 

We shot off the side of the road. Swerved into the trees. 

“Elliot!” I shrieked. “We’re going to crash!” 



4 


The trailer jolted hard. I heard a cracking sound. 

It’s going to break in half! I thought. 

I pressed both hands against the front and stared out the window. Dark trees 
flew past. 

A hard bump sent me sprawling to the floor. 

I heard Elliot calling my name. “Wendy! Wendy! Wendy!” 

I shut my eyes and tensed every muscle. And waited for the crash. 

Waited... 

Waited... 

Silence. 

I opened my eyes. It took me a few seconds to realize that we were no 
longer moving. I took a deep breath and climbed to my feet. 

“Wendy?” I heard Elliot’s weak cry from the back of the trailer. 

My legs were trembling as I turned around. My whole body felt weird. As if 
we were still bouncing. “Elliot—are you okay?” 

He had been thrown into one of the bottom bunks. “Yeah. I guess,” he 
replied. He lowered his feet to the floor and shook his head. “I’m kind of dizzy.” 

“Me, too,” I confessed. “What a ride!” 

“Better than Space Mountain!” Elliot exclaimed. He climbed to his feet. 
“Let’s get out of this thing!” 

We both started to the door at the front. It was an uphill climb. The trailer 
tilted up. 

I reached the door first. I grabbed the handle. 

A loud knock on the door made me jump back. “Hey... !” I cried. 

Three more knocks. 

“It’s Mom and Dad!” Elliot cried. “They found us! Open it up! Hurry!” 

He didn’t have to tell me to hurry. My heart skipped. I was so glad to see 
them! 

I turned the handle, pushed open the trailer door— 

—and gasped. 



5 


I stared into the face of a blond-haired man. His blue eyes sparkled in the bright 
sunlight. 

He was dressed all in white. He wore a crisp white T-shirt tucked into 
baggy white shorts. A small round button pinned to his T-shirt read ONLY THE 
BEST in bold black letters. 

“Uh... hi,” I finally managed to choke out. 

He flashed me a gleaming smile. He seemed to have about two thousand 
teeth. “Hey, guys—everyone okay in there?” he asked. His blue eyes sparkled 
even brighter. 

“Yeah. We’re okay,” I told him. “A little shaken up, but—” 

“Who are you?” Elliot cried, poking his head out the door. 

The guy’s smile didn’t fade. “My name is Buddy.” 

“I’m Wendy. He’s Elliot. We thought you were our parents,” I explained. I 
hopped down to the ground. 

Elliot followed me. “Where are Mom and Dad?” he asked, frowning. 

“I haven’t seen anyone, guy,” Buddy told him. He studied the trailer. “What 
happened here? You came unhitched?” 

I nodded, brushing my dark hair off my face. “Yeah. On the steep hills, I 
guess.” 

“Dangerous,” Buddy muttered. “You must have been really scared.” 

“Not me!” Elliot declared. 

What a kid. First, he’s shaking in terror and calling out my name over and 
over. Now he’s Mister Macho. 

“I’ve never been so scared in all my life!” I admitted. 

I took a few steps away from the trailer and searched the woods. The trees 
creaked and swayed in a light breeze. The sun beamed down brightly. I shielded 
my eyes with one hand as I peered around. 

No sign of Mom and Dad. I couldn’t see the highway through the thick 
trees. 

I could see the tire tracks our trailer had made through the soft dirt. 
Somehow we had shot through a clear path between the trees. The trailer had 
come to rest at the foot of a sharp, sloping hill. 



“Wow. We were lucky,” I muttered. 

“You’re very lucky,” Buddy declared cheerfully. He stepped up beside me, 
placed his hands on my shoulders, and turned me around. “Check it out. Look 
where you guys landed!” 

Gazing up the hill, I saw a wide clearing between the trees. And then I saw 
a huge, red-and-white banner, stretched high on two poles. I had to squint to read 
the words on the banner. 

Elliot read them aloud: “King Jellyjam’s Sports Camp.” 

“The, camp is on the other side of the hill,” Buddy told us, flashing us both 
a friendly smile. “Come on! Follow me!” 

“But—but—” my brother sputtered. “We have to find our parents!” 

“Hey—no problem, guy. You can wait for them at the camp,” Buddy 
assured him. 

“But how will they know where to find us?” I protested. “Should we leave a 
note?” 

Buddy flashed me another dazzling smile. “No. I’ll take care of it,” he told 
me. “No problem.” 

He stepped past the trailer and started up the hill. His white T-shirt and 
white shorts gleamed in the sunlight. I saw that his socks and high-tops were 
sparkling white, too. 

That’s his uniform. He must work at the camp, I decided. 

Buddy turned back. “You guys coming?” He motioned with both hands. 
“Come on. You’re going to like it!” 

Elliot and I hurried to catch up to him. My legs trembled as I ran. I could 
still feel the trailer floor bouncing and jolting beneath me. I wondered if I would 
ever feel normal again. 

As we made our way up the grassy hill, the red-and-white banner came into 
clearer view. “King Jellyjam’s Sports Camp,” I read the words aloud. 

A funny, purple cartoon character had been drawn beside the words on the 
banner. He looked like a blob of grape bubble gum. He had a big smile on his 
face. He wore a gold crown on his head. 

“Who’s that?” I asked Buddy. 

Buddy glanced up at the banner. “That’s King Jellyjam,” he replied. “He’s 
our little mascot.” 

“Weird-looking mascot for a sports camp,” I declared, staring up at the 
purple, blobby king. 



Buddy didn’t reply. 

“Do you work at the camp?” Elliot asked. 

Buddy nodded. “It’s a great place to work. I’m the head counselor, guys. So 
—welcome!” 

“But we can’t go to your camp,” I protested. “We have to find our parents. 
We have to...” 

Buddy put a hand on my shoulder and a hand on Elliot’s shoulder. He 
guided us up the hill. “You guys have had a close call. You might as well stay 
and have some fun. Enjoy the camp. Until I can hook up with your parents.” 

As we neared the top of the hill, I heard voices. Kids’ voices. Shouting and 
laughing. 

The clearing narrowed. Tall pine trees, birch trees, and maples clustered 
over the hill. 

“What kind of sports camp is it?” Elliot asked Buddy. 

“We play all kinds of sports,” Buddy replied. “From Ping-Pong to football. 
From croquet to soccer. We have swimming. We have tennis. We have archery. 
We even have a marbles tournament!” 

“Sounds like a cool place!” my brother declared, grinning at me. 

“Only the best!” Buddy said, slapping Elliot on the shoulder. 

I reached the top of the hill first and peered down through the trees to the 
camp. It seemed to stretch for miles! 

I could see two long, white, two-story buildings on either side. Between 
them, I saw several playing fields, a baseball diamond, a long row of tennis 
courts, and two enormous swimming pools. 

“Those long, white buildings are the dorms,” Buddy explained, pointing. 
“That’s the girls’ dorm, and that’s the boys’. You guys can stay in them while 
you’re here.” 

“Wow! It looks awesome!” Elliot exclaimed. “Two swimming pools!” 

“Olympic size,” Buddy told him. “We have diving competitions, too. Are 
you into diving?” 

“Only inside the trailer!” I joked. 

“Wendy is into swimming,” Elliot told Buddy. 

“I think there’s a four-lap swim race this afternoon,” Buddy told me. “I’ll 
check the schedule for you.” 

The sun beamed on us as we followed the path down the hill. The back of 
my neck started to prickle. A cool swim sounded pretty good to me. 



“Can anyone sign up for baseball?” Elliot asked Buddy. “I mean, do you 
have to be on a team or something?” 

“You can play any sport you want,” Buddy told him. “The only rule at King 
Jellyjam’s Sports Camp is to try hard.” Buddy tapped the button on his T-shirt. 
“Only The Best,” he said. 

The breeze blew my hair back over my face. I knew I should have had it cut 
before vacation! I decided I’d have to find something to tie it back with as soon 
as I got into the dorm. 

A soccer match was under way on the nearest field. Whistles blew. Kids 
shouted. I saw a long row of archery targets at the far end of the soccer field. 

Buddy started jogging toward the field. Elliot stepped up beside me. “Hey 
—we wanted to go to camp, right?” he said, grinning. “Well? We made it!” 

Before I could reply, he trotted after Buddy. 

I brushed back my hair one more time, then followed. But I stopped when I 
saw a little girl poke her head out from behind a wide tree trunk. 

She appeared to be about six or seven. She had bright red hair and a face 
full of freckles. She wore a pale blue T-shirt pulled down over black tights. 

“Hey—” she called in a loud whisper. “Hey—!” 

I turned toward her, startled. 

“Don’t come in!” she called. “Run away! Don’t come in!” 



6 


Buddy turned back quickly. “What’s the problem, Wendy?” he called. 

When I returned my eyes to the tree, the red-haired girl had vanished. I 
blinked a couple of times. No trace of her. 

What was that girl doing out here? I wondered. Did she hide behind that 
tree just to scare people? 

“Uh... no problem,” I called to Buddy. I followed Elliot and the counselor 
into the camp. 

I quickly forgot all about the girl as we made our way around the soccer 
field and past a long row of fenced-in tennis courts. The thwack of tennis balls 
followed us as we turned on to the main path that led through the camp. 

So many sports! So much activity! 

We pushed our way through kids of all ages, eagerly hurrying to the 
swimming pools, to the baseball diamond, to the bowling lanes! 

“Awesome!” Elliot kept repeating. “Totally awesome!” 

And for once, he was right. 

We passed several other camp counselors. They were all young men and 
women, dressed completely in white, all of them good-looking and smiling 
cheerfully. 

And we passed dozens of little triangular signs showing the purple, blobby 
face of King Jellyjam, smiling out from under his shiny gold crown. Under each 
face was the camp slogan: Only The Best. 

He’s kind of cute, I decided. I realized I was starting to like everything 
about this amazing sports camp. 

And I have to confess I found myself secretly hoping that Mom and Dad 
wouldn’t be able to find Elliot and me for at least a day or two. 

Isn’t that terrible? 

I felt really guilty about it. But I couldn’t help thinking it. This camp was 
just too exciting. Especially after days of riding in the backseat of the car, staring 
out at cows! 

We dropped my brother off at the boys’ dorm first. Another counselor, a 
tall, dark-haired guy named Scooter, greeted Elliot and took my brother off to 
find a dorm room. 



Then Buddy led me to the girls’ dorm on the other side of the camp. We 
passed a gymnastics competition being held in an outdoor arena. Beyond that, 
one of the swimming pools was jammed with kids watching a diving contest off 
the high board. 

Buddy and I chatted as we walked. I told him about my school and about 
how my favorite sports are swimming and biking. 

We stopped at the white double-door entrance to the dorm. “Where are you 
from?” I asked him. 

Buddy stared back at me. He had such a confused expression on his face. 
For a moment, I thought he didn’t understand the question. 

“Do you come from around here?” I asked. 

He swallowed hard. He squinted his blue eyes. “Weird...” he muttered 
finally. 

“What’s weird?” I demanded. 

“I... I don’t remember,” he stammered. “I don’t remember where I’m from. 
Is that weird or what?” He raised his right hand to his mouth and nibbled his 
pointer finger. 

“Hey, I forget stuff all the time,” I told him, seeing how upset he was. 

I didn’t get a chance to say anything else. A young woman counselor with 
very short, straight black hair and bright purple-lipsticked lips came trotting up 
to us. “Hello. I’m Holly. Are you ready for some sports?” 

“I guess,” I replied uncertainly. 

“This is Wendy,” Buddy told her, his expression still troubled. “She needs a 
room.” 

“No problem!” Holly declared cheerfully. “Only The Best!” 

“Only The Best,” Buddy repeated quietly. He flashed me a smile. But I 
could see he was still struggling to remember where his home was. Weird, huh? 

Holly led the way into the dorm. I followed her down a long, white-tiled 
hall. Several girls came running past, on their way to different sports. They were 
all shouting and laughing excitedly. 

I peeked into some of the open rooms as we passed by them. Wow! I 
thought. This place is so modern and luxurious! It’s not exactly your basic, rustic 
summer camp. 

“We don’t stay in the rooms much at all,” Holly told me. “Everyone is 
always outdoors, competing.” 

She pushed open a white door and motioned for me to step in. Bright 



sunlight flooded the room from a wide window on the opposite wall. 

I saw two bright blue bunk beds against each wall. A sleek white dresser 
between them. Two white leather armchairs. 

The walls were white. They were bare except for a small, framed drawing 
of King Jellyjam above the dresser. 

“Nice room!” I exclaimed, squinting against the bright sunlight. 

Holly smiled. Her bright purple lips made the rest of her features seem to 
disappear. “Glad you like it, Wendy. You can take that bottom bunk over there.” 
She pointed. She had purple fingernails that matched her lipstick. 

“Do I have roommates?” I asked. 

Holly nodded. “You’ll meet them soon. They’ll get you started with some 
activities. I think they’re playing soccer on the lower field. I’m not sure.” 

She started out of the room, but turned at the doorway. “You’ll like Dierdre. 
I think she’s about your age.” 

“Thanks,” I said, gazing around the room. 

“Catch you later,” Holly replied. She vanished into the hall. 

I stood in the center of the sunlit room, thinking hard. What am I supposed 
to do for clothes? I wondered. What about swimsuits? Sweats? 

A11 I had were the denim short-shorts and pink-and-blue-striped T-shirt I 
was wearing. 

And why didn’t Holly tell me where to go next? I asked myself. Why did 
she just leave me by myself in this empty room? 

I didn’t have long to ask myself questions. 

I started to cross to the window when I heard voices. Whispered voices 
outside the door. 

I turned to the door. Were my roommates returning? 

I listened to the excited buzz of whispers. 

Then I heard a girl loudly instruct the others. “Come on. We’ve got her 
trapped in there. Let’s get her!” 



7 


I gasped and searched frantically for a place to hide. 

No time. 

Three girls burst into the room, their eyes narrowed, their mouths twisted 
into menacing sneers. They formed a line and moved toward me quickly. 

“Whoa! Wait!” I cried. I raised both hands as if to shield myself from their 
attack. 

The tall girl with streaky blond hair was the first to laugh. Then the other 
two joined in. 

“Gotcha,” the blond girl declared, tossing back her long hair triumphantly. 

I glared back at her, my mouth hanging open. 

“Did you really think we were going to attack?” one of the others asked. 
She was thin and wiry, with very short black hair cut into bangs. She wore gray 
sweats and a torn gray T-shirt. 

“Well...” I started. I could feel my face growing hot. Their little joke had 
really fooled me. I felt like a total jerk. 

“Don’t look at me,” the third girl said, shaking her head. She had frizzy 
blond hair tumbling out from beneath a blue and red Chicago Cubs cap. “It was 
all Dierdre’s idea.” She pointed to the girl with streaky blond hair. 

“Don’t feel bad,” Dierdre told me, grinning. Her green eyes flashed. 
“You’re the third girl this week.” 

The other two snickered. 

“And did the others think you were attacking?” I asked. 

Dierdre nodded, very pleased with herself. “It’s kind of a mean joke,” she 
admitted. “But it’s funny.” 

This time I joined in the laughter. 

“I have a younger brother. I’m used to dumb jokes,” I told Dierdre. 

She swept back her hair again. Rummaged around on the dresser top. Found 
a hair scrunchy to hold it back. “This is Jan and this is Ivy,” she said, motioning 
to the other girls. 

Jan was the one with the short black bangs. She slumped on to a lower 
bunk. “I’m whipped,” she sighed. “What a workout. Look at me. I’m sweating 
like a pig.” 



“Ever hear of deodorant?” Ivy cracked. 

Jan stuck out her tongue at Ivy in reply. 

“Get changed,” Dierdre instructed them both. “We’ve only got ten 
minutes.” 

“Ten minutes till what?” Jan demanded, bending down and rubbing her calf 
muscles. 

“Did you forget the four-lap race?” Dierdre replied. 

“Oh, wow!” Jan cried, jumping up. “I did forget.” She hurried to the 
dresser. “Where’s my swimsuit?” 

Ivy followed her. They began frantically sifting through the drawers. 

Dierdre turned to me. “Do you want to enter the race?” she asked. 

“I—I don’t have a swimsuit,” I replied. 

She shrugged. “No problem. I have about a dozen.” She studied me. “We’re 
about the same size. I’m just a little taller.” 

“Well, I’d love a swim,” I told her. “Maybe I’ll just go to the pool and 
splash around for a while.” 

“Huh? Not compete?” Dierdre cried. 

All three girls turned to me, stunned expressions on their faces. 

“I’ll do some sports later,” I said. “Right now, I just want to dive in and 
swim a little. You know. Cool off.” 

“But—you can’t!” Jan cried. She gaped at me as if I had suddenly grown a 
second head. 

“No way,” Ivy said, shaking her head. 

“You have to compete,” Dierdre added. “You can’t just swim.” 

“Only The Best,” Ivy recited. 

“Right. Only The Best,” Jan agreed. 

I felt totally confused. “What do you mean?” I demanded. “Why do you 
keep saying that?” 

Dierdre tossed me a blue swimsuit. “Put it on. We’re going to be late.” 
“But... but—” I sputtered. 

The three girls hurried to get into their swimsuits. 

I saw that I had no choice. I went into the bathroom and started to change. 
But my questions repeated in my mind. I really wanted them answered. 

Why did I have to compete in the race? Why couldn’t I just have a swim? 
And why did everyone keep repeating “Only The Best”? 

What did they mean? 



8 


The enormous blue pool sparkled under the bright sunlight. The sun hovered 
high overhead. The concrete burned the soles of my bare feet. I couldn’t wait to 
get into the water. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I searched for Elliot. But I couldn’t find 
him in the crowd of kids who were waiting to watch the race. 

Elliot has probably already played three sports, I told myself. This had to be 
the perfect camp for my brother! 

I gazed down the line of girls waiting to compete in the four-lap race. We 
all stood on the edge of the deep end of the pool, waiting to jump in. 

I silently counted. There were at least two dozen girls in this race. And the 
pool was wide enough for all of us to have a lane to swim in. 

“Hey, you look terrific in my suit,” Dierdre said. Her green eyes studied me. 
“You should have tied your hair back, Wendy. It’s going to slow you down.” 

Wow, I thought. Dierdre really cares about winning. 

“Are you a good swimmer?” I asked her. 

She swatted a fly on the back of her calf. “The best,” she replied, grinning. 
“How about you?” 

“I’ve never really raced,” I told her. 

The pool counselors were all young women. They wore white two-piece 
swimsuits. Across the pool, I saw Holly sitting on the edge of the diving board, 
talking to another counselor. 

A tall, red-haired counselor moved to the edge of the pool and blew her 
whistle. “Everyone ready?” she called. 

We all shouted back that we were ready. Then the long line of girls grew 
silent. We turned to the pool, leaned forward, and prepared to dive in. 

The water shimmered beneath me. The sun burned down on my back and 
shoulders. I felt about to melt. I couldn’t wait to jump in. 

The whistle blew. I sprang forward and hit the water hard. 

I gasped from the shock of the cold against my hot skin. My arms churned 
hard as I pulled myself forward. 

The splash of thrashing arms and kicking feet sounded like the roar of a 
waterfall. I dipped my face into the water, feeling the refreshing coldness. 



Turning my head, I glimpsed Dierdre a few lengths behind me. She swam 
in a steady rhythm, her arms and legs moving smoothly, gracefully. 

I’m ahead of everyone, I realized, glancing across the pool. I’m winning the 

race! 

With a hard kick, I reached the other end of the pool. I made a sharp turn 
and pushed off. As I started back to the deep end, the other girls were still 
approaching the shallow end wall. 

I pulled myself harder. My heart started to pound. 

I knew I’d win the first lap easily. Then there were three laps to go. 

Three laps... 

I suddenly realized how dumb I was. The other girls were pacing 
themselves. They weren’t swimming full speed because they knew it was a four- 
lap race. 

If I kept swimming this hard, I wouldn’t survive two laps! 

I sucked in a deep breath, then let it out slowly. 

Slowly... slowly... 

That was the word of the day. 

I slowed my kicking. Shot my arms out and pulled them back slowly. Took 
long breaths. Long, slow breaths. 

As I made my turn and started the second lap, several other swimmers had 
moved beside me. I caught Dierdre’s eye as she swam past. 

She never broke her steady rhythm. Stroke. Stroke. Breath. Stroke. 

On the other side of Dierdre, I saw Jan swimming comfortably, easily. Jan 
was so small and light. She seemed to float over the water. 

Into the third lap. I kept a few lengths behind Dierdre. I had to concentrate 
on keeping a slow, even pace. I pretended I was a robot, programmed to swim 
slowly. 

Dierdre turned into the fourth lap a few seconds ahead of me. I saw her 
expression change as she made her turn. She narrowed her eyes. Her entire face 
grew tight and tense. 

Dierdre really wants to win, I saw. 

I wondered if I could catch her. I wondered if I could beat her. 

I made my turn and put on the speed. 

I ignored the aching in my arms. 

I ignored the cramp in my left foot. 

I thrust myself forward, kicking hard from the waist. My hands cut through 



the water. 

Faster. 

I glimpsed Jan fall behind. I saw the disappointment on her face as I passed 

by. 

Pounding, thrusting arms and legs churned the water to froth. The splashing 
became a roar. The roar nearly drowned out the cheers of the kids watching from 
around the pool. 

My heart thudded so hard, I thought my chest might explode. 

My arms ached. They felt as if they each weighed a thousand pounds. 

Faster... 

I pulled up beside Dierdre. Close. So close, I could hear her gasping 
breaths. 

I glimpsed her face, tight with concentration. 

She’s just like Elliot, I decided. She wants to win so badly. 

Lots of times I let Elliot win a game. Because he cared about it so much 
more than I did. And so did Dierdre. 

As we neared the wall at the deep end, I let Dierdre pull ahead. 

I saw how much it meant to her. I saw how desperate she was to finish first. 

What the heck, I thought. There’s nothing wrong with coming in second. 

I heard the cheers ring out as Dierdre won the race. 

I touched the wall, then dipped below the surface. I pulled myself up and 
grabbed the wall. 

My entire body ached and throbbed. I gasped in breath after breath. I shut 
my eyes and pulled my hair back with both hands, squeezing the water out of it. 

My arms were so tired, I could barely pull myself out of the pool. I was one 
of the last swimmers out. 

The others had all formed a circle around Dierdre. I pushed my way into the 
crowd of girls to see what was happening. 

My eyes burned. I brushed water out of them. 

I saw the red-haired counselor hand something to Dierdre. Something gold 
and shiny. 

Everyone cheered. Then the circle broke, and the girls all headed in 
different directions. 

I made my way up to Dierdre. “Way to go!” I exclaimed. “I came close. But 
you’re really fast.” 

“I’m on the swim team at school,” she replied. She held up the gold object 



the counselor had given her. 

I could see it clearly now. A shiny gold coin. It had a smiling King Jellyjam 
engraved on it. I couldn’t read the words around the edge of the coin. But I could 
guess what they were. 

“It’s my fifth King Coin!” Dierdre declared proudly. 

Why is she so excited about it? I wondered. It wasn’t a real coin. It 
probably wasn’t even real gold! 

“What’s a King Coin?” I asked. The coin gleamed in the sunlight. 

“If I win one more King Coin, I can walk in the Winners Walk,” Dierdre 
explained. 

I started to ask what the Winners Walk was. But Jan and Ivy came running 
up to congratulate Dierdre. And the three of them all started talking at once. 

I suddenly remembered my brother. Where is Elliot? I wondered. What has 
he been doing? 

I turned away from Dierdre and the other girls and started toward the pool 
exit. But I had only taken a few steps when I heard someone calling my name. 

I spun around to see Holly jogging toward me. Her purple-lipsticked lips 
were knotted in a fretful expression. “Wendy, you’d better come with me,” the 
counselor told me. 

My heart skipped. “Huh? What’s wrong?” I asked. 

“I’m afraid there’s a problem,” Holly said softly. 



9 


Something happened to Mom and Dad! 

That’s the first thought that burst into my head. 

“What’s wrong?” I cried. “My parents! Are they okay? Are they—” 

“We haven’t found your parents yet,” Holly said. She wrapped a towel 
around my trembling shoulders. Then she led me to a bench at the side of the 
pool. 

“Is it Elliot?” I cried, dropping down beside her. “What is wrong?” 

Holly kept one arm around my shoulders. She leaned close. Her brown eyes 
stared into mine. 

“Wendy, the problem is that you didn’t really try very hard to win the race,” 
she said. 

I swallowed hard. “Excuse me?” 

“I watched you,” Holly continued. “I saw you slow your strokes in the last 
lap. I don’t think you tried your best to win.” 

“But—but—I—” I sputtered. 

Holly continued to stare at me without blinking. “Am I right?” she 
demanded softly. 

“I—I’m not used to swimming that far,” I stammered. “It was my first race. 
I didn’t think—” 

“I know you’re new at camp,” Holly said, brushing a fly off my leg. “But 
you know the camp slogan, right?” 

“For sure,” I replied. “It’s everywhere I look! But what does it mean? ‘Only 
The Best!”’ 

“I guess it’s kind of a warning,” Holly replied thoughtfully. “That’s why I 
decided to talk to you now, Wendy.” 

“A warning?” I cried. I felt more confused than ever. “A warning about 
what?” 

Holly didn’t reply. She forced a smile to her face and stood up. “Catch you 
later, okay?” 

She turned and hurried away. 

I wrapped the towel tighter around my shoulders and started back to the dorm to 



change. As I walked past the tennis courts, I thought hard about Holly’s warning. 

Why was it so important for me to win the race? 

So that I could be awarded, one of those gold coins with the blobby purple 
king on it? 

Why should I care about winning coins? Why couldn’t I just play some 
games, make new friends, and have fun? 

Why did Holly say she was giving me a warning? A warning about what? 

I shook my head, trying to shake away all these puzzling questions. I’d 
heard about sports camps from some of my friends back home. Some camps, 
they said, were really tough. The kids were all serious jock types who wanted to 
win, win, win. 

I guessed this was one of those camps. 

Oh, well, I thought, sighing. I don’t have to love this camp. Mom and Dad 
will be here soon to take Elliot and me away. 

I glanced up—and saw Elliot. 

Sprawled face down on the ground. His arms and legs spread out 
awkwardly. His eyes closed. 

Unconscious. 



10 


“Ooooh!” I let out a frightened wail. 

“Elliot! Elliot!” I dropped down beside him. 

He sat up and grinned at me. “How many times are you going to fall for 
that?” he asked. He started to laugh. 

I slugged him in the shoulder as hard as I could. “You creep!” 

That made him laugh even harder. It really cracks him up when he makes 
me look like a jerk. 

Why do I always fall for the stupid joke? Elliot pulls it on me all the time. 
And I always believe he’s been knocked out cold. 

“I’m never falling for that again. Never!” I cried. 

Elliot pulled himself to his feet. “Come watch me play Ping-Pong,” he said, 
tugging my hand. “I’m in the tournament. I’m beating this kid Jeff. He thinks 
he’s good because he puts a spin on his serve. But he’s pitiful.” 

“I can’t,” I replied. I pulled out of his grasp. “I’m dripping wet. I have to 
change.” 

“Come watch,” he insisted. “It won’t take long. I’ll beat him really fast, 
okay?” 

“Elliot—” He certainly was excited. 

“If I beat Jeff, I win a King Coin,” he announced. “Then I’m going to win 
five more. I want to win six so I can walk in the Winners Walk before Mom and 
Dad come for us.” 

“Good luck,” I mumbled, rubbing my wet hair with the towel. 

“Were you in a swim race? Did you win?” Elliot asked, tugging my hand 
again. 

“No. I came in second,” I told him. 

He snickered. “You’re a loser. Come watch me beat this kid.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Okay, okay.” 

Elliot pulled me to a row of outdoor Ping-Pong tables. They were shielded 
from the sun by a broad, white canvas awning. 

He hurried up to the table on the end. Jeff was waiting for him there, softly 
bouncing a Ping-Pong ball in the air with his paddle. 

I had pictured a little shrimpy guy that Elliot could beat easily. But Jeff was 



a big, red-faced, blond kid with bulging muscles. He had to be twice the size of 
my brother! 

I took a seat on a white wooden bench across from the tables. Elliot can’t 
beat this big guy, I thought. My poor brother is in for a major defeat. 

As they started to play, Buddy came walking over and sat down beside me. 
He flashed me a smile. “No word from your parents yet,” he said. “But we’ll 
find them.” 

We watched the Ping-Pong match. Jeff did his serve with the special spin. 
Elliot slammed it back at him. 

To my surprise, the match was really even. I think Jeff was surprised, too. 
His returns became more and more wild. And a lot of his special serves missed 
the table entirely! 

They had already played two games, Buddy told me. Jeff had won the first, 
Elliot the second. This was the third and deciding match. 

The game was a tie at sixteen, then a tie at seventeen and eighteen. 

I watched Elliot become more and more intense. He wanted desperately to 
win. He leaned stiffly over the table, gripping the paddle so tightly, his hand was 
white. 

Sweat poured off his forehead. He began ducking and dodging, groaning 
with each hit, trying to slam every ball. 

The more frantic and wild Elliot became, the calmer Jeff appeared. 

The game was a tie at nineteen. 

Elliot missed a shot and angrily slammed his paddle against the table. 

I could see that he was losing it. I’d seen this happen to my brother many 
times before. He could never win if he stayed this intense. 

As he held the ball and prepared to serve, I raised two fingers to the sides of 
my mouth and blew hard. He lowered the paddle when he heard my loud 
whistle. 

That was my signal. I’d used it many times before. It meant, “Cool it, 
Elliot. Calm down.” 

Elliot turned and gave me a quick thumbs-up. 

I saw him take a deep breath. Then another. 

My whistle signal always helped him. 

He raised the ball and served it to Jeff. Jeff sent back a weak return. Elliot 
smacked it back into the right corner. Jeff swung off balance and missed. 

Jeff served the next one. Elliot backhanded it. Very soft. The ball tipped 



over the net and dribbled several times on Jeff’s side. 

Elliot had won! 

He let out a gleeful cheer and raised his fists in victory. 

Jeff angrily heaved his paddle to the ground and stomped away. 

“Your brother is good,” Buddy said, climbing to his feet. “I like his style. 
He’s intense.” 

“For sure,” I muttered. 

Buddy hurried over to award Elliot his King Coin. “Hey, guy—you only 
need five more,” Buddy said, slapping Elliot a high five, then a low five. 

“No problem,” Elliot bragged. He held the coin up so I could see it. King 
Jellyjam smiled out at me, engraved on the coin. 

Why did the camp pick this silly little blob for a mascot? I wondered again. 
He looked like a fat hunk of pudding wearing a crown. 

“I’ve got to get changed,” I told Elliot. 

He slid the gold coin into the pocket of his shorts. “I’m going to find 
another sport!” he declared. “I want to win another King Coin before tonight!” 

I waved good-bye, then started toward the dorm. 

I had walked only a few steps when I heard a low rumbling. 

Then the ground started to shake. 

I froze. Every muscle in my body locked as the rumbling grew louder. 
“Earthquake!” I cried. 



11 


The ground shook hard. The awning over the Ping-Pong tables shook. The tables 
bounced on the ground. 

My knees buckled. I struggled to stay on my feet. 

“Earthquake!” I choked out again. 

“It’s okay!” Buddy called, running toward me. 

He was right. The rumbling sound faded quickly. The ground stopped 
shaking. 

“That happens sometimes,” Buddy explained. “It’s no problem.” 

My heart still thudded in my chest. My legs wobbled as if they were rubber 
bands. “No problem?” 

“See?” Buddy motioned around the crowded camp. “No one pays any 
attention. It lasts only a few seconds.” 

I gazed around quickly. Buddy was right again. The kids in the chess 
tournament in front of the lodge didn’t glance up from their chessboards. The 
kickball game on the field across from the pool continued without a pause. 

“It usually happens once or twice a day,” Buddy told me. 

“But what causes it?” I demanded. 

He shrugged. “Beats me.” 

“But—everything shook so hard! Isn’t it dangerous?” I asked. 

Buddy didn’t hear me. He was already jogging over to watch the kickball 
game. 

I turned and started walking to the dorm. I felt kind of shaky. I could still 
hear that strange rumbling sound in my ears. 

As I pulled open the door to the dorm, I bumped into Jan and Ivy. They 
both had changed into white tennis outfits, and they both carried tennis rackets 
over their shoulders. 

“What sports have you been playing?” 

“Did you win a King Coin?” 

“Wasn’t that a great swim race?” 

“Are you having fun, Wendy?” 

“Do you play tennis?” 



They both talked at once and shot out half a dozen questions. They seemed 
really excited. They didn’t give me a chance to answer. 

“We need more girls for the tennis tournament,” Ivy said. “We’re having a 
two-day tournament. Come to the courts after lunch, okay?” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “I’m not that good, but—” 

“See you later!” Jan cried. They both hurried away. 

Actually, I am a pretty good tennis player. I have a decent serve. And I do 
all right with my two-handed backhand. 

But I’m not great. 

Back home, my friend Allison and I always play for fun. We don’t try to 
kill each other. Sometimes we just keep volleying back and forth. We don’t even 
keep score. 

I’ll enter the tennis tournament, I decided. And if I lose in the first round, 
it’s no big deal. 

Besides, I told myself, Mom and Dad will be here any minute. And Elliot 
and I will have to leave. 

Mom and Dad... their faces flashed into my mind. 

They must be frantic, I realized. They must be worried sick. I hoped they 
were okay. 

I suddenly had an idea. 

I’ll call home, I decided. I should have thought of this before. I’ll call home 
and leave a message on our answering machine. I’ll tell Mom and Dad on the 
machine where Elliot and I are. 

No matter where he goes, Dad checks for phone messages every hour. Mom 
always makes fun of him for being so nervous about missing a call. 

But they’ll both be glad to get this message! I told myself. 

What a good idea! I congratulated myself. 

Now all I needed was a phone. 

There have to be phones in the dorm, I decided. I searched the small front 
lobby. But I didn’t see any pay phones. 

No one at the front desk. No one I could ask. 

I peered down a long hallway. Rooms on both sides. No phones. 

I tried the other hallway. No pay phones there, either. 

Eager to make my call, I turned and hurried back outside. I let out a long 
sigh of relief when I spotted two pay phones beside the long white dorm 
building. 



My heart pounding, I jogged over to them. 

I picked up the phone closest to me. And I started to raise the receiver to 
ear— 

—when two strong hands grabbed me from behind. 

“Get off the phone!” a voice demanded. 



12 


“Huh?” I shrieked in surprise and dropped the phone. It spun crazily on its cord. 

I turned around. “Dierdre! You scared me to death!” I cried. 

Her green eyes flashed excitedly. “Sorry, Wendy. I just had to tell you my 
news! Look!” 

She held out her hand. I saw a stack of gold King Coins. 

“I just won my sixth coin!” Dierdre declared breathlessly. “Isn’t that 
awesome?” 

“I—I guess,” I replied uncertainly. I still couldn’t figure out why it was 
such a big deal. 

“I’ll be in the Winners Walk tonight!” Dierdre exclaimed. “I can’t believe I 
made it!” 

“That’s great,” I told her. “Congratulations.” 

“Have you won any King Coins yet?” Dierdre asked, still holding out her 
hand. 

“Uh... not yet,” I replied. 

“Well, get going!” Dierdre urged. “Show them what you’ve got, Wendy. 
Only The Best!” She flashed me a thumbs-up with her free hand. 

“Right. Only The Best,” I repeated. 

“We’ll have a party,” Dierdre continued. “In our room. Right after the 
Winners Walk. Okay? We’ll celebrate.” 

“Great!” I replied. “Maybe we can get a pizza from the mess hall or 
something.” 

“Tell Jan and Ivy,” Dierdre instructed. “Or I’ll tell them. Whoever sees 
them first! See you later!” 

She ran off, holding the six gold coins tightly in her fist. 

I realized I was smiling. Dierdre had been so excited, she’d gotten me 
excited. So excited, I forgot about my phone call. 

I have to give this camp a chance, I decided. I have to get into the spirit of 
things and start having some fun. Only The Best! I’m going to win that tennis 
tournament! 


We all ate dinner at long wooden tables in the huge mess hall inside the main 



camp lodge. The long, high-ceilinged room seemed to stretch on forever. 

Loud voices and laughter echoed off the walls over the clatter of plates and 
silverware. Everyone had a story to tell. Everyone wanted to talk about the 
games of the day. 

After dinner, the counselors led us all to the running track. I searched for 
Elliot. But I couldn’t find him in the crowd. 

It was a warm, clear night. A pale sliver of a moon floated low over the 
darkening trees. As the sun set, the sky faded from pink to purple to gray. 

When darkness fell, I saw two flickering yellow lights at the far end of the 
track, moving toward me. As they came near, I could see that they were torches, 
carried by two counselors. 

A blaring trumpet fanfare made us all grow quiet. 

I stepped closer to Jan, who stood at my side. “They sure make a big deal of 
this,” I whispered. 

“It is a big deal,” Jan replied, her eyes straight ahead as the torches 
approached. 

“Do we have any food for the party later?” I whispered. 

Jan raised a finger to her lips. “Ssshhhh.” 

Several more torches had been lit. The yellow balls of light glowed like tiny 

suns. 

I heard a drumroll. Then a loud march blared from the loudspeaker, all 
trumpets and pounding drums. 

We stood in silence as the parade of torches passed by. And, then, in the 
flickering yellow light, I saw faces. The smiling faces of the kids who had won 
their sixth King Coin that day. 

I counted eight kids. Five boys and three girls. 

Their gold coins had been strung as necklaces around their necks. The coins 
caught the light of the torches and made the faces of the winners appear to glow 
as they marched by. 

Dierdre marched second in line. She seemed so happy and excited! Her 
coins jangled at her throat. Her smile never faded. 

Jan and I waved and called to her, but she marched right past. 

A counselor’s voice suddenly boomed over the loudspeaker: “Let’s hear it 
for our winners who are taking the Winners Walk tonight!” 

A deafening cheer rose up from the kids watching the parade. We all 
clapped and shouted and whistled until the winners had marched past and the 



final torches had floated out of sight. 

“Only The Best!” the voice shouted over the loudspeaker. 

“Only The Best!” we all chanted back. “Only The Best!” 

That ended the Winners Walk parade. The lights came on. We all scrambled 
toward the dorms. The boys ran in one direction, the girls in the other. 

“The torches were really cool,” I said to Jan as we followed the crowd of 
girls down the path to the dorm. 

“I only need two more King Coins,” Jan replied. 

“Maybe I can win them tomorrow. Are you playing in the softball 
tournament?” 

“No. Tennis,” I told her. 

“There are too many good tennis players,” Jan replied. “It’ll be too hard to 
win a coin. You should play softball, too.” 

“Well... maybe,” I replied. 

Ivy was already waiting for us in the room. “Where’s Dierdre?” she 
demanded as Jan and I entered. 

“We didn’t see her,” Jan replied. 

“Probably hanging out with the other winners,” I added. 

“I found two bags of tortilla chips, but I couldn’t find any salsa,” Ivy 
reported, holding up the bags. 

“Do we have anything to drink?” I asked. 

Ivy held up two cans of diet Coke. 

“Wow! Great party!” Jan exclaimed, laughing. 

“Maybe we should invite some girls in from other rooms,” I suggested. 

“No way! Then we’d have to share the Cokes!” Jan protested. 

We all laughed. 

The three of us joked and kidded around for about half an hour, waiting for 
Dierdre. We sat down on the floor and opened one of the bags of tortilla chips. 

Without realizing it, we finished off the whole bag. Then we passed around 
one of the cans of soda. 

“Where is she?” Jan demanded, glancing at her watch. 

“It’s nearly time for lights-out,” Ivy sighed. “We won’t have much time for 
a party.” 

“Maybe Dierdre forgot we were having a party,” I suggested, crinkling up 
the tortilla chip bag and tossing it toward the trash basket. 

I missed. Basketball is definitely not my sport. 



“But the party was her idea!” Ivy replied. She climbed to her feet and 
started pacing back and forth. “Where can she be? Everyone is inside by now.” 

“Let’s go find her,” I said. The words just popped out of my mouth. That 
happens to me sometimes. I get a bright idea before I know what I’m saying. 

“Yes! Let’s go!” Ivy eagerly agreed. 

“Whoa. Hold it,” Jan said, stepping in front of us, blocking our way to the 
door. “We’re not allowed. You know the rules, Ivy. We’re not allowed outside 
after ten.” 

“We’ll sneak out, find Dierdre, and sneak back in,” Ivy replied. “Come on, 
Jan. What could happen?” 

“Right. What could happen?” I chimed in. 

Jan was outnumbered. “Okay, okay. But I hope we don’t get caught,” she 
muttered. She followed Ivy and me to the door. 

“What could happen?” I asked myself, leading the way into the empty hall. 

“What could happen?” I repeated as we sneaked out the door, into the night. 

“What could happen?” 

I didn’t know it. But the answer to the question was: A LOT! 



13 


The night had grown warmer. And steamier. As I crept out the door, I felt as if I 
were stepping into a hot shower. 

A mosquito buzzed around my head. I tried to clap it between my hands. 
Missed. 

Jan, Ivy, and I edged our way around the side of the building. My shoes slid 
on the dew-wet grass. Bright spotlights shone down from the trees, lighting the 
path. 

We crept in the shadows. 

“Where should we look first?” Ivy whispered. 

“Let’s start at the lodge,” I suggested. “Maybe all of tonight’s winners are 
partying there.” 

“I don’t hear any partying,” Jan whispered. “It’s so quiet out here!” 

She was right. The only sounds I could hear were the steady chirp of 
crickets and the whisper of the warm wind through the trees. 

Keeping in the shadows, we followed the path toward the lodge. We passed 
the swimming pool, empty and silent. The water shimmered like silver under the 
bright spotlights. 

It was such a hot, wet night, I imagined myself jumping into the pool with 
all of my clothes on. 

But we were on a mission: To find Dierdre. No time to think about late- 
night swims. 

Staying close together, we passed the row of Ping-Pong tables. They made 
me think of Elliot. I wondered what he was doing. Probably tucked into bed. 

Like any sensible person. 

We were approaching the first row of tennis courts when Ivy suddenly cried 
out, “Whoa! Get back!” She grabbed me and shoved me hard against the fence. 

I heard soft footsteps on the path. Someone humming. 

The three of us held our breath as a counselor walked past. He had curly 
black hair and wore dark blue sunglasses even though it was night. He wore the 
white T-shirt and white shorts that made up the counselor’s uniform. 

We pressed our backs against the tennis court fence. “That’s Billy,” Jan 
whispered. “He’s kind of cute. He’s always so happy.” 



“He won’t be too happy if he catches us,” Ivy whispered. “We’ll be in 
major trouble.” 

Humming to himself, snapping his fingers, Billy walked past us. The path 
curved around the other side of the tennis courts. I watched him until he 
disappeared. 

I took a deep breath. I hadn’t been breathing the whole time! 

“Where’s he going?” Ivy wondered. 

“Maybe he’s going to the party at the lodge,” I suggested. 

“Why don’t we ask him?” Jan joked. 

“For sure,” I muttered. 

We checked out the path in both directions. Then we started walking again. 

We made our way past the tennis courts. The spotlights in the trees cast 
long shadows across the path. The shadows shifted and moved as the tree limbs 
bobbed in the wind. They looked like dark creatures crawling and slithering over 
the ground. 

Despite the heat of the night, I shivered. 

It was kind of creepy walking over these moving shadows. I had the feeling 
one of them might reach up, grab me, and pull me down. 

Weird thought, huh? 

I turned back in time to see the lights in the dorm windows start to go out. 
Lights-out. 

I tapped Jan on the shoulder. She turned and watched the dorm, too. As the 
lights all went out, the building seemed to disappear in front of our eyes. It faded 
into the black of the night sky. 

“M-maybe this wasn’t such a good idea,” I whispered. 

Ivy didn’t reply. She bit her lower lip. Her eyes were darting around the 
darkness. 

Jan laughed. “Don’t wimp out now,” she scolded. “We’re almost to the 
lodge.” 

We cut through the soccer field. The main lodge stood on a low, sloping 
hill, hidden by wide, old maple and sassafras trees. 

We didn’t have to climb very far up the hill to see that the lodge was as dark 
as the dorm. 

“No party up there,” I whispered. 

Ivy sighed, disappointed. “Well, where could Dierdre be?” 

“We could try the boys’ dorm!” I joked. 



They both laughed. 

Our laughter was cut short by a loud fluttering sound, very close by. 

“What’s that?” Ivy cried. 

“Ohhh!” I let out a low moan as I raised my eyes and saw them. 

The sky was thick with bats. Dozens of black bats. 

Fluttering over the spotlights in the old trees. And, then—swooping down 
to get us! 



14 


I couldn’t help myself. I let out a scream. Then I shielded my face with both 
hands. 

I heard Jan and Ivy gasp. 

The fluttering grew louder. Closer. 

I could feel the bats’ hot breath on the back of my neck. Then I could feel 
them clawing at my hair, tearing at my face. 

I’ve got a real good imagination when it comes to bats. 

“Wendy, it’s okay,” Jan whispered. She tugged my hands from my face. She 
pointed. “Look.” 

I followed her gaze up to the fluttering black wings. The bats were 
swooping low. But they weren’t swooping at us. They were swooping down and 
landing on the swimming pool at the bottom of the hill. 

In the bright spotlights, I could see them dart into the water—for less than a 
second. Then sweep back up to the sky. 

“I—I don’t like bats,” I whispered. 

“Neither do I,” Ivy confessed. “I know they’re supposed to be good. I know 
they eat insects and stuff. But I still think they’re creepy.” 

“Well, they won’t bother us,” Jan said. “They’re just taking a drink.” She 
gave Ivy and me a push to get us started down the hill. 

We were lucky. Nobody had heard me scream. But we had walked only a 
few steps when we spotted another counselor coming down the path. I 
recognized her. She had straight white-blond hair that tumbled down to her waist 
from under a blue baseball cap. 

Without making a sound, all three of us dove behind a tall evergreen shrub 
and crouched down. 

Did she see us? 

I held my breath again. 

She kept walking. 

“Where are these counselors going?” Ivy whispered. 

“Let’s follow her,” I suggested. 

“Stay far back,” Jan instructed. 

We slowly climbed back to our feet. And stepped out from behind the 



shrub. 

And stopped when we heard the low, rumbling sound. 

As the rumbling grew louder, the ground began to shake. 

I caught the frightened expressions on my two friends’ faces. Ivy and Jan 
were just as scared as I was. 

The ground shook harder, so hard that we dropped to our knees. I leaned on 
all fours, holding on to the grass. The ground trembled and shook. The rumbling 
became a roar. 

I shut my eyes. 

The sound slowly faded. 

The ground gave a final tremble, then remained still. 

I opened my eyes and turned to Ivy and Jan. They started to stand. Slowly. 

“I hate when that happens!” Jan muttered. 

“What is it?” I whispered. I stood up on shaky legs. 

“Nobody knows,” Jan replied, brushing grass stains off her knees. “It just 
happens. A few times a day.” 

“I think we should give up on Dierdre,” Ivy said quietly. “I want to go back. 
To the dorm.” 

“Yeah. I’m with you,” I replied wearily. “We can have our celebration with 
Dierdre tomorrow.” 

“She can tell us all about where she was tonight and what she did,” Jan 

said. 

“This was a crazy idea,” I muttered. 

“It was your idea!” Jan exclaimed. 

“Most of my ideas are crazy!” I replied. 

Hiding in the shadows, we made our way down to the path. I gazed toward 
the pool. The bats had disappeared. Maybe the rumbling sound had scared them 
back into the woods. 

The crickets had stopped chirping. The air remained hot, but silent and still. 

The only sound was the scrape of our sneakers on the soft dirt path. 

And, then—before we could move or hide—we heard someone else’s 
footsteps. 

Rapid footsteps. Running hard. Running toward us. 

I stopped short when I heard a girl’s desperate cry. “Help me! Please— 
somebody! Help me!” 



15 


A hot gust of wind shook the trees, making their eerie dark shadows dance. 

I leaped back, startled by the girl’s terrified cries. 

“Help me! Please—!” 

She came running around from the side of the tennis courts. She wore tight 
blue short-shorts and a magenta midriff top. 

Her arms were stretched out in front of her. Her long hair flew wildly 
behind her head. 

I recognized her as soon as she burst into view. 

The little red-haired girl with all the freckles. The one who had hidden in 
the woods and warned Elliot and me not to come into the camp. 

“Help me!” 

She ran right into me, sobbing hard. I threw my arms around her tiny 
shoulders and held her. “You’re okay,” I whispered. “You’re okay.” 

“No!” she shrieked. She tugged away from me. 

“What’s wrong?” Jan demanded. “Why are you out here?” 

“Why aren’t you in bed?” Ivy added, stepping up beside me. 

The little girl didn’t answer. Her entire body trembled. 

She grabbed my hand and pulled me behind the bushes beside the path. Jan 
and Ivy followed. 

“I’m not okay,” she started, wiping the tears off her freckled cheeks with 
both hands. “I’m not. I—I—” 

“What’s your name?” Jan asked in a whisper. 

“Why are you out here?” Ivy repeated. 

I heard the flutter of bat wings again, low overhead. But I stared at the little 
girl and forced myself to ignore them. 

“My name—it’s Alicia,” the girl replied, sobbing. “We’ve got to go. Fast!” 

“Huh?” I cried. “Take a deep breath, Alicia. You’re okay. Really.” 

“No!” she cried again, shaking her head. 

“You’re safe now. You’re with us,” I insisted. 

“We’re not safe,” she cried. “No one. No one here. I tried to warn people. I 
tried to tell you...” Her words were cut off once again by her loud sobs. 



“What is it?” Ivy demanded. 

“What did you try to warn us about?” Jan asked, leaning down to the crying 

girl. 

“I—I saw something terrible !” Alicia stammered. “I—” 

“What did you see?” I asked impatiently. 

“I followed them,” Alicia replied. “And I saw it. Something horrible. I—I 
can’t talk about it. We just have to run. We have to tell the others. Everyone. We 
have to run. We have to get away from here!” 

She let out a long breath. Her entire body trembled again. 

“But why do we have to run?” I asked, placing my hands gently on her 
shoulders. 

I felt so bad. I wanted to calm her. I wanted to tell her that everything would 
be okay. But I didn’t know how to convince her. 

What had she seen? What had frightened her so much? 

Had she had a bad dream? 

“We have to go now!” she repeated shrilly. Her red hair was matted to her 
face by her tears. She grabbed my arm and pulled hard. “Hurry! We’ve got to 
mn! I saw it!” 

“Saw what?” I cried. 

Alicia had no time to reply. 

A dark-haired counselor stepped up in front of the bushes. “Caught you!” 
he cried. 



16 


I froze. My entire body went cold. 

The counselor’s dark eyes flashed in the light of a spotlight. “What are you 
doing out here?” he demanded. 

I sucked in a deep breath and started to answer. 

But another voice replied before I could. “Kind of nosy, aren’t you?” It was 
another counselor. A woman with short, black hair. 

Breathing hard, trying not to make a sound, I ducked lower behind the 
bushes. My two friends dropped to their knees. 

“You aren’t following me—are you?” the first counselor teased. 

“Why would I follow you? Maybe you’re following me!” the woman teased 
back. 

They didn’t see us, I realized happily. We were two feet away from them. 
But they didn’t see us behind the bushes. 

A few seconds later, the two counselors strolled off together. My friends 
and I waited a long while, listening hard until we could no longer hear their 
voices. Then we climbed slowly to our feet. 

“Alicia?” I asked. “Are you okay?” 

“Alicia?” Ivy and Jan cried. 

The little girl had vanished. 

We sneaked back into the dorm through a side door. Luckily, there were no 
counselors patrolling the halls. No one in sight. 

“Dierdre—are you back?” Jan called as we stepped into our room. 

No reply. 

I clicked on the light. Dierdre’s bunk remained empty. 

“Better turn off the light,” Ivy warned. “It’s after lights-out.” 

I clicked the light back off. Then I stumbled toward my bunk, waiting for 
my eyes to adjust to the darkness. 

“Where is Dierdre?” Ivy asked. “I’m a little worried about her. Maybe we 
should tell a counselor that she’s missing.” 

“What counselor?” Jan asked, slumping onto her bed. “There’s no one 
around. The counselors are all out somewhere.” 



“I’m sure she’s partying somewhere and forgot all about us,” I said, 
yawning. I bent to pull down the covers on my bed. 

“What do you think that little girl saw?” Ivy asked, peering out the window. 

“Alicia? I think she had a bad dream,” I replied. 

“But she was so frightened!” Jan said, shaking her head. “And what was 
she doing outside?” 

“And why did she run away from us like that?” Ivy added. 

“Weird,” I mumbled. 

“Weird is right,” Jan agreed. Weird is the word of the night. She made her 
way to the dresser. “I’m getting changed for bed. Big day tomorrow. I’ve got to 
win two more King Coins.” 

“Me, too,” Ivy said, yawning. 

Jan pulled out a dresser drawer. “Oh, no!” she shrieked. “No! I don’t 
believe it!” 



17 


“Jan—what is it?” I cried. 

Ivy and I tore across the room to the dresser. 

Jan continued to stare down into the open drawer. “It’s so dark,” she said. “I 
opened Dierdre’s drawer by mistake. And—and—it’s empty !” 

“Huh?” Ivy and I both uttered our surprise. 

Squinting through the dim gray light, I studied the dresser drawer. Totally 
empty. “Check the closet,” I suggested. 

Ivy crossed the room in three or four quick strides. She pulled open the 
closet door. 

“Dierdre’s stuff—it’s all gone!” Ivy declared. 

“Weird,” I muttered. It was still the word of the night. 

“Why would she move out and not tell us?” Jan demanded. 

“Where did she go?” Ivy added. 

Good question, I thought, staring at the empty closet. 

Where did Dierdre go? 


* * * 


Breakfast was the noisiest meal of the day. Spoons clattered against cereal 
bowls. Orange juice pitchers banged on the long wooden tables. 

Voices rang out as if someone had turned up the volume all the way. 
Everyone talked excitedly about the sports they planned to play today, the games 
they planned to win. 

I had taken the last shower. So Jan and Ivy were already eating breakfast 
when I made my way into the mess hall. 

As I pushed through the narrow aisle between the tables, I searched for 
Dierdre. No sign of her. 

I hadn’t slept very well, even though I was really tired. I kept thinking 
about Dierdre—and about Alicia. And I kept wondering what was taking Mom 
and Dad so long to get in touch with us. 

I spotted Elliot at the end of a table filled with boys about his age. He had a 
stack of waffles in front of him, and he was pouring dark syrup over them. 



“Elliot—what’s up?” I called, squeezing through the aisle to get over to 

him. 

My brother didn’t bother saying good morning. “I’ve got a one-on-one 
tournament this morning,” he reported excitedly. “I could win my third King 
Coin!” 

“Thrills and chills,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “You haven’t heard anything 
about Mom and Dad, have you?” 

He stared at me as if he didn’t remember who they were. Then he shook his 
head. “Not yet. Isn’t this a great camp? Did we luck out, or what?” 

I didn’t reply. My eyes were on the next table. I thought I had spotted 
Dierdre. But it was just another girl with streaky blond hair. 

“Have you won any coins yet?” Elliot asked. He had a mouth full of waffle. 
Syrup dripped down his chin. 

“Not yet,” I replied. 

He snickered. “They should change the camp slogan for you, Wendy. Only 
The Worst!” 

Elliot laughed. The other boys at the table laughed, too. 

As I said, Elliot really cracks himself up. 

I wasn’t in the mood for his lame jokes. My mind was still on Dierdre. 
“Catch you later,” I said. 

I squeezed past the table and headed toward the girls’ side of the room. 
Cheers and laughter rang out at a table near the wall. A scrambled-egg tossing 
battle had broken out. Three counselors rushed to stop it. 

Jan and Ivy’s table was full. I found an empty space at the next table. I 
poured myself a glass of juice and a bowl of cornflakes. But I didn’t feel too 
hungry. 

“Hey—!” I called out when I saw Buddy walk by. He didn’t hear me over 
the noise, so I jumped up and ran after him. 

“Hi. What’s up?” He greeted me with a smile. 

His blond hair was still wet from the shower. He smelled kind of flowery. 
Aftershave, I guessed. 

“Do you know where Dierdre went?” I demanded. 

He narrowed his eyes in surprise. “Dierdre?” 

“A girl in my dorm room,” I explained. “She didn’t come back to the room 
last night. Her closet is empty.” 

“Dierdre,” he repeated, thinking hard. He raised his clipboard to his face 



and ran his finger down it slowly. “Oh, yeah. She’s gone.” His cheeks turned 
bright pink. 

“Excuse me?” I stared up at him. “Dierdre is gone? Where did she go? 
Home?” 

He studied the sheet on his clipboard. “I guess. It just says she’s gone.” His 
cheeks darkened from pink to red. 

“That’s so weird,” I told him. “She didn’t say good-bye or anything.” 

Buddy shrugged. A smile spread over his face. “Have a nice day!” 

He started toward the counselors’ table at the front of the huge room. But I 
ran after him. I grabbed his arm. 

“Buddy, one more question,” I said. “Do you know where I can find a little 
girl named Alicia?” 

Buddy waved to some boys across the room. “Go get ’em, guys! Only The 
Best!” he shouted to them. Then he turned back to me. “Alicia?” 

“I don’t know her last name. She’s probably six or seven,” I told him. “She 
has beautiful, long red hair and a face full of freckles.” 

“Alicia...” He chewed his bottom lip. Then he raised the clipboard again. 

I watched as he ran his finger down the list of names. When his finger 
stopped, his cheeks turned pink again. 

“Oh, yeah. Alicia,” he said, lowering the clipboard. He grinned at me. A 
strange grin. A chilling grin. “She’s gone, too.” 



18 


“Jan! Ivy!” I saw them hurrying from the mess hall, and I chased after them. 
“We’ve got to talk!” I cried breathlessly. 

“We can’t. We’re late.” Jan straightened her bangs with one hand. “If we 
don’t get to the volleyball nets in time, we can’t be in the tournament.” 

“But it’s important !” I called as they jogged to the doors. 

They didn’t seem to hear me. I watched them disappear into the morning 
sunlight. 

My heart pounded in my chest. I suddenly felt cold all over. 

I caught up with my brother, who was playfully boxing a tall, skinny boy 
with short blond hair. “Elliot—come here,” I instructed. “Just for a minute.” 

“I can’t,” he called. “Remember? My one-on-one contest?” 

The tall, skinny boy hurried out the door. I stepped in front of Elliot, 
blocking his path. 

“Give me a break!” he cried. “I don’t want to be late. I’m going against Jeff. 
Remember him? I can beat him. He’s big, but he’s real slow.” 

“Elliot, something strange is going on here,” I said, backing him against the 
wall. Kids were staring at us as they made their way outside. But I didn’t care. 

“You’re the only one who’s strange!” Elliot shot back. “Are you going to let 
me go to the basketball court or not?” 

He started to push past me. I pinned his shoulders to the wall with both 
hands. 

“Just give me one second!” I insisted. “There’s something wrong with this 
camp, Elliot.” I let go of him. 

“You mean the rumbling noises?” he asked, brushing back his dark hair 
with one hand. “That’s just gas under the ground or something. A counselor 
explained it to me.” 

“That’s not what I’m talking about,” I replied. “Kids are disappearing.” 

He laughed. “Invisible kids? You mean like a magic trick?” 

“Stop making fun of me!” I snapped. “It isn’t funny, Elliot. Kids are 
disappearing. Dierdre from my dorm room? She was in the Winners Walk last 
night. Then she didn’t come back to the room.” 

Elliot’s grin faded. 



“This morning, Buddy told me she was gone,” I continued. I snapped my 
fingers. “Just like that. And a little girl named Alicia—she disappeared, too.” 

Elliot’s brown eyes studied me. “Kids have to go home sometime ,” he 
insisted. “What’s the big deal?” 

“And what about Mom and Dad?” I demanded. “They couldn’t have driven 
very far before they realized the trailer had come loose. Why haven’t they found 
us? Why hasn’t the camp found them?” 

Elliot shrugged. “Beats me,” he replied casually. He dodged past me and 
started to the door. “Wendy, you’re just unhappy because you stink at sports. But 
I’m having a great time here. Don’t mess it up for me—okay?” 

“But—but—Elliot—!” I sputtered. 

Shaking his head, he pushed the door open with both hands and escaped 
into the sunlight. 

I balled both hands into tight fists. I really wanted to pound him. Why 
wouldn’t he listen to me? Couldn’t he see how upset and frightened I was? 

Elliot is the kind of kid who never worries about anything. Everything 
always seems to go his way. So why should he sweat it? 

But you’d think he’d be just a little worried about Mom and Dad. 

Mom and Dad... 

I had a heavy feeling in my stomach as I made my way slowly out the door. 
Had they been in a car accident or something? Is that why they hadn’t found 
Elliot and me yet? 

No. Stop making things worse, I scolded myself. Don’t let your imagination 
mn away with you, Wendy. 

I suddenly remembered my plan to call home. Yes, I decided, I will do that 
right now. I will call home and leave a message for Mom and Dad on the 
answering machine. 

I stopped in the middle of the path and searched for a pay phone. A group 
of girls carrying hockey sticks passed by. I heard a long whistle coming from the 
pool across from the tennis courts. Then I heard the splash of kids diving into the 
water. 

Everyone is having fun, I thought—except me. 

I decided to make the call, then find a sport to play. Something to take my 
mind off all my crazy worries. 

I returned to the row of blue and white pay phones at the side of the lodge. I 
ran full speed and picked up the nearest phone. 



I raised the receiver to my ear and started to punch in our number. 
Then I cried out in surprise. 



19 


“Hi there, Camper!” boomed a cheerful, deep voice. “Have a wonderful day at 
camp. This is King Jellyjam greeting you. Work hard. Play hard. And win. And 
always remember—Only The Best! ” 

“Oh, no!” I cried. “A stupid message—!” 

“Hi there, Camper! Have a wonderful day —” The tape started to repeat in 
my ear. 

I slammed the receiver down and picked up the next phone. 

“Hi there, Camper! Have a wonderful day at camp.” The same jolly, 
booming voice. The same recorded message. 

I tried every phone in the row. They all played the same message. None of 
the phones were real. 

Where are the real phones? I wondered. There have to be phones that 
actually work. 

I turned away from the lodge and wandered down the dirt path. As I passed 
the bushes where Jan, Ivy, and I had hid last night, I felt a chill. And thought 
about Alicia. 

Bright sunlight washed over the sloping, grassy hill. I shielded my eyes and 
watched a black-and-gold monarch butterfly. It fluttered toward a patch of red 
and pink geraniums. 

I walked aimlessly, searching for a telephone. All around, kids were 
shouting, laughing, playing hard. I didn’t really hear them. I was deep into my 
own troubled thoughts. 

“Hey! Hey! Hey!” 

My brother’s voice startled me into stopping. I blinked several times, 
struggling to focus. 

I saw that I had wandered down to the basketball court. Elliot and Jeff were 
having their one-on-one basketball competition. 

Jeff dribbled the ball. It thudded loudly on the asphalt court. My brother 
waved both arms in Jeff’s face. Made a grab for the ball. 

Missed. 

Jeff lowered his shoulder. Bumped Elliot out of the way. Dribbled to the 
basket—and shot. 



“Two points!” he cried, grinning. 

Elliot scowled and shook his head. “You fouled me.” 

Jeff pretended not to hear. He was twice as big as Elliot. A big hulk. He 
could push Elliot all over the court, if he wanted to. 

Whatever made Elliot think he could win? 

“What’s the score?” Jeff demanded, wiping sweat off his forehead with the 
back of one hand. 

“Eighteen to ten,” Elliot reported unhappily. I didn’t need twenty guesses to 
figure out that my brother was losing. 

The basketball court was closed off by a mesh-wire fence. I grabbed the 
fence with both hands, pressed my face up against it, and watched. 

Elliot dribbled, moving back, back, giving himself some space. Jeff moved 
with him, leaning forward, adjusting his basketball shorts with one hand as he 
moved. 

Suddenly, Elliot burst forward, his eyes on the basket. He started his jump, 
raised his right hand to shoot—and Jeff grabbed the ball away. 

Elliot jumped and shot nothing but air. 

Jeff dribbled twice. Put up a two-handed layup. 

Swish. The score was twenty to ten. 

Jeff won the game a few seconds later. He let out a cheer and slapped Elliot 
a high five. 

Elliot frowned and shook his head. “Lucky shots,” he muttered. 

“Yeah. For sure,” Jeff replied, using the front of his sleeveless blue T-shirt 
to mop his sweating face. “Hey, congratulate me, man. You’re my sixth victim!” 

“Huh?” Elliot stared at him, hands pressed against his knees, struggling to 
catch his breath. “You mean—?” 

“Yeah.” Jeff grinned. “My sixth King Coin. I get to march in the Winners 
Walk tonight!” 

“Wow. That’s cool,” Elliot replied without enthusiasm. “I still have three 
coins to go.” 

I had the sudden feeling that I was being watched. I let go of the wire fence 
and took a step back. 

Buddy had been staring at me from the path. His eyes were narrowed, and 
his mouth was set in a stern, unhappy expression. 

How long had he been standing there? 

Why did he look so unhappy? His grim expression gave me a chill. 



As I turned to him, he stepped forward. His blue eyes stared hard into mine. 
“I’m sorry, Wendy,” the counselor said softly. “But you have to go.” 



20 


“Excuse me?” I gaped at him. My mouth dropped open. 

What was he saying? Where did I have to go? 

Did he mean I had to go —like Dierdre and Alicia? 

“You have to go find a sport,” Buddy repeated, still speaking softly. His 
solemn expression didn’t change. “You can’t stand around watching other kids 
play. King Jellyjam would never approve of that.” 

I’d like to step on that ugly little blob! I thought angrily. What a stupid 
name. King Jellyjam. Yuck! 

Buddy had just scared me to death. Was he trying to frighten me? I 
wondered. 

No, I quickly decided. Buddy doesn’t know that I’m upset about things. 
How could he know? 

Buddy hurried on to the basketball court. He slapped Jeff on the back and 
handed him a gold King Coin. “Way to go, guy!” he cried, flashing Jeff a 
thumbs-up. “I’ll see you in the Winners Walk tonight. Only The Best!” 

Buddy said a few words to my brother. Elliot shrugged a few times. Then 
he said something that made Buddy laugh. I couldn’t hear their words. 

When Elliot trotted off to find his next sport, Buddy strode quickly back to 
me. He put an arm around my shoulders and guided me away from the 
basketball court. 

“I guess you’re just not a self-starter, Wendy,” he said. 

“I guess,” I replied. What was I supposed to say? 

“Well, I’m going to give you a schedule for today. See if you like it,” 
Buddy said. “First, I have a tennis match fined up for you. You play tennis, 
right?” 

“A little,” I told him. “I’m not that great, but—” 

“After tennis, come down to the softball diamond, okay?” Buddy 
continued. “We’ll get you on one of the softball teams.” 

He flashed me a warm smile. “I think you’ll have a lot more fun if you join 
in—don’t you?” 

“Yeah. Probably,” I replied. I wanted to sound more enthusiastic. But I just 
couldn’t. 



Buddy led me onto one of the back tennis courts. An African-American girl 
about my age was warming up by hitting a tennis ball against a backboard. 

She turned and greeted me as I approached. “How’s it going?” 

“Fine,” I replied. We introduced ourselves. 

Her name was Rose. She was tall and pretty. She wore a purple tank top 
over black shorts. I saw a silver ring dangling from one ear. 

Buddy handed me a racket. “Have fun,” he said. “And watch out, Wendy. 
Rose already has five King Coins!” 

“Are you a good tennis player?” I asked, twirling the racket in my hand. 

Rose nodded. “Yeah. Pretty good. How about you?” 

“I don’t know,” I told her honestly. “My friend and I always play just for 

fun.” 

Rose laughed. She had a deep, throaty laugh that I liked. It made me want 
to laugh, too. “I never play for fun!” she declared. 

She told the truth. 

We volleyed back and forth for a while, to get warmed up. Rose leaned 
forward, tensed her body, narrowed her dark eyes—then started slamming the 
ball back at me as if we were playing the final set of a championship! 

She played even harder once we started our match. 

I found out very quickly that I was no match for her. I was lucky to return a 
few of her serves! 

Rose was a good sport about it. I caught her snickering a few times at my 
two-handed backhand. But she didn’t make fun of my pitiful game. And she 
gave me some really helpful tips as the match continued. 

She won in straight sets. 

I congratulated her. She seemed really excited about winning her sixth King 
Coin. 

A woman counselor I hadn’t seen before appeared on the court and 
presented the coin to Rose. “See you at the Winners Walk tonight,” she said, 
grinning. 

Then the counselor turned to me. “The softball diamond is right over that 
hill, Wendy.” She pointed. 

I thanked her and began walking in that direction. “Don’t walk—run!” she 
called. “Let’s see some spirit! Only The Best!” 

I let out an unhappy groan. I don’t think she heard me. Then I obediently 
started to run. 



Why was everyone always rushing me around here? I complained silently. 
Why can’t I go lie down by the pool and work on my tan? 

As the softball diamond came into view, I started to cheer up a little. I 
actually like softball. I’m not much of a fielder. But I’m a pretty good slugger. 

The teams, I saw, had boys and girls on them. 

I recognized two of the girls from my breakfast table this morning. 

One of them tossed me a bat. “Hi. I’m Ronni. You can be on our team,” she 
said. “Can you pitch?” 

“I guess,” I replied, wrapping my hands around the bat. “Sometimes I pitch 
after school on the playground.” 

She nodded. “Okay. You can pitch the first couple of innings.” 

Ronni called the other kids together and we huddled. We went around the 
circle, giving our names. Then the kids who didn’t have fielding positions chose 
their spots. 

“If we win, do we all get King Coins?” a boy with a fake tattoo of an eagle 
on his shoulder asked. 

“Yes. All of us,” Ronni told him. 

Everyone cheered. 

“Don’t start cheering yet. We’ve got to win first!” Ronni exclaimed. 

She went around the circle, giving the batting order. Since I was the pitcher, 
I batted ninth. 

But since I had a bat, I decided to take a few practice swings. I stepped 
away from the others, behind the third base line. 

Easing my hands up on the bat, I took a soft swing. I like to choke up pretty 
high. I’m not very strong, and it gives me a harder swing. 

The bat felt pretty good. I took a few more soft swings. 

Then I pulled it behind my shoulder—and swung as hard as I could. 

I didn’t see Buddy standing there. 

The bat smacked him hard in the chest. 

It made a sickening thocccck as it crashed into his ribs. 

I let the bat fall from my hands. Then I staggered back. Stunned. Horrified. 



21 


Buddy’s smile faded. He narrowed his blue eyes at me. 

He raised a hand and pointed a finger at me. 

“I like the way you choke up,” he said. “But maybe we could find you a 
lighter bat.” 

“Huh?” My mouth hung open. I couldn’t move. I stood there, gaping at 
him. “Buddy—?” 

He picked up the bat from the ground. “Does it feel comfortable? Let me 
see you swing again, Wendy.” He handed the bat to me. 

My hands trembled as I took it from him. I kept my eyes on him. Waited for 
him to cry out. To grab his chest and collapse in a heap on the ground. 

“Some of the aluminum bats are lighter,” he said. He brushed back his 
blond hair with one hand. “Go ahead. Swing again.” 

I took a few shaky steps away from him. I wanted to make sure I didn’t hit 
him again. Then I choked up on the bat and swung. 

“How is it?” he asked. 

“F-fine,” I stammered. 

He flashed me a thumbs-up and went to talk to Ronni. 

Whoa! I thought. What is the story here? 

I swung that bat into his chest, hard enough to break a few ribs. Or at least 
knock his breath out. 

But Buddy didn’t even seem to notice! 

What is the story here? 

I told Jan and Ivy about it at dinner. 

Jan snickered. “I guess your swing isn’t as hard as you think.” 

“But it made a horrible sound! Like eggs breaking or something!” I 
exclaimed. “And he just went on smiling and talking.” 

“He probably waited until he was out of sight. Then he screamed his head 
off!” Ivy suggested. 

I forced myself to laugh along with my two friends. But I didn’t feel like 
laughing. 



It was all too strange. 

I mean, no one could take a blow like that right in the chest and not even 
say “Ouch!” 

Our team lost by ten points. But after that thocccck, who could think about 
the game? 

I glanced across the room to the counselors’ table. Buddy sat at one end, 
talking and laughing with Holly. He seemed perfectly okay. 

I kept glancing at him all through dinner. Again and again, I heard the 
sickening thocccck the bat made as it smashed into his chest. I just couldn’t get it 
out of my mind. 

I kept thinking about it as we trooped out to the track after dinner for the 
Winners Walk. It was a windy night. The torches flickered and nearly went out. 

The trees around the track shivered and bent. Their branches seemed to 
reach down for the ground. 

The marching music started, and the winners paraded by. Rose waved to me 
as she passed. I saw Jeff walking proudly near the back of the line, his gold coins 
jangling around his neck. 

After the ceremony, I hurried back to the room and climbed into bed. Too 
many troubling thoughts whirred around in my brain. I wanted to go to sleep and 
shut them out. 


The next morning at breakfast, Rose and Jeff were gone. 



22 


I searched for Rose and Jeff. And I searched for my brother all morning. I knew 
he’d be playing hard at one of the sports. But I walked from the soccer field at 
one end of the camp to the driving range at the other end, and I didn’t see him. 

Had Elliot disappeared, too? 

The frightening thought kept tugging at my mind. 

We’ve got to get out of this camp! 

I kept repeating those words to myself as I made my way along the 
crisscrossing dirt paths. 

King Jellyjam, the little purple blob, grinned at me from the signs posted 
everywhere. Even his cartoon smile gave me the creeps. 

Something was terribly wrong at King Jellyjam’s Sports Camp. And the 
more I walked, my eyes searching every face for my brother, the more frightened 
I became. 

Buddy caught up to me after lunch. He led me back to the Softball 
diamond. “Wendy, you can’t leave your team,” he said sternly. “Forget 
yesterday. You still have a chance. If you win today, you guys all win King 
Coins.” 

I didn’t want any King Coins. I wanted to see my parents. I wanted to see 
my brother. And I wanted to get out of there! 

I didn’t pitch today. I played left field, which gave me plenty of time to 
think. 

I planned our escape. 

It won’t be that hard, I decided. Elliot and I will sneak out after dinner when 
everyone is watching the Winners Walk. We’ll make our way down the hill, back 
to the highway. Then we’ll walk or hitchhike to the nearest town with a police 
station. 

I knew the police would find Mom and Dad for us easily. 

A simple plan, right? Now all I had to do was find Elliot. 

Our team lost the game seven to nine. 

I grounded out to end the game. The other kids were disappointed that the 
team lost, but I didn’t really care. 



I still hadn’t won a single King Coin. As we trotted toward our dorms, I saw 
Buddy watching me. He had a fretful expression on his face. 

“Wendy—what’s your next sport?” he called to me. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him and trotted away. 

My next sport is running, I thought unhappily. Running away from this 
horrible place. 

The ground began to rumble and shake as I passed the main lodge. This 
time, I ignored it and kept walking to the dorm. 

I didn’t find Elliot until after dinner. I saw him heading out the mess-hall door 
with two buddies. They were laughing, talking loudly, and bumping each other 
with their chests as they walked. 

“Elliot!” I called, chasing after him. “Hey, Elliot—wait up!” 

He turned away from his two friends. “Oh. Hi,” he said. “How’s it going?” 
“Did you forget you have a sister?” I demanded angrily. 

He narrowed his eyes at me. “Excuse me?” 

“Where have you been?” I asked. 

A grin spread over his face. “Winning these,” he said. He raised the chain 
around his neck to show off the gold King Coins he was wearing. “I’ve got five.” 
“Awesome,” I said sarcastically. “Elliot—we’ve got to get out of here!” 
“Huh? Get out?” He twisted up his face, confused. 

“Yes,” I insisted. “We have to get away from this camp—tonight!” 

“I can’t,” Elliot replied. “No way.” 

Kids pushed past us, on their way to watch the Winners Walk. I followed 
Elliot out the mess-hall door. Then I pulled him off the path, onto the grass at the 
side of the building. 

“You can’t leave? Why not?” I demanded. 

“Not till I win my sixth coin,” he said. He jangled the coin necklace in my 

face. 

“Elliot—this place is dangerous!” I cried. “And Mom and Dad must be—” 
“You’re just jealous,” he interrupted. He jangled the coins again. “You 
haven’t won any—have you!” 

I balled my hands into fists. I wanted to strangle him. I really did. 

He was such a competitive jerk. He always had to win everything. 

I took a deep breath and tried to speak calmly. “Elliot, aren’t you at all 
worried about Mom and Dad?” 



He lowered his eyes for a moment. “A little.” 

“Well, we have to get out of here and find them!” I declared. 

“Tomorrow,” he replied. “After the track meet in the morning. After I win 
my sixth coin.” 

I opened my mouth to argue with him. But what was the point? 

I knew how stubborn my brother can be. If he wanted to win that sixth coin, 
he wouldn’t leave till he won it. 

I couldn’t argue with him. And I couldn’t drag him away. “Right after the 
track meet tomorrow morning,” I told him, “we’re out of here! Whether you win 
or lose. Agreed?” 

He thought about it. “Okay. Agreed,” he said finally. Then he trotted off to 
find his friends. 

Four kids marched in the Winners Walk. As I watched from the sidelines, I 
thought about the kids I knew who had marched before. 

Dierdre. Rose. Jeff... 

Had they all gone home? Were they picked up by their parents? Were they 
back home now safe and sound? 

Maybe I’m frightening myself for no reason, I thought. 

Everyone else in camp seems to be having a great time. Why am I the only 
worrier? 

And then I remembered that I wasn ’t the only worrier. 

Alicia’s tear-stained face floated into my mind. 

What had Alicia seen that had frightened her so much? Why was she 
desperately trying to warn us to get away? 

I’ll probably never find out, I told myself. 

When the Winners Walk ceremony ended, I didn’t feel like going back to 
the dorm. I knew I couldn’t get to sleep. Too many thoughts troubled my mind. 

As the other kids made their way to their rooms, I ducked into the deep 
shadows. Then I sneaked along the path to the sloping hill that led up to the main 
lodge. 

Hiding behind a wide evergreen shrub, I dropped down onto the grass. It 
was a cool, cloudy night. The air felt heavy and damp. 

I raised my eyes to the sky. Clouds covered the stars and the moon. Far in 
the distance, I could see tiny red lights moving slowly against the blackness. An 
airplane. I wondered where it was headed. 



Crickets began to chirp. The wind rustled my hair. 

I gazed up at the starless sky. Trying to relax. Trying to calm myself down. 

After a few minutes, I heard voices. Footsteps. 

I pulled myself up to my knees and ducked low behind the shrub. 

The voices grew louder. A girl laughed. 

Carefully, I peered out from between the piney branches. I saw two 
counselors, walking rapidly along the path that led up the hill. 

Behind them, I spotted another group of counselors making their way 
quickly up the hill. They all seemed to be in a hurry. 

I lowered myself behind the shrub and hid in the darkness. 

They’re heading to the lodge, I decided. Must be some kind of counselors’ 
meeting. 

Their white shorts and T-shirts were easy to see, even on such a dark night. 
Keeping out of sight, I watched them make their way up the path. 

But to my surprise, they didn’t go to the lodge. Several yards from the 
lodge entrance, they turned off the path and ducked into the woods. 

Where were they going? 

I saw two more groups of counselors make their way into the trees. There 
must be a hundred counselors at this camp, I realized. And they’re all going into 
the woods tonight. 

I waited until I thought all of the counselors had passed by. Then I slowly 
pulled myself to my feet. 

I stared into the woods. But I could see only darkness. Shadows upon 
shadows. 

I ducked back down when I heard two more voices. 

Peering through the evergreen branches, I spied Holly and Buddy. They 
were taking long strides, walking side by side. 

I waited till they passed by. Then I jumped up. 

Creeping in the deep shadows, I followed them into the woods. 

I didn’t stop to worry about getting caught. I had to know where the 
counselors were all going. 

Buddy and Holly moved quickly through the woods, pushing tall weeds out 
of their way, stepping over fallen tree limbs. 

To my surprise, a low, white structure came into view. It appeared to glow 
dully in the dim light. 

The building was built low to the ground. The top was curved. 



I squinted at it through the trees. It looks like an igloo, I thought. 

What is this strange building? I wondered. Why is it hidden away in the 
trees? 

A dark opening had been cut into the side. Holly ducked into the low 
entrance. Buddy followed her in. 

I waited nearly a minute. Then I stepped up to the opening. 

My heart pounded. Such a strange, little building. Round and smooth as ice. 

I hesitated. I peered into the entrance, but couldn’t see anything inside. I 
didn’t hear any voices. 

What should I do? I asked myself. 

Should I go in? 

Yes. 

I took a deep breath and lowered myself into the opening. 



23 


Three steep steps led down to a dim entryway. A single red light down near the 
floor gave off the only light. 

I stepped into the dark red glow, then stopped and listened. 

I could hear voices speaking softly in the next room. 

Trailing my hand along the bare, concrete wall, I moved slowly toward the 
voices. An open doorway came up on my right. 

I stopped outside it. Then I slowly, carefully peered in. 

I stared into a large, square room. Four torches hanging at the front of the 
room sent out flickering orange light. 

The counselors sat on long wooden benches, facing a low stage. A purple 
banner hung over the stage. It proclaimed: ONLY THE BEST. 

It’s a little theater, I realized. Some kind of meeting hall. 

But why is it hidden away in the woods? And why are the counselors all 
meeting here tonight? 

I didn’t have to wait long for my answer. 

Buddy stepped on to the small stage. He walked quickly into the flickering 
orange torchlight. Then he turned to face the audience of counselors. 

I crept into the doorway. There were no torches in the back of the hall. It 
was pitch-black back there. 

Walking on tiptoe, I edged my way along the back wall. 

The door to a closet of some kind stood open. I ducked into it. 

Buddy raised both hands. The counselors instantly stopped talking. They all 
sat up straight and stared forward at him. 

“Time to refresh ourselves,” Buddy called out. His voice echoed off the 
concrete walls. 

The counselors sat stiffly. No one moved. No one made a sound. 

Buddy pulled a gold coin from his pocket. A King Coin, I figured. It 
dangled on a long gold chain. 

“Time to refresh our minds,” Buddy said. “Time to refresh our mission.” 

He raised the gold coin high. It glowed in the torchlight as he began to 
swing it. Back and forth. Slowly. 



“Clear your minds,” he instructed them, speaking softly now. “Clear your 
minds, as I have cleared mine.” 

The gleaming gold coin swung slowly back and forth. Back and forth. 

“Clear... clear... clear your minds,” Buddy chanted. 

He is hypnotizing them! I realized. 

Buddy is hypnotizing all the counselors. And he’s been hypnotized, too! 

I took a step forward. I couldn’t believe what I was seeing and hearing! 

“Clear your minds to serve the master!” Buddy declared. “For that is why 
we are here. To serve the master in all his glory!” 

“To serve the master!” the counselors all chanted back together. 

Who is the master? I asked myself. 

What are they talking about? 

Buddy continued chanting out slogans to the crowd of counselors. His eyes 
were wide. He never blinked. 

“We do not think!” he shouted. “We do not feel! We give ourselves up to 
serve the master!” 

And suddenly I had an answer to some of my questions. 

Now I knew why Buddy hadn’t cried out, hadn’t collapsed to the ground 
when I swung the bat into his chest. 

He had hypnotized away all feeling. 

He was in some kind of trance. He couldn’t feel the bat. He couldn’t feel 
anything. 

“Only The Best!” Buddy cried, raising both fists into the air. 

“Only The Best!” the counselors all repeated. Their unblinking faces 
appeared strange, frozen in the flickering orange light. 

“Only The Best! Only The Best!” 

They all chanted the slogan over and over. Their voices echoed loudly off 
the walls. Only their mouths moved. Like puppets. 

“Only The Best can serve the master!” Buddy shouted. 

“Only The Best!” the counselors chanted one more time. 

Buddy had been swinging the gold coin over his head during the entire 
performance. Now he lowered it back into the pocket of his shorts. 

The room grew silent. 

A heavy silence. An eerie silence. 

And then I sneezed. 



24 


I cupped my hand over my mouth. 

Too late. 

I sneezed again. 

Buddy’s mouth opened wide in surprise. He jabbed a finger in the air, 
pointing at me. 

Several counselors jumped to their feet and spun around. 

I turned to the door. Could I escape through it before one of them caught 

me? 

No. 

No way I could get over there. 

My legs were shaking. But I forced myself to move. I backed against the 

wall. 

Why had I stepped so far into the room? Why hadn’t I stayed in the safety 
of the doorway? 

“Who’s there?” I heard Buddy call. “It’s so dark. Who is it?” 

Good! I thought. He didn’t know it was me. 

But in seconds, they’d grab me and drag me into the light. 

I took another step back. Another. 

Darkness fell over me. 

I spun around. “Ohh!” I cried out when I saw that I had nearly toppled 
down a steep stairway. 

It wasn’t a closet after all. 

Black stone steps curved sharply down. Where did they lead? 

I couldn’t guess. But I had no choice. The steps were my only chance of 
escape. 

I leaned against the wall and plunged down the stairs. My shoes slid on the 
smooth stones. 

I nearly tripped and went sailing head first. But I grabbed the wall and 
steadied myself as I started to fall. 

The stairs curved down. Down. 

The air grew hot and sour. I held my breath. The air smelled like sour milk. 



A strange, deep moan rumbled up from down below. 

I stopped to catch my breath. 

Listened hard. 

The low moan rolled up the stairway again. A whiff of sour air invaded my 
nostrils. 

I turned back. Was I being followed? Had the counselors seen me escape 
through the open door? 

No. It had been too dark. I didn’t hear anyone on the stairs. They weren’t 
following me. 

What smelled so bad down below? 

I wanted to stop right there. I didn’t want to climb down any farther. 

But what choice did I have? I knew they’d be searching for me upstairs. 

Leaning a hand against the stone wall, I made my way down. 

The stairway led into a long, narrow tunnel. I could see pale light at the end 
of it. Another deep moan rumbled in the distance. The floor shook. 

I took a long breath and passed quickly through the tunnel. The air grew hot 
and damp. My shoes splashed through puddles on the tunnel floor. 

Where does this lead? I wondered. Will it take me back outside? 

As I neared the end of the tunnel, a whiff of sour air made me choke. I 
coughed and struggled to stop my stomach from heaving. 

What a disgusting smell! 

Like decayed meat and rotten eggs. Like garbage left out in the sun for days 
and days. 

I pressed both hands over my mouth. The odor was so strong, I could taste 
it! 

I gagged. Once. Twice. 

Don’t think about the smell! I ordered myself. Think about something else. 
Think about fresh flowers. Think about sweet-smelling perfume. 

Somehow, I calmed my stomach. 

Then, pinching two fingers over my nose to keep the odor out, I stumbled to 
the end of the tunnel. 

I stopped as the tunnel gave way to a huge, brightly lit chamber. 

I stopped and stared—at the ugliest, most frightening thing I had ever seen 
in my life! 



25 


Squinting into the bright light, I saw dozens of kids with mops, and buckets, and 
water hoses. 

At first, I thought they were cleaning off a giant, purple balloon. Bigger 
than any balloon in the Thanksgiving Day parade! 

But as the water sprayed over it and the mops soaped its sides, the balloon 
let out a loud groan. 

And I realized I wasn’t staring at a balloon. It was a creature. And the 
creature was alive. I was staring at a monster. 

I was staring at King Jellyjam. 

Not a cute little mascot. But a fat, gross, purple mound of slime, nearly as 
big as a house. Wearing a gold crown. 

Two enormous, watery yellow eyes rolled around in his head. He smacked 
his fat purple lips and groaned again. Hunks of thick, white goo dripped from his 
huge, hairy nostrils. 

The disgusting odor rolled off his body. Even holding my nose couldn’t 
keep out the sour stench. 

He smelled like dead fish, rotting garbage, sour milk, and burning rubber— 
all at once! 

The gold crown bounced on top of his slimy, wet head. His purple stomach 
heaved, as if an ocean wave was breaking inside him. And he let out a putrid 
burp that shook the walls. 

The kids—dozens of them—worked frantically. They circled the ugly 
monster. They hosed him down. Scrubbed his body with mops and sponges and 
brushes. 

And as they worked, little round objects rained down on them. Click. Click. 
Click. The little round things clattered to the floor. 

Snails! 

Snails popping out through King Jellyjam’s skin. 

I started to gag again when I realized the hideous creature was sweating 
snails ! 

I staggered back into the tunnel, pressing my hands over my mouth. 

How could those kids stand the horrible, sour stench? 



Why were they washing him? Why were they working so hard? 

I gasped when I recognized some of the kids. 

Alicia! 

She held a hose with both hands and sprayed King Jellyjam’s bulging, 
heaving stomach. Her red hair was soaked and matted to her forehead. She cried 
as she worked, bawling loudly. 

I saw Jeff. Rubbing a mop up and down on the monster’s side. 

I opened my mouth to call to Alicia and Jeff. But my breath caught in my 
throat, and no sound came out. 

And then someone came running toward me. Stumbling and staggering. 
Into the tunnel. Out of the bright light. 

Dierdre! 

A dripping sponge in one fist. Her streaky blond hair drenched. Her clothes 
wrinkled and soaked. 

“Dierdre!” I managed to choke out. 

“Get away from here!” she cried. “Wendy—run!” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. “What is happening? Why are you doing this?” 

Dierdre uttered a sob. “Only The Best!” she whispered. “Only The Best get 
to be King Jellyjam’s slaves!” 

“Huh?” I gaped at her as she trembled in front of me, shivering from the 
cold water that had drenched her. 

“Don’t you see?” Dierdre cried. “These are all winners. All six-coin 
winners. He gets the strongest kids. The best workers.” 

“But—why?” I demanded. 

Snails popped through the creature’s skin and clicked as they hit the hard 
floor. A wave of sour stench blew over us as another rumbling burp escaped his 
swollen lips. 

“Why are you all washing him?” I asked Dierdre. 

“He—he has to be washed all the time!” Dierdre exclaimed with a sob. “He 
has to be kept wet. And he can’t stand his own smell. So he gets the strongest 
kids down here. And makes us wash him night and day.” 

“But, Dierdre—” I started. 

“If we stop washing,” she continued. “If we try to take a rest, he—he’ll eat 
us!” Her entire body shook. “He—he ate three kids today!” 

“No!” I cried, gasping in horror. 

“He’s so disgusting!” Dierdre wailed. “Those horrible snails popping out of 



his body... that putrid smell.” 

She grabbed my arm. Her hand was wet and cold. “The counselors are all 
hypnotized,” she whispered. “King Jellyjam has total control over them.” 

“I—I know,” I told her. 

“Get out of here! Hurry!” Dierdre pleaded, squeezing my arm. “Get help, 
Wendy. Please—” 

An angry roar made us both jump. 

“Oh, no!” Dierdre wailed. “He’s seen us! It’s too late!” 



26 


The monster let out another roar. 

Dierdre loosened her grip on my arm. We both turned toward him, shaking 
with fright. 

He was bellowing at the ceiling, roaring just to keep everyone terrified. His 
watery yellow eyes were shut. He hadn’t seen Dierdre and me—yet. 

“Get help!” Dierdre whispered to me. Then she raised the sponge and ran 
back to her place at King Jellyjam’s side. 

I froze for a moment. Froze in horror. In disbelief. 

Another rumbling burp jolted me from my thoughts and sent me scurrying 
through the tunnel. At least now I knew why the camp ground shook so often! 

The sour stench followed me through the tunnel and back up the curving, 
stone steps. I wondered if I could ever get rid of it. I wondered if I could ever 
breathe freely again. 

How can I help those kids? I asked myself. What can I do? 

I was too terrified to think clearly. 

As I ran through the darkness, I could picture King Jellyjam smacking his 
gross purple lips. I could see him rolling his yellow eyes. And the ugly black 
snails squeezing out through his skin. 

I felt sick as I reached the top of the stairs. But I knew I didn’t have time to 
worry about myself. I had to save the kids who had been forced to be the 
monster’s slaves. And I had to save the rest of the kids in camp—before they 
became slaves, too. 

I poked my head out of the closet door. The four torches still burned at the 
front of the small theater. But the room was empty. 

Where were the counselors? Out searching for me? 

Probably. 

Where can I go? I asked myself. I can’t spend the night in this closet. I have 
to breathe some fresh air. I have to go somewhere where I can think. 

Carefully, I made my way out of the low igloo. Into the starless night. 
Hiding behind a wide tree trunk, my eyes searched the woods. 

Narrow beams of white light from flashlights darted through the trees, over 
the ground. 



Yes, I told myself. The counselors are searching for me. 

I backed up, away from the crisscrossing lights. Trying not to make a 
sound, I crept between the trees and tall weeds, toward the path that led to the 
lodge. 

Can I get to the dorms and warn everyone? I wondered. Will anyone believe 
me? Will there be counselors guarding the dorms? Waiting for me to show up? 

I heard voices on the path. I ducked behind a tree and let two counselors 
pass. Their flashlights made wide circles over the sloping hill. 

As soon as they were out of sight, I darted out from the trees. I ran down 
the hill. Keeping in deep shadows, I made my way past the swimming pool. Past 
the tennis courts. All dark and silent now. 

A clump of tall hedges beside the track would hide me from all sides, I 
realized. I ducked behind the hedges, gasping for breath. Dropping to my knees, 
I crawled into their shelter. 

I settled myself on the prickly pine needles beneath the hedges. And peered 
out. Only darkness now. 

I took a deep breath. Then another. Such sweet-smelling air. 

I’ve got to think, I told myself. Got to think... 

Shouting voices startled me awake. 

When had I fallen asleep? Where was I? 

I blinked several times. Sat up and stretched. 

My body felt stiff. My back ached. Every muscle ached. 

I gazed around. Discovered I was still hidden inside the hedges. A gray, 
cloudy morning. The sun trying to burn through the high clouds. 

And the voices? 

Cheers? 

I raised myself up and peered through the hedges. 

The track competition! It had just begun. I saw six boys in shorts and T- 
shirts, leaning forward as they ran around the track. A crowd of kids and 
counselors cheering them on. 

And in the lead? 

Elliot! 

“No!” I cried hoarsely, my voice still choked with sleep. 

I stepped out from the hedges. Made my way across the grass toward the 
track. 



I knew I had to stop him. I couldn’t let him win the race. I couldn’t let him 
win his sixth coin. If he did, they’d make Elliot a slave, too! 

He ran hard. He pulled far out in front of the other five. 

What could I do? What? 

In my panic, I remembered our signal. 

My two-fingered whistle. My signal for Elliot to take it easy. 

He’ll hear the whistle and slow down, I told myself. 

I raised two fingers to my mouth. I blew. 

No sound came out. My mouth was too dry. My heart thudded in my chest. 
I tried again. No. No whistle. 

Elliot turned into the last lap. There was no way to stop him from winning 

now. 



27 


No way to stop him—unless I beat him there! 

With a desperate cry, I plunged forward and started to run to the track. 

My shoes pounded the grass. I kept my eyes on Elliot and the finishing line 
as I ran. Faster. Faster. 

If only I could fly! 

Foud cheers rang out as Elliot neared the finish. The other five boys were 
miles behind! 

My shoes thudded onto the asphalt track. My chest felt about to burst. It 
hurt to breathe. My breath came in loud wheezes. 

Faster. Faster. 

I heard cries of surprise as I raced over the track. I plunged up behind 
Elliot, reached out both hands—and tackled him from behind. 

We both toppled in a heap, rolling over the hard track, onto the grass. The 
other boys raced past us to the finish line. 

“Wendy, you jerk!” Elliot screamed, jumping to his feet. 

“I—can’t explain now!” I shouted back, struggling to breathe, struggling to 
stop the aching in my chest. 

I scrambled to my feet and pulled Elliot up. He angrily tried to jerk free. 
“Why’d you do that, Wendy? Why?” 

I saw three counselors running toward me. 

“Hurry—!” I ordered my brother. I pulled him away. “Just hurry!” 

I think he saw the terror in my eyes. I think he realized that tackling him 
was a desperate act. I think he saw how serious I was. 

Elliot stopped protesting and started to run. 

I led him over the grass. Up the sloping hill by the lodge. Into the woods. 

“Where are we going?” he called breathlessly. “Tell me what’s happening!” 

“You’ll see in a minute!” I called back. “Get ready for a really bad smell!” 

“Huh? Wendy—have you totally lost it?” 

I didn’t answer. I kept running. I led the way into the woods. To the igloo¬ 
shaped building. 

At the low entrance, I turned back to see if we were being followed. I didn’t 



see anyone. 

Elliot followed me into the theater. The torches weren’t lit. It was pitch- 
black inside. 

Feeling my way along the back wall, I found the closet door. I pulled it 
open and led the way down the curving stairs. 

Halfway down, the sour odor floated up to greet us. Elliot cried out and 
cupped both hands over his nose and mouth. “It stinks!” His cry was muffled by 
his hands. 

“It gets worse,” I told him. “Try not to think about it.” 

We jogged side by side through the long tunnel. I wished I had time to warn 
Elliot. I wished I could tell him what he was about to see. 

But I was desperate to save Dierdre, Alicia, and the others. 

Gasping from the smell, I burst into King Jellyjam’s brightly lit chamber. 
Water from a dozen hoses splashed over the monster’s purple body. Kids 
scrubbed furiously as he sighed and groaned. 

I saw the startled horror on my brother’s face. But I couldn’t worry about 
Elliot now. 

“Hit the floor! ” I screamed at the top of my lungs, cupping my hands into a 
megaphone. “EVERYBODY—HIT THE FLOOR! NOW!” 

I had a plan. 

Would it work? 



28 


The monster’s watery yellow eyes grew wide with surprise. His bloated lips 
parted. I could see two pink tongues dart and coil inside his mouth. 

A few of the kids dropped their hoses and mops and flattened themselves on 
the floor. Others turned to stare at me. 

“Stop washing him!” I cried. “Put down your hoses and brushes! Stop 
working! And hit the floor!” 

Beside me, Elliot uttered gasping sounds. I glimpsed him struggling to keep 
the sick smell from overpowering him. 

King Jellyjam let out a furious roar as the rest of the kids obeyed my 
instructions. Thick, white slime dripped from his nose. His two tongues flicked 
out between his purple lips. 

“Get flat!” I screamed to the kids. “Stay down!” 

And then I saw the monster raise a fat purple arm. With a disgusting groan, 
he leaned over. His slimy flesh rippled all over his body as he reached out. 

Reached out to grab Alicia! 

“Help! He’s going to eat me!” Alicia shrieked. She started to get up. 

“No!” I shrieked. “Stay down! Stay flat!” 

With a terrified cry, Alicia dropped back to the floor. 

King Jellyjam swung his fat hand down. Fumbled it over her. Tried to lift 
the little girl up. Tried again. Again. 

But I had figured right! The monster’s fingers were too big, too clumsy to 
pick up anyone who lay flat on the floor. 

King Jellyjam tilted his head back and uttered a roar of disgust. 

I cupped my hand over my nose as the disgusting odor grew more intense. 
Snails pop-pop-popped out of his skin. Rolled down his slimy body. Bounced 
noisily onto the floor. 

The monster flailed his arms. He leaned down again and struggled to pick 
up some other kids. 

But they pressed themselves flat on the floor. He couldn’t lift them. 

He roared again, weaker this time. His eyes rolled wildly in his enormous 
head. 

The smell burned my eyes. It swirled around me, surrounded me in its sour 



stench. 

King Jellyjam grabbed for a hose. Couldn’t pick it up. He slammed his hand 
into a bucket. Struggled frantically to splash water on himself. 

I stood trembling. Watching every move. 

My plan was working. I knew it would work. It had to work! 

The stench grew even stronger. I could taste it. I could smell it on my skin. 

King Jellyjam flailed both arms. Frantically, he struggled to wash himself. 

His roars became groans. His body began to shake. 

I gasped as he narrowed his eyes at me. He raised a swollen purple finger 
and pointed. Accusing me! 

He leaned forward. Reached out. 

Swiped out his enormous hand. 

I couldn’t move. I was too stunned. 

I shuddered. 

His hand slid over me. And before I could struggle, he began to tighten his 
slimy, stinking fingers around my body. 



29 


“Ohhh.” I uttered a horrified moan. 

The fat, wet fingers tightened. Waves of odor rose up around me. 

I held my breath. But the smell was everywhere. 

The fingers wrapped themselves tighter. 

The monster began to lift me off the ground. Raise me toward his gaping 
mouth. The two tongues darted and flicked. 

And then the tongues drooped over his purple lips. 

The fingers loosened their grip. 

I slid free as King Jellyjam groaned and fell forward. Kids rolled quickly 
out of the way. King Jellyjam toppled over headfirst. 

The gold crown bounced away. The monster’s body made a loud splat as it 
spread over the floor. 

“Yes!” I choked out happily. I was still shaking, still trying to forget the 
slimy feel of his fingers against my skin. “Yes!” 

My plan had worked perfectly. 

The kids stopped washing—and King Jellyjam suffocated from his own 
foul smell! 

“Are you okay?” Elliot asked in a trembling voice. 

I nodded. “Yes. I think I’m going to be fine.” 

Elliot held his nose. “I’ll never complain about Dad’s garden fertilizer 
again!” he declared. 

Cheering and shouting, the other kids climbed to their feet. 

“Thank you!” Alicia cried, wrapping me in a hug. The others rushed 
forward to thank me, too. 

There were lots of hugs, lots of tears as we made our way up to the theater 
and then out into the woods. 

“We are out of here!” I cried happily to Elliot. 

But we all stopped at the edge of the woods when we saw the counselors. 

They all stood in front of us, dozens of them, side by side in their white 
shirts and shorts. They had formed a line along the path. 

And I could see from the hard expressions set on their faces that they had 



not come to welcome everyone back. 

As I stared from face to face, Buddy stepped forward. He gave a signal to 
the other counselors. “Don’t let them get away!” he cried. 



30 


The counselors stepped forward, moving in a line. Their expressions remained 
hard and threatening. They kept their arms at their sides. 

They moved stiffly. Like robots. In a trance. 

They took two more steps. 

Then a shrill whistle broke the silence. 

“Stop right there! Everybody freeze!” a man’s voice boomed. 

I heard another shrill whistle. 

I turned to see several blue-uniformed police officers running up the hill. 
The counselors shook their heads, blinked, uttered soft cries. They made no 
attempt to run. 

“Where are we?” I heard Holly mutter. 

“What’s happening?” another counselor asked. 

They all appeared dazed and confused. The police whistles seemed to have 
broken the trance that held them. 

The other kids and I all cheered happily as the officers swarmed up the hill. 
“How did you know we needed help?” I called. 

“We didn’t,” an officer replied. “A horrible smell floated into town. We 
wanted to find out what was causing it. We followed it here!” 

I had to laugh. The same smell that had killed the monster had actually 
saved us kids. 

“We didn’t know there was a problem at this camp,” an officer announced. 
“We’ll contact your parents as soon as we can.” 

Elliot and I led the way down the hill. We were so eager to see Mom and 

Dad! 

The counselors muttered to themselves, gazing around, trying to figure out 
what had happened. 

I turned to Buddy as Elliot and I walked past him. “Are you feeling better?” 
I asked. 

He narrowed his blue eyes at me and squinted hard. He didn’t seem to be 
able to focus. “Only The Best,” he murmured. “Only The Best.” 



Elliot and I were never so glad to be home! 

“What took you so long to find us?” Elliot demanded. 

Mom and Dad shook their heads. “The police checked everywhere, trying 
to find you two,” Dad replied. “They called the camp several times. The 
counselor who answered the phone told the police that you weren’t there.” 

“We were so worried,” Mom said, biting her bottom lip. “So terribly 
worried. When we found the trailer empty, we didn’t know what to think!” 

“Well, we’re home safe and sound now,” I replied with a grin. 

“Maybe you two would like to go away to a real camp next summer,” Dad 

said. 

“Uh... no way!” Elliot and I answered together. 

Two weeks later, we had a surprise visitor. 

I opened the door to find Buddy on the front stoop. His blond hair was 
neatly brushed. He wore chinos, a blue-and-white-striped sportshirt, and a dark 
blue tie. 

“I’m so sorry about what happened at camp,” Buddy said. 

I was still too shocked at seeing him to reply. I just held on to the door and 
gaped at him. 

“Is Elliot home?” Buddy asked. 

“Hi.” Elliot stepped up beside me. “Buddy! What’s up?” 

“I brought you this,” Buddy replied. He reached into his pants pocket and 
pulled out a gold coin. 

“It’s a King Coin,” he told Elliot. “You earned it, remember? You actually 
won the race.” 

Elliot reached out for it. Then stopped. His hand hung in midair. 

I knew what my brother was thinking. This would be his sixth King Coin. 
Should he take it? 

Finally, he grabbed it. “Thanks, Buddy,” Elliot said. 

Buddy said good-bye and gave us a wave. Elliot and I watched him get into 
a car and drive away. Then we closed the door behind us. 

“Are you sure you should’ve taken that?” I asked Elliot. 

“Why not?” he replied. “That purple monster is dead—right? What could 
happen?” 

Five minutes later, we both smelled the horrible odor at the same time. 
“Yuck!” Elliot groaned. He swallowed hard. “Wendy, wh-what’s that 



smell?” he stammered. 

“I—I don’t know,” I replied in a shaky voice. 

I heard Mom laugh behind us. We turned to see her standing in the doorway 
to the kitchen. “What’s wrong?” she asked. “I have a pot of brussels sprouts 
boiling on the stove!” 





REVENGE OF THE 
LAWN GNOMES 

Goosebumps - 34 
R.L. Stine 



1 


Clack, Clack, Clack. 

The Ping-Pong ball clattered over the basement floor. “Yes!” I cried as I 
watched Mindy chase after it. 

It was a hot, sticky June afternoon. The first Monday of summer vacation. 
And Joe Burton had just made another excellent shot. 

That’s me. Joe Burton. I’m twelve. And there is nothing I love better than 
slamming the ball in my older sister’s face and making her chase after it. 

I’m not a bad sport. I just like to show Mindy that she’s not as great as she 
thinks she is. 

You might guess that Mindy and I do not always agree on things. The fact 
is, I’m really not like anyone else in my family. 

Mindy, Mom, and Dad are all blond, skinny, and tall. I have brown hair. 
And I’m kind of pudgy and short. Mom says I haven’t had my growth spurt yet. 

So I’m a shrimp. And it’s hard for me to see over the Ping-Pong net. But I 
can still beat Mindy with one hand tied behind my back. 

As much as I love to win, Mindy hates to lose. And she doesn’t play fair at 
all. Every time I make a great move, she says it doesn’t count. 

“Joe, kicking the ball over the net is not legal,” she whined as she scooped 
out the ball from under the couch. 

“Give me a break!” I cried. “All the Ping-Pong champions do it. They call it 
the Soccer Slam.” 

Mindy rolled her huge green eyes. “Oh, puh-lease!” she muttered. “My 
serve.” 

Mindy is weird. She’s probably the weirdest fourteen-year-old in town. 

Why? I’ll tell you why. 

Take her room. Mindy arranges all her books in alphabetical order—by 
author. Do you believe it? 

And she fills out a card for each one. She files them in the top drawer of her 
desk. Her own private card catalog. 

If she could, she’d probably cut the tops off the books so they’d be all the 
same size. 

She is so organized. Her closet is organized by color. All the reds come 



first. Then the oranges. Then the yellows. Then come the greens, blues, and 
purples. She hangs her clothes in the same order as the rainbow. 

And at dinner, she eats around her plate clockwise. Really! I’ve watched 
her. First her mashed potatoes. Then all her peas. And then her meat loaf. If she 
finds one pea in her mashed potatoes, she totally loses it! 

Weird. Really weird. 

Me? I’m not organized. I’m cool. I’m not serious like my sister. I can be 
pretty funny. My friends think I’m a riot. Everyone does. Except Mindy. 

“Come on, serve already,” I called out. “Before the end of the century.” 

Mindy stood on her side of the table, carefully lining up her shot. She 
stands in exactly the same place every time. With her feet exactly the same space 
apart. Her footprints are worn into the carpet. 

“Ten-eight and serving,” Mindy finally called out. She always calls out the 
score before she serves. Then she swung her arm back. 

I held the paddle up to my mouth like a microphone. “She pulls her arm 
back,” I announced. “The crowd is hushed. It’s a tense moment.” 

“Joe, stop acting like a jerk,” she snapped. “I have to concentrate.” 

I love pretending I’m a sports announcer. It drives Mindy nuts. 

Mindy pulled her arm back again. She tossed the Ping-Pong ball up into the 
air. And... 

“A spider!” I screamed. “On your shoulder!” 

“Yaaaiiii!” Mindy dropped the paddle and began slapping her shoulder 
furiously. The ball clattered onto the table. 

“Gotcha!” I cried. “My point.” 

“No way!” Mindy shouted angrily. “You’re just a cheater, Joe.” She 
smoothed the shoulders of her pink T-shirt carefully. She picked up the ball and 
swatted it over the net. 

“At least I’m a funny cheater!” I replied. I twirled around in a complete 
circle and belted the ball. It bounced once on my side before sailing over the net. 

“Foul,” Mindy announced. “You’re always fouling.” 

I waved my paddle at her. “Get a life,” I said. “It’s a game. It’s supposed to 
be fun.” 

“I’m beating you,” Mindy replied. “That’s fun.” 

I shrugged. “Who cares? Winning isn’t everything.” 

“Where did you read that?” she asked. “In a bubble gum comic?” Then she 
rolled her eyes again. I think someday her eyes are going to roll right out of her 



head! 

I rolled my eyes, too—back into my head until only the whites showed. 
“Neat trick, huh?” 

“Cute, Joe,” Mindy muttered. “Really cute. You’d better watch out. One 
day your eyes might not come back down. Which would be an improvement!” 

“Lame joke,” I replied. “Very lame.” 

Mindy lined up her feet carefully again. 

“She’s in her serve position,” I spoke into my paddle. “She’s nervous. 
She’s...” 

“Joe!” Mindy whined. “Quit it!” 

She tossed the Ping-Pong ball into the air. She swung the paddle, and— 

“Gross!” I shouted. “What’s that big green glob hanging out of your nose?” 

Mindy ignored me this time. She tapped the ball over the net. 

I dove forward and whacked it with the tip of my paddle. It spun high over 
the net and landed in the corner of the basement. Between the washing machine 
and the dryer. 

Mindy jogged after the ball on her long, thin legs. “Hey, where’s Buster?” 
she called out. “Wasn’t he sleeping next to the dryer?” 

Buster is our dog. A giant black Rottweiler with a head the size of a 
basketball. He loves snoozing on the old sleeping bag we keep in the corner of 
the basement. Especially when we’re down here playing Ping-Pong. 

Everyone is afraid of Buster. For about three seconds. Then he starts licking 
them with his long, wet tongue. Or rolls onto his back and begs to have his belly 
scratched. 

“Where is he, Joe?” Mindy bit her lip. 

“He’s around here somewhere,” I replied. “Why are you always worrying 
about Buster? He weighs over a hundred pounds. He can take care of himself.” 

Mindy frowned. “Not if Mr. McCall catches him. Remember what he said 
the last time Buster chomped on his tomato plants?” 

Mr. McCall is our next-door neighbor. Buster loves the McCalls’ yard. He 
likes to nap under their huge, shady elm tree. 

And dig little holes all over their lawn. And sometimes big holes. 

And snack in their vegetable garden. 

Last year, Buster dug up every head of Mr. McCall’s lettuce. And ate his 
biggest zucchini plant for dessert. 

I guess that’s why Mr. McCall hates Buster. He said the next time he 



catches him in his garden, he’s going to turn him into fertilizer. 

My dad and Mr. McCall are the two best gardeners in town. They’re nuts 
about gardening. Totally nuts. 

I think working in a garden is kind of fun, too. But I don’t let that get 
around. My friends think gardening is for nerds. 

Dad and Mr. McCall are always battling it out at the annual garden show. 
Mr. McCall usually takes first place. But last year, Dad and I won the blue 
ribbon for our tomatoes. 

That drove Mr. McCall crazy. When Dad’s name was announced, Mr. 
McCall’s face turned as red as our tomatoes. 

So Mr. McCall is desperate to win this year. He started stocking up on plant 
food and bug spray months ago. 

And he planted something that nobody else in North Bay grows. Strange 
orange-green melons called casabas. 

Dad says that Mr. McCall has made a big mistake. He says the casabas will 
never grow any bigger than tennis balls. The growing season in Minnesota is too 
short. 

“McCall’s garden loses,” I declared. “Our tomatoes are definitely going to 
win again this year. And thanks to my special soil, they’ll grow as big as beach 
balls!” 

“So will your head,” Mindy shot back. 

I stuck out my tongue and crossed my eyes. It seemed like a good reply. 

“Whose serve is it?” I asked. Mindy was taking so long, I lost track. 

“It’s still my serve,” she replied, carefully placing her feet. 

We were interrupted by footsteps. Heavy, booming footsteps on the stairs 
behind Mindy. 

“Who is that?” Mindy cried. 

And then he appeared behind her. And my eyes nearly bulged right out of 
my head. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. “It’s... McCall!” 



2 


“Joe!” he roared. The floor shook as he stomped toward Mindy. 

All the color drained from Mindy’s face. Her hand grasped her paddle so 
tightly that her knuckles turned white. She tried to swing around to look behind 
her, but she couldn’t. Her feet were frozen in her Ping-Pong-ball footprints. 

McCall’s hands balled into two huge fists, and he looked really, really 
angry. 

“I’m going to get you. And this time I’m going to win. Throw me a 
paddle.” 

“You jerk!” Mindy sputtered. “I-I knew it wasn’t Mr. McCall. I knew it was 
Moose.” 

Moose is Mr. McCall’s son and my best friend. His real name is Michael, 
but everyone calls him Moose. Even his parents. 

Moose is the biggest kid in the whole sixth grade. And the strongest. His 
legs are as thick as tree trunks. And so is his neck. And he’s very, very loud. Just 
like his dad. 

Mindy can’t stand Moose. She says he’s a gross slob. 

I think he’s cool. 

“Yo, Joe!” Moose bellowed. “Where’s my paddle?” His big arm muscles 
bulged as he reached out to grab mine. 

I pulled my hand back. But his beefy hand slapped my shoulder so hard that 
my head nearly rolled off. 

“Whoaaa!” I yelped. 

Moose let out a deep laugh that shook the basement walls. And then he 
ended it with a burp. 

“Moose, you’re disgusting,” Mindy groaned. 

Moose scratched his dark brown crew cut. “Gee, thanks, Mindy.” 

“Thanks for what?” she demanded. 

“For this.” He reached out and snatched the paddle right out of her hand. 

Moose swung Mindy’s paddle around wildly in the air. He missed a 
hanging lamp by an inch. “Ready for a real game, Joe?” 

He threw the Ping-Pong ball into the air and drew his powerful arm back. 
Wham! The ball rocketed across the room. It bounced off two walls and flew 



back over the net toward me. 

“Foul!” Mindy cried. “That’s not allowed.” 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. I dove for the ball and missed. Moose has an amazing 
serve. 

Moose slammed the ball again. It shot over the net and whacked me in the 
chest. 

Thwock! 

“Hey!” I cried. I rubbed the stinging spot. 

“Good shot, huh?” He grinned. 

“Yeah. But you’re supposed to hit the table,” I told him. 

Moose pumped his fat fists into the air. “Super Moose!” he bellowed. 
“Strong as a superhero!” 

My friend Moose is a pretty wild guy. Mindy says he’s a total animal. I 
think he’s just got a lot of enthusiasm. 

I served while he was still throwing his arms around. 

“Hey! No fair!” he declared. Moose charged the table and clobbered the 
ball. And flattened it into a tiny white pancake. 

I groaned. “That’s ball number fifteen for this month,” I announced. 

I grabbed the little pancake and tossed it into a blue plastic milk crate on the 
floor. The crate was piled high with dozens of flattened Ping-Pong balls. 

“Hey! I think you broke your record!” I declared. 

“All right!” Moose exclaimed. He leaped on top of the Ping-Pong table and 
began jumping up and down. “Super Moose!” he yelled. 

“Stop it, you jerk!” Mindy screamed. “You’re going to break the table.” She 
covered her face with her hands. 

“Super Moose! Super Moose!” he chanted. 

The Ping-Pong table swayed. Then it sagged under his weight. He was even 
starting to get on my nerves now. “Moose, get off! Get off!” I wailed. 

“Who’s going to make me?” he demanded. 

Then we all heard a loud, sharp craaaaack. 

“You’re breaking it!” Mindy shrieked. “Get off!” 

Moose scrambled off the table. He lurched toward me, holding his hands 
straight out like the zombie monster we’d seen in Killer Zombie from Planet 
Zero on TV. “Now I’m going to destroy you!” 

Then he hurled himself at me. 

As he smashed into me, I staggered back and fell onto the dusty cement 



floor. 

Moose jumped onto my stomach and pinned me down. “Say ‘Moose’s 
tomatoes are the best!’ ” he ordered. He bounced up and down on my chest. 

“Moo... Moose’s,” I wheezed. “Tomat... I can’t... breathe... really... 
help.” 

“Say it!” Moose insisted. He placed his powerful hands around my neck. 
And squeezed. 

“Ugggggh,” I gagged. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. 

My head rolled to the side. 

“Moose!” I heard Mindy shriek. “Let him go! Let him go! What have you 
done to him?” 



3 


“M-Miiindy,” I moaned. 

Moose pulled his hands from my throat and lifted his powerful body off my 
chest. 

“What did you do to him—you big monster?” Mindy shrieked. She knelt 
down by my side and bent over me. She brushed my hair from my eyes. 

“Y-you’re a... a...” I stopped and coughed weakly. 

“What, Joe? What is it?” Mindy demanded softly. 

“You’re a SUCKER!” I exclaimed. And burst out laughing. 

Mindy jerked her head back. “You little weasel!” 

“Tricked you! Tricked you!” I cheered. 

“Way to go, dude!” Moose grinned. 

I scrambled to my feet and slapped Moose a high five. “Suc-ker! Suc-ker!” 
we chanted over and over. 

Mindy folded her skinny arms in front of her and glared at us. “Not funny,” 
she snapped. “I’m never going to believe another word you say! Never!” 

“Oh, I’m sooooo scared!” I said. I knocked my knees together. “See? My 
knees are trembling.” 

“I’m shaking, too,” Moose joined in, wiggling his whole body. 

“You guys are totally juvenile,” she announced. “I’m out of here.” 

She slid her hands into the pockets of her white shorts and stomped away. 
But then she suddenly stopped a few feet from the stairs. 

In front of the high basement window. 

The window that looked out onto Mr. McCall’s front yard. 

She stared up through the window’s sheer white curtain for a second. She 
squinted her eyes. Then she cried out, “No! Oh, no!” 

“Nice try,” I replied, flicking a dust ball from the carpet in her direction. 
“There’s nothing out there. I’m not falling for your lame trick!” 

“No! It’s Buster!” Mindy cried. “He’s next door again!” 

“Huh?” I sprinted to the window. And jumped onto a chair. I yanked the 
filmy curtain aside. 

Yes. There sat Buster. In the middle of the vegetable patch that covered Mr. 



McCall’s front yard. “Oh, wow. He’s in the garden again,” I murmured. 

“My garden! He’d better not be!” Moose declared, stomping up behind me. 
He shoved me off the chair to take a look. “If my dad catches Buster in his 
vegetables, he’ll turn that big mutt into mulch!” 

“Come on! Hurry!” Mindy pleaded, tugging on my arm. “We have to get 
Buster out of there. Right away. Before Moose’s dad catches him!” 

Moose, Mindy, and I raced upstairs and out the front door. We charged 
across our front lawn, toward the McCalls’ house. 

At the edge of our lawn, we leaped across the line of yellow and white 
petunias that Dad had planted. It separates our yard from the McCalls’ garden. 

Mindy squeezed her fingernails deep into my arm. “Buster’s digging!” she 
cried. “He’s going to destroy—the melons!” 

Buster’s powerful front paws worked hard. He scraped at the dirt and green 
plants. Mud and leaves flew everywhere. 

“Stop that, Buster!” Mindy pleaded. “Stop that—now!” 

Buster kept digging. 

Moose glanced at his plastic wristwatch. “You’d better get that dog out of 
there fast,” he warned. “It’s almost six o’clock. My dad comes out to water the 
garden at six sharp.” 

I’m terrified of Mr. McCall. I admit it. He’s so big, he makes Moose look 
like a shrimp! And he’s mean. 

“Buster, get over here!” I begged. Mindy and I both shouted to the dog. 

But Buster ignored our cries. 

“Don’t just stand there. Why don’t you pull that dumb mutt out of there?” 
Moose demanded. 

I shook my head. “We can’t! He’s too big. And stubborn. He won’t budge.” 

I reached under my T-shirt and searched for the shiny metal dog whistle I 
wear on a cord around my neck. I wear it day and night. Even under my 
pajamas. It’s the only thing Buster will obey. 

“It’s two minutes to six,” Moose warned, checking his watch. “Dad will be 
out here any second!” 

“Blow the whistle, Joe!” Mindy cried. 

I brought the whistle up to my mouth. And gave a long, hard blow. 

Moose snickered. “That whistle’s broken,” he said. “It didn’t make a 
sound.” 

“It’s a dog whistle,” Mindy replied in a superior tone. “It makes a really 



high-pitched sound. Dogs can hear them, but people can’t. See?” 

She pointed to Buster. He had lifted his nose out of the dirt and pricked up 
his ears. 

I blew the whistle again. Buster shook the dirt from his fur. 

“Thirty seconds and counting,” Moose told us. 

I blew the silent dog whistle one more time. 

Yes! 

Buster came trotting slowly toward us, wagging his stumpy tail. 

“Hurry, Buster!” I pleaded. “Hurry!” I held my arms open wide. 

“Buster—run—don’t trot!” Mindy begged. 

Too late. 

We heard a loud slam. 

Moose’s front door flew open. 

And Mr. McCall stepped out. 



4 


“Joe! Come over here. Now!” Moose’s dad barked at me. 

He lumbered toward his garden, his big belly bouncing in front of him 
under his blue T-shirt. “Get over here, boy—on the double!” 

Mr. McCall is retired from the army. He’s used to barking out orders. And 
having them obeyed. 

I obeyed. Buster trotted by my side. 

“Was that dog in my garden again?” Mr. McCall demanded, eyeing me 
coldly. His cold stare could make your blood freeze. 

“No, s-sir! ” I stammered. Buster settled down beside me with a loud yawn. 

I usually don’t tell lies. Except to Mindy. But Buster’s life was on the line. I 
had to save Buster. Didn’t I? 

Mr. McCall bounced up to his vegetable patch. He circled his tomatoes, his 
corn, his zucchini, his casaba melons. He examined each stalk and leaf carefully. 

Oh, wow, I thought. We’re in major trouble now. 

Finally, he gazed up at us. His eyes narrowed. “If that mutt wasn’t in here, 
why is the dirt all pawed up?” 

“Maybe it was the wind?” I replied softly. It was worth a try. Maybe he’d 
believe it. 

Moose stood silently next to me. The only time he’s quiet is when his dad is 
around. 

“Um, Mr. McCall,” Mindy began. “We’ll make sure Buster stays out of 
your yard. We promise!” Then she smiled her sweetest smile. 

Mr. McCall scowled. “All right. But if I catch him even sniffing at my 
melons, I’m calling the police and having that dog hauled off to the pound. And I 
mean it.” 

I gulped. I knew he meant it. Mr. McCall doesn’t kid around. 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall snapped. “Bring the hose out here and water these 
casabas! I told you they need to be watered at least five times a day.” 

“See you later,” Moose muttered. He ducked his head and ran toward the 
back of his house for the hose. 

Mr. McCall shot one more dark glance at us. Then he lumbered up his front 
steps and slammed the door. 



“Maybe it was the wind?” Mindy rolled her eyes again. “Wow, that was fast 
thinking, Joe!” She laughed. 

“Oh, yeah? Well, at least I had an answer,” I replied. “And remember, it 
was my whistle that saved Buster. All you did was smile that phony smile.” 

Mindy and I headed toward our house, arguing all the way. But we stopped 
when we heard a low moan. A frightening sound. Buster cocked his ears. 

“Who’s that?” I whispered. 

A second later, we found out. Dad lurched around the side of the house, 
carrying a big watering can. 

He was wearing his favorite gardening outfit—sneakers with holes in both 
toes, baggy plaid shorts, and a red T-shirt that said “I’m All Thumbs in the 
Garden.” 

And he was moaning and groaning. Which was really weird. Because Dad 
is always in an excellent mood when he’s gardening. Whistling. Smiling. 
Cracking lame jokes. 

But not today. 

Today something was wrong. Really wrong. 

“Kids... kids,” he moaned, staggering toward us. “I’ve been looking for 
you.” 

“Dad—what is it? What’s wrong?” Mindy demanded. 

Dad clutched his head and swayed from side to side. He took a deep breath. 
“I-I have something terrible to tell you.” 



5 


“What, Dad?” I cried. “Tell us.” 

Dad spoke in a hoarse whisper. “I found a... a fruit fly on our tomatoes! On 
our biggest tomato. The Red Queen!” 

He wiped his sweaty forehead. “How could this happen? I misted. I 
sprayed. I pruned. Twice this week alone.” 

Dad shook his head in sorrow. “My poor tomatoes. If that fruit fly ruins my 
Red Queen, I-IT1 have to pull out of the garden show!” 

Mindy and I glanced at each other. I knew we were thinking the same thing. 
The adults around here were getting a little weird. 

“Dad, it’s only one fruit fly,” I pointed out. 

“It only takes one, Joe. Just one fruit fly. And our chances for a blue ribbon 
—destroyed. We have to do something. Right away.” 

“What about that new bug spray?” I reminded him. “The stuff that came 
last week from the Green Thumb catalog.” 

Dad’s eyes lit up. He ran a hand through his flat, rumpled hair. “The Bug Be 
Gone!” he exclaimed. 

He jogged up the driveway to the garage. “Come on, kids!” he sang out. 
“Let’s give it a try!” Dad was cheering up. 

Mindy and I raced after him. 

Dad pulled out three spray cans from a carton in the back of the garage. The 
words “Wave Bye-Bye to Bugs with Bug Be Gone!” were printed on the labels. 
A drawing showed a tearful bug carrying a suitcase. Waving bye-bye. 

Dad handed one can to Mindy and one to me. “Let’s get that fruit fly!” he 
cried, as we headed back to our garden. 

We ripped the caps off the cans of Bug Be Gone. “One, two, three... spray!” 
Dad commanded. 

Dad and I showered the two dozen tomato plants tied to wooden stakes in 
the middle of the garden. 

Mindy hadn’t started yet. She was probably reading the ingredients on the 

can. 

“What’s all the fuss about?” my mother called, stepping out the back door. 
Mom was wearing one of her around-the-house outfits. A pair of Dad’s old 



baggy plaid shorts. And an old blue T-shirt he gave her when he came back from 
a business trip a few years ago. The T-shirt said “I Mist You!” One of Dad’s 
lame garden jokes. 

“Hi, honey,” Dad called. “We’re about to destroy a fruit fly. Want to 
watch?” 

Mom laughed, crinkling up the corners of her green eyes. “Pretty tempting. 
But I have to finish a greeting card design.” 

Mom is a graphic artist. She has an office on the second floor of our house. 
She can draw the most incredible pictures on her computer. Amazing sunsets, 
mountains, and flowers. 

“Dinner at seven-thirty, everybody. Okay?” 

“Sounds good,” Dad called as Mom disappeared into the house. “Okay, 
kids. Let’s finish spraying!” 

Dad and I showered the tomato plants one more time. We even sprayed the 
yellow squash plants nearby. Mindy squinted. Aimed the nozzle of her can 
directly at the Red Queen. And let out a single neat drizzle. 

One tiny fruit fly flapped its wings weakly and fell to the ground. Mindy 
smiled in satisfaction. 

“Good work!” Dad exclaimed. 

He clapped us both on the back. “I think this calls for a celebration!” he 
declared. “I have the perfect idea! A quick visit to Lawn Lovely!” 

“Oh, nooooo,” Mindy and I groaned together. 

Lawn Lovely is a store two blocks from our house. It’s the place where Dad 
buys his lawn ornaments. A lot of lawn ornaments. 

Dad is as nuts about lawn ornaments as he is about gardening. We have so 
many lawn ornaments in our front yard, it’s impossible to mow the lawn! 

What a crowd scene! We have two pink plastic flamingos. A cement angel 
with huge white wings. A chrome ball on a silver platform. A whole family of 
plaster skunks. A fountain with two kissing swans. A seal that balances a beach 
ball on its nose. And a chipped plaster deer. 

Weird, huh? 

But Dad really loves them. He thinks they’re art or something. 

And do you know what he does? He dresses them up on holidays. Pilgrim 
hats for the skunks on Thanksgiving. Pirate costumes for the flamingos on 
Halloween. Stove-pipe hats and little black beards for the swans on Lincoln’s 
birthday. 



Of course, neat and tidy Mindy can’t stand the lawn ornaments. Neither can 
Mom. Every time Dad brings a new one home, Mom threatens to toss it into the 
garbage. 

“Dad, these lawn ornaments are totally embarrassing!” Mindy complained. 
“People gawk from their cars and take pictures of our front yard. We’re a tourist 
attraction!” 

“Oh, please,” Dad groaned. “One person took a picture.” 

That was last Christmas. When Dad dressed all the ornaments as Santa’s 
helpers. 

“Yeah. And that picture ended up in the newspaper!” Mindy moaned. “It 
was soooo embarrassing.” 

“Well, I think the ornaments are cool,” I replied. Someone had to defend 
poor Dad. 

Mindy just wrinkled her nose in disgust. 

I know what really bugs Mindy about the ornaments. It’s the way Dad 
sticks them in the yard. Without any order. If Mindy had her way, they would be 
lined up like her shoes. In nice neat rows. 

“Come on, guys,” Dad urged, starting down the driveway. “Let’s go see if a 
new shipment of ornaments has come in.” 

We had no choice. 

Mindy and I trudged down the sidewalk after Dad. As we followed him, we 
thought—no big deal. It’s almost dinnertime. We’ll just glance over the 
ornaments at the store. Then we’ll go home. 

We had no idea we were about to start the most horrifying adventure of our 
lives. 



6 


“Can’t we drive, Dad?” Mindy complained as the three of us hiked up the steep 
Summit Avenue hill toward Lawn Lovely. “It’s too hot to walk.” 

“Oh, come on, Mindy. It’s only a couple of blocks. And it’s good exercise,” 
Dad replied, taking long, brisk strides. 

“But it’s sooooo hot,” Mindy whined. She brushed her bangs away from her 
face and blotted her forehead with her hand. 

Mindy was right. It was hot. But get serious. It was only a two-block walk. 

“I’m hotter than you are,” I teased. Then I leaned into Mindy and shook my 
sweaty head at her. “See?” 

A few small beads of sweat flew onto Mindy’s T-shirt. 

“You are so gross!” she shrieked, drawing back. “Dad! Tell him to stop 
being so disgusting.” 

“We’re almost there,” Dad replied. His voice sounded as if he were a 
million miles away. He was probably dreaming about buying his next lawn 
ornament. 

Just up the block, I spotted the tall, pointy roof of Lawn Lovely. It jutted 
into the sky, towering over all the houses around it. 

What a weird place, I thought. Lawn Lovely is in an old, raggedy three- 
story house, set back from the street. The whole building is painted pink. Bright 
pink. The windows are covered with brightly colored shutters. But none of the 
colors match. 

I think that’s another reason why Mindy hates this place. 

The old house is not in good shape. The wooden floorboards on the front 
porch are all sagging. And there is a hole in the porch where Mr. McCall fell 
through last summer. 

As we marched past the flagpole in the front yard, I spotted Mrs. Anderson 
in the driveway. She owns Lawn Lovely. She lives there, too. On the second and 
third floors. 

Mrs. Anderson kneeled over a flock of pink plastic flamingos. She was 
ripping off their plastic wrap and setting them in crooked rows on her lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson reminds me of a flamingo. She’s real skinny and wears pink 
all the time. Even her hair is sort of pink. Like cotton candy. 



Lawn ornaments are the only things Mrs. Anderson sells. Plaster squirrels. 
Kissing angels. Pink rabbits with wire whiskers. Long green worms wearing 
little black hats. A whole flock of white geese. She has hundreds of ornaments. 
Scattered all over her yard. Up the front steps to the porch. And right through the 
door into the entire first floor of the house. 

Mrs. Anderson carefully unwrapped another flamingo and set it down next 
to a deer. She studied this arrangement, then moved the deer about an inch to the 
left. 

“Hello, Lilah!” my dad called out. 

Mrs. Anderson didn’t answer. She’s a little hard of hearing. 

“Hello, Lilah!” Dad repeated, cupping his hands around his mouth like a 
megaphone. 

Mrs. Anderson raised her head from the flamingos. And beamed at my dad. 
“Jeffrey!” she cried. “How nice to see you.” 

Mrs. Anderson is always friendly to Dad. Mom says he’s her best customer. 

Maybe her only customer! 

“It’s nice to see you, too,” Dad replied. He rubbed his hands together 
eagerly and gazed around the lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson stuck one last flamingo into the ground. She made her way 
over to us, wiping her hands on her pink T-shirt. 

“Do you have something special in mind today?” she asked my father. 

“Our deer is a little lonesome,” he explained, shouting so that she could 
hear him. “I think it needs company.” 

“Really, Dad. We don’t need any more lawn ornaments,” Mindy begged. 
“Mom will be furious.” 

Mrs. Anderson smiled. “Oh, a Lawn Lovely lawn always has room for one 
more! Right, Jeffrey?” 

“Right!” Dad declared. 

Mindy pressed her lips together tightly. She rolled her eyes for the 
hundredth time that day. 

Dad hurried over to a herd of wide-eyed plaster deer, standing in the corner 
of the yard. We followed him. 

The deer stood about four feet tall. White spots dotted their reddish-brown 
bodies. 

Very lifelike. Very boring. 

He studied the deer for a few seconds. Then something caught his eye. 



Two squat gnomes standing in the middle of the lawn. 

“Well, well, what have we here?” Dad murmured, smiling. I could see his 
eyes light up. He bent down to examine the gnomes. 

Mrs. Anderson clapped her hands together. “Jeffrey, you have a wonderful 
eye for lawn ornaments!” she exclaimed. “I knew you’d appreciate the gnomes! 
They were carved in Europe. Very fine work.” 

I stared at the gnomes. They looked like little old men. They were about 
three feet tall and very chubby. With piercing red eyes and large pointy ears. 

Their mouths curved up in wide, silly grins. And coarse brown hair 
sprouted from their heads. 

Each gnome wore a bright green short-sleeved shirt, brown leggings, and a 
tall, pointy orange hat. Both wore black belts tied tightly around their chubby 
waists. 

“They’re terrific!” Dad gushed. “Oh, kids. Aren’t they wonderful?” 

“They’re okay, Dad,” I said. 

“Okay?” Mindy shouted. “They’re horrible ! They’re so gross! They look 
so... so evil. I hate them!” 

“Hey, you’re right, Mindy,” I said. “They are pretty gross. They look just 
like you!” 

“Joe, you are the biggest—” Mindy started. But Dad interrupted her. 

“We’ll take them!” he cried. 

“Dad—no!” Mindy howled. “They’re hideous! Buy a deer. Buy another 
flamingo. But not these ugly old gnomes. Look at the awful colors. Look at 
those evil grins. They’re too creepy!” 

“Oh, Mindy. Don’t be silly. They’re perfect!” Dad exclaimed. “We’ll have 
so much fun with them. We’ll dress them as ghosts for Halloween. In Santa suits 
at Christmas. They look just like Santa’s elves.” 

Dad pulled out his credit card. He and Mrs. Anderson started toward the 
pink house to complete the sale. “I’ll be back in a minute,” he called. 

“These are the ugliest yet,” Mindy groaned, turning to me. “They’re 
completely embarrassing. I’ll never be able to bring any of my friends over 
again.” 

Then she stomped off toward the sidewalk. 

I couldn’t take my eyes away from the gnomes. They were kind of ugly. 
And even though they were smiling, there was something unfriendly about their 
smiles. Something cold about their glassy red eyes. 



“Whoa! Mindy! Look!” I cried. “One of the gnomes just moved!” 

Mindy slowly turned to face me. 

My wrist was held tightly in the chubby hand. I twisted and squirmed. Tried 
to tug free. 

“Let go!” I squealed. “Let go of me! Mindy—hurry!” 

“I—I’m coming!” she cried. 



7 


Mindy came racing across the yard. 

She leaped over the flamingos and sprinted around the deer. 

“Hurry!” I moaned, stretching my left arm out toward her. “He’s hurting 

me!” 

But as my sister came near, her face twisted in fright, I couldn’t keep a 
straight face any longer. I burst out laughing. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha!” I shrieked. I danced away from the plaster gnome. 

Mindy swung around to slug me. Swung and missed. 

“Did you really believe that gnome grabbed me?” I cried. “Are you totally 
losing it?” 

She didn’t have time to reply. Dad came jogging down the pink porch steps. 
“Time to bring our little guys home,” he announced, grinning. 

He stopped and stared down happily at the ugly gnomes. “But let’s name 
them first.” Dad names all of our lawn ornaments. 

Mindy let out a loud groan. Dad ignored her. 

He patted one of the gnomes on the head. “Let’s call this one Hap. Because 
he looks so happy! I’ll carry Hap. You kids take...” 

He stopped and squinted at the other gnome. There was a small chip on the 
gnome’s front tooth. “Chip. Yep, we’ll call this one Chip.” 

Dad hoisted Hap into his arms. “Whoaaa. He’s an armful!” He made his 
way toward the driveway, staggering under the gnome’s weight. 

Mindy studied Chip. “You take the feet. I’ll grab the top,” she ordered. 
“Come on. One, two, three... lift!” 

I stooped down and grabbed the gnome by its legs. Its heavy red boot 
scraped my arm. I let out a cry. 

“Quit complaining,” Mindy ordered. “At least you don’t have this stupid 
pointy hat sticking in your face.” 

We struggled down the hill, following Dad. 

Mindy and I inched forward, struggling side by side. “Everyone in the 
neighborhood is gawking at us,” Mindy moaned. 

They were. Two girls from Mindy’s school, wheeling their bikes up the hill, 
stopped and stared. Then they burst out laughing. 



Mindy’s pale face grew as red as one of Dad’s tomatoes. “I’ll never live this 
down,” she grumbled. “Come on, Joe. Walk faster.” 

I jiggled Chip’s legs to make Mindy lose her grip. But the only thing she 
lost was her temper. “Quit it, Joe,” she snapped. “And hold your end up higher.” 

As we neared our house, Mr. McCall spotted us trudging up the block. He 
stopped pruning his shrubs to admire our little parade. 

“More lawn ornaments, Jeffrey?” he called out to Dad. I could hear him 
chuckling. 

Mr. McCall is mean to Mindy and me. But he and Dad get along fine. 
They’re always kidding each other about their gardens. 

Mrs. McCall poked her head out the front door. “Cute!” she called out, 
smiling at us from under her white baseball cap. “Come on in, Bill. Your brother 
is on the phone.” 

Mr. McCall set his pruning sheers down and went inside. 

We lugged Chip past the McCall driveway and followed Dad into our front 

yard. 

“Over here!” Dad instructed as he set Hap down in the far corner of the 
yard. Next to Deer-lilah. Deer-lilah is the deer. Dad named her after Lilah from 
Lawn Lovely. 

With our last bit of strength, we dragged Chip over to Dad. These gnomes 
were heavy. They weighed a lot more than our other ornaments. 

Mindy and I plopped the gnome down on the grass and collapsed in the dirt 
next to him. 

Whistling happily, Dad set Chip on one side of the deer. And Hap on the 
other. 

He stepped back to study them. “What cheerful little guys!” he declared. 
“I’ve got to show your mom. She won’t be able to resist them! They’re too cute 
to hate!” 

He hurried across the lawn and into the house. 

“Yo!” I heard a familiar cry from next door. Moose jogged across his 
driveway. “I hear you have some ugly new lawn things.” 

He charged up to the gnomes and stared. “Way ugly,” he boomed. 

Moose leaned down and stuck his tongue out at Hap. “You want to fight, 
shrimp?” he asked the little statue. “Take that!” He pretended to punch Hap in 
his chubby chest. 

“Wreck the runt!” I cried. 



Moose grabbed the gnome around his waist and gave him a dozen quick 
punches. 

I scrambled to my feet. “I’ll wipe that ugly grin off your face!” I yelled at 
Chip. I closed my hands around the gnome’s neck and pretended to choke him. 

“Watch this!” Moose shot out a thick leg and karate-kicked Hap in his small 
pointy hat. The squat figure wobbled. 

“Careful! Stop messing around!” Mindy warned. “You’re going to break 
them.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s tickle them!” 

“Tickle, tickle!” Moose squeaked as he tickled Hap under the armpits. 

“You’re a riot, Moose,” Mindy declared. “Areal—” 

Moose and I waited for Mindy to finish insulting us. But instead, she 
pointed to the McCalls’ garden and screamed, “Oh, no! Buster!” 

Moose and I spun around and spied Buster. In the middle of Mr. McCall’s 
garden, pawing away at the green stalks. 

“Buster! No!” I screamed. 

I grabbed the dog whistle and raised it to my mouth. But before I could 
blow, Mr. McCall exploded out of his front door! 

“That stupid mutt again!” he shouted, waving his arms wildly. “Get out of 
here! Shoo!” 

Buster whimpered, turned, and trotted back to our yard, head down, stumpy 
tail between his legs. 

Uh-oh, I thought, studying Mr. McCall’s angry face. We’re in for trouble 

now. 

But before Mr. McCall could start lecturing us, Dad pushed the front door 
open. “Kids, your mother says that dinner is almost ready.” 

“Jeffrey, are you deliberately sending that mutt over to ruin my melons?” 
Mr. McCall called. 

Dad grinned. “Buster can’t help it,” he replied. “He keeps mistaking your 
melons for golf balls! ” 

“Are those tomatoes you’re growing?” Moose’s dad shot back. “Or are they 
olives?” 

“Didn’t you see the tomato I rolled into the house yesterday?” Dad replied. 
“I had to use a wheelbarrow!” 

Buster danced around the yard. I think somehow he knew he had escaped 
big trouble. 



We started for the house. But I stopped when I heard a heavy thud. 

I whirled around to discover Hap lying face down in the grass. 

Buster busily licked his face. 

“Bad dog,” Dad scolded. I don’t think Dad likes Buster any more than Mr. 
McCall does. “Did you knock that gnome over? Get away from there!” 

“Buster—come here, boy!” I called. But he ignored me and licked at the 
face more furiously than ever. 

I brought my dog whistle to my lips and gave one quick short blow. Buster 
raised his head, alert to the sound. He forgot about the plaster gnome and trotted 
over to me. 

“Joe, pick Hap up, will you?” Dad demanded, annoyed. 

Mindy held onto Buster. I grabbed the gnome by his shoulders and slowly 
heaved him to his feet. Then I checked for damage. 

Legs. Arms. Neck. Everything seemed okay. 

I raised my eyes to Hap’s face. 

And jumped back in surprise. 

I blinked a few times. And stared at the gnome again. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I murmured. 



8 


The gnome’s smile had vanished. 

Its mouth stood open wide, as if trying to scream. 

“Hey—!” I choked out. 

“What’s wrong?” Dad called. “Is it broken?” 

“Its smile!” I cried. “Its smile is gone! It looks scared or something!” 

Dad jumped down the steps and ran over. Moose and Mr. McCall joined 

him. 

Mindy walked slowly in my direction, with a suspicious scowl on her face. 
She probably thought I was playing another joke. 

“See?” I cried as everyone gathered around me. “It’s unbelievable!” 

“Ha-ha! Good one, Joe!” Moose burst out. He punched me in the shoulder. 
“Pretty funny.” 

“Huh?” I lowered my eyes to the little figure. 

Hap’s lips were curved up in a grin. The same silly grin he always wore. 
The terrified expression had disappeared. 

Dad let out a hearty laugh. “Good acting job, Joe,” he said. “You really 
fooled us all.” 

“Maybe your son should be an actor,” Mr. McCall said, scratching his head. 
“He didn’t fool me,” Mindy bragged. “That one was lame. Really lame.” 
What had happened? Had I imagined that open mouth? 

Mr. McCall turned to Buster. “Listen, Jeffrey,” he started. “I’m serious 
about that dog of yours. If he comes into my garden again...” 

“If Buster goes over there again, I promise we’ll tie him up,” Dad replied. 
“Aw, Dad,” I said. “You know Buster hates to be tied up. He hates it!” 
“Sorry, kids,” Dad said, turning to go inside. “That’s it. Buster gets one 
more chance.” 

I bent down to pet Buster’s head. “Only one more chance, boy,” I 
whispered in his ear. “Did you hear that? You only get one more chance.” 

I woke up the next morning and squinted at the clock radio on my night table. 
Eight A.M. Tuesday. The second day of summer vacation. Excellent! 



I threw on my purple-and-white Vikings jersey and my gym shorts and ran 
downstairs. Time to mow the lawn. 

Dad and I had an agreement. If I mowed the lawn once a week all summer, 
Dad would buy me a new bike. 

I knew exactly which model I wanted, too. Twenty-one gears and really fat 
tires. The coolest mountain bike ever. I’d be able to fly over boulders! 

I let myself out the front door and raised my face to the warm morning sun. 
It felt pretty good. The grass shimmered, still covered with dew. 

“Joe!” I heard a loud bellow. 

Mr. McCall’s bellow. “Get over here!” 

Mr. McCall leaned over his vegetable patch. An angry red vein throbbed in 
his forehead. 

Oh, no, I thought as I edged toward him. What now? 

“I’ve had it,” he roared. “If you don’t tie that dog up, I’m calling the police! 
I mean it!” 

Mr. McCall pointed to the ground. One of his casaba melons lay in the dirt, 
broken into jagged pieces. Melon seeds were scattered everywhere. And most of 
the orange fruit had been eaten away. 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. I didn’t know what to say. 
Lucky for me, Dad showed up just in time. He was on his way to work. 

“Is my son giving you some gardening advice, Bill?” he asked. 

“No jokes today!” Mr. McCall snapped. He scooped up the broken pieces of 
melon and shoved them in my dad’s face. “See what your wild dog has done! 
Now I have only four melons left!” 

Dad turned to me. His expression grew stern. “I warned you, Joe! I told you 
to keep the dog in our yard.” 

“But Buster didn’t do this,” I protested. “He doesn’t even like melons!” 

Buster skulked around behind the flamingos. His ears drooped flat against 
his head. His tail hung low between his legs. He looked really guilty. 

“Well, who else could have done it?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

Dad shook his head. “Joe, I want you to tie Buster up in the back. Now!” 

I saw that I had no choice. No way I could argue. 

“Okay, Dad,” I mumbled. I shuffled across the lawn and grabbed Buster’s 
collar. I hauled him to the corner of the back yard and sat him next to his red 
cedar doghouse. “Stay!” I commanded. 

I rummaged through the garage until I found a long piece of rope. Then I 



tied Buster to the tall oak tree next to his doghouse. 

Buster whimpered. He really hates being tied up. 

“I’m sorry, boy,” I whispered. “I know you didn’t eat that melon.” 

Buster pricked up his ears as Dad came around back to make sure I had tied 
the dog up. “It’s just as well that Buster is tied up today,” he said. “The painters 
are starting on the house this afternoon. Buster would only be in their way.” 

“Painters?” I asked in surprise. Nobody told me that painters were coming. 
I hate the smell of paint! 

Dad nodded. “They’re going to paint over that faded yellow,” he said, 
pointing to the house. “We’re having the house painted white with black trim.” 

“Dad, about Buster...” I started. 

Dad held up a hand to silence me. “I have to get to work. Keep him tied up. 
We’ll talk later.” I watched him make his way to the garage. 

This is all Mr. McCall’s fault, I thought. All of it! After Dad drove away, I 
stamped angrily into the garage and grabbed the lawn mower. I pushed the 
mower around the side of the house and into the front yard. Mindy sat on the 
front steps, reading. I rammed the mower forward. 

“I hate Mr. McCall!” I exclaimed. I shoved the mower around a flamingo. I 
felt like slicing off its skinny legs. “He is such a jerk. I’d like to smash the other 
four stupid melons!” I cried. “I’d love to wreck them all so Mr. McCall will 
leave us alone!” 

“Joe, get a grip,” Mindy called, peering up from her book. 

After I finished mowing, I ran into the house and grabbed a large plastic 
bag for the grass clippings. When I came back out, Moose was sprawled on our 
lawn. Several brightly colored plastic rings lay scattered on the grass around 
him. 

“Think fast!” he cried. He hurled a blue plastic ring at me. I dropped the 
bag and leaped for it. 

“Nice catch!” he said, scrambling to his feet. “How about a game of ring 
toss? We’ll use the gnomes’ pointy hats.” 

“How about using Mindy’s pointy head?” I replied. 

“You are so immature,” Mindy said. She stood and walked to the door. “I’m 
going to find some place quiet to read.” 

Moose handed me a few rings. He flung a purple one toward Hap. The ring 
slid neatly around the gnome’s hat. 

“What a throw!” he exclaimed. 



I took a ring and spun around like a discus thrower. I tossed two yellow 
rings at Chip. They slapped against the gnome’s fat face and slipped to the grass. 

Moose chuckled. “You throw like Mindy. Watch me!” He leaned forward 
and hurled two rings. They settled neatly around Chip’s pointy hat. 

“Yes!” Moose cried. He flexed his bulging muscles. “Super Moose rules 
again!” 

We tossed the rest of the rings. Moose beat me. But only by two points— 
ten to eight. 

“Rematch!” I cried. “Let’s play again!” 

I dashed over to the gnomes and gathered up the rings. As I pulled a 
handful from Chip’s hat, I stared into his face. 

And gasped. 

What was that? 

A seed. 

An orange seed about half an inch long. 

Stuck between the gnome’s fat lips. 



9 


“Is that a melon seed?” I asked, my voice trembling. 

“A what?” Moose stomped up behind me. 

“A melon seed,” I repeated. 

Moose shook his head. He clapped a big hand against my shoulder. “You’re 
seeing things,” he declared. “Come on, let’s play!” 

I pointed to Chip’s mouth. “I’m not seeing things. There! Right there! Don’t 
you see it?” 

Moose’s gaze followed my finger. “Yeah. I see a seed. So what?” 

“It’s a casaba melon seed, Moose. Like the ones scattered on the ground.” 

How could a casaba seed find its way into Chip’s mouth? 

There had to be an explanation. A simple explanation. 

I thought hard. I couldn’t think of one. 

I brushed the seed from the gnome’s lips and watched it flutter to the grass. 

Then I stared at the gnome’s grinning face. Into those cold, flat eyes. 

And the gnome stared back at me. I shivered in the heat. 

How did that seed get there? I wondered. How? 

I dreamed about melons that night. I dreamed that a casaba melon grew in our 
front yard. Grew and grew and grew. Bigger than our house. 

Something startled me out of my melon dream. I fumbled for my alarm 
clock. One A.M. 

Then I heard a howl. Alow, mournful howl. Outside the house. 

I jumped out of bed and hurried to the window. I peered into the shadowy 
front yard. The lawn ornaments stood in silence. 

I heard the howl again. Louder. Longer. 

It was Buster. My poor dog. Tied up in the back yard. 

I crept out of my room and down the dark hall. The house was quiet. I 
started down the carpeted stairs. 

A step squeaked under my foot. I jumped, startled. 

A second later, I heard another creak. 

My legs were shaking. 



Cool it, Joe, I told myself. It’s only the steps. 

I tiptoed through the darkened living room and into the kitchen. I heard 
low, rustling sound behind me. My heart started to pound. 

I whirled around. 

Nothing there. 

You’re hearing things, I told myself. 

I stumbled forward in the dark. Closed my hand around the doorknob. 

And two powerful hands grabbed me from behind! 



10 


“Where do you think you’re going?” 

Mindy! 

I breathed a sigh of relief. And yanked myself away from her grasp. 

“I’m going for a midnight snack,” I whispered, rubbing my neck. “I’m 
going to eat the rest of Mr. McCall’s stupid melons.” 

I pretended to cram my mouth full and chew. “Yum! Casabas. I need more 
casabas!” 

“Joe! You’d better not!” Mindy whispered in alarm. 

“Hey, I’m kidding,” I said. “Buster is howling like crazy. I’m going out to 
calm him down.” 

Mindy yawned. “If Mom and Dad catch you sneaking out in the middle of 
the night...” 

“It’ll just take a few minutes.” I stepped outside. The damp night air sent a 
small chill down my back. I gazed up at the starless night sky. 

Buster’s pitiful howls rose from the back. 

“I’m coming,” I called in a loud whisper. “It’s okay, boy.” 

Buster’s howls dropped to quiet whimpers. 

I took a step forward. Something rustled through the grass. I froze in place. 
And squinted into the darkness. Two small figures scampered by the side of the 
house. They scraped across the yard and disappeared into the night. 

Probably raccoons. 

Raccoons? 

That’s the answer! The raccoons must have eaten Mr. McCall’s melon. I 
wanted to wake up Dad and tell him. But I decided to wait till morning. 

I felt much better. That meant that Buster could be set free. I made my way 
over to Buster and sat next to him on the dew-wet grass. 

“Buster,” I whispered. “I’m here.” 

His big brown eyes drooped sadly. I threw my arms around his furry neck. 
“You won’t be tied up for long, Buster,” I promised. “You’ll see. I’ll tell Dad 
about the raccoons first thing in the morning.” 

Buster licked my hand gratefully. “And tomorrow I’ll take you for a long 
walk,” I whispered. “How’s that, boy? Now go to sleep.” 



I slipped back inside the house and jumped into bed. I felt good. I had 
solved the mystery of the melon. Our troubles with Mr. McCall were over, I 
thought. 

But I thought wrong. 

Our troubles were just beginning. 

“I don’t believe it! I don’t believe it!” Mr. McCall’s cries cut through the quiet 
morning, waking me from my heavy sleep. 

I rubbed my eyes and glanced at the clock radio. Six-thirty A.M. 

What’s all the screaming about? 

I hopped out of bed and hurried downstairs, yawning and stretching. Mom, 
Dad, and Mindy were at the front door, still in pajamas and robes. 

“What’s happening?” I asked. 

“It’s Bill!” Dad cried. “Come on!” 

We piled outside and stared into our neighbors’ garden. 

Mr. McCall hung over his vegetable patch in a tattered blue-and-white- 
checkered robe. He grabbed frantically at his casaba melons, screaming. 

Moose and his mother stood behind Mr. McCall in their robes, wide-eyed 
and silent. Instead of her usual friendly smile, Moose’s mom wore a grim frown. 

Mr. McCall lifted his head from the garden. “Ruined!” he roared. “They’re 
totally ruined!” 

“Oh, boy,” Dad muttered. “We’d better get over there, Marion.” He started 
across our front lawn. Mom, Mindy, and I followed. 

“Take it easy, Bill,” my dad said calmly as he stepped into the McCalls’ 
front yard. “Nothing is worth getting so upset about.” 

“Easy? Take it easy?” Mr. McCall shrieked. The vein in his forehead 
throbbed. 

The raccoons, I thought. They attacked the casabas again. I’ve got to tell 
Dad. Now. Before Buster gets blamed for this, too. 

Mr. McCall cradled his four casaba melons in his hands. They were still 
attached to the vine. 

“I came out to water my casabas and I found this... this...” He was too 
upset to finish. He held the melons out to us. 

“Whoa!” I cried in amazement. 

No raccoon could have done this. 

No way. 



Someone had taken a black marker and drawn big, sloppy smiley faces on 
each melon! 

My sister shoved me aside to get a good look. 

“Joe!” she shrieked. “That’s horrible. How could you!” 



11 


“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

“Yes, Mindy, what are you talking about?” Mom asked. 

“I caught Joe sneaking outside last night,” Mindy replied. “In the middle of 
the night. He told me he wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

Everyone turned to stare at me in horror. Even Moose, my best friend. Mr. 
McCall’s face was as red as a tomato again. I saw him clenching and 
unclenching his fists. 

Everyone stared at me in shocked silence. The smiley faces on the melons 
stared at me, too. 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

Before I could explain, Dad exploded. “Joe, I think you owe us an 
explanation. What were you doing outside in the middle of the night?” 

I felt my face grow red-hot with anger. “I went out to calm Buster down,” I 
insisted. “He was howling. I didn’t touch the melons. I would never do anything 
like that. I was only joking when I told Mindy I wanted to wreck them!” 

“Well, this is no joke!” Dad exclaimed angrily. “You are grounded for the 
week!” 

“But, Dad—!” I pleaded. “I didn’t draw on those melons!” 

“Make that two weeks!” he snapped. “And I think you should mow Mr. 
McCall’s grass and water his garden all month. As an apology.” 

“Whoa, Jeffrey,” Mr. McCall interrupted. “I don’t want your son—or your 
dog—in my garden again. Ever.” 

He rubbed the casaba melons with his huge fingers, trying to erase the ugly 
black stains. “I hope this comes off,” he muttered. “Because if it doesn’t, Jeffrey, 
I’ll sue. Believe me, I will!” 

Two hours after the melon disaster, I sprawled on the floor of my room. 
Grounded. With nothing to do. 

I couldn’t play with Buster in the yard. Because the painters were outside. 

So I stayed in my room and reread all of my Super Gamma Man comic 
books. 

I ordered a glob of rubber vomit from the Joker’s Wild catalog for five 



dollars. That’s most of my weekly allowance. Then I sneaked into Mindy’s room 
and mixed up all the clothes in her closet. No more colors in rainbow order. 

When I had finished, it still wasn’t even noon. 

What a totally boring day, I thought, as I wandered downstairs. 

“Hand me the yellow, please,” Mindy’s voice rang out from the den. 

I crept toward the door and peeked in. Mindy and her best friend, Heidi, sat 
cross-legged on the floor. They were decorating T-shirts with fabric paint. 

Heidi is almost as annoying as Mindy. Something is always bothering her. 
She’s too cold. Or too hot. Or her stomach hurts. Or her shoelaces are too tight. 

I watched silently as the two girls worked. Heidi drew a silver collar on a 
large purple cat. 

Mindy hunched over in concentration and slowly outlined a large yellow 
flower. 

I leaped into the den. “Boo!” I screamed. 

“Yaii!” Heidi shrieked. 

Mindy jumped up, smearing a big yellow blotch on her red shorts. “You 
jerk!” she cried. “See what you made me do!” 

She scraped at the paint with her fingernails. “Beat it, Joe,” she ordered. 
“We’re busy.” 

“Well, I’m not,” I replied. “Thanks to you, Miss Snitch.” 

“It was your bright idea to draw faces on those melons,” she snarled. “Not 
mine.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I insisted. 

Mindy counted off the evidence on her fingers. 

“You were up in the middle of the night. You went out in the yard. And you 
told me you wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

“I was joking!” I exclaimed. “Don’t you know what a joke is? You should 
try making one sometime.” 

Heidi stretched out her arms. “I’m hot,” she said. “Why don’t we go to the 
pool? We can finish our shirts later.” 

Mindy fixed her eyes on me. “Joe, do you want to go with us?” she asked in 
a sweet voice. “Whoops. I forgot. You’re grounded.” Then she burst out 
laughing. 

I turned and left the two girls in the den. I have to get out of this house, I 
thought. 

I headed for the kitchen. Mom and the painter huddled together at the 



counter, checking paint swatches. 

“We want the onyx black for the trim. Not the pitch black,” she instructed, 
tapping the swatches. “I think you brought the wrong paint.” 

I tugged on her sleeve. “Mom. Buster’s really bored. Can I take him for a 
walk?” 

“Of course not,” she replied quickly. “You’re grounded.” 

“Please,” I begged. “Buster needs a walk. And that paint smell is making 
me sick.” I held my stomach and made gagging sounds. 

The painter shifted impatiently from foot to foot. “Okay, okay,” Mom said. 
“Take the dog.” 

“Excellent! Thanks, Mom!” I cried. I darted through the kitchen and into 
the back yard. “Good news, Buster,” I exclaimed. “We’re free!” 

Buster wagged his stumpy tail. I untied the long rope and clipped a short 
leash to his collar. 

We walked about two miles. All the way down to Buttermilk Pond. That’s 
our favorite stick-chasing spot. 

I tossed a fat stick into the water. Buster plunged into the cold pond and 
fetched it. We did that over and over until it was three o’clock. Time to go home. 

On the way back to the house, we stopped at the Creamy Cow. They have 
the best ice cream in town. 

I used the last bit of my allowance to treat us both to double-dip chocolate- 
chip cookie dough cones. Buster liked the cookie dough, but he left all the 
chocolate chips on the ground. 

After we finished our ice cream, we continued home. Buster pulled at his 
leash excitedly as we strolled up the driveway. He seemed really happy to be 
back. 

He dragged me into the front yard and sniffed everything. The evergreen 
bushes. The flamingos. The deer. The gnomes. 

The gnomes. 

Was something different about the gnomes? 

I dropped Buster’s leash and bent down for a closer look. 

I studied their fat little hands. What were those dark smudges on their 
fingertips. Dirt? 

I rubbed their chubby fingers. But the smudges remained. 

No. Not dirt. 

I leaned in closer. 



Paint. Black paint. 



12 


Black paint. The same color as the smiley faces on Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I swallowed hard. What’s going on here? I wondered. How could the 
gnomes’ hands be covered in paint? 

I’ve got to show someone, I decided. 

Mom! She’s in the house. She’ll help me figure this out. 

As I reached our front door, I heard a scraping sound coming from the 
McCalls’ yard. 

“Buster! No!” I shouted. 

Buster circled Mr. McCall’s vegetable patch, his leash dragging behind him. 

I quickly shoved my hand under my T-shirt and yanked out my dog whistle. 
I blew it hard. 

Buster trotted right back to me. 

“Good boy!” I cried in relief. I shook my finger in his face. I tried to be 
stern. “Buster, if you don’t want to be tied up, you have to stay out of that 
garden!” 

Buster licked my finger with his long, sticky tongue. Then he turned to lick 
the gnomes. 

I watched Buster slobber all over them. 

“Oh, no!” I cried. “Not again!” 

Chip’s and Hap’s mouths gaped wide open. In the same terrified 
expressions I had seen before. As if they were trying to scream. 

I slammed my eyes shut. I opened one slowly. 

The terrified expressions remained. 

What was going on here? Were the gnomes afraid of Buster? Was I going 
crazy? 

My hands trembled as I quickly tied Buster to the tree. Then I ran into the 
house to search for Mom. 

“Mom! Mom!” I panted breathlessly. I found her upstairs, working in her 
office. “You’ve got to come outside! Now!” 

Mom whirled around from her computer. “What’s wrong?” she demanded. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I cried. “There’s black paint on their hands. And they’re 



not grinning anymore. Come out. You’ll see!” 

Mom slowly shoved her chair away from the computer. “Joe, if this is 
another joke...” 

“Please, Mom. It will just take a second. It’s not a joke. Really!” 

Mom led the way downstairs. She gazed at the gnomes from the front door. 

“See?” I cried, standing behind her. “I told you! Look at their faces. They 
look like they’re screaming!” 

Mom narrowed her eyes. “Joe, give me a break. Why did you get me away 
from my work? They have the same dumb grins they always have.” 

“What?” I gasped. I ran outside. I stared at the gnomes. 

They stared back at me. Grinning. 

“Joe, I really wish you’d stop the dumb gnome jokes,” Mom said sharply. 
“They’re not funny. Not funny at all.” 

“But look at the paint on their fingers!” 

“That’s just dirt,” she said impatiently. “Please, go read a book. Or clean 
your room. Find something to do. You’re driving me crazy!” 

I sat down on the grass. Alone. To think. 

I thought about the casaba seed on one of the gnome’s lips. I remembered 
the first time their mouths had twisted in horror. That was the first time Buster 
had licked them. 

And now they had paint on their fingers. 

It all added up. 

The gnomes are alive, I decided. 

And they’re doing horrible things in the McCalls’ garden. 

The gnomes? Doing horrible things? I must be losing my mind! 

Suddenly, I didn’t feel too well. Nothing made any sense. 

I stood up to go inside. 

And heard whispers. 

Gruff whispers. Down at my feet. 

“Not funny, Joe,” Hap whispered. 

“Not funny at all,” Chip rasped. 



13 


Should I tell Mom and Dad what I heard? I wondered as we ate dinner that 
night. 

“How was everyone’s day?” Dad asked cheerfully. He spooned some peas 
onto his dinner plate. 

They’ll never believe me. 

“Heidi and I rode our bikes to the pool,” Mindy piped up. She arranged a 
mound of tuna casserole on her plate into a neat square. Then she flicked a stray 
pea away. “But she got a cramp in her leg, so we mostly sunbathed.” 

I have to tell. 

“I heard something really weird this afternoon,” I burst out. “Really, really 
weird.” 

“You interrupted me!” Mindy said sharply. She blotted her mouth carefully 
with her napkin. 

“But this is important!” I exclaimed. I started shredding my napkin 
nervously. “I was in the front yard. All alone. And I heard whispers.” 

I made my voice low and gruff. “The voices said, ‘Not funny, Joe. Not 
funny.’ I don’t know who it was. Nobody was there. I... uh... think it was the 
gnomes.” 

Mom banged her glass of lemonade down on the table. “Enough with these 
gnome jokes!” she declared. “No one thinks they’re funny, Joe.” 

“But it’s true!” I cried, crushing my shredded napkin into a ball. “I heard 
the voices!” 

Mindy uttered a scornful laugh. “You are so lame,” she said. “Please pass 
the bread, Dad.” 

“Sure, honey,” Dad replied, handing her the wooden tray of dinner rolls. 

And that was the end of that. 

After dinner, Dad suggested that we water the tomatoes. 

“Okay,” I replied with a shrug. Anything to get out of the house. 

“Want me to get the Bug Be Gone?” I asked as we stepped outside. 

“No! No!” he gasped. His face turned ghostly pale. 

“What’s wrong, Dad? What is it?” 



He pointed silently at the tomato patch. 

“Ohhh,” I moaned. “Oh, no!” 

Our beautiful red tomatoes had been crushed, mangled, and maimed—seeds 
and pulpy red tomato flesh everywhere. 

Dad stared openmouthed, his hands balled into fists. “Who would do such a 
terrible thing?” he sighed. 

My heart began to throb. My pulse raced. 

I knew the truth. And now everyone would have to believe me. 

“The gnomes did it, Dad!” I grabbed the sleeve of his shirt and began 
tugging him to the front yard. “You’ll see. I’ll prove it!” 

“Joe, let go of me. This is no time for jokes. Don’t you realize that we’re 
out of the garden show? We’ve lost our chance for a blue ribbon! Or any ribbon, 
for that matter.” 

“You have to believe me, Dad. Come on.” I held tightly onto Dad’s sleeve. 
And I wouldn’t let go. 

As I dragged him out front, I wondered what we would find. 

Blood-red tomato juice smeared all over their ugly faces? 

Squishy pulp hanging from their tiny fat fingers? 

Hundreds of seeds stuck to their creepy little feet? 

We approached the gnomes. 

My eyes narrowed on the hideous creatures. 

And finally we stood right before them. 

And I couldn’t believe what we found. 



14 


Nothing. 

No juice. 

No pulp. 

Not a single seed. Not one. 

I searched their bodies. Frantically. From their ugly, grinning faces to their 
creepy, stubby toes. 

No clues. Nothing. 

How could I have been wrong? My stomach lurched as I turned to face my 

dad. 

“Dad...” I started in a shaky voice. 

Dad cut me off with an angry wave of his hand. “There’s nothing to see 
here, Joe,” he muttered. “I don’t want to hear another word about the gnomes. 
Understand? Not one!” 

His brown eyes flashed with fury. “I know who’s responsible for this!” he 
said bitterly. “And he’s not going to get away with it!” 

He whirled around and trotted into the back yard. He scooped up a handful 
of smashed tomato. 

The juice oozed between his fingers as he circled the house and charged 
next door. 

I watched Dad march up the McCalls’ steps and jab at the doorbell. He 
began howling before anyone answered the ring. “Bill! Come out here. Now!” 

I crouched behind Dad. I’d never seen him this angry before. 

I heard the lock turn. The door swung open. And there stood Mr. McCall. In 
a white jogging outfit. Holding a half-eaten pork chop in one hand. 

“Jeffrey, what are you yelling about? It’s difficult to digest with all this 
noise.” He chuckled. 

“Well, digest this!” Dad screamed. Then he brought his hand up and hurled 
the smashed tomatoes. 

They splattered against Mr. McCall’s white T-shirt and dribbled down his 
white sweatpants. Some of the mushy pulp landed on his clean white sneakers. 

Mr. McCall stared down at his clothes in total disbelief. “Are you nuts?” he 
bellowed. 



“No. You are!” my father shrieked. “How could you do this? For a stupid 
blue ribbon!” 

“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall shouted. 

“Oh, I see. Now you’re going to play innocent. You’re going to pretend you 
don’t know anything. Well, you’re not going to get away with this.” 

Mr. McCall stomped down the steps and planted himself about an inch 
away from my dad. He puffed out his broad chest and hung over my father 
menacingly. 

“I didn’t touch your lousy tomatoes!” he roared. “You wimp! You probably 
bought your blue-ribbon tomatoes last year.” 

Dad shook an angry fist in Mr. McCall’s glaring face. “My tomatoes were 
the best at the show! Yours looked like raisins next to mine! And whoever heard 
of growing casabas in Minnesota, anyway? You’re going to be the joke of the 
garden show!” 

My whole body shuddered. They’re going to get into a fist fight, I realized. 
And Mr. McCall will squash my dad. 

“Joke?” Mr. McCall growled. “You’re the joke. You and your sour 
tomatoes. And those stupid lawn ornaments! Now leave before I really lose 
control!” 

Mr. McCall stomped up to his front door. Then he spun around and said, “I 
don’t want my son hanging around with Joe anymore! Your son probably 
wrecked your tomatoes. Just as he wrecked my melons!” 

He disappeared into the house, slamming the door so hard, the porch shook. 

That night I tossed and turned in bed for hours. Faces painted on melons. 
Crushed tomatoes. 

Whispering lawn gnomes. I couldn’t think of anything else. 

It was way after midnight, but I couldn’t sleep. The gnomes with their 
leering smiles danced before my closed eyes. 

Those grinning faces. Laughing. Laughing at me. 

Suddenly the room felt hot and stuffy. I kicked off the thin sheet that 
covered my legs. Still too hot. 

I jumped out of bed and headed for my window. I threw it wide open. 
Warm, wet air rushed in. 

I rested my arms on the windowsill and peered out into the darkness. It was 
a foggy night. A thick gray mist swirled over the front yard. Despite the heat, I 



felt a chill down my back. I had never seen it this foggy before. 

The fog shifted slightly. The angel slowly came into view as the fog moved 
away. Then the seal. The skunks. The swans. A flash of pink—the flamingos. 
And there stood the deer. 

Alone. 

All alone. 

The gnomes were gone. 



15 


“Mom! Dad!” I cried. Racing to their bedroom. “Wake up! Wake up! The 
gnomes are gone!” 

Mom bolted straight up. “What? What’s wrong?” 

Dad didn’t budge. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I shouted, shaking Dad’s shoulder. “Wake up!” 

My father opened one eye and squinted up at me. “What time is it?” he 
mumbled. 

“Get up, Dad!” I pleaded. 

Mom groaned as she snapped on the light next to her bed. “Joe. It’s so late. 
Why did you wake us up?” 

“They’re—they’re gone!” I stammered. “They disappeared. I’m not 
kidding. I’m really not.” 

My parents glanced at each other. Then they glared at me. “Enough!” Mom 
cried. “We’re tired of your jokes. And it’s the middle of the night! Get to bed!” 

“Right now!” Dad added sternly. “We’ve had just about enough of this 
nonsense. We’re going to have a serious talk about this. In the morning.” 

“But—but—but—” I stammered. 

“Go!” Dad shouted. 

I backed out of the room slowly, stumbling over someone’s slipper. 

I should have realized that they wouldn’t believe me. But someone had to 
believe me. Someone had to. 

I raced down the dark hall to Mindy’s room. As I neared her bed, I could 
hear the whistling sounds she always makes when she lies on her back. She was 
fast asleep. 

I stared down at her for a moment. Should I wake her? Would she believe 

me? 

I patted her on the cheek. “Mindy. Wake up,” I whispered. 

Nothing. 

I called her name again. A little louder. 

Her eyes fluttered open. “Joe?” she asked drowsily. 

“Get up. Quick!” I whispered. “You have to see this!” 



“Have to see what?” she groaned. 

“The gnomes. The gnomes have disappeared!” I exclaimed. “I think they 
ran away! Please, get up. Please.” 

“The gnomes?” she mumbled. 

“Come on, Mindy. Get up,” I pleaded. “It’s an emergency!” 

Mindy’s eyes shot wide open. “Emergency? What? What emergency?” 

“It’s the gnomes. They’ve really disappeared. You have to come outside 
with me.” 

“That’s the emergency?” she screeched. “Are you crazy? I’m not going 
anywhere with you. You’ve totally lost it, Joe. Totally.” 

“But, Mindy—” 

“Quit bugging me. I’m going back to sleep.” 

Then she closed her eyes and pulled the sheet over her head. 

I stood in her dark, silent room. 

No one would believe me. No one would come with me. What should I do 
now? What? 

I imagined the gnomes ripping up every last vegetable in our garden. 
Yanking out the yams and smashing the squash. And for dessert, chomping on 
the rest of Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I knew I had to do something. Fast! 

I ran from Mindy’s room and raced down the stairs. I jerked the front door 
open and sprinted outside. 

Outside into the murky fog. 

Swallowed up inside the thick blanket of mist. 

So dark and foggy. I could barely see. I felt as if I were moving through a 
dark dream. A nightmare of grays and blacks. All shadows. Nothing but 
shadows. 

I inched forward slowly, moving as if I were underwater. The grass felt so 
wet against my bare feet. But I couldn’t even see my own feet through the thick 
carpet of fog. 

Like a dream. Like a heavy, dark dream. So many shifting shadows. So 
silent. Eerily silent. 

I pushed on into the haze. I had lost all sense of direction. Was I heading 
toward the street? 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when something grabbed my ankle. 

Frantically, I shook my leg. Tried to break free. 



But it held on. 

And pulled me down. 

Down into the whirling darkness. 

A snake. 

No. Not a snake. The garden hose. The garden hose that I had forgotten to 
roll up after watering the lawn that night. 

Get a grip, Joe. I told myself. You have to calm down. 

I pulled myself up and staggered forward. Squinting hard. Trying to see my 
way. Shadowy figures seemed to reach for me, bend toward me. 

I wanted to turn back. And go inside. And climb into my nice, dry bed. 

Yes. That’s what I should do, I decided. 

I turned slowly. 

And heard a shuffling sound. The soft thud of footsteps. Nearby. 

I listened closely. 

And heard the sounds again. Footsteps as light as the mist. 

I was breathing hard now. My heart pounding. My bare feet chilled and wet. 
The dampness creeping up my legs. My entire body shuddered. 

I heard a raspy cackle. A gnome? 

I tried to turn. Tried to see it in the billowing blackness. 

But it grabbed me from behind. Hard around the waist. 

And with a dry, evil laugh, it threw me to the ground! 



16 


As I hit the wet ground, I heard the low, evil laugh again. 

And recognized it. 

“Moose?” 

“Scared you big time!” he muttered. He helped me to my feet. Even in the 
fog, I could see the big grin on his face. 

“Moose—what are you doing out here?” I managed to cry. 

“I couldn’t sleep. I kept hearing weird sounds. I was staring out into the fog 
—and I saw you. What are you doing out here, Joe? Causing more trouble?” 

I wiped wet blades of grass from my hands. “I haven’t been causing the 
trouble,” I told him. “You’ve got to believe me. Look—the two lawn gnomes— 
they’re gone.” 

I pointed to the deer. Moose could see that the gnomes weren’t standing in 
their spots. 

He stared for a long time. “This is a trick—right?” 

“No. It’s for real. I’ve got to find them.” 

Moose frowned at me. “What did you do, hide the ugly little creeps? Where 
are they? Come on, tell me!” 

“I didn’t hide them,” I insisted. 

“Tell me,” he repeated, leaning over me, bringing his face an inch from 
mine. “Or suffer the Ten Tortures!” 

Moose shoved his huge hands hard against my chest. I fell back and landed 
in the wet grass again. He thumped down on my stomach and pinned my arms to 
the ground. 

“Tell me!” Moose insisted. “Tell me where they are!” Then he bounced up 
and down on top of me. 

“Stop!” I gasped. “Stop!” 

He stopped because lights flashed on in both of our houses. 

“Oh, wow,” I whispered. “We’re in major trouble now.” 

I heard my front door bang open. A second later, Moose’s door opened, too. 

We froze. “Keep quiet,” I whispered. “Maybe they won’t see us.” 

“Who’s out here?” my father called. 



“What’s going on, Jeffrey?” I heard Mr. McCall shout. “What’s all the noise 
out here?” 

“I don’t know,” my dad replied. “I thought maybe Joe...” His voice trailed 
off. 

We’re safe, I thought. We’re hidden by the fog. 

Then I heard a low click. The long, thin beam of a flashlight swept across 
the yard. It settled on Moose and me. 

“Joe!” Dad screamed. “What are you doing out there? Why didn’t you 
answer me?” 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall shouted in a deep, angry voice. “Get in here. Move 
it!” 

Moose climbed up and raced into his house. 

I hoisted myself up from the grass for the second time that night and slowly 
made my way inside. 

Dad crossed his arms tightly across his chest. “You woke us up twice 
tonight! And you’re outside in the middle of the night again! What’s wrong with 
you?” 

“Listen, Dad, I only went outside because the gnomes are missing! Check,” 
I begged. “You’ll see!” 

My father glared at me with narrowed eyes. “These gnome stories are 
getting out of hand!” he snapped. “I’ve had it! Now go upstairs. Before I ground 
you for the entire summer!” 

“Dad, I’m begging you. I’ve never been so serious in my life. Please look,” 
I pleaded. “Please. Please. Please!” And then I added, “I’ll never ask you for 
anything else again.” 

I guess that’s what convinced him. 

“Okay,” he said, sighing wearily. “But if this is another joke...” 

My father stepped over to the living room window and peered out into the 
swirling fog. 

“Please let the gnomes still be gone! ” I prayed silently. “Please let Dad see 
that I’m telling the truth. Please...” 



17 


“Joe, you’re right!” my father declared. “The gnomes aren’t out there.” 

He believed me! Finally! I jumped up and shot a fist into the air. “Yes!” I 
cheered. 

Dad wiped at the moist glass pane with his pajama sleeve and squinted out 
the window again. 

“See, Dad! See!” I cried happily. “I was telling the truth. I wasn’t joking.” 

“Hmmm. Deer-lilah’s not there, either,” he said softly. 

“What?” I gasped, feeling my stomach churn. “No. The deer is there! I saw 
it!” 

“Hold on a minute,” Dad murmured. “Ahhh. There she is. She was hidden 
in the fog. And the gnomes! There they are! They’re right there, too. They were 
hidden in the fog. See?” 

I stared out the window. Two pointy hats broke through the mist. The two 
gnomes stood dark and still, in their places beside the deer. 

“Noooooo!” I moaned. “I know they weren’t there. I’m not playing tricks, 
Dad. I’m not!” 

“Fog can do funny things,” Dad said. “One time I was driving through a 
real pea soup of a fog. I spotted something strange through the windshield. It 
was shiny and round and it sort of hovered in the air. Oh, boy, I thought. A UFO! 
A flying saucer! I couldn’t believe it!” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Well, my UFO turned out to be a silver balloon 
tied to a parking meter. Now, Joe. Back to this gnome problem.” Dad’s face 
turned stern. “I don’t want to hear any more crazy stories. They’re only lawn 
ornaments. Nothing more. Okay? Not another word. Promise?” 

What choice did I have? “Promise,” I muttered. 

Then I dragged myself up the stairs to bed. 

What a horrible day—and night. My father thinks I’m a liar. Our tomatoes 
are ruined. And Moose isn’t allowed to hang out with me anymore. 

What else could possibly go wrong? 

I woke up the following morning with a heavy feeling in my stomach. As if I 
had swallowed a bowl of cement. 



All I could think about were the gnomes. 

Those horrible gnomes. They were destroying my summer. They were 
destroying my life! 

Forget about them, Joe, I told myself. Just forget about them. 

Anyway, today had to be better than yesterday. It sure couldn’t be worse. 

I peered out my bedroom window. All traces of the fog had been burned 
away by a bright yellow sun. Buster slept peacefully in the grass, his long white 
rope snaking through the garden. 

I glanced over at the McCalls’ house. Maybe Moose is outside helping his 
dad in the garden, I thought. 

I leaned farther out the window to get a better look. 

“Oh, noooo!” I moaned. “No!” 



18 


Globs of white paint splattered over Mr. McCall’s red Jeep! 

The roof. The hood. The windows. The whole Jeep covered in paint. 

This meant major trouble, I knew. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and yesterday’s T-shirt and hurried outside. I 
found Moose in his driveway, his jaw clenched, shaking his head as he circled 
the Jeep. 

“Unbelievable, huh?” he said, turning to me. “When my dad saw this, he 
had a cow!” 

“Why didn’t he park in the garage?” I asked. Mr. McCall always parks the 
Jeep in their two-car garage. 

Moose shrugged. “Mom’s been cleaning out the basement and attic for a 
yard sale. She stuck about a million boxes of junk in the garage. So Dad had to 
park in the driveway last night.” 

Moose patted the roof of the Jeep. “The paint is still sticky. Touch it.” 

I touched it. Sticky. 

“My dad is steaming!” Moose declared. “At first he thought your dad did it. 
You know. Because of the tomatoes. But Mom told him that that was ridiculous. 
So he called the police. He said he won’t rest until whoever did it is thrown in 
jail!” 

“He said that?” I asked. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. “Moose, 
once the police start to check things out, they’re going to blame you and me!” 

“Blame us? Are you nuts? Why would they blame us?” he demanded. 

“Because we were both outside last night!” I said. “And everybody knows 
it.” 

Moose’s dark brown eyes flickered with fear. “You’re right,” he said. “What 
are we going to do?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied sadly. I paced back and forth in the McCalls’ 
driveway, thinking hard. The asphalt felt warm and sticky on my bare feet. 

I moved to the grass. And noticed a line of small white paint spots. 

“Hey, what’s this?” I cried. 

I followed the paint trail across the grass. 

Over the petunias. 



To the corner of my yard. 

The paint drips ended where the gnomes stood, grinning at me. 

“I knew it! I knew it!” I cried out. “Moose, come look at this trail. The 
gnomes splashed your car! And did all the other bad things around here.” 

“Lawn gnomes?” Moose sputtered. “Joe, give up. No one will believe that. 
Why don’t you give it a rest?” 

“Check out the evidence!” I demanded. “The melon seed on the gnome’s 
lips. This trail of white paint. I even found black paint on their fingers. Right 
after your dad found the smiley faces on his casabas!” 

“Weird,” Moose muttered. “Very weird. But lawn gnomes are lawn gnomes, 
Joe. They don’t run around doing mischief.” 

“What if we prove they’re guilty?” I suggested. 

“Excuse me? How would we do that?” 

“Catch them in the act,” I replied. 

“Huh? This is nuts, Joe.” 

“Come on, Moose. We’ll do it tonight. We’ll sneak out, hide around the side 
of the house, and watch them.” 

Moose shook his head. “No way,” he answered. “I’m in big trouble after 
last night.” 

“And after the police finish, what kind of trouble will you be in then?” 

“Okay. Okay. I’ll do it,” he muttered. “But I think this whole thing is a big 
waste of time.” 

“We’re going to trap these gnomes, Moose,” I told him. “If it’s the last thing 
we do.” 

Ahhh! 

My alarm clock! It didn’t go off! 

And now it was nearly midnight. And I was late. I’d promised to meet 
Moose outside at eleven-thirty. 

I leaped out of bed, still dressed in my jeans and T-shirt. I grabbed my 
sneakers and ran outside. 

No moon. No stars. The front lawn lay blanketed in darkness. 

The yard was silent. Too silent. 

I glanced around for Moose. No sign of him. He probably went back inside 
when I didn’t show. 

What should I do now? Stay out by myself? Or go back to bed? 



Something rustled in the bushes. I gasped. 

“Joe. Joe. Over here,” Moose whispered loudly. 

He popped his head out from behind the evergreen shrubs in front of my 
house. And waved me over. 

I slid down next to him. 

Moose punched me hard on the arm. “I thought you chickened out.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “This was my idea!” 

“Yeah, your crazy idea,” Moose replied. “I can’t believe I’m hiding behind 
a bush. In the middle of the night. Spying on lawn ornaments.” 

“I know it sounds crazy, but—” 

“Shhh. Did you hear something?” Moose interrupted. 

I heard it. A scraping sound. 

I reached into the shrub and parted the thick green branches. The needles 
clawed at my hands and arms. I jerked my arms out quickly. Too quickly. Blood 
dripped from my fingers where two needles had pierced right through my skin. 

The scraping sound came closer. 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Closer. 

Moose and I sat there. We exchanged frightened glances. 

I had to look. I had to see what was making those sounds. 

I parted the needles once again. And stared through the mass of needled 
branches. Two small, glowing eyes met mine! 

“Get it, Moose! Get it!” I cried. 

Moose jumped up from behind the bush. Just in time—to see it scamper 
away. 

“A raccoon! It was only a raccoon!” 

I let out a long sigh. “Sorry, Moose.” 

We sat there a while longer. We parted the branches every few minutes to 
check on the gnomes. My arms were scratched raw from the rough needles. 

But the gnomes hadn’t budged. They stood grinning into the night in their 
silly suits and caps. 

I groaned. My legs felt stiff and cramped. 

Moose checked his watch. “We’ve been out here for over two hours,” he 
whispered. “Those gnomes aren’t going anywhere. I’m going home.” 

“Wait a little longer,” I begged him. “We’ll catch them. I know we will.” 

“You’re a pretty good guy,” Moose said as he parted the bushes for the 



millionth time. “So I hate to tell you this, Joe. But you’re as crazy as—” 

He didn’t finish his sentence. His mouth dropped open, and his eyes nearly 
popped out of his pudgy head. 

I peered into the shrubs—in time to see the gnomes come to life. They 
stretched their arms over their heads. And stroked their chins. 

They shook out their legs. And smoothed out their shirts. 

“They—they’re moving !” Moose cried. 

Too loudly. 

And then I lost my balance and fell. Right into the bush. 

They’ve seen us, I realized. 

Now what? 



19 


“No. Oh, man. No!” Moose whispered. He tugged me to my feet. “They’re 
moving. They’re really moving!” 

Squinting through the branches, we both stared in horror at Hap and Chip. 

The gnomes bent their knees, limbering up. Then they each took one stiff 
step. Then another. 

I was right. They are alive, I thought. Very alive. 

And they’re coming for Moose and me. 

We have to run, I told myself. We have to get out of here. 

But neither of us could take our eyes off the living lawn gnomes! 

The full moon suddenly appeared low over the trees. The front lawn lit as if 
someone had turned on a spotlight. The stocky figures swung their short, fat 
arms and began to run. Their pointed hats cut through the air like sharks’ fins. 

They scrambled toward us on their stumpy legs. 

Moose and I dropped to our knees and tried to hide. My whole body was 
trembling so hard, I was making the bush shake! 

The gnomes ran closer. So close that I could see the dark red of their evil 
eyes and the white gleam of their grins. 

I clenched my fists so tightly, my hands ached. 

What were they going to do to us? 

I shut my eyes—and heard them run past. I heard thudding footsteps. 
Whistling breaths. 

I opened my eyes to see them racing across the cement walk and around the 
side of the house. 

“Moose—they didn’t see us!” I whispered happily. 

We helped each other to our feet. I felt dizzy. The dark ground tilted. My 
legs felt soft and rubbery like Jell-O. 

Moose wiped his sweaty brow. “Where are they going?” he whispered. 

I shook my head. “I don’t know. But we have to follow them. Come on.” 

We gave each other a quick thumbs-up and stepped out from our hiding 
place. I led the way. We moved across the cement walk and past the front porch. 
Toward the side of the house. 



I stopped when I heard their raspy voices, talking low. Just up ahead. 

Moose grabbed my shoulder, his eyes wide open in alarm. “I’m getting out 
of here. Now!” 

I turned around. “No!” I pleaded. “You’ve got to stay and help me catch 
them. We have to show our parents what’s been going on here.” 

He heaved a long sigh. It made me feel a little better to know that a big, 
tough guy like Moose was as frightened as I was. Finally, he nodded. “Okay. 
Let’s go get them.” 

Keeping in the dark shadow of the house, we made our way around to the 
back. I saw Buster, sound asleep beside his dog house in the center of the yard. 

And then I saw the two lawn gnomes. They were bent over the pile of paint 
and brushes and drop cloths the painters had left beside the garage. 

Moose and I hung back as Hap and Chip picked up two cans of black paint. 
They pried the cans open with their thick fingers. 

Giggling, the two gnomes swung back the open cans, then hurled the black 
paint at the side of my house. The black paint spattered the fresh white paint, 
then dripped down in long, thick streaks. 

I clapped a hand over my mouth to keep from screaming. 

I knew it. I’d know it all along. But no one would believe me. The gnomes 
were behind all the trouble around here. 

The gnomes returned to the pile for more paint. “We’ve got to stop them,” I 
whispered to Moose. “But how?” 

“Let’s just tackle them,” Moose suggested. “Tackle them from behind and 
pin them down.” 

It sounded simple enough. They were little, after all. Smaller than us. 
“Okay,” I whispered, my stomach fluttering. “Then we’ll drag them into the 
house and show my parents.” 

I took a deep breath and held it. Moose and I started to inch forward. 

Closer. Closer. 

If only my legs weren’t wobbling like rubber bands! 

Closer. 

And then I saw Moose go down. 

He toppled forward—and hit the ground hard, letting out a loud “Oooof! ” 

It took me a second to see that he had tripped over Buster’s rope. 

He struggled to get to his feet. But the rope had tangled around his ankle. 

He reached down with both hands. Gave it a hard tug. 



And woke up Buster! 

“Rrrrrrowwwwwf! Rrrrrrowwwwwf!” Buster must have seen the gnomes 
because he started barking his head off. 

The gnomes spun around. 

And fixed their eyes on us. In the bright moonlight, their faces turned hard 
and angry. 

“Get them!” Chip growled. “Don’t let them escape!” 



20 


“Run!” I screamed. 

Moose and I bolted toward the front of the house. 

Buster was still barking his head off. 

And over the barking, I heard shrill giggles. The gnomes giggled as they 
chased after us. 

Their feet slapped sharply on the grass. I glanced back, saw their stubby 
legs moving fast, a blur of motion. 

I pumped my legs, gasping for breath, and rounded the side of the house. 

I could hear the high-pitched giggles of the two gnomes close behind us. 
“Help!” Moose cried. “Somebody—help us!” 

My mouth hung open. I struggled to breathe. They were gaining on us. 

I knew I had to run faster. But my legs suddenly felt as heavy as bricks. 
“Hellllp!” Moose called. 

I glanced at the house. Why wasn’t anyone waking up in there? 

We ran around the house and kept running. 

Why were Hap and Chip giggling like that? 

Because they knew they were going to catch us? 

I felt a stab of pain in my side. “Oh, no!” A cramp. 

I felt Moose tugging me. “Don’t slow down, Joe. Keep going!” 

The pain sharpened, like a knife in my side. “Can’t run...” I choked out. 
“Joe—keep going! Don’t stop!” Moose cried, frantically pulling my arm. 
But I doubled over, holding my side. 

It’s all over, I thought. They’ve got me. 

And then the front door swung open. The porch light flashed on. 

“What’s going on out here?” a familiar voice called. 

Mindy! 

She stepped out, pulling at the belt of her pink bathrobe. I saw her squint 
into the darkness. 

“Mindy!” I called. “Mindy—watch out!” 

Too late. 

The gnomes grabbed her. 



Giggling loudly, they pinned her arms back. Dragged her down the porch 
steps. Carried her to the street. 



21 


Mindy thrashed her arms and kicked her legs. But the giggling gnomes had 
surprising strength. 

“Help me!” Mindy called back to Moose and me. “Don’t just stand there— 
help me! ” 

I swallowed hard. The pain in my side faded. 

Moose and I didn’t say a word. We just started chasing after them. 

They had already carried Mindy to the street. Their feet slapped on the 
pavement. In the light from the street lamp, I saw Mindy struggling to free 
herself. 

Moose and I hurtled down the driveway. “Put her down!” I shouted 
breathlessly. “Put my sister down—now!” 

More giggles. They scurried past the McCalls’ house. Past the next two 
houses. 

Moose and I ran after them, shouting, begging them to stop. 

And then—to our shock—they did stop. 

In the shadow of a tall hedge, they set Mindy down. And turned to us. “We 
mean you no harm,” Chip said. 

The gnomes’ expressions were serious now. Their eyes peered at us through 
the darkness. 

“I don’t believe this!” Mindy cried, straightening her robe. “This is crazy! 
Crazy!” 

“Tell me about it,” I muttered. 

“Please listen to us,” Hap rasped. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip repeated. 

“No harm!” Mindy shrieked. “No harm! You just dragged me from my 
home! You—you—” 

“We only wanted to get your attention,” Hap said softly. 

“Well, you’ve got it!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip said once again. “Please believe us.” 

“How can we believe you?” I demanded, finally finding my voice. “Look at 
all the trouble you’ve caused. You’ve ruined the gardens! You splashed paint 
everywhere! You—” 



“We can’t help it,” Hap interrupted. 

“We really can’t,” Chip echoed. “You see, we’re Mischief Elves.” 

“You’re what?” Mindy cried. 

“We’re Mischief Elves. We do mischief. That’s our mission in life,” Hap 
explained. 

“Wherever there is mischief in the world, we’re there,” Chip added. 
“Mischief is our job. We can’t help ourselves.” 

He bent down and broke off a chunk of the concrete curb. Then he pulled 
open the mailbox across from us and shoved the piece of concrete inside. 

“See? I can’t help myself. I have to do mischief wherever I go.” 

Hap giggled. “Without us, the world would be a pretty dull place— 
wouldn’t it?” 

“It would be a much better place,” Mindy insisted, crossing her arms in 
front of her. 

Moose still hadn’t said a word. He just stood and stared at the two talking 
lawn gnomes. 

Hap and Chip made pouty faces. “Please don’t hurt our feelings,” Chip 
rasped. “Our life isn’t easy.” 

“We need your help,” Hap added. 

“You want us to help you do mischief?” I cried. “No way! You’ve already 
gotten me into major trouble.” 

“No. We need you to help get us our freedom,” Chip said solemnly. “Please 
—listen and believe.” 

“Listen and believe,” Hap echoed. 

“We lived in a land far from here,” Chip began. “In a forest deep and green. 
We guarded the mines and protected the trees. We performed our mischief 
innocently. But we also did a lot of good.” 

“We were hard-working people,” Hap told us, scratching his head. “And we 
were happy in our forest home.” 

“But then the mines were closed and the forests were cut down,” Chip 
continued. “We were captured. Kidnapped. And taken far from home. We were 
shipped to your country and forced to work as lawn ornaments.” 

“Slaves,” Hap said, shaking his head sadly. “Forced to stand all day and 
night.” 

“That’s impossible!” Mindy cried. “Don’t you get bored? How do you stand 
so still?” 



“We go into a trance,” Chip explained. “Time passes without our realizing 
it. We come out of the trance at night and go about doing our job.” 

“You mean mischief!” I declared. 

They both nodded. 

“But we want to be free,” Hap continued. “To go where we want. To live 
where we choose. We want to find another forest where we can live in freedom.” 
Two tiny gnome tears rolled down his fat cheeks. 

Chip sighed and raised his eyes to me. “Will you help us?” 

“Help you do what?” I demanded. 

“Help our friends and us escape?” Chip replied. 

“There are six others,” Hap explained. “They’re locked in the basement. At 
the store where you bought us. We need your help to set them free.” 

“We can climb into the basement window,” his friend continued. “But we 
are too short to climb back out. And too short to reach the doorknob to let 
ourselves out through the door.” 

“Will you help us escape?” Hap pleaded, tugging the bottom of my T-shirt. 
“You just have to climb down into the basement. Then help our six friends out 
the basement door.” 

“Please help us,” Chip begged, tears in his eyes. “Then we’ll be gone. To a 
deep forest. And we will never cause you any more mischief.” 

“That sounds good to me!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“So you’ll do it?” Hap squealed. 

They both began tugging at us, chirping, “Please? Please? Please? Please? 
Please?” 

Moose, Mindy, and I exchanged troubled glances. 

What should we do? 



22 


“Please? Please? Please? Please?” 

“Let’s help them,” Moose said, finally finding his voice. 

I turned to Mindy. I didn’t usually ask her advice. But she was the oldest. 
“What do you think?” 

Mindy bit her lower lip. “Well, look how much Buster hates to be tied up,” 
she said. “He only wants to be free. I guess everything deserves to be free. Even 
lawn gnomes.” 

I turned back to the gnomes. “We’ll do it!” I declared. “We’ll help you.” 

“Thank you! Thank you!” Chip cried happily. He threw his arms around 
Hap. “You don’t know what this means to us!” 

“Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!” Hap squealed. He leaped into the air 
and clicked the heels of his boots together. “Hurry! Let’s go!” 

“Now?” Mindy cried. “It’s the middle of the night! Can’t we wait until 
tomorrow?” 

“No. Please. Now,” Hap insisted. 

“In the darkness,” Chip added. “While the store is closed. Please. Let’s 
hurry.” 

“I’m not dressed,” Mindy replied. “I really don’t think we can go now. I 
think—” 

“If we stay here longer, we’ll have to do more mischief,” Chip said with a 
wink. 

I sure didn’t want that to happen. “Let’s do it now!” I agreed. 

And so the five of us crept along the dark street and up the steep hill toward 
Lawn Lovely. Wow, did I feel weird! Here we were, walking around in the 
middle of the night with a couple of lawn ornaments! About to break into the 
store and set six more lawn ornaments free! 

The old pink house was a strange enough place during the day. But at night, 
it was totally creepy. All those lawn animals—deer and seals and flamingos— 
stared at us through the darkness, with blank, lifeless eyes. 

Were they alive, too? I wondered. 

Hap seemed to read my mind. “They’re only for decoration,” he sneered. 
“Nothing more.” 



The two excited gnomes made their way quickly across the wide lawn and 
around the side of Mrs. Anderson’s house. Moose, Mindy, and I followed 
behind. 

Mindy clutched my arm with an ice-cold hand. My legs still felt wobbly. 
But my heart was pounding with excitement—not fear. 

Hap and Chip pointed to the long, low window that led down to the 
basement. I knelt down and peered inside. Total darkness. 

“You’re sure the other gnomes are down there?” I asked. 

“Oh, yes,” Chip declared eagerly. “All six. They’re waiting for you to 
rescue them.” 

“Please hurry,” Hap pleaded, shoving me gently to the window. “Before the 
old woman hears us and wakes up.” 

I lowered myself to the edge of the open window. And turned back to my 
sister and Moose. 

“We’re coming right behind you,” Moose whispered. 

“Let’s rescue them and get out of here,” Mindy urged. 

“Here goes,” I said softly. 

I crossed my fingers and slid down into the darkness. 



23 


I bumped over the window frame and landed on my feet. A few seconds later, I 
heard Moose and Mindy slide in after me. 

I squinted into the blackness that surrounded us. I couldn’t see a thing. I 
licked my dry lips and sniffed the air. A sharp smell, like vinegar, filled the hot, 
damp basement. Sweat, I thought. Gnome sweat. 

I heard a low giggle from outside. Chip and Hap hurtled over the window 
ledge and thudded to the floor. 

“Hey, guys—” I whispered. 

But they scampered off into the darkness. 

“What’s going on here?” Moose demanded. 

“We’ve got to find the light switch,” Mindy whispered. 

But before we could move, the ceiling lights all flashed on. I blinked in the 
sudden blaze of brightness. 

And then gasped as I stared across the vast basement—at a sea of lawn 
gnomes! 

Not six! Six hundred ! Row after row of them, jammed against each other, 
staring at the three of us. 

“Whoa!” Moose cried. “It’s a mob!” 

“Hap and Chip lied to us!” I cried. 

Their shirts were different colors. But the lawn gnomes all looked exactly 
alike. They all wore pointed caps and black belts. They all had staring red eyes, 
wide noses, grinning lips, and large pointy ears. 

I was so startled to see so many of the ugly creatures, it took me a while to 
spot Hap and Chip. Finally, I saw them at the side of the room. 

Hap clapped his hands three times. 

And three more times. Short, sharp claps that echoed off the basement 
walls. 

And then the crowd of gnomes came to life, stretching and bending, 
grinning and giggling, chattering in shrill, excited voices. 

Mindy grabbed my arm. “We’ve got to get out of here.” 

I could barely hear her over the chattering, giggling mob of gnomes. I 
glanced up at the basement window. It suddenly seemed so high, so far away. 



When I turned back, Hap and Chip had moved in front of us. They clapped 
their hands for attention. 

The hundreds of gnomes instantly fell silent. 

“We have brought the young humans!” Hap announced, grinning happily. 

“We have kept our promise!” Chip declared. 

Giggles and cheering. 

And then, to my horror, the gnomes began moving forward. Their eyes 
flashed excitedly. They reached out their stubby arms toward us. The pointed 
hats bobbed and slid forward, like sharks on the attack. 

Mindy, Moose, and I backed up. Backed up to the wall. 

The gnomes crowded up against us. Their little hands plucked at my 
clothes, slapped my face, pulled my hair. 

“Stop!” I shrieked. “Get back! Get back!” 

“We came to help you!” I heard Mindy scream. “Please—we came to help 
you escape!” 

Loud giggling. 

“But we don’t want to escape!” a grinning gnome declared. “Now that 
you’re here, it’s going to be so much fun!” 



24 


Fun? 

What did he mean by fun ? 

Hap and Chip pushed their way back to the front and stepped up beside us. 
They clapped their hands together to silence the giggling, chattering crowd. 

The basement instantly turned silent. 

“You tricked us!” Mindy screamed at the two gnomes. “You lied to us!” 
They giggled in reply and slapped each other’s shoulders gleefully. 

“I can’t believe you fell for our sad story,” Hap said, shaking his head. 

“We told you we’re Mischief Gnomes,” Chip sneered. “You should have 
known we were playing mischief!” 

“Great joke, guys,” I said, forcing a hoarse laugh. “You fooled us. Way to 
go. So now let us go home, okay?” 

“Yeah. Let us go home!” Moose insisted. 

The whole room erupted in laughter. 

Hap shook his head. “But the mischief has just begun!” he declared. 

Cheers and giggles. 

Chip turned to the crowd of excited gnomes. “So what shall we do with our 
lovely prisoners? Any ideas?” 

“Let’s see if they bounce!” a gnome called from near the back of the room. 
“Yeah! Dribble them!” 

“A dribbling contest!” 

“No—bounce them against the wall. Bounce and catch!” 

More cheers. 

“No! Fold them into tiny squares! I love it when we fold humans into 
squares!” 

“Yes! A folding contest!” another gnome cried. 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” several gnomes began to chant. 

“Tickle them!” a gnome in front suggested. 

“Tickle them for hours!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

The room rang out with their excited chants. 



“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

I turned to Moose. He stared out at the crowd of chanting gnomes, dazed 
and frightened. His eyes bulged and his chin quivered. 

Mindy had her back pressed up against the basement wall. Her blond hair 
was matted to her forehead. Her hands were jammed into the pockets of her 
bathrobe. 

“What are we going to do?” she asked me, shouting over the excited chants. 

Suddenly I had an idea. 

I raised my arms high over my head. “Quiet! ” I screamed. 

The room instantly grew silent. Hundreds of red eyes glared at me. 

“Let us go!” I demanded. “Or the three of us will scream at the top of our 
lungs. We will wake up Mrs. Anderson. And she will be down here in a second 
to rescue us!” 

Silence. 

Had I frightened them? 

No. The gnomes burst into loud, scornful laughter. They slapped each 
other’s shoulders, hooted, and giggled. 

“You’ll have to do better than that!” Hap grinned up at me. “We all know 
that Mrs. Anderson can’t hear a thing.” 

“Go ahead and shout,” Chip urged. “Shout all you want. We like it when 
humans shout.” He turned to Hap, and the two of them slapped each other’s 
shoulders and fell on the floor, giggling gleefully, kicking their feet in the air. 

Over the vast basement, the chants started up again. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

With a long sigh, I turned to my frightened sister and friend. “We’re 
doomed,” I muttered. “We don’t have a chance.” 



25 


“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

A new chant started in the back of the room and swept up toward the front. 

“Yes!” Hap and Chip declared happily. 

“Excellent mischief!” Hap cried. 

“A Tug of War! We’ll tug them till they stretch!” Chip shouted. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

“Joe—what are we going to do?” I heard Mindy’s frightened voice over the 
enthusiastic chants. 

Think, Joe, I urged myself. Think! There has to be a way out of this 
basement. 

But I felt so dazed. The chants rang in my ears. The grinning faces leered 
up at us. My thoughts were a jumbled mess. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

Suddenly, over the shrill gnome voices, I heard a familiar sound. 

A dog’s bark. 

Buster’s bark. 

“Buster!” Mindy cried. “I hear him!” 

“I—I did too!” I exclaimed, turning and raising my eyes to the window 
above our heads. “He followed us! He must be right outside!” 

I desperately wished Buster could talk. Could run home and tell Mom and 
Dad that we were in terrible trouble. 

But he could only bark. Or... could he do more? 

I suddenly remembered how frightened Hap and Chip appeared whenever 
Buster came around. The terrified expressions on their faces. 

My heart fluttered with hope. Maybe the gnomes are afraid of dogs. Maybe 
Buster can scare them into letting us go. Maybe he can even frighten them back 
into their trance. 

I edged closer to my sister, my back pressed against the wall. “Mindy, I 



think the gnomes are afraid of Buster. If we get him down here, I think he can 
save us.” 

We didn’t hesitate. All three of us started shouting up to the window. 
“Buster! Buster! Come here, boy!” 

Could he hear us over the chanting gnomes? 

Yes! 

His big head peered down at us through the window. 

“Good boy!” I cried. “Now, come here. Come down here, Buster!” 

Buster’s mouth opened. His pink tongue drooped from his mouth, and he 
started to pant. 

“Good doggie!” I crooned. “Good doggie—come down here. Fast! Come, 
boy! Come, Buster!” 

Buster poked his head into the window. And yawned. 

“Down, Buster!” Mindy ordered. “Come down here, boy!” 

He pulled his head out of the window. And settled down on the ground 
outside. I could see his head resting on his paws. 

“No, Buster!” I shrieked, shouting over the chants. “Come, boy! Don’t lie 
down! Come! Buster, come!” 

“Rowf?” He pushed his head back into the window. Farther. Farther. 

“That a boy! Come on!” I pleaded. “A little more... a little more. If you 
come down here, I’ll feed you doggie treats five times a day.” 

Buster cocked his head to the side and sniffed at the damp, sweaty air of the 
basement. 

I held my arms out to the dog. “Please, Buster. You’re our last chance. 
Please—hurry! Come down here.” 

To my dismay, Buster pulled his head out of the window. 

Turned. 

And trotted away. 



26 


Mindy and Moose let out long, disappointed sighs. “Buster deserted us,” Mindy 
said softly. Her shoulders sagged. Moose dropped to his knees on the floor, 
shaking his head. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

The chant had changed. 

Hap grinned up at us. “Maybe we’ll use you for trampolines! That would be 
fun!” 

“It’s almost time for a vote!” Chip added, rubbing his hands together 
eagerly. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

I held my hands over my ears, trying to block out the sound of their shrill 
voices. 

Silence. Please let me have silence, I thought. 

Silence. 

The word gave me an idea. 

Silence. Buster’s dog whistle was silent! 

Suddenly, I knew how to bring Buster back! 

“Mindy!” I cried “The dog whistle! Buster always comes when I blow the 
dog whistle!” 

Mindy raised her head and brightened. “That’s right!” she cried. “Hurry, 
Joe!” 

I grabbed for the shiny metal whistle under my T-shirt. It felt slippery with 
sweat. This has to work, I thought to myself. It has to bring Buster back. 

I pulled the whistle out. 

“The whistle!” several gnomes shrieked. 

The room instantly grew silent. 

I raised the whistle to my lips. 

“Quick—blow it!” Mindy screeched. 

To my surprise, Hap and Chip both dove at me. 

They leaped up and slapped at the whistle. 



The whistle spun out of my hands. 

“Noooo!” I cried in despair. 

I grabbed frantically for it. 

But it rolled and tumbled away, sliding across the basement floor. 



27 


Mindy, Moose, and I all dove for it. 

But the gnomes were quicker. 

A gnome in a bright blue shirt raised the whistle, clutched tightly in his 
little fist. “I’ve got it!” 

“No, you don’t!” Moose cried. He leaped at the gnome. Tackled him around 
the knees. 

The gnome let out a yelp as he went toppling to the floor. 

The dog whistle fell from his hand. 

And bounced across the hard floor toward me. 

I scooped it up. Started to raise it to my lips. 

Three gnomes leaped onto my shoulders, giggling and grunting. 

“Noooo!” I uttered a cry as they batted the whistle from my hand. I dropped 
to the floor, three gnomes on top of me. 

I finally shook them off and jumped to my feet. My eyes searched for the 
whistle. 

I saw a bunch of gnomes diving for the floor, scrambling for it. A few feet 
away, Moose struggled against four or five gnomes who had formed a line to 
block him. Mindy was battling another group of gnomes, who held her back, 
their tiny hands around her legs and waist. 

And then I saw Hap raise the whistle high. 

The gnomes stepped back, clearing a circle around him. 

Hap set the whistle in front of him on the floor. Then he raised his foot 

high. 

He was about to crush it! 

“Noooooo!” Another long cry escaped my throat. I scrambled over the 
floor, half-crawling, half-flying. 

As Hap’s heavy plaster foot came down, I stretched out my hand. 

Fumbled for the whistle. 

Grabbed it. 

Rolled away as the gnome’s foot tromped down heavily. It thudded inches 
from my head. 



I sat up. Raised the whistle to my lips. 
And blew as hard as I could. 

Now what? 

Would the whistle work? 

Would Buster come running to rescue us? 



28 


I blew the silent whistle again. 

And turned to the window. Buster, where are you? 

The gnomes must have been asking the same question. Because they froze 
in place, too. The excited chattering, giggling, and chanting stopped. 

The only sound I could hear was my own shallow breathing. 

I stared up at the window. A rectangle of blackness. No sign of Buster. 

“Hey—!” Moose’s cry made me turn around. 

“Look at them!” Moose’s voice echoed through the silence. 

“Look—they all froze!” Mindy declared. She placed both hands on the red 
cap of a gnome—and pushed the gnome over. 

It clattered to the floor. And didn’t move. A hunk of plaster. 

“I don’t get it!” Moose scratched his crew cut. 

Still gripping the dog whistle tightly, I moved around the room, examining 
the frozen gnomes, pushing them over. Enjoying the silence. 

“Back in their trance state,” Mindy murmured. 

“But how?” Moose demanded. “Buster never showed up. If they weren’t 
terrified of the dog, why did they all freeze up again?” 

I suddenly knew the answer. I raised the whistle and blew it again. “It was 
the whistle,” I explained. “It wasn’t Buster. I had it wrong. They were afraid of 
the whistle. Not the dog.” 

“Let’s get out of here,” Mindy said softly. “I never want to see another lawn 
gnome as long as I live.” 

“Wait till I tell my parents about this!” Moose declared. 

“Whoa!” I cried, grabbing his shoulder. “We can’t tell anyone about this. 
No way!” 

“Why not?” he demanded. 

“Because no one will believe it,” I replied. 

Moose stared at me for a long moment. “You’re right,” he agreed finally. 
“You’re definitely right.” 

Mindy moved to the wall and stared up at the window. “How do we get out 
of here?” 



“I know how,” I told her. I picked up Hap and Chip and stood them beneath 
the window. Then I climbed onto their caps, lifted my hands to the window, and 
pulled myself up. “Thanks for the boost, guys!” I called down. 

They didn’t reply. 

I hoped they were frozen for good. 

Mindy and Moose followed me out. Of course, Buster was waiting for us in 
the yard. His stubby tail began to wag as soon as I appeared. He came running 
over and licked my face till I was sopping wet and sticky. 

“Sorry, fella. You’re a little late,” I told him. “You weren’t much help— 
were you!” 

He licked me some more. Then he greeted Mindy and Moose. 

“Yaaaay! We’re out! We’re out!” Moose cried. He slapped me so hard on 
the back, I thought my teeth were going to fly out! 

I turned to my sister. “Tickle! Tickle! Tickle! ” I chanted. 

“Give me a break!” Mindy cried, rolling her eyes for the thousandth time 
that day. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” I made tickling motions with my hands and started 
to chase her down the street. 

“Joe—stop it! Don’t tickle me! I’m warning you!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

I knew I’d never forget those high-pitched chants. I knew I’d hear them in 
my dreams for a long, long time. 

The next evening, Mindy and I were watching MTV in the den when Dad came 
home. “Be nice to your dad,” Mom had warned us earlier. “He’s very upset that 
somebody stole his two lawn gnomes.” 

Yes, the two gnomes were missing when he woke up. 

Big surprise. 

Mindy and I were so happy, we didn’t have a single argument all day. 

And now we were happy to see Dad—except that he had a strange 
expression on his face. “Uh... I’ve brought home a little surprise,” he 
announced, glancing guiltily at Mom. 

“Now what?” she demanded. 

“Come and see.” Dad led us out to the front lawn. 

The sun was disappearing behind the trees, and the sky was gray. But I 
could still see clearly what Dad had purchased at Lawn Lovely this time. 



An enormous, brown plaster gorilla! 

At least eight feet tall, with gigantic black eyes and a bright purple chest. 
The gorilla had paws the size of baseball mitts and a head as big as a basketball. 

“It’s the ugliest thing I ever saw!” Mom cried, both hands pressed to her 
face. “You’re not really going to put that horrible monster on our front lawn— 
are you, dear?” 

Anything is better than those lawn gnomes, I thought. Anything is better 
than lawn gnomes who come alive and do terrible mischief. 

I glanced at Mindy. I had a feeling she was thinking the same thing. 

“I think it’s a beauty, Dad,” I said. “It’s the best-looking lawn gorilla I ever 
saw!” 

“It’s great, Dad,” Mindy agreed. 

Dad smiled. 

Mom turned and hurried back to the house, shaking her head. 

I glanced up at the gorilla’s enormous purple-and-brown painted face. “Be a 
good gorilla,” I murmured. “Don’t be like those awful gnomes.” 

Then, as I started to turn away, the gorilla winked at me. 



A SHOCKER ON 
SHOCK STREET 

Goosebumps - 35 
R.L. Stine 



1 


“This is creepy, Erin.” My friend Marty grabbed my sleeve. 

“Let go!” I whispered. “You’re hurting me!” 

Marty didn’t seem to hear. He stared straight ahead into the darkness, 
gripping my arm. 

“Marty, please—” I whispered. I shook my arm free. I was scared, too. But 
I didn’t want to admit it. 

It was darker than the darkest night. I squinted hard, trying to see. And then 
a gray light glowed dimly in front of us. 

Marty ducked low. Even in the foggy light, I could see the fear in his eyes. 

He grabbed my arm again. His mouth dropped open. I could hear him 
breathing hard and fast. 

Even though I was frightened, a smile crossed my face. I liked seeing Marty 
scared. 

I really enjoyed it. 

I know, I know. That’s terrible. I admit it. Erin Wright is a bad person. What 
kind of a friend am I? 

But Marty always brags that he is braver than me. And he is usually right. 
He usually is the brave one, and I’m the wimp. 

But not today. 

That’s why seeing Marty gasp in fright and grab my arm made me smile. 

The gray light ahead of us slowly grew brighter. I heard crunching sounds 
on both sides of us. Close behind me, someone coughed. But Marty and I didn’t 
turn around. We kept our eyes straight ahead. 

Waiting. Watching.... 

As I squinted into the gray light, a fence came into view. A long wooden 
fence, its paint faded and peeling. A hand-lettered sign appeared on the fence: 
DANGER. KEEP OUT. THIS MEANS YOU. 

Marty and I both gasped when we heard the scraping sounds. Soft at first. 
Then louder. Like giant claws scraping against the other side of the fence. 

I tried to swallow, but my mouth suddenly felt dry. I had the urge to run. 
Just turn and run as fast as I could. 

But I couldn’t leave Marty there all alone. And besides, if I ran away now, 



he would never let me forget it. He’d tease me about it forever. 

So I stayed beside him, listening as the scraping, clawing sounds turned into 
banging. Loud crashes. 

Was someone trying to break through the fence? 

We moved quickly along the fence. Faster, faster—until the tall, peeling 
fence pickets became a gray blur. 

But the sound followed us. Heavy footsteps on the other side of the fence. 

We stared straight ahead. We were on an empty street. A familiar street. 

Yes, we had been here before. 

The pavement was puddled with rainwater. The puddles glowed in the pale 
light from the streetlamps. 

I took a deep breath. Marty gripped my arm harder. Our mouths gaped 
open. 

To our horror, the fence began to shake. The whole street shook. The rain 
puddles splashed against the curb. 

The footsteps thundered closer. 

“Marty—!” I gasped in a choked whisper. 

Before I could say another word, the fence crumbled to the ground, and the 
monster came bursting out. 

It had a head like a wolf—snapping jaws of gleaming white teeth—and a 
body like a giant crab. It swung four huge claws in front of it, clicking them at us 
as its snout pulled open in a throaty growl. 

“NOOOOOOO!” Marty and I both let out howls of terror. 

We jumped to our feet. 

But there was nowhere to run. 



2 


We stood and stared as the wolf-crab crawled toward us. 

“Please sit down, kids,” a voice called out behind us. “I can’t see the 
screen.” 

“Ssshhhh!” someone else whispered. 

Marty and I glanced at each other. I guess we both felt like jerks. I know I 
did. We dropped back into our seats. 

And watched the wolf-crab scamper across the street, chasing after a little 
boy on a tricycle. 

“What’s your problem, Erin?” Marty whispered, shaking his head. “It’s 
only a movie. Why did you scream like that?” 

“You screamed too!” I replied sharply. 

“I only screamed because you screamed!” he insisted. 

“Sssshhh!” someone pleaded. I sank low in the seat. I heard crunching 
sounds all around me. People eating popcorn. Someone behind me coughed. 

On the screen, the wolf-crab reached out his big, red claws and grabbed the 
kid on the trike. SNAP. SNAP. Good-bye, kid. 

Some people in the theater laughed. It was pretty funny. 

That’s the great thing about the Shocker on Shock Street movies. They make 
you scream and laugh at the same time. 

Marty and I sat back and enjoyed the rest of the movie. We love scary 
movies, but the Shock Street films are our favorites. 

In the end, the police caught the wolf-crab. They boiled him in a big pot of 
water. Then they served steamed crab to the whole town. Everyone sat around 
dipping him in butter sauce. They all said he was delicious. 

It was the perfect ending. Marty and I clapped and cheered. Marty put two 
fingers in his mouth and whistled through his teeth the way he always does. 

We had just seen Shocker on Shock Street VI, and it was definitely the best 
one of the series. 

The theater lights came on. We turned up the aisle and started to make our 
way through the crowd. 

“Great special effects,” a man told his friend. 

“Special effects?” the friend replied. “I thought it was all real!” 



They both laughed. 

Marty bumped me hard from behind. He thinks it’s funny to try and knock 
me over. “Pretty good movie,” he said. 

I turned back to him. “Huh? Pretty good?” 

“Well, it wasn’t scary enough,” he replied. “Actually, it was kind of 
babyish. Shocker V was a lot scarier.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Marty, you screamed your head off—remember? You 
jumped out of your seat. You grabbed my arm and—” 

“I only did that because I saw how scared you were,” he said, grinning. 
What a liar! Why can’t he ever admit it when he’s scared? 

He stuck his sneaker out and tried to trip me. 

I dodged to the left, stumbled—and bumped hard into a young woman. 

“Hey—look out!” she cried. “You twins should be more careful.” 

“We’re not twins!” Marty and I cried in unison. 

We’re not even brother and sister. We’re not related in any way. But people 
always think that Marty and I are twins. 

I guess we do look a lot alike. We’re both twelve years old. And we’re both 
pretty short and kind of chubby. We both have round faces, short black hair, and 
blue eyes. And we both have little noses that sort of turn up. 

But we’re not twins! We’re only friends. 

I apologized to the woman. When I turned back to Marty, he stuck out his 
shoe and tried to trip me again. 

I stumbled, but quickly caught my balance. Then I stuck out my shoe—and 
tripped him. 

We kept tripping each other through the long lobby. People were staring at 
us, but we didn’t care. We were laughing too hard. 

“Do you know the coolest thing about this movie?” I asked. 

“No. What?” 

“That we’re the first kids in the world to see it!” I exclaimed. 

“Yeah!” Marty and I slapped each other a high five. 

We had just seen Shocker on Shock Street VI at a special sneak preview. My 
dad works with a lot of movie people, and he got us tickets for it. The others in 
the theater were all adults. Marty and I were the only kids. 

“Know what else was really cool?” I asked. “The monsters. All of them. 
They looked so incredibly real. It didn’t look like special effects at all.” 

Marty frowned. “Well, I thought the Electric Eel Woman was pretty phony- 



looking. She didn’t look like an eel—she looked like a big worm!” 

I laughed. “Then why did you jump out of your seat when she shot a bolt of 
electricity and fried that gang of teenagers?” 

“I didn’t jump,” Marty insisted. “You did!” 

“Did not! You jumped because it looked so real,” I insisted. “And I heard 
you choke when the Toxic Creep leaped out of the nuclear waste pit.” 

“I choked on a Milk Dud, that’s all.” 

“You were scared, Marty, because it was so real.” 

“Hey—what if they are real?!” Marty exclaimed. “What if it isn’t special 
effects? What if they’re all real monsters ?” 

“Don’t be dumb,” I said. 

We turned the corner into another hall. 

The wolf-crab stood waiting for me there. 

I didn’t even have time to scream. 

He opened his toothy jaws in a long wolf howl—and wrapped two giant red 
claws around my waist. 



3 


I opened my mouth to scream, but only a squeak came out. 

I heard people laughing. 

The big claws slid off my waist. Plastic claws. 

I saw two dark eyes staring out at me from behind the wolf mask. I should 
have known that it was a man in a costume. But I didn’t expect him to be 
standing there. 

I was surprised, that’s all. 

I blinked at a white flash of light. A man had just taken a picture of the 
creature. I saw a big red and yellow sign against the wall: SEE THE MOVIE— 
THEN PLAY THE GAME ON CD-ROM. 

“Sorry if I scared you,” the man inside the wolf-crab costume said softly. 

“She scares easily!” Marty declared. 

I gave Marty a hard shove, and we hurried away. I turned back to see the 
creature waving a claw at me. “We’ve got to go upstairs and see my dad,” I told 
Marty. 

“Tell me something I don’t know.” 

He thinks he’s so funny. 

Dad’s office is upstairs from the theater, on the twenty-ninth floor. We 
jogged to the elevators at the end of the hall and took one up. 

Dad has a really cool job. He builds theme parks. And he designs all kinds 
of rides. 

Dad was one of the designers of Prehistoric Park. That’s the big theme park 
where you go back to prehistoric times. It has all kinds of neat rides and shows 
—and dozens of huge dinosaur robots wandering around. 

And Dad worked on the Fantasy Films Studio Tour. Everyone who comes 
to Hollywood goes on that tour. 

Dad’s idea was the part where you walk through a huge movie screen and 
find yourself in a world of movie characters. You can star in any kind of movie 
you want to be in! 

I know it sounds as if I’m bragging, but Dad is really smart, and he’s an 
engineering genius! I think he is the world expert on robots. He can build robots 
that will do anything! And he uses them in all his parks and studio tours. 



Marty and I stepped off the elevator on the twenty-ninth floor. We waved to 
the woman at the front desk. Then we hurried to Dad’s office at the end of the 
hall. 

It looks more like a playroom than an office. It’s a big room. Huge, really. 
Filled with toys, and stuffed cartoon characters, movie posters, and models of 
monsters. 

Marty and I love to roam around the office, staring at all the neat stuff. On 
the walls, Dad has great posters from a dozen different movies. On a long table, 
he has a model of The Tumbler, the upside-down roller coaster he designed. The 
model has little cars that really screech around the tracks. 

And he has a lot of cool stuff from Shock Street —like one of the original 
furry paws that Wolf Girl wore in Nightmare on Shock Street. He keeps it in a 
glass case on the windowsill. 

He has models of tramcars and little trains and planes and rockets. Even a 
big, silver plastic blimp. It’s radio-controlled, and he can make it float round and 
around his office. 

What a great place! I always think of Dad’s office as the happiest place in 
the world. 

But today, as Marty and I stepped inside, Dad didn’t look too happy. He 
hunched over his desk with the telephone to his ear. His head was lowered, his 
eyes down. He kept a hand pressed against his forehead as he mumbled into the 
phone. 

Dad and I don’t look at all alike. I’m short and dark. He’s tall and thin. And 
he has blond hair, although there’s not much left of it. He’s pretty bald. 

He has the kind of skin that turns red easily. 

His cheeks get real pink when he talks. And he wears big, round glasses 
with dark frames that hide his brown eyes. 

Marty and I stopped at the doorway. I don’t think Dad saw us. He stared 
down at the desk. He had his tie pulled down and his shirt collar open. 

He muttered for a short while longer. Marty and I crept into the office. 

Finally, Dad set down the phone. He raised his eyes and saw us. “Oh, hi, 
you two,” he said softly. His cheeks turned bright pink. 

“Dad—what’s wrong?” I asked. 

He sighed. Then he pulled off his glasses and pinched the bridge of his 
nose. “I have very bad news, Erin. Very bad news.” 



4 


“Dad—what is it? What?” I cried. 

Then I saw the grin slowly spread across his face. I knew I’d been tricked 
again. 

“Gotcha!” he declared. His brown eyes flashed gleefully. His cheeks were 
bright pink. “Gotcha again. You fall for that gag every time.” 

“Dad—!” I let out an angry cry. Then I rushed up to the desk, wrapped my 
hands around his neck, and pretended to strangle him. 

We both collapsed against each other, laughing. Marty still stood in the 
doorway, shaking his head. “Mr. Wright, that is so lame,” he muttered. 

Dad struggled to slip his glasses back on. “I’m sorry. You kids are just too 
easy to fool. I couldn’t resist.” He smiled at me. “Actually, I’ve got good news.” 

“Good news? Is this another joke?” I demanded suspiciously. 

He shook his head. He picked up something from his desk. “Check this out, 
guys. Do you know what this is?” He held it in his palm. 

Marty and I came closer to examine it. It was a little, white plastic vehicle 
with four wheels. “Some kind of train car?” I guessed. 

“It’s a tramcar,” Dad explained. “See? People sit on long benches inside it. 
Here. It’s motor-driven.” He pointed to the front of the model to show where the 
engine went. “But do you know where this tramcar will be used?” 

“Dad, we give up. Just tell us,” I insisted impatiently. “Stop keeping us in 
suspense.” 

“Okay, okay.” His cheeks reddened. His smile grew wider. “This is a model 
of the tram that will be used at the Shocker Studio Tour.” 

My mouth dropped open. “Do you mean the tour is finally going to open?” 
I knew that Dad had been working on it for years. 

Dad nodded. “Yes. We’re finally about to open it to the public. But before 
we do, I want you two to test it out.” 

“Huh? You mean it?” I shrieked. I was so excited, I felt as if I’d burst out of 
my skin! 

I turned to Marty. He was leaping up and down, shooting both fists into the 
air. “Yes! Yes! Yes!” 

“I built this whole tour,” Dad said, “and I want you two to be the first kids 



in the world to go on it. I want to know your opinion. What you like and what 
you don’t like.” 

“Yes! Yes! Yes!” Marty kept leaping into the air. I thought I might have to 
tie a rope around his waist and hold onto it to keep him from floating away! 

“Dad—the Shock Street movies are the bestl” I cried. “This is awesome!” 
And then I added, “Is the tour very scary?” 

Dad rested a hand on my shoulder. “I hope so,” he replied. “I tried to make 
it as scary and real as I could. You get on the tram and you ride through the 
whole movie studio. You get to meet all of the characters from the horror 
movies. And then the tram takes you on a slow ride down Shock Street.” 

“The real Shock Street?” Marty cried. “Do you mean it? You get to ride 
down the real street where they make the movies?” 

Dad nodded. “Yes. The real Shock Street.” 

“Yes! Yes! Yes!” Marty started pumping his fists in the air again, shouting 
like a maniac. 

“Awesome!” I cried. “Totally awesome!” I was as excited as Marty. 

Suddenly Marty stopped leaping. His expression turned serious. “Maybe 
Erin shouldn’t go,” he told my dad. “She gets too scared.” 

“Huh?” I cried. 

“She was so scared during the movie sneak preview, I had to hold her 
hand,” Marty told Dad. 

What a liar! 

“Give me a break!” I cried angrily. “If anyone was a scaredy-cat wimp, it 
was you, Marty!” 

Dad raised both hands to signal halt. “Calm down, guys,” he said softly. 
“No arguing. You have to keep together. You know, you two will be the only 
ones on the tour tomorrow. The only ones.” 

“Yes!” Marty cheered happily. “Yes! Yes!” 

“Wow! That’s great!” I cried. “It’s totally great. It’s going to be the best!” 
Then I had an idea. “Can Mom come too? I bet she would really enjoy it.” 

“Excuse me?” Dad squinted at me through his glasses. His whole face 
turned bright red. “What did you say?” 

“I asked if Mom could come too,” I repeated. 

Dad kept staring at me for a long time, studying me. “Are you feeling okay, 
Erin?” he asked finally. 

“Yes. Fine,” I replied meekly. 



I suddenly felt very confused and upset. What had I done wrong? 
Was something wrong with Mom? 

Why was Dad staring at me like that? 



5 


Dad came around the desk and put an arm around my shoulder. “I think you and 
Marty will have a better time if you go by yourselves,” he said softly. “Don’t you 
agree?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” 

I still wondered why he was staring at me so suspiciously. But I decided not 
to ask him. I didn’t want him to get angry or something and change his mind 
about us going on the tour. 

“Do you mean you’re not coming with us?” Marty asked Dad. “We’re 
really going by ourselves?” 

“I want you to go by yourselves,” Dad replied. “I think that will make it 
more exciting for you.” 

Marty grinned at me. “I hope it’s really scary!” he declared. 

“Don’t worry,” Dad replied. A strange smile spread over his face. “You 
won’t be disappointed.” 

The next afternoon, a gray haze hung in the air as Dad drove Marty and me 
to Shocker Studios. 

I sat up front with Dad, peering out the car window at the smog. “It’s so 
gloomy out,” I murmured. 

“Perfect for a horror movie tour,” Marty chimed in from the backseat. He 
was so excited, he could barely sit still. He kept bouncing his legs up and down 
and tapping his hands on the leather seat. 

I had never seen Marty so crazed. If he didn’t have his seat belt to hold him 
down, he’d probably bounce right out of the car! 

The car climbed up the Hollywood hills. The narrow road curved past 
redwood houses and tree-filled yards cut into the sides of the hills. 

As we climbed, the sky turned even darker. We’re driving up into a cloud of 
fog, I thought. Far in the distance, I could see the HOLLYWOOD sign, 
stretching in the haze across a dark peak. 

“Hope it doesn’t rain,” I muttered, watching the fog roll over the sign. 

Dad chuckled. “You know it never rains in Los Angeles!” 

“Which monsters are we going to see?” Marty asked, bouncing in the 
backseat. “Is Shockro on the tour? Do we really get to walk on Shock Street?” 



Dad squinted hard through his glasses, turning the wheel as the road curved 
and twisted. “I’m not telling,” he replied. “I don’t want to spoil it for you. I want 
it all to be a surprise.” 

“I just wanted to know so I could warn Erin,” Marty said. “I don’t want her 
to get too scared. She might faint or something.” He laughed. 

I let out an angry growl. Then I turned around and tried to punch him. But I 
couldn’t reach. 

Marty leaned forward and messed up my hair with both hands. “Get off 
me!” I screamed. “I’m warning you—!” 

“Take it easy, guys,” Dad said softly. “We’re here.” 

I turned and stared out the windshield. The road had flattened out. Up 
ahead, an enormous sign proclaimed SHOCKER STUDIOS in scary, blood-red 
letters. 

We drove slowly up to the huge iron gates in the front. The gates were 
closed. A guard in a small black booth sat reading a newspaper. I glimpsed gold 
script letters above the gate. They spelled out one word: BEWARE. 

Dad pulled right up to the gate, and the guard peered up. He gave Dad a big 
smile. Then he pressed a button, and the gates slowly swung open. Dad drove 
the car into the tall white parking garage beside the studio. He parked in the first 
space next to the entrance. The garage seemed to stretch on forever. But I could 
see only three or four other cars inside. 

“When we open next week, this garage will be jammed!” Dad said. “There 
will be thousands of people here. I hope.” 

“And today, we’re the only ones!” Marty cried excitedly, jumping out of the 
car. 

“We’re so lucky!” I agreed. 

A few minutes later, we were standing on the platform outside the main 
building, facing a wide street, waiting for the tram to take us on the tour. The 
street led to dozens of white studio buildings, spread out all the way down the 
hill. 

Dad pointed to two enormous buildings as big as airplane hangars. “Those 
are the soundstages,” he explained. “They film a lot of movie scenes inside those 
buildings.” 

“Does the tour go inside them?” Marty demanded. “Where is Shock Street? 
Where are the monsters? Are they making a movie now? Can we watch them 
making it?” 



“Whoa!” Dad cried. He placed his hands on Marty’s shoulders as if to keep 
him from flying off the ground. I had never seen Marty so totally wired! “Take it 
easy, fella,” Dad warned. “You’ll blow a fuse! You won’t survive the tour!” 

I shook my head. “Maybe we should put him on a leash,” I told Dad. 

“Arf, arf!” Marty barked. Then he snapped his teeth at me, trying to bite 
me. 

I shivered. The fog rolled in from the hills. The air felt damp and cold. The 
sky darkened. 

Two men in business suits came zooming along the street in a golf cart. 
They were both talking at once. One of them waved to Dad. 

“Can we ride in one of those carts?” Marty asked. “Can Erin and I each 
have our own cart?” 

“No way,” Dad told him. “You have to take the automated tram. And 
remember—stay in the tramcar. No matter what.” 

“You mean we can’t walk on Shock Street?” Marty whined. 

Dad shook his head. “Not allowed. You have to stay on the tram.” 

He turned to me. “I’ll be waiting for you here on the platform when you get 
back. I want a full report. I want to know what you like and what you don’t like. 
And don’t worry if things don’t work exactly right. There are still a few bugs to 
work out.” 

“Hey—here comes the tram!” Marty cried, hopping up and down and 
pointing. 

The tram came rolling silently around the corner. I counted six tramcars in 
all. They were shaped like roller-coaster cars, open on top—only much longer 
and wider. The cars were black. A grinning white skull was painted on the front 
of the first car. 

A young, red-haired woman wearing a black uniform was seated on the first 
bench in the front car. She waved to us as the tram rolled up to the platform. She 
was the only passenger. 

She hopped out as the tram stopped. “Hi, I’m Linda. I’m your tour guide.” 
She smiled at my dad. Her red hair fluttered in the wind. 

“Hello, Linda,” Dad said, smiling back at her. He gently shoved Marty and 
me forward. “Here are your first two victims.” 

Linda laughed and asked us our names. We told her. 

“Can we ride in front?” Marty asked eagerly. 

“Yes, of course,” Linda replied. “You can sit anywhere you want. This 



whole ride is just for you.” 

“All right!” Marty cried. He slapped me a high five. 

Dad laughed. “I think Marty is ready to begin,” he told Linda. 

Linda pushed her red hair out of her face. “You can start right away, guys. 
But first, there’s something I have to do.” 

She leaned over the tramcar and tugged out a black canvas bag. “This will 
only take a second, guys.” She pulled a red plastic gun from the bag. “This is a 
Shocker Stun Ray Blaster.” 

She gripped the plastic pistol tightly. It looked like something in a Star Trek 
movie. Her smile faded. Her green eyes narrowed. “Be careful with these 
blasters, guys. They can freeze a monster in its tracks from twenty feet.” 

She handed the blaster to me. Then she reached into her bag to get one for 
Marty. “Don’t fire them unless you have to.” She swallowed hard and bit her 
lower lip. “I sure hope you don’t have to.” 

I laughed. “You’re kidding—right? These are just toys—right?” 

She didn’t answer. She pulled another blaster from her bag and started to 
bring it to Marty. 

But she stumbled over a cord on the platform. “Ohh!” She let out a startled 
cry as the blaster went off in her hand. 

A loud buzz. A bright ray of yellow light. 

And Linda stood frozen on the platform. 



6 


“Linda! Linda!” I screamed. 

Marty’s mouth dropped open. He let out a choked gurgle. 

I turned to Dad. To my surprise, he was laughing. 

“Dad—she’s—she’s frozen!” I cried. But when I turned back to Linda, she 
had a big smile on her face, too. 

It took us both a while, but we soon realized the whole thing was a joke. 

“That’s the first shock on the Shocker tour,” Linda announced, lowering the 
red blaster. She put a hand on Marty’s shoulder. “I think I really shocked you, 
Marty!” 

“No way!” Marty insisted. “I knew it was a joke. I just played along.” 

“Come on, Marty!” I cried, rolling my eyes. “You nearly dropped your 
teeth!” 

“Erin, I wasn’t scared,” Marty insisted sharply. “Really. I just went along 
with the joke. Do you really think I’d fall for a dumb plastic blaster gun?” 

Marty is such a jerk. Why can’t he ever admit it when he’s scared? 

“Climb in, you two,” Dad urged. “Let’s get this show on the road.” 

Marty and I climbed into the front seat of the tram. I looked for a seat belt 
or a safety bar, but there wasn’t one. “Are you coming with us?” I asked Linda. 

She shook her head. “No. You’re on your own. The tram moves 
automatically.” She handed Marty his Stun Blaster. “Hope you don’t need it.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Marty muttered, rolling his eyes. “This gun is so babyish.” 

“Remember—I’ll meet you back here at the end of the ride,” Dad said. He 
waved. “Enjoy it. I want a full report.” 

“Don’t get out of the tram,” Linda reminded us. “Keep your head and arms 
inside. And don’t stand up while the tram is moving.” 

She stepped on a blue button on the platform. The tram started up with a 
jolt. Marty and I were thrown back against the seat. Then the tram rolled 
smoothly forward. 

“First stop is The Haunted House of Horror!” Linda called after us. “Good 
luck!” 

I turned back to see her waving to us, her long red hair fluttering in the 
wind. A strong breeze blew against us as the tram made its way down the hill. 



The sky was nearly as dark as night. Some of the white studio buildings were 
hidden by the fog. 

“Stupid gun,” Marty muttered, rolling it around in his hands. “Why do we 
need this plastic gun? I hope the whole tour isn’t this babyish.” 

“I hope you don’t complain all afternoon,” I told him, frowning. “Do you 
realize how awesome this is? We’re going to see all the great creatures from the 
Shocker movies.” 

“Think we’ll see Shockro?” he asked. Shockro is his favorite. I guess 
because he’s so totally gross. 

“Probably,” I replied, my eyes on the low buildings we were passing. They 
all stood dark and empty. 

“I want to see Wolf Boy and Wolf Girl,” Marty said, counting the monsters 
off on his fingers. “And... the Piranha People, and Captain Sick, The Great 
Gopher Mutant, and—” 

“Wow! Look!” I cried, pounding his shoulder and pointing. 

As the tram turned a sharp corner, The Haunted House of Horror loomed 
darkly in front of us. The roof and its tall stone turrets were hidden by the fog. 
The rest of the mansion stood gray against the dusky sky. 

The tram took us nearer. Tall weeds choked the front lawn. The weeds bent 
and swayed in the wind. The gray shingles on the house were chipped and 
peeling. Pale green light, dim, eerie light, floated out from the tall window in 
front. 

As we rode closer, I could see a rusty iron porch swing—swinging by itself! 
—on a broken, rotting porch. 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. 

“It looks a lot smaller than in the movie,” Marty grumbled. 

“It’s exactly the same house!” I cried. 

“Then why does it look so much smaller?” he demanded. 

What a complainer. 

I turned away from him and studied The Haunted House. An iron fence 
surrounded the place. As we moved around to the side, the rusty gate swung 
open, squeaking and creaking. 

“Look!” I pointed to the dark windows on the second floor. The shutters all 
flew open at once, then banged shut again. 

Lights came on in the windows. Through the window shades, I could see 
the silhouettes of skeletons hanging, swinging slowly back and forth. 



“That’s kind of cool,” Marty said. “But not too scary.” He raised his plastic 
gun and pretended to shoot at the skeletons. 

We circled The Haunted House of Horrors once. We could hear screams of 
terror from inside. The shutters banged again and again. The porch swing 
continued to creak back and forth, back and forth, as if taken by a ghost. 

“Are we going inside or not?” Marty demanded impatiently. 

“Sit back and stop complaining,” I said sharply. “The ride just started. 
Don’t spoil it for me, okay?” 

He stuck his tongue out at me. But he settled back against the seat. We 
heard a long howl, and then a shrill scream of horror. 

The tram made its way silently to the back of the house. A gate swung open 
and we rolled through it. We moved quickly through the overgrown, weed- 
choked backyard. 

The tram picked up speed. We bounced over the lawn. Up to the back door. 
A wooden sign above the door read: ABANDON ALL HOPE. 

We’re going to crash right into the door! I thought. I ducked and raised my 
hands to shield myself. 

But the door creaked open, and we burst inside. 

The tram slowed. I lowered my hands and sat up. We were in a dark, dust- 
covered kitchen. An invisible ghost cackled, an evil laugh. Battered pots and 
pans covered the wall. As we passed, they clattered to the floor. 

The oven door opened and closed by itself. The teapot on the stove started 
to whistle. Dishes on the shelves rattled. The cackling grew louder. 

“This is pretty creepy,” I whispered. 

“Ooh. Thrills and chills!” Marty replied sarcastically. He crossed his arms 
in front of him. “Bor-ring!” 

“Marty—give me a break.” I shoved him away. “You can be a bad sport if 
you want. But don’t ruin it for me.” 

That seemed to get to him. He muttered, “Sorry,” and scooted back next to 
me. 

The tram moved out of the dark kitchen, into an even darker hallway. 
Paintings of goblins and ugly creatures hung on the hallway walls. 

As we approached a closet door, it sprang open—and a shrieking skeleton 
popped out in front of us, its jaws open, its arms jutting out to grab us. 

I screamed. Marty laughed. 

The skeleton snapped back into the closet. The tram turned a corner. I saw 



flickering light up ahead. 

We rode into a large, round room. “It’s the living room,” I whispered to 
Marty. I raised my eyes to the flickering light and saw a chandelier above our 
heads, with a dozen burning candles. 

The tram stopped beneath it. The chandelier began to shake. Then, with a 
hiss, the candles ah flickered out at once. 

The room plunged into darkness. 

Then a deep laugh echoed all around us. 

I gasped. 

“Welcome to my humble home!” a deep voice suddenly boomed. 

“Who is that?” I whispered to Marty. “Where is it coming from?” No reply. 
“Hey—Marty?” I turned to him. “Marty—?” He was gone. 



7 


“Marty?” 

My breath caught in my throat. I froze, staring into the darkness. 

Where did he go? I asked myself. He knows we aren’t supposed to leave the 
tramcar. Did he climb out? 

No. 

If he had, I would have heard him. 

“Marty?” 

Someone grabbed my arm. 

I heard a soft laugh. Marty’s laugh. 

“Hey—where are you? I can’t see you!” I cried. 

“I can’t see you, either,” he replied. “But I didn’t move. I’m still sitting 
right next to you.” 

“Huh?” I reached out and felt the sleeve of his shirt. 

“This is cool!” Marty declared. “I’m waving my arms, but I can’t see a 
thing. You really can’t see me?” 

“No,” I replied. “I thought—” 

“It’s some kind of trick with the lights,” he said. “Black light or something. 
Some kind of neat movie special effect.” 

“Well, it creeped me out,” I confessed. “I really thought you disappeared.” 

“Sucker,” he sneered. 

And then we both jumped. 

A fire suddenly blazed in the big brick fireplace. Bright orange light filled 
the room. A big black armchair spun around to reveal a grinning skeleton. 

The skeleton raised its bony yellowed head. The jaws moved. “I hope you 
like my house,” its voice boomed. “Becauseyou will never leave!” 

It tossed back its head and let out an evil cackle. 

The tram jolted to a start. We rumbled out of the living room. Into a long, 
dark hallway. The skeleton’s laugh followed us into the hall. 

I fell back against the seat as we picked up speed. 

We whirred around a corner. Down another long hall, so dark I couldn’t see 
the walls. 



Faster. Faster. 

We whipped around another corner. Made another sharp turn. 

We were climbing now. And then we took a sharp dip that made both of us 
throw up our hands and scream. 

Around another sharp turn. Up, up, up. And then we came crashing down. 

A wild roller-coaster ride in total darkness. 

It was awesome. Even better because we didn’t expect it. Marty and I 
screamed our heads off. We bumped hard against each other as the tram whirled 
around in the black halls of The Haunted House of Horrors. Up, up, again—then 
we tilted sharply down. 

I hung on to the front of the car for dear life. I gripped it so hard, both hands 
ached. There was no seat belt, no safety bar. 

What if we tumbled out? I wondered. 

The car tilted sharply sideways, as if reading my frightened thoughts. I let 
out a shriek and lost my grip. I slid against the side of the car. Marty fell on top 
of me. 

I frantically reached out for something to hold on to. 

The car tilted back rightside up. I took a deep breath, slid back into place on 
the long seat. 

“Whoa! That was excellent !” Marty cried, laughing. “Excellent!” 

Gripping the front of the car, I took another deep breath and held it. I was 
trying to slow my racing heart. 

A door swung open in front of us, and we burst through it. 

The car bounced hard. I saw trees. The gray-fogged sky. 

We were back outside. Racing through the backyard. Both of us were tossed 
from side to side as we roared over the weeds, zigzagging through the dark trees. 

“Whoa! Stop!” I choked out. I couldn’t catch my breath. The wind blew 
hard against my face. The tram clattered and squealed as we bumped over the 
rough ground. 

We were out of control. Something had definitely gone wrong with the 

tram. 

Bouncing hard on the plastic seat, holding on tightly, I searched for 
someone who could help us. 

No one in sight. 

We bumped onto the road. The tram started to slow. I turned to Marty. His 
hair was blown over his face. His mouth hung open. His eyes rolled around in 



his head. He was totally dazed. 

The tram slowed, slowed, slowed, until we were creeping smoothly along. 

“That was great]” Marty declared. He smoothed back his hair with both 
hands and grinned at me. I knew he had been scared, too. But he was pretending 
that he enjoyed the crazy, wild ride. 

“Yeah. Great.” I tried to pretend, too. But my voice came out weak and 
shaky. 

“I’m going to tell your dad that the roller-coaster ride through the halls was 
the best]” Marty declared. 

“It was kind of fun,” I agreed. “And kind of scary.” 

Marty turned away from me. “Hey. Where are we?” 

The tram had come to a stop. I pulled myself up and peered around. We had 
parked between two rows of tall evergreen bushes. The bushes were slender, 
shaped like spears reaching up to the sky. 

Above us, the afternoon sun was trying to break through the fog. Rays of 
pale light beamed down from the gray sky. The tall, thin shadows of the bushes 
fell over our tramcar. 

Marty stood up and turned to the back of the tram. “There’s nothing around 
here,” he said. “We’re in the middle of nowhere. Why did we stop?” 

“Do you think—?” I started. But I stopped talking when I saw the bush 
move. 

It wiggled. Then the bush next to it wiggled, too. 

“Marty—” I whispered, tugging his sleeve. I saw two glowing red circles 
behind the bush. Two glowing red eyes] 

“Marty—there’s someone there.” 

Another pair of eyes. And then another pair of eyes. Staring out at us from 
behind the evergreen bushes. 

And then two dark claws. 

And then rustling sounds. The bush tilted as a dark figure leaped out. 
Followed by another. 

Snarling, growling. 

I gasped. Too late to run. 

We were surrounded by the ugly creatures. Snuffling, wheezing creatures, 
who staggered out from the bushes. Reaching out, reaching out for us, they 
began to climb into the tram. 



8 


Marty and I jumped to our feet. 

“Ohhhhhh.” I heard Marty let out a frightened moan. 

I started to back away. I thought maybe I could scramble out the other side 
of the car. 

But the snarling, growling monsters came at us from both sides. 

“L-leave us alone!” I stammered. 

A monster covered in tangled brown fur opened his jaws to reveal long, 
jagged rows of yellow teeth. His hot breath exploded in my face. He stepped 
closer. Then he swiped at me with a fat paw and uttered a menacing roar. “Would 
you like an autograph?” he growled. 

I gaped at him, my mouth hanging down to my knees. “Huh?” 

“Autographed photo?” he asked. He raised his furry paw again. He held a 
black-and-white snapshot in it. 

“Hey—you’re Ape Face!” Marty cried, pointing. 

The hairy creature nodded his head. He raised the photo to Marty. “Want a 
photo? This is the autographing part of the tour.” 

“Yeah! Okay,” Marty replied. 

The big ape pulled a marker from behind his ear and bent to sign the photo 
for Marty. 

Now that my heartbeat was returning to normal, I began to recognize some 
of the other creatures. The guy covered in purple slime was The Toxic Wild 
Man. And I recognized Sweet Sue, the walking-talking baby doll with real hair 
you can brush. Sweet Sue was really a mutant murderer from Mars. 

The frog-faced guy covered from head to toe with purple and brown warts 
was The Fabulous Frog, also known as The Toadinator. He starred in Pond Scum 
and Pond Scum II, two of the scariest movies ever made. 

“Frog—can I have your autograph?” I asked. 

“Grrrbbit. Grrbit.” He croaked and slipped a pen into his wart-covered 
hand. I leaned forward eagerly and watched him sign his photo. It was hard for 
him to write. The pen kept slipping in his slimy frog hands. 

Marty and I collected a bunch of autographs. Then the creatures went 
snarling and wheezing back into the bushes. 



When they were gone, we both burst out laughing. “That was so dumb!” I 
cried. “When I saw them creeping out from behind the bushes, I thought I’d have 
a cow!” I glanced down at the photos. “But it’s kind of cool to get their 
autographs.” 

Marty made a disgusted face. “It’s just a bunch of actors in costumes,” he 
sneered. “It’s for babies.” 

“But—but—they looked so real,” I stammered. “It didn’t look as if they 
were wearing costumes—did it? I mean, The Toadinator’s hands were really 
slimy. And Ape Face’s fur was so real. The masks were awesome. I couldn’t tell 
they were masks.” 

I brushed the hair out of my eyes. “How do they get into those costumes? I 
didn’t see any buttons or zippers, or anything!” 

“That’s because they’re movie costumes,” Marty explained. “They’re better 
than regular costumes.” 

Mr. Know-It-All. 

The tram started to back out. I settled down into the seat. I watched the two 
rows of evergreen bushes fade into the distance. 

Down the long, sloping hill, I could see the white studio buildings. I 
wondered if they were making a movie on one of the soundstages. I wondered if 
the tram would take us to watch them shoot. 

I could see two golf carts moving along the road. 

They were carrying people down to the sound-stage buildings. 

The sun still struggled to shine through the fog. The tram bounced over the 
grass, up the hill. 

“Whoa!” I cried out as we turned sharply and headed back toward the trees. 

“Please remain in the car at all times.” A woman’s voice burst from a 
speaker in the tram car. “Your next stop will be The Cave of The Living Creeps.” 

“The Cave of The Living Creeps? Wow! That sounds scary!” Marty 
exclaimed. 

“Sure does!” I agreed. 

We had no idea just how scary it would turn out to be. 



9 


The tram zigzagged its way through the trees. Their shadows rolled over us like 
dark ghosts. 

We moved so silently. I tried to imagine what the ride would be like if the 
tram was packed with excited kids and adults. I decided it would be a lot less 
scary with a crowd. 

But I wasn’t complaining. Marty and I were really lucky to be the first kids 
ever to try out this ride. 

“Wow!” Marty grabbed my arm as The Cave of The Living Creeps loomed 
in front of us. The mouth of the cave was a huge dark hole, cut into the side of 
the hill. I could see pale, silvery light flickering past the entrance. 

The tram slowed down as we approached the dark opening. A sign above 
the entrance had one word carved roughly into it: FAREWELL. 

The tramcar lurched forward. “Hey—!” I cried out and ducked my head. 
What a tight squeeze! 

Into the dim, flickering light. 

The air instantly grew colder. And damp. A sour, earthy smell rose to my 
nostrils, making me gasp. 

“Bats!” Marty whispered. “What do you think, Erin? Think there are bats in 
here?” He leaned close and let out an evil laugh in my ear. 

Marty knows that I hate bats! 

I know, I know. Bats aren’t really evil creatures. And they aren’t dangerous. 
Bats eat mosquitoes and other insects. And they don’t attack people or get 
tangled in your hair or try to suck your blood. That’s only in movies. 

I know all that. But I don’t care. 

Bats are ugly and creepy and disgusting. And I hate them. 

One day, I told Marty how much I hate bats. And so he’s been teasing me 
about them ever since. 

The tram moved deeper into the cave. The air grew colder. The sour aroma 
nearly choked me. 

“Look—over there!” Marty screamed. “A vampire bat!” 

“Huh? Where?” I couldn’t help myself. I cried out in alarm. 

Of course it was one of Marty’s dumb jokes. He laughed like a maniac. 



I growled at him and punched him hard on the shoulder. “You’re not funny. 
You’re just dumb.” 

That made him giggle even harder. “I’ll bet there are bats in this cave,” he 
insisted. “You can’t go into a deep, dark cave like this one without seeing bats.” 

I turned away from his grinning face and listened hard. I was listening for 
fluttering bat wings. I didn’t hear any. 

The cave narrowed. The walls seemed to close in on us. The side of the car 
scraped against the dirt wall. I could feel that we were heading down. 

In the dim, silvery light, I saw a long row of pointy icicle-type things 
hanging down from the cave ceiling. I know they have a name, but I can never 
remember which one it is—stalagmites or stalactites. 

I ducked my head again as the tram shot under them. Up close, they looked 
like pointed elephant tusks. 

“We’re getting closer to the bats!” Marty teased. 

I ignored him. I kept my eyes straight ahead. The cave grew wide again. 
Dark shadows shifted and danced over the walls as we rolled past. 

“Ohhh.” I uttered a groan as I felt something cold and slimy drop onto the 
back of my neck. 

I jerked away and turned sharply to Marty. “Cut it out!” I snapped. “Get 
your cold hands off me!” 

“Who—me?” 

He wasn’t touching me. Both of his hands gripped the front of the car. 

Then what was on the back of my neck? So cold and wet. Icy wet. I 
shuddered. My whole body shook. 

“M-Marty!” I stammered. “H-help!” 

Marty stared at me, confused. “Erin—what’s your problem?” 

“The back of my neck—” I choked out. 

I could feel the cold, wet thing start to move. I decided not to wait for 
Marty to help me. 

I reached back and pulled it off. It felt sticky and cold between my fingers. 
It slithered and wriggled, and I dropped it on the seat. 

A worm! 

A huge, long white worm. So cold, so wet and cold. 

“Weird!” Marty exclaimed. He leaned close to examine it. “I’ve never seen 
a worm that big! And it’s white.” 

“It—it dropped from the ceiling,” I said, watching it wiggle next to me. 



“It’s ice-cold.” 

“Huh? Let me touch it,” Marty said. He raised his hand and slowly lowered 
his pointer finger to the worm. 

His finger poked the worm in its middle. 

And then Marty opened his mouth in a scream of horror that echoed 
through the cave. 



10 


“What is it? Marty—what’s wrong?” I shrieked. 

“I—I—I—” He couldn’t speak. He could only utter, “I—I—I—!” His eyes 
bulged. His tongue flopped out. 

He reached up and pulled a white worm off the top of his head. “I—I—I got 
one too!” 

“Yuck!” I cried. His worm was nearly as long as a shoelace! 

We both tossed our worms out of the tram. 

But then I felt a soft, damp plop on my shoulder. And then a cold plop on 
top of my head. Another on my forehead, like a cold slap. 

“Ohhh—help!” I moaned. I started thrashing my arms, grabbing at the 
worms, struggling to pull them off me. 

“Marty—please!” I turned to him for help. 

But he was battling them, too. Twisting and ducking. Trying to dodge, as 
more and more white worms fell from the ceiling. 

I saw one fall on his shoulder. I saw another one begin to wrap itself around 
his ear. 

As fast as I could, I pulled the sticky, wet creatures off me and tossed them 
over the side of the slow-rolling tram. 

Where are they coming from? I wondered. 

I glanced up—and a fat, wet one fell over my eyes. 

“Yeowwww!” I let out a shriek, grabbed it, flung it away. 

The tram turned sharply, sending us both sliding over the seat. The cave 
narrowed again as we entered a different tunnel. The silvery light glowed dimly 
around us as we bounced forward. 

Two white worms, each at least a foot long, wriggled across my lap. I 
tugged them off and heaved them over the tram. 

Breathing hard, I searched for more. My whole body itched. The back of 
my neck tingled. I couldn’t stop shaking. 

“They stopped falling,” Marty announced in a shaky voice. 

Then why did I still itch? 

I rubbed the back of my neck. Stood up and searched the seat, then the 
floor. I found one last worm, climbing over my shoe. I kicked it away, then 



dropped back onto the seat with a loud sigh. 

“That was totally gross!” I wailed. 

Marty scratched his chest, then rubbed his face with both hands. “I guess 
that’s why they call it The Cave of The Living Creeps,” he said. He swept a hand 
back through his black hair. 

I shivered. I couldn’t stop itching. I knew the worms were gone, but I could 
still feel them. “Those disgusting white worms—do you think they were alive?” 

Marty shook his head. “Of course not. They were fakes.” He snickered. “I 
guess they fooled you, huh?” 

“They sure felt real,” I replied. “And the way they wriggled around—” 

“They were robots or something,” Marty said, scratching his knees. 
“Everything here is fake. It has to be.” 

“I’m not so sure,” I said, my whole body still itchy and tingling. 

“Well, just ask your father,” Marty replied grumpily. 

I had to laugh. I knew why Marty was suddenly so grouchy. Whether the 
worms were real or fake, they had scared him. And he knew that I knew that he 
had been frightened. 

“I don’t think little kids will like the worms,” Marty said. “I think they’ll 
get too scared. I’m going to tell that to your dad.” 

I started to reply—and felt something drop over me. Something scratchy 
and dry. 

It covered my face, my shoulders—my entire body. 

I shot both hands up and tried to push it away. It’s some kind of a net, I 
thought. 

I grabbed at it, desperate to get it off my face. As I struggled, I turned and 
saw Marty squirming and batting his arms, caught under the same net. 

The tram bounced through the dim cave tunnel. The sticky net felt like 
cotton candy on my skin. 

Marty let out a yelp. “It—it’s a big spider-web!” he stammered. 

I tugged and grabbed and pulled. But the sticky threads clung to my face, 
my arms, and my clothes. “Yuck! This is so gross!” I choked out. 

And then I saw the black dots scurrying through the net. It took me a few 
seconds to realize what they were. Spiders! Hundreds of them! 

“Ohhhh.” A low moan escaped my throat. 

I batted the spiderweb with both hands. I rubbed my cheeks frantically, 
trying to scrape away the sticky threads. I pulled a spider off my forehead. 



Another one off the shoulder of my T-shirt. 

“The spiders—they’re in my hair!” Marty wailed. 

He suddenly forgot about acting cool. He began raking his hair with both 
hands, slapping himself in the head, pinching and swiping at the spiders. 

As the tram rolled silently on, we both twisted and squirmed, struggling to 
flick away the black spiders. I pulled three of them out of my hair. Then I felt 
one climb into my nose! 

I opened my mouth in a horrified scream—and sneezed it out. 

Marty plucked a spider off my neck and sent it soaring through the air. The 
last spider. I couldn’t see—or feel—any more. 

We both dropped down in the seat, breathing hard. My heart pounded in my 
chest. “Still think everything is a fake?” I asked Marty, my voice weak and 
small. 

“I—I don’t know,” he replied softly. “The spiders could be puppets maybe. 
You know. Radio-controlled.” 

“They were realV I cried sharply. “Face it, Marty—they were real! This is 
The Cave of The Living Creeps—and they were living !” 

Marty’s eyes grew wide. “You really think so?” 

I nodded. “They had to be real spiders.” 

A smile spread over Marty’s face. “That’s so coo/!” he declared. “Real 
spiders! That is totally cool!” 

I let out a long sigh and slumped lower in the seat. I didn’t think it was cool 
at all. I thought it was creepy and disgusting. 

These rides are supposed to be fake. That’s what makes them fun. I decided 
to tell my dad that the worms and spiders were too scary. He should get rid of 
them before the studio tour opens to the public. 

I crossed my arms in front of me and kept my eyes straight ahead. I 
wondered what we would mn into next. I hoped there weren’t any other 
disgusting insects waiting to fall on us and climb all over our faces and bodies. 

“I think I hear the bats!” Marty teased. He leaned close to me, grinning. 
“Hear those fluttering sounds? Giant vampire bats!” 

I shoved him back to his side of the seat. I wasn’t in any mood for his 
joking around. 

“When do we get out of this cave?” I asked impatiently. “This isn’t any 

fun.” 

“I think it’s cool,” Marty repeated. “I like exploring caves.” 



The narrow tunnel opened into a wide cavern. The ceiling appeared to be a 
mile high. There were giant rocks scattered over the cavern floor. Rocks piled on 
rocks. Rocks everywhere. 

Somewhere ahead of us, I heard water dripping. Plunk plunk plunk. 

Eerie green light glowed from the cave walls. The tram pulled up to the 
back wall—and then stopped. 

“Now what?” I whispered. 

Marty and I turned in our seat, letting our eyes explore the huge cavern. All 
I could see were rocks. Smooth rocks, some round, some square. 

Plunk plunk plunk. Water dripped somewhere to our right. The air felt cold 
and damp. 

“This is kind of boring,” Marty murmured. “When do we get going?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. Why did we stop here? It’s just a big empty 
cave.” 

We waited for the tram to back up and take us out of there. 

And waited. 

A minute went by. Then another few minutes. 

We both turned around and got up on our knees, peering to the back of the 
tram. Nothing moved. We listened to the steady drip of water, echoing off the 
high stone walls. No other sound. 

Leaning forward against the seatback, I cupped my hands around my mouth 
and shouted. “Hey—can anybody hear us?” 

I waited, listening. No reply. 

“Can anybody hear us?” I tried again. “I think we’re stuck here!” 

No reply. Just the steady drip drip drip. 

I waited, squinting hard into the glow of green light. 

Why wouldn’t the tram get moving? Had it broken down? Were we really 
stuck here? 

I turned to Marty. “What’s up with this tram? Do you think we’re—HEY!” 

I gasped as I stared at the empty seat beside me. 

I reached both hands out. I grabbed for Marty. 

Another lighting trick? Another optical illusion? 

“Marty? Hey—Marty?” I croaked. 

A cold shiver rolled down my back. 

This time Marty was really gone. 



11 


“Marty—?” 

A scraping sound beside the tram made me jump. 

I spun around and saw Marty grinning at me from the cave floor. “Gotcha.” 

“You creep!” I shouted. I swung my fist, but he dodged away, laughing. 
“You’re The Living Creep!” I cried. “You deliberately tried to scare me.” 

“It isn’t too hard a job!” he shot back. His smile faded. “I climbed down to 
check things out.” 

“But the tram might start up any second!” I told him. “You know what that 
tour guide told us. She said we should never leave the tram.” 

Marty squatted down and studied the tires. “I think the tram is stuck or 
something. Maybe it came off its tracks.” He raised his eyes to me and shook his 
head fretfully. “But there aren’t any tracks.” 

“Marty—get back in,” I pleaded. “If it starts up and leaves you standing 
there—” 

He grabbed the side of the car with both hands and shook it. The tramcar 
bounced on its tires. But it didn’t move. 

“I think it broke down,” Marty said softly. “Your father said that some 
things might not work.” 

I felt a stab of fear in my chest. “You mean we’re stranded here? All by 
ourselves in this creepy cave?” 

He stepped to the front of the car and squeezed between the tram and the 
cave wall. Then he tried to push the tram back, shoving with both hands as hard 
as he could. 

It wouldn’t budge. 

“Oh, wow,” I muttered, shaking my head. “This is horrible. This isn’t any 
fun at all.” 

I got back up on my knees on the seat and tried shouting again, as loud as I 
could: “Is anybody in here? Does anybody work here? The tram is stuck!” 

Plunk plunk plunk. The dripping water was my only reply. 

“Can somebody help us?” I shouted. “Please—can somebody help?” 

No answer. 

“Now what?” I cried. 



Marty was still shoving with all his might against the front of the tram. He 
gave one last hard push, then gave up with a sigh. “You’d better climb down,” he 
said. “We have to walk.” 

“Huh? Walk? In this creepy dark cave? No way, Marty!” 

He came around to my side of the car. “You’re not afraid —are you, Erin?” 

“Yes, I am,” I confessed. “A little.” I glanced around the huge cavern. “I 
don’t see any exits. We’d have to walk back through those tunnels. With all the 
spiders and worms and everything.” 

“We can find a way out,” Marty insisted. “There’s got to be a door 
somewhere. They always build emergency exits in these theme park rides.” 

“I think we should stay in the tram,” I said uncertainly. “If we stay here and 
wait, someone will come and find us.” 

“It could take days,” Marty declared. “Come on, Erin. I’m going to walk. 
Are you coming with me?” 

I shook my head, my arms crossed tightly in front of me. “No way,” I 
insisted. “I’m staying here.” 

I knew he wouldn’t go off by himself. I knew he wouldn’t go unless I 
joined him. 

“Well. ’Bye then,” he said. He turned and started walking quickly across the 
cave floor. 

“Hey, Marty—?” 

“’Bye. I’m not waiting here all day. See you later.” 

He was really leaving. Leaving me alone in the stalled tram, in the scary 
cave. “But, Marty—wait!” 

He turned back to me. “Are you coming or not, Erin?” he called back 
impatiently. 

“Okay, okay,” I murmured. I saw that I had no choice. I climbed over the 
side of the tram and dropped to the cave floor. 

The dirt was smooth and damp. I started walking slowly toward Marty. 

“Hurry it up,” he called. “Let’s get out of here.” He was walking backward 
now, motioning for me to catch up to him. 

But I stopped and my mouth dropped open in horror. 

“Don’t look at me like that!” he shouted. “Don’t stare at me as if I’m doing 
something wrong!” 

But I wasn’t staring at Marty. 

I was staring at the thing creeping up behind Marty. 



12 


“Uh... uh... uh...” I struggled to warn Marty, but only frightened grunts escaped 
my throat. 

He kept backing up, backing right into the enormous creature. 

“Erin, get a move on. What’s your problem ?” he demanded. 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I finally managed to point. 

“Huh?” Marty spun around—and saw it, too. “Whoa!” he screamed. His 
sneakers slid on the soft cave floor as he came running back to me. “What is that 
thing?” 

At first, I thought it was some kind of machine. It looked like one of those 
tall steel cranes you see on construction sites. All silvery and metallic. 

But as it rose up on its wire-thin back legs, I saw that it was alive ! 

It had round black eyes the size of billiard balls. They spun wildly in its 
skinny silver skull. Two slender antennae bobbed at the top of the head. Its 
mouth appeared soft, mushy. A gray tongue darted out between long, bristly 
whiskers. 

Its long body stretched back like a folded-up leaf. As it stood, it waved its 
front legs, short white sticks. 

The whole creature looked like some kind of gross stick figure. Its long 
back legs bent and sprang forward, bent then sprang forward. The thick tongue 
swung from side to side. The black eyes stopped whirling and focused on me. 

“Is it—is it a grasshopper ?” I choked out. 

Marty and I had both backed up to the tram. 

Waving its stick arms, the creature sprang closer, its antennae circling 
slowly on top of its head. 

Marty and I pressed our backs against the cold cave wall. We couldn’t move 
back any farther. 

“I think it’s a praying mantis,” Marty replied, staring up at it. The insect had 
to be at least three times as tall as us. As it moved forward, its head nearly 
scraped the cave ceiling. 

The tongue licked its soft, mushy mouth. The mouth puckered and made 
loud sucking sounds. My stomach lurched. The sound was so sick\ 

The round black eyes stared down at Marty and me. The giant praying 



mantis, its body shining like aluminum, took another hopping step toward us. It 
started to lower its head. 

“Wh-what’s it going to do?” I stammered, pressing my back hard against 
the cave wall. 

To my surprise, Marty suddenly started to laugh. 

I turned to him and grabbed his shoulder. Was he totally losing it? 

“Marty—are you okay?” 

“Of course!” he replied. He pulled away from me and took a step toward 
the towering insect. “Why should we be scared, Erin? It’s a big robot. It’s 
programmed to walk up to the tram.” 

“Huh? But, Marty—” 

“It’s all on a computer,” he continued, staring up as the big head bobbed 
lower on its stick body. “It isn’t real. It’s part of the ride.” 

I stared up at the creature. Big drops of saliva rolled off its fat tongue and 
hit the cave floor with a splat. 

“It’s... uh... really lifelike,” I murmured. 

“Your dad is a genius at this stuff!” Marty declared. “We’ll have to tell him 
what a good job he did on the praying mantis.” He laughed. “Your dad said there 
were still some bugs, remember? This must be one of them!” 

The insect rubbed its front legs together. It made a shrill whistling sound. 

I covered my ears. The high-pitched note made my ears ache! 

I was still holding my ears as a second giant praying mantis hopped out 
from behind a tall rock. 

“Look—another one!” Marty cried, pointing. He tugged my arm. “Wow. 
They move so smoothly. You can’t even tell that they’re machines.” 

The two silvery insects chittered at each other, a sharp shrill, metallic 
sound. Their black eyes twirled. Their antennae rotated rapidly, excitedly. 

Gobs of saliva rolled off their tongues and splattered to the floor. The 
second one flashed silvery wings on its back, then quickly closed them up again. 

“Great-looking robots!” Marty declared. He turned to me. “We’d better get 
back in the tram. It’ll probably start up again now that we’ve seen these giant 
bugs.” 

The two insects chittered to each other. They hopped closer, their sticklike 
legs springing hard, bouncing off the smooth cave floor. 

“I hope you’re right,” I told Marty. “Those insects are too real. I want to get 
out of here!” 



I started to follow him to the tramcar. 

The first mantis leaped forward quickly. It hopped between us and the tram, 
blocking our path. 

“Hey—!” I cried. 

We tried to step around it. But it took a big hop to stay in front of us. 

“It—it won’t let us pass!” I stammered. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out as the big creature suddenly swung down and slammed 
its head against my chest. The powerful head-butt sent me sprawling backward. 

“Hey—stop that!” I heard Marty shout. “That machine must be broken!” 

Its black eyes glowing, the mantis lowered its head again—and gave me 
another hard push toward the center of the cave. 

Its partner moved quickly to trap Marty. It lowered its body and prepared to 
head-butt Marty. But Marty quickly backed away, raising his hands in front of 
him like a shield. He hurried to join me. 

I heard scraping sounds. Shrill chirps and chittering. 

I spun around to discover two more huge, ugly mantises climbing out from 
behind rocks. Then two more, their antennae twisting excitedly. Their fat gray 
tongues rolling around their open mouths. 

Marty and I huddled together in the middle of the cavern as the creatures 
hopped and scraped around us. Then they rose up high on their hind legs, their 
black eyes gleaming, their short stick arms waving. 

“We—we’re surrounded!” I cried. 



13 


The giant insects all began chittering at once. They scraped their front legs 
together excitedly. The shrill whistle rose through the cave, echoing off the stone 
walls. 

They formed a circle around us, leaning back on their spindly hind legs. 
Moving closer. Tightening the circle. Their tongues whipped back and forth. 
Thick gobs of mantis saliva hit the floor. 

“They’re out of control!” Marty shrieked. 

“What are they going to do to us?” I cried, covering my ears against their 
excited chirps and the deafening whistle. 

“Maybe they are voice-controlled,” Marty shouted. He tilted back his head 
and shouted up at them: “Stop! Stop!” 

They didn’t stop. 

One of them tilted its silvery head, opened its ugly mouth wide, and spit out 
a black gob. It splattered onto Marty’s sneaker. 

He jumped back. His sneaker stuck to the floor. 

He struggled to tug it free. “Yuck! Watch out! That black stuff—it’s like 
glue!” he cried. 

THOOOM. 

Another mantis opened its mouth wide and spit out a big black gob of 
sticky goo. It splotched the shoulder of my T-shirt. 

“Oww!” I wailed. It was so hot—it burned me right through my shirt. 

The others chittered shrilly and scraped their hairy stick arms. Their 
tongues darting back and forth, they began to lower their heads to us. 

“The stun guns!” I cried, grabbing Marty’s arm. “Maybe the guns will work 
against these bugs!” 

“Those guns are only toys!” he wailed. 

THUPPP. 

Another black gob missed Marty’s foot by inches. 

“Besides, the guns are in the tram,” Marty continued, staring up at the ugly 
creatures. “No way they’ll let us get to the tram.” 

“Then what are we going to do?” I cried. 

As I asked the question, an idea flashed into my mind. 



“Marty—” I whispered. “How do you normally get rid of bugs?” 

“Huh? Erin—what are you talking about?” 

“You step on them—right? Don’t you usually step on them?” 

“But, Erin—” he protested. “These bugs are big enough to step on us!” 

“It’s worth a try!” I cried. 

I raised my sneaker—and tromped as hard as I could on the foot of the 
nearest mantis. 

The giant insect let out a shrill hiss and hopped backward. 

Beside me, Marty stomped on another insect, bringing the heel of his 
sneaker down hard on its spindly foot. That creature fell back, too, raising its 
head in a shrill hiss of pain. Its eyes spun wildly. Its antennae shot straight up. 

I stomped down hard again. With a hoarse choking sound, the big mantis 
fell onto its side. All four stick legs thrashed the air. 

“Let’s go!” I shouted. 

I turned and burst through the circle of insects. I didn’t know where to run. I 
only knew I had to get away. 

The cave erupted in hisses and shrill whistles, angry cluttering and croaks. I 
glimpsed Marty lurching after me. 

I ignored the echoing, ringing sounds and ran. 

Ran to the tram. 

Leaned over the side and grabbed both plastic stun guns into my arms. 

Then I pushed away from the tram and hurtled along the stone cave wall. 

Where could I go? 

How could I escape? 

The cluttering and hissing grew louder, more frantic. The tall shadows of 
the giant insects danced on the wall as I ran. I had the feeling that the shadows 
could reach out and grab me. 

I glanced back. 

Marty came running behind me at full speed. 

The mantises were hopping, scrabbling, limping across the dirt floor after 
us. 

Where to run? Where? 

And then I saw the narrow opening in the cave wall. Just a crack, really. 

But I dove for it. Slipped into it. Squeezed myself into the dark hole 
between the stone. 

And burst out the other side. Into the misty daylight. 



Outside! 

I could see trees tilting down the hill. The road that led down to the studio 
buildings. 

Yes! Outside! I made it! 

I felt so happy. So safe. 

But I didn’t have long to enjoy the feeling. 

As I started to catch my breath, I heard Marty’s terrified cry: “Erin—help! 
Help! They got me! They’re eating me!” 



14 


With a gasp, I spun around. 

How could I help Marty? How could I get him out of the cave? 

To my surprise, he was leaning against the cave wall, one elbow against the 
rock, his legs crossed. A big grin on his round face. 

“April Fools,” he said. 

“YAAAIIIII!” I let out an angry scream. Then I dropped the two plastic 
pistols and rushed at him, ready to pound him with my fists. “You jerk! You 
scared me to death!” 

He laughed and dodged to the side as I came at him. I swung my fist and hit 
air. 

“Don’t play any more dumb jokes like that!” I cried breathlessly. “This 
place is too scary! Those big insects—” 

“Yeah. They were scary,” he agreed, his smile fading. “They were so real! 
How do you think they made them spit like that?” 

I shook my head. “I don’t know,” I muttered. 

I had a heavy feeling in my stomach. I knew it was a crazy idea. But I was 
beginning to think these creatures we were seeing were real. 

Maybe I’ve seen too many scary movies. But the big praying mantises and 
the white worms and all the other creatures and monsters really seemed to be 
alive. 

They didn’t move like mechanical creatures. They appeared to breathe. And 
their eyes focused on Marty and me as if they could really see us. 

I wanted to tell Marty what I was thinking. But I knew he would only laugh 
at me. 

He was so sure that they were all robots and that we were seeing some 
awesome movie special effects. Of course, that made sense. We were on a movie 
studio tour, after all. 

I hoped Marty was right. I hoped it was all tricks. Movie magic. 

My dad was a genius when it came to designing mechanical creatures and 
building theme park rides. And maybe that’s all we were seeing. Maybe Dad had 
really outdone himself this time. 

But the heavy feeling in my stomach wouldn’t go away. I had the feeling 



that we were in danger. Real danger. 

I had the feeling that something had gone wrong here. That something was 
out of control. 

I suddenly wished we weren’t the first two kids to try out the tour. I knew it 
was supposed to be a thrill to be the only ones here. But it was too quiet. Too 
empty. Too scary. It would be so much more fun if hundreds of other people 
were along with us. 

I wanted to tell Marty all this. But how could I? 

He was so eager to prove that he was braver than me. So eager to prove that 
he wasn’t afraid of anything. 

I couldn’t tell him what I was really thinking. 

I picked up the two plastic stun guns and handed him one. I didn’t want to 
carry them both. 

He tucked the barrel of his gun into his jeans pocket. “Hey, Erin—look 
where we are!” he cried. He jogged past me, his eyes straight ahead. “Check it 
out!” 

He started running across the grass. I turned and started to follow him. I 
didn’t want him to get too far ahead. 

The sky had darkened. The sun had disappeared behind a heavy blanket of 
clouds. Wisps of gray fog hung low in the cool air. It was nearly evening. 

We crossed the road and stepped into a town. I mean, it was a movie set of a 
town. A small town with low, one- and two-story buildings, small shops, a 
country-looking general store. Big, old houses in the block beyond the stores. 

“Do you think this is a set they really use in the movies?” I asked, hurrying 
to catch up to Marty. 

He turned to me, his dark eyes flashing with excitement. “Don’t you 
recognize it? Don’t you know where you are?” 

And then my eyes fell on the crumbling, old mansion half-hidden by the 
twisted trees. And across from it, I saw the crooked picket fence that ran around 
the old cemetery. 

And I knew we were on Shock Street. 

“Wow!” I exclaimed, spinning around, trying to take it all in at once. “This 
really is Shock Street. This is where they filmed all of the movies!” 

“It doesn’t look the way I imagined it,” Marty said. “It looks even scarier!” 

He was right. As the sky darkened to evening, long shadows fell over the 
empty buildings. The wind made a moaning sound as it swept around the corner. 



Marty and I made our way down the street, trying to see everything. We 
kept crossing from side to side, peering into a dark, dust-covered shop window 
—then running to examine the front yard of a rundown, old mansion. 

“Check out that empty lot,” I said, pointing. “That’s where The Mad 
Mangier hung out. Remember? In Shocker III? Remember—he mangled 
everyone who walked by?” 

“Of course I remember,” Marty snapped. He stepped into the empty lot. Tall 
weeds bent low, blown by the moaning wind. Shadows moved against the fence 
at the back. 

I stayed on the sidewalk and squinted hard, trying to see what cast the 
shadows. 

Did The Mad Mangier still lurk back there? 

The lot was totally empty. So how could there be tall, shifting shadows on 
the fence? 

“Marty—come back,” I pleaded. “It’s getting dark.” 

He turned back. “Scared, Erin?” 

“It’s just an empty lot,” I told him. “Let’s keep walking.” 

“People always thought it was just an empty lot,” Marty replied in a low, 
scary voice. “Until The Mad Mangier jumped out and mangled them!” He let out 
a long, evil laugh. 

“Marty—you’re losing it,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

He came trotting out of the lot, and we crossed the street. “I wish I had a 
camera,” he said. “I’d really like a picture of me standing in The Mangler’s lot.” 
His eyes lit up. “Or even better—!” 

He didn’t finish his sentence. Instead, he took off, running full speed. 

“Hey—wait up!” I cried. 

A few seconds later, I saw where he was headed. The old cemetery. 

He ran up to the cracked and peeling wooden gate and turned back to me. 
“Even better, I’d like a photo of me standing in the cemetery. The actual set 
where they filmed Cemetery on Shock Street.” 

“We don’t have a camera,” I called from the street. “Get away from there.” 

He ignored me and started to open the gate. The bottom was stuck in the 
grass. Marty tugged hard. Finally, the gate started to pull open, creaking and 
groaning as it moved. 

“Marty—let’s go,” I insisted. “It’s getting late. Dad is probably waiting for 
us, wondering what happened to us.” 



“But this is part of the tour!” he insisted. He tugged the heavy gate open 
just wide enough to squeeze inside the cemetery. 

“Marty—please! Don’t go in!” I begged. I ran up beside him. 

“Erin, it’s just a movie set,” he replied. “You didn’t used to be such a total 
wimp!” 

“I—I just have a bad feeling about this cemetery,” I stammered. “A very 
bad feeling.” 

“It’s part of the tour,” he repeated. 

“But this gate was c/osed!” I cried. “It was closed so that people don’t go 
in.” I raised my eyes to the cemetery. I saw the old graves tilting up from the 
ground like crooked teeth. “I have such a bad feeling...” 

Marty ignored me. He tugged the gate open a little wider and slipped into 
the cemetery. 

“Marty—please—!” I gripped the low fence tightly with both hands and 
watched him. 

He took three steps toward the old graves. Then his hands shot straight up 
in the air—and he dropped out of sight. 



15 


I stared into the darkness, blinking hard. 

I swallowed. Once. Twice. 

I couldn’t believe that he was gone, that he had vanished so quickly. 

The wind moaned between the jagged, tilting gravestones. 

“Marty—?” My voice came out in a choked whisper. “Marty?” 

I gripped the picket fence so hard, my hands ached. I knew I had no choice. 
I had to go in there and see what had happened to him. 

I took a deep breath and pushed myself through the opening. The ground 
was soft. My sneakers sank into the tall grass. 

I took one step. 

Then another. 

I stopped when I heard Marty’s voice. “Hey—be careful.” 

“Huh?” I gazed around. “Where are you?” 

“Down here.” 

I peered down—into a deep, dark hole. An open grave. Marty stared up at 
me. He had dirt on his cheeks and down the front of his T-shirt. He raised both 
hands. “Help me out. I fell!” 

I had to laugh. He looked ridiculous, standing in that hole, covered in dirt. 

“It’s not funny. Help me out,” he repeated impatiently. 

“I warned you,” I said. “I had a bad feeling.” 

“It smells down here,” Marty complained. 

I leaned down. “What does it smell like?” 

“Like dirt. Get me out!” 

“Okay, okay.” I grabbed his hands and tugged. He kicked his feet, digging 
his toes of his sneakers into the soft dirt. 

A few seconds later, he was back on the ground, frantically brushing 
himself off. “That was cool!” he declared. “Now I can tell people I was in a 
grave in The Shock Street Cemetery.” 

A chill ran down my back as the wind picked up. “Let’s get out of here,” I 
pleaded. 

Something gray floated silently between two old gravestones. A wisp of 



fog? A gray cat? 

“Check out these graves,” Marty said, still brushing dirt off his jeans. 
“They’re all cracked and faded. I can barely read the names. That’s so cool. And 
look how they sprayed cobwebs over that row of stones. Creepy, huh?” 

“Marty—can we go?” I begged again. “Dad is probably worried by now. 
Maybe the tram started up again. Maybe we can find it.” 

He ignored me. I watched him lean over a tombstone to read the words cut 
into it. “Jim Socks,” he read. “Eighteen forty to eighteen eighty-seven.” He 
laughed. “Jim Socks. Get it? And look at the ones next to it. Ben Dover. Sid 
Upp. These are all funny!” 

I laughed. Ben Dover and Sid Upp were pretty funny. 

My laugh was cut short when I heard a soft cry from the back of the 
graveyard. I saw another gray wisp dart behind a tombstone. 

I held my breath and listened hard. The wind whistled through the tall 
grass. 

Rising above the wind came another shrill cry. 

A cat? I wondered. Is the cemetery filled with cats? Or is it a child? 

Marty heard it, too. He moved down the row of stones until he stood beside 
me. His dark eyes glowed excitedly. “This is so cool. Did you hear the sound 
effects? There must be a speaker hidden in the ground.” 

Another shrill cry. 

Definitely human. A girl? 

I shivered. “Marty, I really think we should try to get back to my dad. 
We’ve been here all afternoon. And—” 

“But what about the rest of the tour?” he argued. “We have to see 
everything!” 

I heard another cry. Louder. Closer. A cry of terror. 

I tried to ignore it. Marty was probably right. The cries had to be coming 
from a loudspeaker somewhere. 

“How can we finish the tour?” I demanded. “We were supposed to stay on 
the tram—remember? But the tram—OHH!” 

I cried out as a hand shot up from the ground in front of us. A green hand. 
Its long fingers unfolded, as if reaching for us. 

“Whoa!” Marty cried, stumbling back. 

Another green hand shot up from the dirt. Then two more. 

Hands reaching up from graves. 



I let out a frightened gasp. Hands were bursting up through the grass. Hands 
all around us. Their fingers twisting and arching, reaching out. 

Marty started to laugh. “This is totally awesome! Just like in the movie!” 

He stopped laughing as a hand poked up beside him and grabbed his ankle. 
“Erin—help!” he cried. 

But I couldn’t help. 

Two green hands had wrapped around my ankles and were pulling me 
down, down into the grave. 



16 


“Come dowwwwwnnnnn, ” a soft voice moaned. “Come dowwwwwnnnn with 
us.” 

“Nooo!” I shrieked. 

My arms thrashed the air. I tried to kick, but the hands gripped me so 
tightly, so firmly. 

My whole body frantically jerked and tilted back and forth, as I struggled 
not to fall. If I fell, I knew they would grab my hands, too. And pull me 
facedown into the earth. 

“Come dowwwwwwwnnnnnnn. Come dowwwwwnnnn with us. ” 

This isn’t a joke, I thought. These hands are real. They are really trying to 
pull me underground. 

“Help! Oh, help!” I heard Marty’s cry. Then I saw him fall. He toppled to 
the grass, onto his knees. 

Two hands gripped his ankles. Two more green hands poked up from the 
dirt to grab his wrists. 

“Come dowwwwwwwnnnnnnn. Come dowwwwwnnnn with us,” the sad 
voice moaned. 

“Noooo!” I shrieked, tugging wildly, desperately. 

To my surprise, I pulled free. 

One foot sank into the soft grass. I glanced down. My sneaker had slid off. 
The hand still gripped the sneaker—but my foot was free. 

With a happy cry, I bent down. Pulled off the other sneaker. 

I was free now. Free! 

Breathing hard, I bent and quickly pulled off my socks. I knew it would be 
easier to run barefoot. I tossed the socks away. Then I hurried over to Marty. 

He was flat on his stomach. Six hands held him down, tugging at him, 
tugging hard. His whole body twisted and shook. 

He raised his head when he saw me. “Erin—help me!” he gasped. 

I dropped to my knees. Reached for his sneakers. Tugged them off. 

The green hands gripped the sneakers tightly. Marty kicked his feet free and 
tried to climb to his knees. 

I grabbed a green hand and pulled if off his wrist. The hand slapped at me. 



A cold, hard slap that made my hand ring with pain. 

Ignoring it, I grabbed for another green hand. 

Marty rolled over. Rolled free. Jumped to his feet, gasping, trembling, his 
mouth hanging open, his dark eyes bulging. 

“Your socks—” I cried breathlessly. “Pull them off! Hurry!” 

He clumsily tore them off his feet. 

The hands grabbed wildly for us. Dozens of hands stretching up from the 
dirt. Hundreds of hands reaching up for us from the tall graveyard grass. 

“Come dowwwwwwwnnnnnnn. Come dowwwwwnnnn with us,” the voice 
moaned. 

“Come dowwwwurwwnnnnnrm. Come dowwwwwnnnn, ” a dozen other soft 
voices called from beneath the ground. 

Marty and I froze. The soft, sad voices seemed to hypnotize me. My legs 
suddenly felt as if they were made of stone. 

“Come dowwwwurwwnnnnnrm. Come dowwwwwnnnn. ” 

And then I saw a green head pop up from the dirt. And then another head. 
Another. Bald green heads with empty eye sockets and open, toothless mouths. 

I saw shoulders, then arms. More heads poking up. Bright-green bodies 
pulling up from beneath the ground. 

“M-Marty—” I choked out. “They’re coming up after us!” 



17 


The cemetery rang out with grunts and groans as the ugly green figures pulled 
themselves up from the ground. 

I took one last glance at their tattered, shredded clothing, at their blackened 
eye sockets, their toothless, grinning mouths. 

And then I started to run. 

Marty and I both ran without saying a word. Side by side, we darted across 
the tall grass between the rows of crooked tombstones. 

My heart thudded in my chest. My head throbbed. My bare feet sank into 
the cold dirt, slipped on the tall, damp grass. 

Marty reached the wooden gate first. He was running so hard, he banged 
into the fence. He let out a cry—then slipped through the gate onto Shock Street. 

I could hear moans and groans and eerie calls of the disgusting green 
people behind me. But I didn’t look back. I dove for the gate. Squeezed through. 
Then I shoved it shut behind me. 

Running into the street, I stopped to catch my breath. I bent over and 
pressed my hands against my knees. My side ached. I sucked in breath after 
breath. 

“Don’t stop!” Marty cried frantically. “Erin—keep going!” 

I took a deep breath and followed him down the street. Our bare feet 
slapped the pavement. 

I could still hear the moans and calls behind us. But I was too scared to 
glance back. 

“Marty—where is everybody?” I called breathlessly. 

Shock Street was empty, the houses and shops all dark. 

Shouldn’t there be people around? I wondered. This is a big movie studio. 
Where are the people who work for Shocker Studios? Where are the people who 
work on the studio tour? 

Why isn’t anyone around to help us? 

“Something is wrong!” Marty choked out, running at full speed. We passed 
The Horror Hardware Store and Shock City Electronics. “The robots are out of 
control or something!” 

At last! Marty agreed with me. He finally agreed that something was 



terribly wrong. 

“We’ve got to find your dad,” Marty said, running across the street to the 
next block of dark houses. “We’ve got to tell him there’s a problem.” 

“We have to find the tram,” I called, struggling to keep up with him. “Ow!” 

My bare foot came down on something hard. A rock or something. Pain 
shot up my leg. But I hobbled on. 

“If we can get back on the tram, it will take us back to Dad,” I called. 

“There has to be a way out of Shock Street,” Marty said. “It’s only a movie 

set.” 

We ran past a tall mansion with two turrets. It looked like an evil castle. I 
didn’t remember it from any of the Shocker movies. 

Beyond the mansion stretched a big, empty dirt lot. At the back of the lot 
stood a low brick wall, just a foot or two taller than Marty and me. 

“Cut through here!” I told Marty. “If we can climb up on that wall, we can 
probably see the studio road.” 

I was just guessing. But it was worth a try. 

We both turned into the empty lot. 

My bare feet thudded over the soft dirt. 

The dirt felt cold and wet. As we crossed the field, our feet tossed up big 
clumps of mud. 

I pumped my legs harder as the mud grew softer. My bare feet were sinking 
into it. As I ran, the cold mud rose up over my ankles. 

Marty and I were nearly to the brick wall when we ran into the sinkhole. 

“Yaaaaaiiii!” We both uttered hoarse cries as the ground gave way beneath 
us. 

The mud made a sick splussssh as we sank. 

I tossed up both hands. Tried to grab onto something. 

But there was nothing to grab. 

The mud oozed around me. Over my ankles. My legs. Up over my knees. 

It’s sucking me down, I thought. I tried to cry out again—but panic choked 
my throat. 

I glimpsed Marty beside me. His arms were waving wildly. His whole body 
twisted and squirmed as he sank. The mud was up over his waist—and he was 
still sinking fast. 

I kicked hard. Tried to raise my knees. 

But I was trapped. Trapped and dropping down, down into the dark, wet 



ooze. 

My mud-covered arms slapped against the surface. 

I couldn’t stop myself. 

The mud bubbled up over my neck. And I was sinking fast. 



18 


I held my breath. The mud rose up to my chin. 

In a second, it will be over my head, I thought. 

A sob escaped my throat. 

The mud crept higher, up over my chin. I started to spit as it reached my 
mouth. 

And then I felt something grab my arm. Strong hands slipped under my 
arms. I felt the hands slide in the mud. 

They gripped me harder. 

I felt myself being tugged up, tugged by someone very strong. 

The mud made a loud plop as I rose up. I felt the mud roll down my chest, 
my legs, my knees. 

And then I was standing on the surface, still held by the two powerful 
hands. 

“Marty—!” I called, tasting the sour mud on my lips. “Are you—?” 

“I’m up!” I heard his hoarse reply. “Erin, I’m okay!” 

The strong hands finally let go. My legs trembled. I wobbled but remained 
standing. 

I turned to see who had rescued me. 

And stared into the glowing red eyes of a wolf. 

A human with the face of a wolf. Clawed hands covered in black fur. A 
long, brown snout curved in an open, toothy grin. Sharp, pointed ears above a 
thick tuft of black wolf fur. 

A female. She wore a silvery catsuit. Sleek and tight-fitting. As I stared in 
shock, she opened her mouth in a throaty growl. 

I recognized her at once. Wolf Girl! 

I turned to see her companion—Wolf Boy. He had pulled Marty out of the 
mud hole. Marty’s whole body was caked in mud. He tried to wipe his face, but 
only managed to smear more mud over his cheeks. 

“You—saved us! Thank you!” I cried, finally finding my voice. 

The two werewolves uttered low growls in reply. 

“We—we lost the tram,” I explained to Wolf Girl. “We need to get back. 



You know. Back to where the ride began.” 

She let out a sharp growl. Then she snapped her toothy jaw hard. 

“Please—” I begged. “Can you help us get back to the tram? Or can you 
take us to the main building? My dad is waiting for me there.” 

Wolf Girl’s red eyes flashed. She growled again. 

“We know you’re just actors!” Marty blurted out shrilly. “But we don’t 
want to be scared anymore. We’ve had enough scares for today. Okay?” 

The two werewolves growled. A long white string of saliva drooled over 
Wolf Boy’s black lips. 

Something inside me snapped. I totally lost it. “Stop it!” I screamed. “Just 
stop it! Marty is right! We don’t want to be scared now. So stop the werewolf act 
—and help us!” 

The werewolves growled again. Wolf Girl snapped her jaws. A long pink 
tongue slid out, and she licked her jagged teeth hungrily. 

“That’s enough !” I shrieked. “Stop the act! Stop it! Stop it!” 

I was so angry, so furious —I reached up with both hands. I grabbed the fur 
on the sides of Wolf Girl’s mask. 

And I tugged the mask with all my strength. 

Tugged. Tugged with both hands as hard as I could. 

And felt real fur. And warm skin. 

It wasn’t a mask. 



19 


“Ohh.” I let out a gasp, and jerked my hands away. 

The werewolf’s red eyes glowed. Her black lips parted. Once again, her 
tongue flicked hungrily over her yellow, pointed teeth. 

My whole body trembled as I backed up against the brick wall. “M-Marty 
—” I stammered. “It’s not an act.” 

“Huh?” Marty stood stiffly in front of Wolf Boy, his dark eyes wide in his 
mud-caked face. 

“They’re not actors,” I whispered. “Something is wrong here. Something is 
terribly wrong.” 

Marty’s mouth dropped open. He took a step back. 

Both werewolves uttered low growls. They lowered their heads as if 
preparing to attack. 

“Do you believe me?” I cried. “Do you finally believe me?” 

Marty nodded. He didn’t say a word. I think he was too terrified to talk. 

Saliva poured from the werewolves’ mouths. Their eyes glowed like fire in 
the darkness. Their furry chests began to heave in and out. Their breaths came 
loud and hoarse. 

I jumped back against the wall as both werewolves raised their heads and 
let out long, frightening howls. 

What were they going to do to us? 

I grabbed Marty and tugged him to the wall. “Up!” I cried. “Get up! Maybe 
they can’t reach us up there!” 

Marty leaped high, stretching up his arms. His hands slapped the top of the 
wall, then slid back down. He tried again. He bent his knees. Jumped. Grabbed 
for the top of the wall. Slipped back down. 

“I can’t!” he wailed. “It’s too high.” 

“We’ve got to!” I shrieked. 

I turned back and saw the two werewolves lean back on their hind legs and 
then spring up. They were snarling and growling now, thick gobs of saliva 
running over their snapping teeth. 

“Up!” I cried. 

As Marty leaped for the wall again, I reached down and grabbed his muddy 



foot. “Up!” I gave him a hard boost. 

His hands thrashed the air. Caught the top of the brick wall. Held on. 

His bare feet kicked the air. But he held on and tugged himself up. 

On his knees on top of the wall, he turned and grabbed my hands. He pulled 
and I jumped. I struggled to scramble up beside him. 

But I couldn’t get my knees up. Couldn’t get them onto the wall. 

My bare feet thrashed wildly. My knees scraped against the wall as Marty 
tugged. 

“I can’t do it! I can’t!” I gasped. 

The werewolves howled again. 

“Keep trying!” Marty choked out. He tugged my arms. Tugged with all his 
strength. 

I was still struggling as the two werewolves leaped. 



20 


I heard the snap of jaws. 

I felt hot breath on the bottom of my foot. 

The two werewolves thudded against the wall. 

With a desperate cry, I sprang to the top. Gasping for air, I pressed myself 
flat against the bricks. 

I raised my head in time to see the two snarling werewolves leap again. 
Jaws snapped in front of my face. Red eyes gleamed hungrily at me. 

“No!” With a cry, I scrambled to my feet. 

The werewolves raised their heads in angry howls and prepared to attack 
again. 

Marty and I stood pressed close together, staring down at them. 

They jumped. 

Their claws scraped against the bricks. The shrill screech sent chills down 
my back. Their teeth snapped. 

They dropped down. Prepared another leap, snarling excitedly. 

“We can’t stay up here forever!” Marty cried. “What do we do?” 

I squinted into the darkness. Was that the studio road on the other side of 
the wall? 

Too dark to tell. 

The werewolves leaped again. Jagged teeth scraped against my ankle. 

I jumped back. Nearly toppled off the wall. 

Marty and I bumped into each other, our eyes on the two growling creatures 
preparing another leap. 

The gun! The plastic stun gun! 

Mine had fallen from my hand. It was probably buried in that mud hole. But 
my eyes fell on Marty’s gun. Its handle poked out from his jeans pocket. 

Without saying a word, I grabbed the handle and tugged the plastic pistol 
from Marty’s jeans. 

“Hey—!” he cried. “Erin—what are you doing?” 

“They gave us the guns for a reason,” I explained, shouting over the 
frightening howls of the two werewolves. “Maybe this will stop them.” 



“It—it’s only a toy!” Marty stammered. 

I didn’t care. It was worth a try. 

Maybe it would frighten them. Maybe it would hurt them. Maybe it would 
chase them away. 

I raised the plastic gun. Aimed it as the two werewolves made another leap 
of attack. “One—two—three—FIRE!” I squeezed the trigger. Again. Again. 
Again! 



21 


The gun made a loud buzzing sound. It shot out a beam of yellow light. 

Yes! I thought. Yes! I prayed. 

The light will stop them. 

It’s a stun gun—right? The buzzing sound and the bright light will stun 
them. It will freeze them in place so Marty and I can make our escape. 

I squeezed the trigger hard. Again. Again. 

It didn’t stop the werewolves. It didn’t even seem to surprise them. 

They leaped higher. I felt sharp claws scrape my leg. I cried out in pain. 

And the plastic gun flew out of my hand. 

It clattered against the top of the wall, then slid to the ground. 

Just a toy. Marty was right. It wasn’t a real weapon. It was just a stupid toy. 

“Look out!” Marty opened his mouth in a shrill shriek as the snarling 
creatures made another high leap at the wall. 

Claws scraped the brick—and held on. Red eyes glared up at me. Hot wolf 
breath tingled my skin. 

“Ohhh.” My arms flew up as I lost my balance. I struggled to stay up. But 
my knees bent. My feet slipped. 

I grabbed for Marty. Missed. 

And toppled off. Landed hard on my back on the other side of the wall. 

Gazing up in horror, I saw Marty leap down beside me. 

The two werewolves were on the top of the wall now. They glared down at 
us, red eyes glowing, tongues out, breathing hard. 

Preparing to pounce. 

Marty dragged me to my feet. “Run!” he cried hoarsely, his eyes wide with 
panic. 

The werewolves growled above us. 

The ground tilted. I still felt dizzy, a little dazed from my fall. “We—we 
can’t outrun them!” I moaned. 

I heard a rumbling sound. A clatter. 

Marty and I both turned. And saw two yellow eyes, glowing against the 
dark sky. 



Yellow eyes of a creature roaring toward us. 

No. Not a creature. 

As it drew nearer, I could make out its long, sleek shape. 

The tram! 

The tram bouncing over the road behind yellow headlights. Coming closer. 
Closer. 

Yes! 

I turned to Marty. Did he see it, too? He did. 

Without saying a word, we both began running to the road. The tram was 
rolling fast. Somehow we had to climb on it. We had to! 

Behind us, I heard the werewolves howl. I heard a hard thump, then another 
as they dropped off the wall. 

The twin yellow headlights of the tram swept over us. 

The werewolves snarled and howled angrily as they chased after us. 

A few feet ahead of me, Marty was hurtling forward, his head down, his 
legs pumping furiously. 

The tram bumped closer. Closer. 

The howling werewolves were inches behind us. I could almost feel their 
hot breath on the back of my neck. 

A few more seconds. A few more seconds—and Marty and I would make 
our jump. 

I watched the tram speed around a curve, the yellow headlights washing 
over the dark road. I kept my eyes on the front car. Took a deep breath. Prepared 
to jump. 

And then Marty fell. 

I saw his hands shoot out. Saw his mouth open wide in surprise. In horror. 

He stumbled over his own bare feet and dropped to the ground, landing 
hard on his stomach. 

I couldn’t stop in time. 

I ran right into him. Stumbled over him. 

Fell heavily on top of him. 

And watched the tram speed past us. 



22 


“Owoooooooo!” 

The two werewolves uttered long howls of triumph. 

My heart pounding, I scrambled to my feet. “Get up!” I frantically pulled 
Marty up by both arms. 

We took off after the tram, our bare feet pounding the hard road. The last 
car bounced a few feet ahead of us. 

I reached it first. Shot out my right hand. Grabbed the back of the car. 

With a desperate leap, I hoisted myself up. Up. And into the last seat. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I turned back to find Marty running behind 
the tram. His hands reached for the back of the tramcar. “I—I can’t make it!” he 
gasped. 

“Run! You’ve got to!” I screamed. 

Behind him, I could see the werewolves scampering close behind. 

Marty put on a burst of speed. He grabbed the back of the car with both 
hands. It dragged him for several feet—until he swung himself around and 
dropped into the seat beside me. 

Yes! I thought happily. We made it! We got away from those howling 
werewolves. 

Or did we? 

Would they jump into the tram after us? 

I spun around, my whole body trembling. And I watched the werewolves 
fade into the distance. They ran for a while, then gave up. They both stood in the 
road, hunched over in defeat, watching us escape. 

Escape. 

What a wonderful word. 

Marty and I grinned at each other. I slapped him a high five. 

We were both breathing hard, covered in mud. My legs ached from running. 
My bare feet throbbed. My heart still thudded from the frightening chase. 

But we had escaped. And now we were safe in the tram, on our way back to 
the starting platform. Back to my dad. 

“We’ve got to tell your dad that this place is messed up,” Marty said 
breathlessly. 



“Something is horribly wrong here,” I agreed. 

“Those werewolves—they weren’t kidding around,” Marty continued. 
“They—they were real, Erin. They weren’t actors.” 

I nodded. I felt so glad that Marty finally agreed with me. And he wasn’t 
pretending to be brave anymore. He wasn’t pretending that it was all robots and 
special effects. 

We both knew that we had faced real dangers. Real monsters. 

Something was terribly wrong at Shocker Studios. Dad had told us he 
wanted a full report. Well, he was going to get one! 

I settled back in the seat, trying to calm down. 

But I shot straight up again when I realized we weren’t alone. “Marty— 
look!” I pointed to the front of the tram. “We aren’t the only passengers.” 

In fact, every tramcar appeared to be filled with people. 

“What’s going on?” Marty murmured. “Your dad said we were the only 
ones on the tour. And now the tram is—OH!—” 

Marty never finished his sentence. His mouth fell open in a gasp. His eyes 
bulged open wide. 

I gasped, too. 

The other passengers on the tram all turned around at the same time. And I 
saw their grinning jaws, their dark, empty eye sockets, the gray bones of their 
skulls. 

Skeletons. 

The other passengers were all grinning skeletons. 

Their jaws opened in dry laughter. Cruel laughter that sounded like the 
wind screeching through bare trees. Bones rattled and clattered as they raised 
their yellowed, skeletal hands to point at us. 

Their skulls bobbed and bounced as the tram carried us, faster, faster, 
through the darkness. 

Marty and I slumped low in the seat, trembling, staring at the grinning 
skulls, the pointing fingers. 

Who were they? 

How did they get on this tram? 

Where were they taking us? 



23 


The skeletons laughed their wheezing laugh. Their bones clanked and rattled. 
Their yellowed skulls bounced loosely on their clattering shoulder bones. 

The tram picked up speed. We were flying through the darkness. 

I forced myself to turn away from the grinning skulls and peered out. 
Beyond the trees, I could see the low buildings of the movie studio. As I stared, 
they grew smaller, faded into the blackness of the night. 

“Marty—we’re not going back to the main platform,” I whispered. “We’re 
heading the wrong way. We’re going away from all the buildings.” 

He swallowed hard. I could see the panic in his eyes. “What can we do?” he 
choked out. 

“We’ve got to get off!” I replied. “We’ve got to jump.” 

Marty had slumped all the way down in the seat, as low as he could get. I 
think he was trying to hide from the skeletons. 

Now he raised his head and peeked over the side of the tram. “Erin—we 
can’t jump!” he cried. “We’re going too fast.” 

He was right. 

We were rocketing along the road. And the tram kept picking up speed. The 
trees and shrubs whirred past in a dark blur. 

And then as we squealed into a sharp curve, a tall building seemed to jump 
into our path. 

A castle, bathed in swirling spotlights. All gray and silver. Twin towers 
reached up to the sky. A solid stone wall rose up from the road. 

The road. 

It curved straight into the castle wall. The road ended at the wall. 

And we were roaring down the road, still picking up speed. 

Roaring toward the castle. 

The skeletons rattled and clattered and laughed their dry, screeching laugh. 
They bounced in their seats, bones cracking, jumping in excitement as we 
zoomed at the castle. 

Closer. Closer. 

Right up to it now. Up to the solid stone wall. 

About to smash right into it. 



24 


My legs trembled. My heart pounded. But somehow I managed to stand up on 
the seat. 

I took a deep breath. Held it. Closed my eyes—and jumped. 

I landed hard on my side, and rolled. 

I saw Marty hesitate. The tram bounced. Marty dove over the side. 

He hit the ground on his stomach. Rolled onto his back. And kept rolling. 

I came to a stop under a tree. And turned to the castle—in time to see the 
tram plunge into the stone wall. 

Without a sound. 

The first tramcar hit the castle wall and flew through it. 

Silently. 

I could see the skeletons bobbing and bouncing. 

And I saw the next car and the next and the next—all shoot into the castle 
wall and disappear through it without making a sound. 

A few seconds later, the tram disappeared. 

A heavy silence fell over the road. 

The spotlights on the castle wall dimmed. 

“Erin—are you okay?” Marty called weakly. 

I turned to find him on his hands and knees on the other side of the road. I 
scrambled to my feet. I had scraped my side, but it didn’t hurt too badly. 

“I’m okay,” I told him. I pointed to the castle. “Did you see that?” 

“I saw it,” Marty replied, standing up slowly. “But I don’t believe it.” He 
stretched. “How did the tram go through the wall? Do you think the castle isn’t 
really there? That it’s an optical illusion? Some kind of trick?” 

“There’s an easy way to find out,” I said. 

We walked side by side on the road. The wind rustled the trees, making 
them whisper all around us. The pavement felt cold under my bare feet. 

“We’ve got to find my dad,” I said quietly. “I’m sure he can explain 
everything to us.” 

“I hope so,” Marty murmured. 

We stepped up to the castle wall. I stuck out both hands, expecting them to 



go right through. 

But my hands slapped solid stone. 

Marty lowered his shoulder and shoved it against the castle wall. His 
shoulder hit the wall with a thud. 

“It’s solid,” Marty said, shaking his head. “It’s a real wall. So how did the 
tram go through it?” 

“It’s a ghost tram,” I whispered, rubbing my hand against the cold stone. “A 
ghost tram filled with skeletons.” 

“But we rode in it!” Marty cried. 

I slapped the wall with both hands and spun away from it. “I’m sick of 
mysteries!” I wailed. “I’m sick of being scared! I’m sick of werewolves and 
monsters! I’m never going to another scary movie as long as I live!” 

“Your father can explain it all,” Marty said softly, shaking his head. “I’m 
sure he can.” 

“I don’t want him to explain it!” I cried. “I just want to get away from 
here!” 

Keeping close together, we made our way around to the side of the castle. I 
could hear strange, animal howls behind us. And a frightening cackle cut 
through the air somewhere above our heads. 

I ignored all the sounds. I didn’t want to think about whether they were 
being made by real monsters or fakes. I didn’t want to think about the 
frightening creatures we had run into—or the close calls Marty and I had had. 

I didn’t want to think. 

At the back of the castle, the road appeared again. “I hope we’re going in 
the right direction,” I murmured, following it as it curved into the hill. 

“Me, too,” Marty replied in a tiny voice. 

We picked up our pace, walking quickly in the middle of the road. We tried 
not to pay attention to the sharp animal calls, the shrill cries, the howls and 
moans that seemed to follow us everywhere. 

The road sloped uphill. Marty and I leaned forward as we climbed. The 
frightening cries and howls followed us up the hill. 

As we neared the top, I saw several low buildings. 

“Yes!” I cried. “Marty—look! We must be heading back to the main 
platform.” I started jogging toward the buildings. Marty trotted close behind. 

We both stopped when we realized where we were. 

Back on Shock Street. 



Somehow we had made a circle. 

Past the old houses and small shops, The Shock Street Cemetery came into 
view. Staring at the fence, I remembered the green hands poking up from the 
ground. The green shoulders. The green faces. The hands pulling us, pulling us 
down. 

My whole body shuddered. 

I didn’t want to be back here. I never wanted to see this terrifying street 
again. 

But I couldn’t turn away from the cemetery. As I stared at the old 
gravestones from across the street, I saw something move. 

A wisp of gray. Like a tiny cloud. 

It rose up between two crooked, old stones. Floated silently into the air. 

And then another puff of gray lifted off the ground. And another. 

I glimpsed Marty. He stood beside me, hands pressed against his waist, 
staring hard. He saw them, too. 

The gray puffs rose silently, like snowballs or cotton. Dozens of them, 
floating up from the graves. 

Floating over the cemetery and out over the street. 

Floating above Marty and me. Hovering so low. 

And then as we stared up at them, they started to grow. To inflate, like gray 
balloons. 

And I saw faces inside them. Dark faces, etched in shadow like the Man in 
the Moon. The faces scowled at us. Old faces, lined and creased. Eyes narrowed 
to dark slits. Frowning faces. Sneering faces inside the billowing, white puffs. 

I grabbed Marty’s shoulder. I wanted to run, to get away, to get out from 
under them. 

But, like smoke, the wisps of mist with their evil faces, swirled down, 
swirled around us. Trapped us. Trapped us inside. 

The faces, the ugly, scowling faces, spinning around us. Spinning faster, 
faster, holding us in the swirling, choking mist. 



25 


I pressed my hands over my eyes, trying to shut them out. 

I froze in total panic. I couldn’t think. I couldn’t breathe. 

I could hear the shrill rush of wind as the ghostly clouds swirled around us. 

And then I heard a man’s voice, shouting over the wind: “Cut! Print that 
one! Good scene, everyone!” 

I lowered my hands slowly and opened my eyes. I let out my breath in a 
long whoosh. 

A man came striding up to Marty and me. He wore jeans and a gray 
sweatshirt under a brown leather jacket. He had a blue-and-white Dodgers cap 
sideways on his head. A blond ponytail tumbled out from under it. 

He carried a clipboard in one hand. He had a silver whistle around his neck. 
He smiled at Marty and me and flashed us a thumbs-up. 

“Hey, what’s up, guys? I’m Russ Denver. Good job! You looked really 
scared.” 

“Huh?” I cried, my mouth dropping open. “We were really scared!” 

“I’m so glad to see a real live human!” Marty cried. 

“This tour—it’s totally messed up!” I shrieked. “The creatures—they’re 
alive! They tried to hurt us! They really did! It wasn’t any fun! It wasn’t like a 
ride!” The words spilled out of me in a rush. 

“It was really gross! The werewolves snapped at us and chased us up a 
wall!” Marty exclaimed. 

The two of us started talking at once, telling this guy Denver all of the 
frightening things that had happened to us on the tour. 

“Whoa! Whoa!” A smile crossed his handsome face. He raised his 
clipboard as if to shield himself from us. “It’s all special effects, guys. Didn’t 
they explain to you that we’re making a movie here? That we were filming your 
reactions?” 

“No. No one explained that, Mr. Denver!” I replied angrily. “My dad 
brought us here. He designed the studio tour. And he told us we were the first to 
try it out. But he didn’t tell us about any movie being filmed. I really think—” 

I felt Marty’s hand on my shoulder. I knew Marty was trying to calm me 
down. But I didn’t want to be calmed down. 



I was really angry. 

Mr. Denver turned back to a group of crew members behind him in the 
street. “Take thirty, guys. Let’s break for dinner.” 

They moved away, talking among themselves. Mr. Denver turned back to 
us. “Your father should have explained to you—” 

“It’s okay. Really,” Marty interrupted. “We just got a little scared. All of the 
creatures seemed so real. And we didn’t see any other people anywhere. You’re 
the first real person we’ve seen all afternoon.” 

“My dad must be really worried,” I told the movie director. “He said he’d 
be waiting for us on the main platform. Can you tell us how to get there?” 

“No problem,” Mr. Denver replied. “See that big house there with the open 
door?” He pointed with his clipboard. 

Marty and I stared at the house across the street. A narrow path led up to the 
house. A pale yellow light shone inside the open front door. 

“That’s Shockro’s House of Shocks,” the director explained. “Go right in 
that door and straight through the house.” 

“But won’t we get shocked in there?” Marty demanded. “In the movie, 
anyone who goes into Shockro’s house gets jolted with twenty million volts of 
electricity!” 

“That’s just in the movie,” Mr. Denver replied. 

“The house is just a set. It’s perfectly safe. Go through the house. Then out 
the back, and you will see the main building on the other side of the street. You 
can’t miss it.” 

“Thank you!” Marty and I called out at once. 

Marty turned and started running full speed toward the house. 

I turned back to Mr. Denver. “I’m sorry for yelling before,” I told him. “I 
was just so scared, and I thought—” 

I gasped. 

Mr. Denver had turned away. And I saw the long power cord—the power 
cord that was plugged into his back. 

He wasn’t a real human. He wasn’t a movie director. He was some kind of 
robot. 

He was fake like all the others. He was lying to us. Lying! 

I turned and cupped my hands around my mouth. I started to run, frantically 
calling after Marty: “Don’t go in there! Marty—stop! Don’t go in that house!” 

Too late. 



Marty was already running through the door. 



26 


“Marty—wait! Stop!” I shouted as I ran. 

I had to stop him. 

The director was a fake. I knew he wasn’t telling the truth. 

“Marty— please\” 

My bare feet pounded the hard pavement. I plunged up the path as Marty 
trotted into the doorway. 

“Stop!” 

I flew to the doorway. Reached out both hands. Made a wild dive to tackle 

him. 

And missed. 

I skidded across the walk on my stomach. 

As soon as Marty entered the house, I saw the flash of white light. I heard a 
loud buzz. Then the sharp crackle of electricity. 

The room exploded in a flash of lightning. So bright I had to shield my 

eyes. 

When I opened them, I saw Marty sprawled facedown on the floor. 
“Nooooo!” I let out a terrified wail. 

Scrambling to my feet, I dove into the house. 

Would I get shocked, too? 

I didn’t care. I had to get to Marty. I had to help him out of there. 

“Marty! Marty!” I screamed his name again and again. 

He didn’t move. 

“Marty—please!” I grabbed his shoulders and started to shake him. “Wake 
up, Marty! Snap out of it! Marty!” 

He didn’t open his eyes. 

I suddenly felt a chill. A dark shadow slid over me. 

And I realized I wasn’t alone in the house. 



27 


I spun around with a gasp. 

Was it Shockro? Some other scary creature? 

A tall figure leaned over me. I squinted into the darkness, struggling to see 
his face. 

“Dad!” I cried as he came into focus. “Dad! Oh, I’m so glad to see you!” 

“Erin, what are you doing here?” he asked in a low voice. 

“It—it’s Marty!” I stammered. “You’ve got to help him, Dad. He’s been 
shocked and he—he—” 

Dad leaned closer. Behind his eyeglasses, his brown eyes were cold. His 
face set in a troubled frown. 

“Do something, Dad!” I pleaded. “Marty is hurt. He isn’t moving. He won’t 
open his eyes. The studio tour was so awful, Dad! Something is wrong. 
Something is terribly wrong!” 

He didn’t reply. He leaned closer. 

And as his face came into the soft light, I saw that he wasn’t my father! 

“Who are you?” I shrieked. “You’re not my dad! Why aren’t you helping 
me? Why aren’t you helping Marty? Do something—please! Where’s my dad? 
Where is he? Who are you? Help me! Somebody? Help me 
AAAAAARRRRRRRRR. Help MRRRRRRRRRRRR. Dad— 
MARRRRRRRRRRRRRR. DRRRMMMMMMMMmmmmm.” 



28 


Mr. Wright stood staring down at Erin and Marty. He shook his head unhappily. 
He shut his eyes and let out a long sigh. 

Jared Curtis, one of the studio engineers, came running into The House of 
Shocks. “Mr. Wright, what happened to your two kid robots?” he demanded. 

Mr. Wright sighed again. “Programming problems,” he muttered. 

He pointed to the Erin robot, frozen in place on her knees beside the Marty 
robot. “I had to shut the girl off. Her memory chip must be bad. The Erin robot 
was supposed to think of me as her father. But just now, she didn’t recognize 
me.” 

“And what about the Marty robot?” Jared asked. 

“It’s totally down,” Mr. Wright replied. “I think the electrical system 
shorted out.” 

“What a shame,” Jared said, bending to roll the Marty robot over. He pulled 
up the T-shirt and fiddled with some dials on the back. “Hey, Mr. Wright, it was 
a great idea to make robot kids to test the park. I think we can fix them.” 

Jared opened up a panel on Marty’s back and squinted at the red and green 
wires. “All the other creatures, and monsters, and robots worked perfectly. Not a 
single bug.” 

“I should have known there was a problem yesterday,” Mr. Wright said. 
“We were in my office. The Erin robot asked about her mother. I built her. She 
doesn’t have a mother.” 

Mr. Wright tossed up his hands. “Oh, well. No problem. We’ll reprogram 
these two. Put in new chips. They’ll be good as new in no time. Then we’ll try 
them out once again on the Shocker Studio Tour, before we open the park to real 
kids.” 

He took the Marty robot from Jared and slung it over his shoulder. Then he 
picked up the Erin robot. He tossed it over his other shoulder. Then, humming to 
himself, he carried them to the engineering building. 




THE HAUNTED 
MASK II 

Goosebumps - 36 
R.L. Stine 



1 


I don’t know if you have ever spent any time with first graders. But there is only 
one word to describe them. And that word is ANIMALS. 

First graders are animals. 

You can quote me. 

My name is Steve Boswell, and I am in the sixth grade. I may not be the 
smartest guy at Walnut Avenue Middle School. But I know one thing for sure: 
First graders are animals. 

How do I know this fact? I learned it the hard way. I learned it by coaching 
the first-grade soccer team after school every day. 

You might want to know why I chose to coach their soccer team. Well, I 
didn’t choose it. It was a punishment. 

Someone set a squirrel loose in the girls’ locker room. That someone was 
me. But it wasn’t my idea. 

My best friend, Chuck Green, caught the squirrel. And he asked me where I 
thought he should set it free. 

I said, “How about the girls’ locker room before their basketball game on 
Thursday?” 

So maybe it was partly my idea. But Chuck was just as much to blame as I 

was. 

Of course, I was the one who got caught. 

Miss Curdy, the gym teacher, grabbed me as I was letting the squirrel out of 
its box. The squirrel ran across the gym to the bleachers. The kids in the 
bleachers all jumped up and started running and screaming and acting crazy. 

It was just a dumb squirrel. But all the teachers started chasing after it. It 
took hours to catch it and get everyone calmed down. 

So Miss Curdy said I had to be punished. 

She gave me a choice of punishments. One: I could come into the gym after 
school every day and inflate basketballs—by mouth—until my head exploded. 
Or two: I could coach the first-grade soccer team. 

I chose number two. 

The wrong choice. 

My friend Chuck was supposed to help me coach the team. But he told 



Miss Curdy he had an after-school job. 

Do you know what his after-school job is? Going home and watching TV. 

A lot of people think that Chuck and I are best friends because we look so 
much alike. We’re both tall and thin. We both have straight brown hair and dark 
brown eyes. We both wear baseball caps most of the time. Sometimes people 
think we’re brothers! 

But that’s not why I like Chuck and Chuck likes me. We’re best friends 
because we make each other laugh. 

I laughed really hard when Chuck told me what his after-school job was. 
But I’m not laughing now. 

I’m praying. Every day I pray for rain. If it rains, the first graders don’t 
have soccer practice. 

Today, unfortunately, is a bright, clear, beautiful October day. Standing on 
the playground behind school, I searched the sky for a cloud—any cloud—but 
saw only blue. 

“Okay, listen up, Hogs!” I shouted. I wasn’t making fun of them. That’s the 
name they voted for their team. Do you believe it? The Walnut Avenue Hogs. 

Does that give you an idea of what these kids are like? 

I cupped my hands around my mouth and shouted again. “Line up, Hogs!” 

Andrew Foster grabbed the whistle I wear around my neck and blew it in 
my face. Then Duck Benton tromped down hard on my new sneakers. Everyone 
calls him Duck because he quacks all the time. He and Andrew thought that was 
a riot. 

Then Marnie Rosen jumped up behind me, threw her arms around my neck, 
and climbed on my back. Marnie has curly red hair, freckles all over her face, 
and the most evil grin I ever saw on a kid. “Give me a ride, Steve!” she shouted. 
“I want a ride!” 

“Marnie—get off me!” I cried. I tried to loosen her grip on my neck. She 
was choking me. The Hogs were all laughing now. 

“Marnie—I... can’t... breathe!” I gasped. 

I bent down and tried to throw her off my back. But she hung on even 
tighter. 

Then I felt her lips press against my ear. 

“What are you doing?” I cried. Was she trying to kiss me or something? 

Yuck! She spit her bubble gum into my ear. 

Then, laughing like a crazed fiend, she hopped off me and went running 



across the grass, her curly red hair bouncing behind her. 

“Give me a break! ” I cried angrily. The purple gum stuck in my ear. It took 
me a while to scrape it all out. 

By the time I finished, they had started a practice game. 

Have you ever watched six-year-olds play soccer? It’s chase and kick, chase 
and kick. Everybody chase the ball. Everybody try to kick it. 

I try to teach them positions. I try to teach them how to pass the ball to each 
other. I try to teach them teamwork. But all they want to do is chase and kick, 
chase and kick. 

Which is fine with me. As long as they leave me alone. 

I blow my whistle and act as umpire. And try to keep the game going. 

Andrew Foster kicked a big clump of dirt on my jeans as he ran by. He 
acted as if it were an accident. But I knew it was deliberate. 

Then Duck Benton got into a shoving fight with Johnny Myers. Duck 
watches hockey games on TV with his dad, and he thinks you’re supposed to 
fight. Some days Duck doesn’t chase after the ball at all. He just fights. 

I let them chase-and-kick, chase-and-kick for an hour. Then I blew the 
whistle to call practice to an end. 

Not a bad practice. Only one bloody nose. And that was a win because it 
wasn’t mine! 

“Okay, Hogs—see you tomorrow!” I shouted. I started to trot off the 
playground. Their parents or baby-sitters would be waiting for them in front of 
the school. 

Then I saw that a bunch of the kids had formed a tight circle in the middle 
of the field. They all wore grins on their faces, so I decided I’d better see what 
they were up to. 

“What’s going on, guys?” I asked, trotting back to them. 

Some kids stepped back, and I spotted a soccer ball on the grass. Marnie 
Rosen smiled at me through her freckles. “Hey, Steve, can you kick a goal from 
here?” 

The other kids stepped away from the ball. I glanced to the goal. It was 
really far away, at least half the field. 

“What’s the joke?” I demanded. 

Mamie’s grin faded. “No joke. Can you kick a goal from here?” 

“No way!” Duck Benton called. 

“Steve can do it,” I heard Johnny Myers say. “Steve can kick it farther than 



that.” 

“No way!” Duck insisted. “It’s too far even for a sixth grader.” 

“Hey—that’s an easy goal,” I bragged. “Why don’t you give me something 
hard to do?” 

Every once in a while I have to do something to impress them. Just to prove 
that I’m better than they are. 

So I moved up behind the ball. I stopped about eight or ten steps back. 
Gave myself plenty of running room. 

“Okay, guys, watch how a pro does it!” I cried. 

I ran up to the ball. Got plenty of leg behind it. 

Gave a tremendous kick. 

Froze for a second. 

And then let out a long, high wail of horror. 



2 


On my way home a few minutes later, I passed my friend Chuck’s house. Chuck 
came running down the gravel driveway to greet me. 

I didn’t really feel like talking to anyone. Not even my friend. 

But there he was. So what could I do? 

“Yo—Steve!” He stopped halfway down the driveway. “What happened? 
Why are you limping?” 

“Concrete,” I groaned. 

He pulled off his black-and-red Cubs cap and scratched his thick brown 
hair. “Huh?” 

“Concrete,” I repeated weakly. “The kids had a concrete soccer ball.” 

Chuck squinted at me. I could see he still didn’t understand. 

“One of the kids lives across the street. He had his friends help roll a ball of 
concrete to the school,” I explained. “Painted white and black to look like a 
soccer ball. Solid concrete. They had it there on the field. They asked me to kick 
a goal and—and—” My voice caught in my throat. I couldn’t finish. 

I hobbled over to the big beech tree beside Chuck’s driveway and leaned 
back against its cold, white trunk. 

“Wow. That’s not a very funny joke,” Chuck said, replacing his cap on his 
head. 

“Tell me about it,” I groaned. “I think I broke every bone in my foot. Even 
some bones I don’t have.” 

“Those kids are animals /” Chuck declared. 

I groaned and mbbed my aching foot. It wasn’t really broken. But it hurt. A 
lot. I shifted my backpack on my shoulders and leaned back against the tree. 

“Know what I’d like to do?” I told Chuck. 

“Pay them back?” 

“You’re right!” I replied. “How did you know?” 

“Lucky guess.” He stepped up beside me. I could see that he was thinking 
hard. Chuck always scrunches up his face when he’s trying to think. 

“It’s almost Halloween,” he said finally. “Maybe we could think of some 
way to scare them. I mean, really scare them.” His dark eyes lit up with 
excitement. 



“Well... maybe.” I hesitated. “They’re just little kids. I don’t want to do 
anything mean.” 

My backpack felt weird—too full. I pulled it off my shoulder and lowered it 
to the ground. 

I leaned over and unzipped it. 

And about ten million feathers came floating out. 

“Those kids—!” Chuck exclaimed. 

I pulled open the backpack. All of my notebooks, all of my textbooks— 
covered in sticky feathers. Those animals had glued feathers to my books. 

I tossed down the backpack and turned to Chuck. “Maybe I do want to do 
something mean!” I growled. 

A few days later, Chuck and I were walking home from the playground. It was a 
cold, windy afternoon. Dark storm clouds rose up in the distance. 

The storm clouds were too late to help me. I had just finished afternoon 
practice with the Hogs. 

It hadn’t been a bad practice. It hadn’t been a good practice, either. 

Just as we started, Andrew Foster lowered his head and came at me full 
speed. He weighs about a thousand pounds, and he has a very hard head. He 
plowed into my stomach and knocked the wind out of me. 

I rolled around on the ground for a few minutes, groaning and choking and 
gasping. The kids thought it was pretty funny. Andrew claimed it was an 
accident. 

I’m going to get you guys back, I vowed to myself. I don’t know how. But 
I’m going to get you guys. 

Then Marnie Rosen jumped on my back and tore the collar off my new 
winter coat. 

Chuck met me after practice. He’d started doing that now. He knew that 
after one hour with the first graders, I usually needed help getting home. 

“I hate them,” I muttered. “Do you know how to spell hate? H-O-G-S.” My 
torn coat collar flapped in the swirling wind. 

“Why don’t you make all of them practice with a concrete ball?” Chuck 
suggested. He adjusted his Cubs cap over his hair. “No. Wait. I’ve got it. Let 
them take turns being the ball!” 

“No. No good,” I replied, shaking my head. The sky darkened. The trees 
shook, sending a shower of dead leaves down around us. 



My sneakers crunched over the leaves. “I don’t want to hurt them,” I told 
Chuck. “I just want to scare them. I just want to scare them to death.” 

The wind blew colder. I felt a cold drop of rain on my forehead. 

As we crossed the street, I noticed two girls from our class walking on the 
other side. I recognized Sabrina Mason’s black ponytail swinging behind her as 
she hurried along the sidewalk. And next to her, I recognized her friend Carly 
Beth Caldwell. 

“Hey—!” I started to call out to them, but I stopped. 

An idea flashed into my mind. 

Seeing Carly Beth, I knew how to scare those first graders. 

Seeing Carly Beth, I knew exactly what I wanted to do. 



3 


I started to call to the girls. But Chuck clamped his hand over my mouth and 
dragged me behind a wide tree. 

“Hey—get your clammy paws off me. What’s the big idea?” I cried when 
he finally pulled his hand away. 

He pushed me against the rough bark of the tree trunk. “Ssshhh. They 
haven’t seen us.” He motioned with his eyes toward the two girls. 

“So?” 

“So we can sneak up and scare them,” Chuck whispered, his dark eyes 
practically glowing with evil excitement. “Let’s make Carly Beth scream.” 

“You mean for old times’ sake?” 

Chuck nodded, grinning. 

For many years, making Carly Beth scream had been our hobby. That’s 
because she was a really good screamer, and she would scream at just about 
anything. 

One day in the lunchroom last year, Chuck tucked a worm inside his turkey 
sandwich. Then he gave the sandwich to Carly Beth. 

She took one bite and knew that something tasted a little weird. When 
Chuck showed her the big bite she had taken out of the worm, Carly Beth 
screamed for a week. 

Chuck and I took bets on who could scare Carly Beth the most and who 
could make her scream. I guess it was kind of mean. But it was funny too. 

And sometimes when you know that people are real easy to scare, you have 
no choice. You have to scare them as often as you can. 

Anyway, that all changed last Halloween. 

Last Halloween Chuck and I had a horrible scare. Carly Beth wore the most 
frightening mask I had ever seen. It wasn’t a mask. It was like a living face. 

It was so ugly, so real. It glared at us with evil, living eyes. Its mouth 
sneered at us with real lips. The skin glowed a sick green. And Carly Beth’s 
normally soft voice burst out in a terrifying animal growl. 

Chuck and I ran for our lives. 

No joke. We were terrified. 

We ran for blocks, screaming the whole way. It was the worst night of my 



life. 


Everything changed after that. 

Nearly a whole year has gone by, and we haven’t tried to scare Carly Beth 
once. I don’t think Carly Beth can be scared. Not anymore. 

After last Halloween, I don’t think anything scares her. 

She is totally fearless. I haven’t heard her shriek or scream once the entire 

year. 

So I didn’t want to try to scare her now. I needed to talk to her. About that 
scary mask of hers. 

But Chuck kept pressing me back against the tree trunk. “Come on, Steve,” 
he whispered. “They don’t see us. We’ll duck down behind the hedges and get 
ahead of them. Then when they come by, we’ll jump out and grab them.” 

“I don’t really—” I started. But I could see that Chuck had his heart set on 
scaring Carly Beth and Sabrina. So I let him pull me down out of sight. 

A light rain had started to fall. The gusting wind blew the raindrops into my 
face. I crept along the hedge, bent low, following Chuck. 

We passed by the girls and kept moving. I could hear Sabrina’s laugh 
behind us. I heard Carly Beth say something else. Then Sabrina laughed again. 

I wondered what they were talking about. I stopped to glance through the 
hedge. Carly Beth had a weird expression on her face. Her dark eyes stared 
straight ahead. She was moving stiffly. She had the collar of her blue down 
jacket pulled up high around her face. 

I ducked down low again as the girls came closer. I turned and saw that 
Chuck and I were standing on the wide front lawn of the old Carpenter mansion. 

I felt a chill as I stared across the weed-choked lawn at the gloomy old 
house, covered in a deep darkness. Everyone said that the house was haunted— 
haunted by people who had been murdered inside it a hundred years ago. 

I don’t believe in ghosts. But I don’t like standing so close to the creepy old 
Carpenter mansion, either. 

I pulled Chuck into the empty lot next door. Rain pattered the ground. I 
wiped raindrops off my eyebrows. 

Carly Beth and Sabrina were only a few yards away. I could hear Sabrina 
talking excitedly about something. But I couldn’t make out her words. 

Chuck turned to me, an evil grin spreading across his face. “Ready?” he 
whispered. “Let’s get ’em!” 

We leaped to our feet. Then we both jumped out, screaming at the top of 



our lungs. 

Sabrina gasped in shock. Her mouth dropped to her knees. Her hands flew 
up in the air. 

Carly Beth stared at me. 

Then her head tilted against the blue jacket collar—tilted and fell. 

Her head fell off her shoulders. 

It dropped to the ground and bounced onto the grass. 

Sabrina lowered her eyes to the ground. She gaped at Carly Beth’s fallen 
head in disbelief. 

Then Sabrina’s hands began to flail the air crazily. She opened her mouth in 
a scream of horror. And screamed and screamed and screamed. 



4 


I swallowed hard. My knees started to buckle. 

Carly Beth’s head stared up at me from the grass. Sabrina’s shrieks rang in 
my ears. 

And then I heard soft laughter. Laughter from inside Carly Beth’s jacket. 

I saw a clump of brown hair poke up through the raised collar. And then 
Carly Beth’s laughing face shot up from under the jacket. 

Sabrina stopped her wild cries and started to laugh. 

“Gotcha!” Carly Beth cried. She and Sabrina fell all over each other, 
laughing like lunatics. 

“Oh, wow,” Chuck groaned. 

My knees were still shaking. I don’t think I had taken a breath the whole 

time. 

I bent down and picked up Carly Beth’s head. Some kind of dummy head. 
A sculpture, I guess. I rolled it around between my hands. It was amazing. It 
looked just like her. 

“It’s plaster of Paris,” Carly Beth explained, grabbing it away from me. 
“My mom made it.” 

“But—it’s so real-looking!” I choked out. 

She grinned. “Mom is getting pretty good. She keeps doing my head over 
and over. This is one of her best.” 

“It’s okay. But it didn’t fool us,” Chuck said. 

“Yeah. We knew it was a fake,” I quickly agreed. But my voice cracked 
when I said it. I was still kind of in shock. 

Sabrina shook her head. Her black ponytail waved behind her. Sabrina is 
very tall, taller than Chuck and me. Carly Beth is a shrimp. She only comes up to 
Sabrina’s shoulder. 

“You should have seen the looks on your faces!” Sabrina exclaimed. “I 
thought your heads were going to fall off!” 

The two girls hugged each other again and had another good laugh. 

“We saw you a mile away,” Carly Beth said, twirling the head in her hands. 
“Luckily, I brought this head in to show off in art class today. So I pulled my 
jacket over my head, and Sabrina tucked the plaster head into the collar.” 



“You guys scare pretty easy,” Sabrina smirked. 

“We weren’t scared. Really,” Chuck insisted. “We were just playing along.” 

I wanted to change the subject. The girls would talk all day and night about 
how dumb Chuck and I were. If we let them. I didn’t want to let them. 

The rain kept pattering down, blown by the gusting wind. I shivered. We 
were all getting pretty wet. 

“Carly Beth, you know that mask you wore last Halloween? Where did you 
get it?” I asked. I tried to sound casual. I didn’t want her to think it was any big 
deal. 

She hugged her plaster head against the front of her jacket. “Huh? What 
mask?” 

I groaned. She is such a jerk sometimes! 

“Remember that really scary mask you had last Halloween? Where did you 
get it?” 

She and Sabrina exchanged glances. Then Carly Beth said, “I don’t 
remember.” 

“Give me a break!” I groaned. 

“No. Really—” she insisted. 

“You remember,” Chuck told her. “You just don’t want to tell.” 

I knew why Carly Beth didn’t want to tell. She was probably planning to 
get another truly terrifying mask at the same store for this Halloween. She 
wanted to be the scariest kid in town. She didn’t want me to be scary too. 

I turned to Sabrina. “Do you know where she bought that mask?” 

Sabrina made a zipper motion over her lips. “I’m not telling, Steve.” 

“You don’t want to know,” Carly Beth declared, still hugging the head. 
“That mask was too frightening.” 

“You just want to be scarier than me,” I replied angrily. “But I need a really 
scary mask this year, Carly Beth. There are some kids I want to scare and—” 

“I’m serious, Steve,” Carly Beth interrupted. “There was something totally 
weird about the mask. It wasn’t just a mask. It came alive. It clamped onto my 
head, and I couldn’t get it off. The mask was haunted or something.” 

“Ha-ha,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

“She’s telling the truth!” Sabrina cried, narrowing her dark eyes at me. 

“The mask was evil,” Carly Beth continued. “It started giving me orders. It 
started talking all by itself, in a horrible, harsh growl. I couldn’t control it. And I 
couldn’t get it off. It was attached to my head! I—I was so scared!” 



“Oh, wow,” Chuck murmured, shaking his head. “You’ve got a good 
imagination, Carly Beth.” 

“Good story,” I agreed. “Save it for English class.” 

“But it’s the truth!” Carly Beth cried. 

“You just don’t want me to be scary,” I grumbled. “But I need a good, scary 
mask like that one. Come on,” I begged. “Tell.” 

“Tell us,” Chuck insisted. 

“Tell,” I repeated, trying to sound tough. 

“No way,” Carly Beth replied, shaking her fake round, little head. “Let’s get 
home. It’s really raining hard.” 

“Not till you tell!” I cried. I stepped in front of her to block her path. 

“Grab the head!” Chuck cried. 

I grabbed the plaster head from Carly Beth’s hands. 

“Give it back!” she shrieked. She swiped at it, but I swung it out of her 
reach. Then I tossed it to Chuck. 

He backed away. Sabrina chased after him. “Give that back to her!” 

“We’ll give it back when you tell us where you bought that mask!” I told 
Carly Beth. 

“No way!” she cried. 

Chuck tossed the head to me. Carly Beth made a wild grab for it. But I 
caught it and heaved it back to Chuck. 

“Give it back! Come on!” Carly Beth cried, running after Chuck. “My mom 
made that. If it gets messed up, she’ll kill me!” 

“Then tell me where you bought the mask!” I insisted. 

Chuck tossed the head to me. Sabrina jumped up and batted it down. She 
made a wild dive for it, but I got there first. I picked it up off the grass and 
heaved it back to Chuck. 

“Stop it! Give it back!” 

Both girls were screaming angrily. But Chuck and I kept up our game of 
keep-away. 

Carly Beth made a frantic leap for the head and fell on her stomach onto the 
grass. When she stood up, the front of her jacket and her jeans were soaked, and 
she had grass stains on her forehead. 

“Tell!” I insisted, holding the head high in the air. “Tell, and you can have 
the head back!” 

She growled at me. 



“Okay,” I warned her. “I guess I have to drop-kick it onto that roof.” 

I turned toward the house at the top of the lawn. Then I held the head in 
front of me in both hands and pretended I was going to punt it onto the roof. 

“Okay, okay!” Carly Beth cried. “Don’t kick it, Steve.” 

I kept the head in front of me. “Where did you get the mask?” 

“You know that weird little party store a couple of blocks from school?” 

I nodded. I had seen the store, but I had never gone in. 

“That’s where I bought it. There’s a back room. It was filled with weird, 
ugly masks. That’s where I got mine.” 

“All right!” I cried happily. I handed Carly Beth back her head. 

“You guys are creeps,” Sabrina muttered, pulling her collar up against the 
rain. She pushed me out of the way and wiped the grass stain off Carly Beth’s 
forehead. 

“I really didn’t want to tell you,” Carly Beth moaned. “I wasn’t making that 
story up about the mask. It was so terrifying.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” I rolled my eyes again. 

“Please, don’t go there!” Carly Beth begged. She grabbed my arm tightly. 
“Please, Steve. Please, don’t go to that party store!” 

I pulled my arm away. I narrowed my eyes at her. And I laughed. 

Too bad I didn’t take her seriously. 

Too bad I didn’t listen to her. 

It might have saved me from a night of endless horror. 



5 


“Get off me! Get off me, Mamie! I mean it!” I shouted. 

The little redheaded pest hung onto my back, laughing and digging her 
pudgy fingers into my neck. Why did she think I was some kind of thrill ride? 

“Get off! This is my good sweater!” I cried. “If you wreck it—” 

She laughed even harder. 

It had rained all night and all morning. But the clouds had parted at 
lunchtime. Now the sky was blue and clear. I had no choice. I had to hold soccer 
practice for the Hogs. 

Across the playground, I saw Duck Benton fighting with Andrew Foster. 
Andrew picked up the soccer ball and heaved it with all his might into Duck’s 
stomach. 

Duck’s mouth shot open. He let out a whoosh of breath, and a huge wad of 
bubblegum went flying into the air. 

“Get off!” I pleaded with Marnie. I tried spinning and twirling as fast as I 
could, trying to throw her off my back. I knew if anything happened to this 
sweater, Mom would have a fit. 

You might ask why I was wearing my best, blue wool sweater to soccer 
practice. Good question. 

The answer is: It was Class Photo Day. And Mom wanted me to take a 
really good picture to send to all my aunts and uncles. She made me wear the 
sweater. And she made me shampoo my hair before school and not wear my 
Orlando Magic cap over it. 

So I looked like a jerk all day. And now, here was soccer practice. And I 
had forgotten to bring a sweatshirt or something to replace my good sweater. 

“Whoooooa!” Marnie gave me a final kick in the side as she hopped off my 

back. 

I pulled down my sweater, hoping it wasn’t stretched too badly. I heard 
angry shouts and glanced up to find Andrew and Duck swinging their fists at 
each other and butting heads across the field. 

I reached for my whistle. 

And grabbed air. 

Marnie had swiped it. She held it high above her head and ran, laughing, 



over the grass. 

“Hey, you—!” I screamed, chasing after the little thief. 

I took three steps—and my sneakers slid in the mud. My feet flew out from 
under me. With an angry cry, I fell forward. And landed on my stomach in deep, 
wet mud. 

“Noooooo!” I let out a howl of dread. “Please. Nooooo!” 

But when I pulled myself up, the mud came with me. My entire body was 
caked in thick, wet mud. My beautiful blue sweater? It was now an ugly brown 
sweater. 

With a sad groan, I sank back onto the ground. I just wanted to disappear, to 
sink from sight into the big mud hole. 

My faithful team, the Horrible Hogs, were laughing and hooting. They 
thought it was a riot. Nice kids, huh? 

At least my mud dive had stopped Andrew and Duck from fighting. 

The mud weighed me down as I climbed slowly to my feet. I felt like 
Andrew. I felt as if I weighed a thousand pounds. Maybe I did! 

I wiped mud off my eyes with both hands—and saw Chuck standing over 
me. He tsk-tsked a few times. “You look really bad, man.” 

“Tell me something I don’t know,” I muttered. 

“Why did you do that?” he asked. 

I squinted through two inches of mud at him. “Excuse me?” 

“You look like a Mud Monster or something.” Chuck snickered. 

“Ha-ha,” I said glumly. 

“You told me to meet you here, Steve. You said we were going straight to 
that party store to buy the you-know-what.” 

He glanced back at my team of first graders. They weren’t listening to our 
conversation. They were too busy flinging mud balls at each other. 

I scooped my hand along the front of my sweater and scraped off about ten 
pounds of glop. “I... uh... I think I’d better go home after practice and get 
changed first,” I told Chuck. 

Talk about your long afternoons! 

I had to break up the mud ball fight. Then I had to hand over all of the little 
angels to their parents and baby-sitters. 

Then I had to explain to their angry parents and baby-sitters why they had 
practiced mud ball fighting instead of soccer. 



I crept home. Chuck waited for me outside. I hid my mud-caked clothes in 
the back of my closet. I didn’t have time to explain to my mom. 

Then I changed into a clean pair of jeans and a gray-and-red Georgetown 
Hoyas sweatshirt one of my uncles had sent me. I don’t know anything about the 
Hoyas. I don’t even know what a Hoya is. But it is a cool sweatshirt. 

I pulled my cap down over my mud-drenched hair. Then I hurried to meet 
Chuck. 

“Steve—is that you?” Mom called from the den. 

“No, it isn’t!” I called back. I closed the front door behind me and ran down 
the driveway before she could stop me from going out again. 

I was really eager to find that party store and check out the weird masks. So 
eager, I forgot to bring any money with me. 

Chuck and I walked two blocks before I reached into my jeans pocket and 
realized it was empty. We jogged back to my house, and I crept up to my room 
once again. 

“This just isn’t my day,” I muttered to myself. 

But I knew that buying a really gross and frightening mask would instantly 
cheer me up. Then I could go ahead with my plan to terrify the Hogs, to get my 
revenge. 

Revenge! 

What a beautiful word. 

When I’m older and have my own car, that’s what I want it to say on my 
license plate. 

I pulled all of my allowance money out of the dresser drawer where I hide 
it. I counted it quickly—about twenty-five dollars. Then I jammed the bills into 
my jeans pocket and hurried back downstairs. 

“Steve—are you going out again?” Mom called from the den. 

“Be right back!” I shouted. I slammed the front door and ran down the 
driveway to meet Chuck. 

Our sneakers slid over fat, wet leaves as we walked. A pale full moon hung 
low over the trees. 

The streets and sidewalks still glistened from all the rain. 

Chuck had his hands stuffed into the pockets of his hooded sweatshirt. He 
leaned into the wind as we walked. “I’m going to be late for dinner,” he 
grumbled. “I’m probably going to get into major trouble.” 

“It’ll be worth it,” I told him, feeling a little more cheerful. We crossed the 



street that led to the party store. A small grocery stood on the corner. Other small 
shops came into view. 

“I can’t wait to see these masks!” I exclaimed. “If I find one just half as 
scary as Carly Beth’s...” 

There it stood! In the darkness above a small, square store, I could make out 
the sign: THE PARTY PLACE. 

“Let’s check it out!” I cried. 

I leaped over a fire hydrant. 

Flew over the sidewalk. Up to the big front window. 

And peered in the window. 



6 


“Oh, wow!” Chuck cried breathlessly, stepping up beside me. 

We both pressed our faces against the window glass and stared in. 

Stared into total darkness. 

“Is it closed?” Chuck asked softly. “Maybe it’s just closed for the night.” 

I uttered an unhappy sigh. “No way. It’s closed for good. The store is gone.” 

Peering through the dust-smeared glass, I could see empty shelves and 
display racks inside. A tall metal shelf lay on its side across the center aisle. A 
trash basket, overflowing with paper and empty soda cans, stood on top of the 
counter. 

“There’s no 'Out of Business’ sign on the door,” Chuck said. He’s a good 
friend. He saw how disappointed I looked. He was trying to stay hopeful. 

“It’s empty.” I sighed. “Totally cleaned out. It isn’t going to open up again 
tomorrow morning.” 

“Yeah. Guess you’re right,” Chuck murmured. 

He slapped my shoulder. “Yo—snap out of it. You’ll find a scary mask at 
some other store.” 

I pushed myself away from the window. “I wanted one like Carly Beth’s,” I 
complained. “You remember that mask. You remember those glowing eyes, 
right? And the way the mouth moved. The way it growled at us with those long, 
dripping fangs. It was so gross. And it looked totally real. Like a real monster!” 

“They probably have masks like that at K-Mart,” Chuck said. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered. I kicked at a candy wrapper that blew across 
the sidewalk. 

A car rumbled past slowly. Its headlights rolled over the front of the store, 
lighting up the bare shelves, the empty counters inside. 

“We’d better get home,” Chuck warned, pulling me away from the store. 
“I’m not allowed to wander around town after dark.” 

He said something else, but I didn’t hear him. I was still picturing Carly 
Beth’s mask, still unable to get over my disappointment. 

“You don’t understand how important this is to me,” I told Chuck. “Those 
first graders are ruining my life. I have to pay them back this Halloween. I have 
to.” 



“They’re just first graders,” he replied. 

“No, they’re not. They’re monsters. Vicious, man-eating monsters.” 

“Maybe we can make a scary mask,” Chuck suggested. “You know. Out of 
papier-mache and stuff.” 

I didn’t even bother to answer him. Chuck is a good guy, but sometimes he 
has the dumbest ideas ever thought up by a human. 

I could just see Marnie Rosen and Duck Benton when I popped out on 
Halloween. “Ooh, we’re scared! We’re scared! Papier-mache!” 

“I’m hungry,” Chuck grumbled. “Come on, Steve. Let’s get out of here.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I agreed. I started to follow him down the sidewalk—then 
stopped. 

Another car had turned onto the street. Its headlights rolled over a narrow 
alley beside the party store. 

“Whoa, Chuck! Check it out!” I grabbed the shoulder of his sweatshirt and 
spun him around. “Look!” I pointed into the alley. “That door is open!” 

“Huh? What door?” 

I dragged Chuck into the alley. A large black trapdoor in the sidewalk had 
been left up. It caught the light from a streetlamp on the sidewalk. 

Chuck and I peered in through the door. Steep concrete steps led down to a 
basement. 

The basement of the party store! 

Chuck turned to me, a confused expression on his face. “So? They left the 
basement door open. So what?” 

I grabbed the open trapdoor and leaned over the steps, squinting into the 
dim light from the streetlamp. “There are boxes down there. A whole bunch of 
cartons.” 

He still didn’t understand. 

“Maybe all the masks and costumes and party things are packed up in those 
cartons. Maybe the stuff hasn’t been shipped away yet.” 

“Whoa. What are you thinking about?” Chuck demanded. “You’re not 
going down there—are you? You’re not going to sneak down to that dark 
basement and try to steal a mask —are you ? ” 

I didn’t answer him. 

I was already halfway down the stairs. 



7 


My heart began to pound as I made my way down. The steps were narrow and 
slippery. Slick from all the rain. 

“Ohh!” I let out a cry as one foot slid over the concrete step and I felt 
myself start to fall. I shot out both hands in search of a railing—but there wasn’t 
one. 

I landed on the hard basement floor with a loud thud —luckily, on both feet. 
Feeling shaken, I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I turned back to the trapdoor and called up to Chuck. “I’m okay. Get 
down here.” 

In the light from the streetlamp, I could see his unhappy face peering down 
at me. “I—I really don’t want to,” he called softly. 

“Chuck—hurry,” I insisted. “Get out of the alley. If someone drives by and 
sees you, they’ll get suspicious.” 

“But it’s so late, Steve,” he whined. “And it isn’t right to break into 
basements and—” 

“We’re not breaking in,” I called up to him impatiently. “The door was open 
—right? Hurry up. If the two of us search the boxes, we can do it in five 
minutes.” 

He leaned down over the opening. “It’s too dark,” he complained. “We 
don’t have a flashlight or anything.” 

“I can see fine,” I replied. “Get down here. You’re wasting time.” 

“But it’s against the law...” he started. Then I saw his expression change. 
His mouth dropped open as car headlights washed over him. With a low gasp, 
Chuck ducked through the opening, and bolted down the stairs. 

He stepped up close beside me, breathing hard. “I don’t think they saw me.” 
His eyes darted around the large basement. “It’s too dark, Steve. Let’s go home.” 

“Give your eyes a chance to adjust,” I instructed him. “I can see okay.” 

I gazed slowly around the basement. It was bigger than I’d thought. I 
couldn’t really see the walls. They were hidden in darkness. 

The ceiling was low, only a foot or two over our heads. Even in the dim 
light, I could see the thick cobwebs in the rafters. 

The cartons had been stacked in two rows near the steps. Somewhere way 



across the room, I could hear the steady drip drip drip of water. 

“Oh!” I jumped when I heard a clattering sound. 

It took me a few seconds to figure out that it was the wind blowing against 
the metal trapdoor up in the alley. 

I made my way over to the nearest carton and bent over to examine it. The 
flaps were folded over each other. But the carton wasn’t sealed. 

“Let’s have a look,” I murmured, reaching for the flaps. 

Chuck had his arms crossed tightly in front of his chest. “This isn’t right,” 
he protested. “It’s stealing.” 

“We haven’t taken anything,” I protested. “And even if we do find a good, 
scary mask and take it, we’ll just borrow it. We’ll return it after Halloween.” 

“Aren’t you... a little scared?” Chuck asked softly, his eyes moving all 
around the dark room. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m a little scared,” I admitted. “It’s cold and creepy down 
here.” The wind clattered the trapdoor above us again. I heard the faint drip of 
water against the concrete floor. 

“Let’s hurry,” I urged. “Help me.” 

Chuck stepped beside me, but he just stared down at the box and didn’t try 
to help. 

I pulled open the first carton, pushed back the cardboard flaps, and peered 
inside. “What is this stuff?” I reached in and pulled out a cone-shaped party hat. 
The box was stuffed with party hats. 

“This is great!” I whispered happily to Chuck. 

I dropped the hat back in the box. “I was right. All the stuff from the store is 
packed up down here. We’re going to find the scary masks. I know we will!” 

Cartons were stacked on top of cartons. I pulled down another one and 
started to pull it open. “Chuck, you take the bottom one,” I instructed. 

He hesitantly reached for the box. “I have a bad feeling about this, Steve,” 
he murmured. 

“Just find the masks,” I replied. My heart was thudding. My hands were 
shaking as I pulled open the second carton. I was really excited. 

“This one is filled with candles,” Chuck reported. 

My carton had piles of party place mats, napkins, and paper cups. “Keep 
going,” I urged. “The masks have got to be down here.” 

Above our heads, the wind shook the trapdoor. I hoped it wouldn’t suddenly 
slam shut on us. I didn’t want to be trapped down in this cold basement in the 



dark. 


Chuck and I slid two more cartons into the pale square of light from 
outside. My carton was taped shut. I struggled to pull off the tape. 

I stopped when I heard the creaking sound above my head. 

Creaking floorboards? 

I froze, my hands over the carton. “What was that?” I whispered. 

Chuck frowned at me. “What was what?” 

“Didn’t you hear that noise upstairs? It sounded like a footstep.” 

Chuck shook his head. “I didn’t hear anything.” 

I listened for a few more seconds. Silence now. So I went back to work on 
the carton. 

I pulled it open and peered eagerly inside. 

Greeting cards. Dozens of greeting cards. I sifted through them. Birthday 
cards. Valentines. A whole carton of cards. 

Disappointed, I shoved the carton to the side and turned to Chuck. “Any 
luck?” 

“Not yet. Let’s see what’s in this one.” 

He pulled open the carton with both hands. Then he leaned over it and 
peered inside. 

“Oh, yuck! ” he cried. 



8 


“It’s so gross!” Chuck groaned. 

“What is? What?” I demanded. I leaped over my carton to get to him. 

“Check it out.” A grin spread over Chuck’s face as he pulled something out 
of the carton. 

I gasped as I saw an ugly purple face with broken teeth and a long, fat 
worm poking out of a hole in its cheek. 

“You found them!” I shrieked. 

Chuck let out a gleeful laugh. “A whole carton of masks! And they’re all 
totally gross!” 

I grabbed the ugly mask from his hand and studied it. “Hey—it feels 
warm!” 

It was so cold down in that basement. Why did the mask feel warm? 

The worm bobbed out of the ugly face, as if it were alive. 

I dropped the mask, plunged my hand into the carton, and pulled out 
another one. A disgusting pig face with thick gobs of green stuff dripping from 
its snout. 

“That one looks like Carly Beth!” Chuck joked. 

“These are scarier than the mask Carly Beth had last year,” I said. 

I pulled another one from the box. A furry animal face, sort of like a gorilla, 
except that it had two long pointed fangs sliding down past its chin. 

I dropped it and grabbed up another mask. Then another. A hideous bald 
head with one eye hanging down by a thread and an arrow through the forehead. 

I tossed it to Chuck and pulled out another one. 

“This is amazing!” I cried happily. “These will terrify those kids. How will 
I ever choose the best one?” 

Chuck let out a disgusted groan and dropped the mask he was holding into 
the box. “They feel like real skin. They’re so warm.” 

I didn’t pay any attention to him. I was busy digging down to the bottom of 
the carton. I wanted to check out each mask before I made my choice. 

I wanted the scariest, grossest mask in the box. I wanted a mask that would 
give those first graders more nightmares than they had given me! 

I pulled out a mask of a girl’s face with a lizard’s head poking out from her 



mouth. 

No. Not scary enough. 

I pulled out a mask of a snarling wolf, its lips pulled back to show two 
jagged rows of pointed teeth. 

Too wimpy. 

I pulled out an ugly mask of a leering old man, his mouth twisted in an evil 
grin. One long, crooked tooth stuck down over his lower lip. 

The mask had long, stringy yellow hair that drooped down over the old 
man’s craggy forehead. I could see big black spiders climbing in the hair and in 
the ears. A chunk of forehead was missing, revealing a patch of gray skull 
underneath. 

Not bad, I thought. 

This one even smelled bad! 

I started to put it back when I heard a creaking sound again. 

Louder this time. 

The ceiling above my head groaned. 

I gasped. It really sounded like a footstep. Someone walking around up 
there. 

But the store had appeared dark and empty. Chuck and I had both stared 
into the window for a long time. If anyone was hiding there in the darkness, we 
would have seen them. 

Another creak made me suck in a mouthful of air. 

I froze, listening hard. I could hear the steady drip drip of water across the 
dark basement. I could hear the trapdoor rattling outside. 

And I could hear my own shallow breathing. 

The ceiling squeaked. I swallowed hard. 

It’s an old building, I told myself. All old buildings squeak and creak. 
Especially on a windy night. 

A scraping footstep made me gasp out loud. 

“Chuck—did you hear that?” 

Gripping the old-man mask, I listened hard. 

“Did you hear that?” I whispered. “Do you think someone else is in the 
building?” 

Silence. 

Another scraping footstep. 

“Chuck?” I whispered. “Hey—Chuck?” 



My heart pounding, I turned to him. 
“Chuck?” 

He was gone. 



9 


“Chuck?” 

A stab of fear made my breath catch in my throat. 

I heard the hard thud of sneakers against concrete, and turned to the stairs. 
In the dim light, I saw Chuck disappear out through the trapdoor. 

As soon as he reached the alley, he poked his head back in. “Steve—get 
out!” he called down in a loud whisper. “Hurry! Get out of there!” 

Too late. 

A ceiling light flashed on. 

As I blinked against the bright light, I saw a man move quickly across the 
basement. He swept along the wall, pulled a long, black cord—and the trapdoor 
slammed shut with a deafening clang. 

“Oh!” I uttered a weak cry as he turned angrily to me. 

I was trapped. 

Chuck got out. But I was trapped. Trapped in the basement with this guy. 

And what a weird-looking guy! To begin with, he wore a long black cape 
that swept behind him as he crossed the room to me. 

Is that a Halloween costume? I wondered. 

Does he wear a black cape all the time? 

Beneath the billowing cape, he wore a black suit, kind of old-fashioned 
looking. 

He had shiny black hair, parted in the middle and slicked down with some 
kind of hair grease, and a pencil-thin, black mustache that curled over his upper 
lip. 

As he stood over me, his black eyes glowed like two burning coals. 

Like vampire eyes! I thought. 

My whole body was shaking. I gripped the sides of the carton and tried to 
return his stare. 

Trapped, I thought, waiting for him to speak. Trapped with a vampire. 

“What are you doing here?” he asked finally. He pushed back his cape and 
crossed his arms in front of him. The glowing eyes glared down at me sternly. 

“Uh... just looking at masks,” I managed to choke out. I was still on my 



knees on the floor. I knew that my legs were shaking too hard to stand up. 

“The store is closed,” the man said through gritted teeth. 

“I know,” I admitted, lowering my eyes to the floor. “I—” 

“The store went out of business. We’re closed for good.” 

“I... I’m sorry,” I murmured. 

Was he going to let me go? What was he going to do with me? 

If I started to scream, no one would hear me. 

Would Chuck try to get help for me? Or was he halfway home by now? 

“I live upstairs,” the man explained, still glaring at me angrily. “I heard 
scraping sounds down here. Boxes being moved around. I was going to call the 
police.” 

“I’m not a burglar,” I blurted out. “Please don’t call the police. The trapdoor 
was open and my friend and I came down.” 

His eyes moved quickly around the room. “Your friend?” 

“He ran away when he heard you coming,” I told him. “I just wanted to see 
if there were any masks. You know. For Halloween. I wasn’t going to steal 
anything. I just—” 

“But the store is closed,” the man repeated. He glanced at the open carton in 
front of me. “Those masks are very special. They’re not for sale.” 

“N-not for sale?” I stammered. 

“You shouldn’t break into stores,” the man replied, shaking his head. His 
slicked-down hair gleamed under the low ceiling light. “How old are you?” 

I drew a blank. My mouth dropped open, but no answer came out. I was so 
terrified, I forgot how old I was! 

“Twelve,” I answered finally. I took a deep breath, trying to calm myself. 

“Twelve and you’re already breaking into stores,” the man said softly. 

“I don’t break into stores!” I protested. “I mean, I never did before. I came 
to buy a mask. Look. I brought money.” 

I jammed my trembling hand into my jeans pocket and pulled out the wad 
of bills. “Twenty-five dollars,” I said, holding up the money so he could see it. 
“Here. Is it enough for one of these masks?” 

He rubbed his chin. “I told you, young man. These masks are special. They 
cannot be sold. Believe me—you do not want one of these.” 

“But I do!” I cried. “They’re awesome! They’re the best masks I’ve ever 
seen. Halloween is only a few days away. I need one. I need one desperately. 
Please—!” 



“No!” the man shouted sharply. “Not for sale.” 

“But why not?” I wailed. 

He eyed me thoughtfully. “Too real,” he replied. “The masks are too real.” 

“But that’s why they’re so awesome!” I exclaimed. “Please? Please? Take 
my money. Here.” I pushed the wad of bills toward him. 

He didn’t reply. Instead, he turned away. His cape swirled behind him. 
“Come with me, young man.” 

“Huh? Where?” Cold fear ran down my back. I was still holding the money 
out in front of me. 

“Come upstairs with me. I’m going to call your parents.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “Please—!” 

If my mom and dad found out I got caught breaking into the basement of a 
store, they would go totally ballistic! They’d ground me for life! I’d miss this 
Halloween—and the next thirty Halloweens to come! 

The man eyed me coldly. “I don’t want to call the police,” he said softly. 
“I’d rather call your parents.” 

“Please...” I murmured again, climbing to my feet. 

I suddenly had an idea. 

I could make a run for it. 

I glanced quickly at the concrete stairs leading up to the trapdoor. If I took 
off—and really flew—I could get up those stairs before the man could reach me. 

The trapdoor was shut. But it probably wasn’t locked. I could push it open 
from underneath, and just keep running. 

I glanced again at the steps. It was worth a try, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I silently counted to three. 

One... two... THREE! 

On three, I took off. My heart thudded louder than my sneakers on the hard 
floor. But I made it to the stairs in about a second and a half! 

“Hey—stop!” I heard the caped man cry out in surprise. I could hear his 
heavy steps as he plunged after me. 

“Stop, young man! Where are you going?” 

I didn’t slow down or glance back. 

I took the stairs two at a time. 

Yes! Yes! Em getting away! I thought. 

As I reached the top, I shot out both hands—and pushed up on the trapdoor 



with all of my might. 
It didn’t budge. 



“Ohh!” I let out a terrified moan. 

The caped man had reached the bottom of the steps. I could practically feel 
his breath on the back of my neck. 

The door has got to open! I told myself. It’s got to! 

I took a deep breath. Then I heaved my shoulder against the door. I uttered 
a desperate groan as I pushed. 

Pushed. 

The caped man made a grab for me. 

I felt his hand brush my ankle. 

I kicked the hand away. Then I shoved my shoulder hard against the 
trapdoor. 

And it opened. 

“Yes!” A happy cry escaped my throat as I scrambled out into the alley. 

The cold air rushed against my hot face. I stumbled over something hard—a 
stone or a brick. I didn’t stop to look. I ran through the narrow alley, to the 
sidewalk in front of the store. 

My eyes swept back and forth. I searched for Chuck. No sign of him. 

Had the caped man followed me out the trapdoor? Was he chasing after me? 

I turned back to the alley. And saw only darkness. 

Then I took off, running fast, my feet practically flying over the pavement. I 
shot across the street. Bright lights washed over me. A car horn honked, making 
me jump about a mile! The car roared past. 

“Hey, Steve—!” 

Chuck stepped out from behind a tall evergreen shrub. “You made it!” 

“Yeah. I made it,” I replied, gasping for breath. 

“I—I didn’t know what to do!” he stammered. 

I shook my head. “So you just stood here?” 

“I waited for you,” he said. “I was kind of scared.” 

Big help. 

“Get going,” I urged, glancing back across the street. “He may be chasing 



We ran side by side, our breath steaming up into the cold night air. The 
houses and dark lawns whirred past in a gray-black blur. We didn’t say another 
word to each other. 

Three blocks later, I slowed down as we reached Chuck’s house. I leaned 
over and tried to shake away the sharp pain in my side. I always get a pain like 
that when I run more than a few blocks. 

“See you!” Chuck cried breathlessly. “Sorry you didn’t get your mask.” 

“Yeah. It’s too bad,” I murmured glumly. 

I watched him run along the side of his house until he disappeared around 
the back. Then I took a deep breath and took off again, jogging now, toward my 
house on the next block. 

My heart was still racing in my chest. But I was starting to feel calmer. The 
man in the black cape didn’t chase after us. In a few seconds, I would be safe in 
my own home. 

Halfway up our driveway, I slowed to a stop. The pain in my side had faded 
to a dull ache. 

I stepped into the yellow light from the front porch. I could hear my dog 
Sparky barking inside the house. Sparky knew I was home. 

As I climbed onto the front stoop, a smile crossed my face. 

Avery wide smile. 

I was pleased with myself. In fact, I was overjoyed. I felt like leaping in the 
air. Or maybe doing a wild, crazy dance. Or crowing like a rooster. Or tilting 
back my head and howling at the moon. 

The evening had been a total success. 

I didn’t tell Chuck. I didn’t want Chuck to know. 

But when the caped man clicked on the basement light—in that split second 
before he saw me and I saw him—I grabbed a mask from the carton. And I 
shoved it under my sweatshirt. 

I had a mask! 

It hadn’t been easy. In fact, being trapped in that eerie basement with that 
strange man had been the scariest time of my life. 

But I had a mask! Safely tucked under my sweatshirt. 

I could feel it against my chest as I ran. And I could feel it now, warm 
against my skin as I reached for the front door. 

I was so happy. So pleased with myself. 

And then I felt the mask start to move. 



And I screamed as something sharp bit into my chest. 



11 


I grabbed the front of my sweatshirt. I pressed both hands tight against the bulge 
of the mask. 

“Whoa,” I murmured, holding the mask in place under the sweatshirt. 

Stop imagining things, Steve, I scolded myself. 

Calm down. The mask started to slip down your chest. That’s all. It wasn’t 
moving. It didn’t bite you. 

Get in the house, I ordered myself. Hide the thing in a drawer in your room. 
And pull yourself together. 

Why was I so nervous? 

The scary part was over. I had escaped with one of the great masks. Now it 
was my turn to scare other people. Why was I standing there scaring myself? 

Still holding the front of my sweatshirt, I pushed open the front door and 
stepped into the house. “Down, boy! Get down, Sparky!” I cried as the little 
black terrier greeted me. He leaped high off the floor, bouncing off me, barking 
and whining as if he hadn’t seen me in twenty years. 

“Get down, Sparky! Down!” 

I wanted to sneak into the house, run up to my room, and stash the mask 
away before my parents heard me return. But Sparky ruined that plan. 

“Steve—is that you?” Mom stormed into the living room, a fretful frown on 
her face. She glared at me and angrily blew a curl of blond hair from in front of 
her eyes. “Where on earth were you? Your father and I went ahead and ate 
dinner. Yours is ice-cold by now!” 

“Sorry, Mom,” I said, still holding the front of my sweatshirt to keep the 
mask in place as I tried to push Sparky away. 

The lock of hair fell back over her forehead. She blew at it again. “Well? 
Where were you?” 

“I... well...” 

Think fast, Steve. 

You can’t tell her you sneaked out to steal a Halloween mask from the 
basement of a store. 

“I had to help Chuck with something,” I finally answered. 

Sure, it was a lie. But it wasn’t a serious lie. 



I’m usually a very honest guy. But right then, all I cared about was having 
the mask! I had it, and I was desperate to get it out from under my sweatshirt and 
hidden in a safe place in my room. 

“Well, you should have told me where you were going,” Mom scolded. 
“Your father went out to do the grocery shopping. But he’s very angry, too. You 
should have been home for dinner.” 

I lowered my head. “Sorry, Mom.” 

Sparky gazed up at me. Was he staring at the bulge in my sweatshirt? 

If the dog could see it, Mom could see it too. 

“I’ll take off my coat and come right down,” I told her. 

I didn’t give her a chance to reply. I spun around, leaped onto the stairs, and 
ran up two at a time. I flew down the hall, burst into my room, and slammed the 
door behind me. 

I took a few seconds to catch my breath. I listened hard, making sure that 
Mom hadn’t followed me upstairs. 

No. I could hear her banging around in the kitchen, getting my dinner ready. 

I couldn’t wait to check out the mask! 

Which one did I take? When the light came on in the store basement, I 
grabbed a mask without looking. I stuffed it under my sweatshirt before I could 
see it. 

Now I eagerly reached under the sweatshirt and pulled out my hard-won 
prize. 

“Wow!” I raised it in both hands and admired it. 

The old-man mask. I took the mask of the creepy old man. 

I smoothed out its long strings of yellow-white hair. Holding it by the big, 
pointy ears, I lifted it in front of my face and examined it closely. 

A single white tooth hung down over the bottom lip. A brown wormhole 
poked through the center of the tooth. 

Outside on the front stoop, the big tooth had scraped my chest, I realized. 
That’s what made me think the mask was biting me. 

The mouth was twisted in an evil sneer. The lips curled like two brown 
worms. 

The long nose had gobs of green dripping from each nostril. A square patch 
of skin was missing just above the forehead. I could see gray skull bone in the 
hole. 

The whole face was creased and lined. The flesh was a sickly green. The 



skin appeared to be peeling off the face. Dark scabs bulged from the sunken 
cheeks. 

Black spiders appeared to crawl through the stringy, yellow hair. Spiders 
poked out of the two ears. 

“Yuck!” I cried. 

Was I holding the scariest Halloween mask in the world? 

No. In the universe! 

I began to feel a little queasy just holding it. I rubbed the scabby cheek with 
one finger. The skin felt warm, like real skin. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” I practiced laughing like an old man. “Heh-heh-heh.” I 
tried a dry cackle. 

Look out, Hogs! I told myself. When I come leaping out at you on 
Halloween night in this mask, you will jump out of your skins! 

“Heh-heh-heh.” 

I raked the ugly, long hair back over the head. My fingers bumped over the 
spiders tangled in the hair. The spiders didn’t feel rubbery. They felt soft and 
warm like the skin. 

I gazed down happily at the disgusting, old face. It sneered back at me. The 
brown worm lips quivered. 

Should I try it on? 

I carried it over to the mirror on my closet door. I was dying to see what I’d 
look like. 

I’ll slip it on for just a second, I decided. Long enough to see how ugly and 
frightening I’d look. 

Holding it in both hands, I raised the mask over my head. 

Then slowly, carefully... very carefully... I began to pull the mask down, 
down, down over my face. 



12 


“Steve—!” 

Mom’s loud cry from downstairs startled me. 

“Steve—where are you? Get down here for your dinner!” 

“Coming!” I shouted back. I lowered the mask. I’d try it on later, I decided. 

I walked quickly to the dresser and pulled open my sock drawer. Smoothing 
the long, spidery hair over the ugly face, I set the mask down carefully in the 
drawer. Then I hid it under several pairs of socks and closed the drawer. 

I hurried down to the kitchen. Mom had a salad on the table and a plate of 
warmed-up macaroni-and-cheese. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized that I was starved! I sat down, 
pushed the salad aside, and started forking up the macaroni as fast as I could. 

I glanced down to see Sparky staring up at me with his big, black, soulful 
eyes. He saw me looking at him and tilted his head. 

“Sparky,” I said, “you don’t like macaroni—remember?” 

He tilted his head the other way, as if trying to understand. I slipped him a 
couple of noodles. He sniffed them and left them on the floor. 

Behind me, Mom busily cleaned out the refrigerator, making room for the 
groceries Dad was out buying. I was dying to tell her about the scary mask. I 
wanted to show it to her. Maybe put it on and make her scream. 

But I knew she’d ask too many questions about where I bought it, and how 
much it cost, and how much of my allowance I used up to pay for it. 

All questions I couldn’t answer. 

So I bit my tongue and forced myself not to blurt out the exciting news that 
I wouldn’t have to be a hobo again this Halloween. 

That was my costume for the past five years. A hobo. Actually, it wasn’t 
much of a costume. I wore one of Dad’s baggy old suits with patches on the 
pants. Mom rubbed charcoal on my face to make me look dirty. And I carried a 
knapsack on a fishing pole over my shoulder. 

Bor-ring! 

This Halloween will be different, I promised myself. This Halloween will 
not be boring. 

I was so happy. As I sat gobbling down macaroni-and-cheese, I couldn’t get 



that creepy mask out of my mind. 

I’m not going to tell anyone about it, I decided. I’m going to scare everyone 
I know. 

I’m not even going to tell Chuck. After all, he ran away and left me down in 
that dark basement. 

Look out, Chuckie Boy! I told myself, grinning so hard some noodles 
slipped out of my mouth. I’m going to get you too! 



13 


I had soccer practice for my first graders after school the next day. It was a 
sunny, cold October afternoon. The sunlight made the yellow and brown falling 
leaves glitter like gold. Puffs of white cloud floated like soft cotton across the 
blue sky. 

Everything looked beautiful to me. Because Halloween was only one day 
away. 

I was staring up at the clouds when Marnie Rosen drop-kicked the soccer 
ball into my stomach. 

I grabbed my stomach and doubled over in pain. Duck Benton and two 
other kids jumped on my back and drove me facedown into the mud. 

I didn’t care. 

In fact, I laughed. 

Because I knew that I had only one day to wait. 

I tried to show them how to pass. As I ran along the sidelines, Andrew 
Foster stuck out his foot. I tripped and went sailing into the bike rack. A 
handlebar caught me under the chin as I fell, and I actually saw stars. 

But I didn’t care. 

I picked myself up with a grin on my face. 

Because I knew a secret. I knew an evil secret that the kids didn’t know. I 
knew that trick-or-treat night was going to be a special treat for me! 

At four o’clock, I called an end to practice. I was too weak to blow the 
whistle. My clothes were soaked with mud, I walked with a limp, and I had cuts 
and bruises in twenty different places. 

A typical practice with the Horrible Hogs. 

But did I care? 

You know the answer. 

I gathered them in a circle around me. They were shoving each other, and 
pulling hair, and calling each other horrible names. I told you—they’re total 
animals. 

I raised my hands to quiet them down. “Let’s have a special Hogs’ 
Halloween party tomorrow,” I suggested. 

“YAAAY!” they cheered. 



“We’ll meet in our costumes after practice,” I continued. “The whole team. 
And we’ll all go trick-or-treating together. I’ll take you.” 

“YAAY!” they cheered again. 

“So tell your parents to drop you off,” I told them. “This is going to be our 
special party. We’ll meet in front of the old Carpenter mansion.” 

Silence. This time they didn’t cheer. 

“Why do we have to meet there?” Andrew asked. 

“Isn’t that old house supposed to be haunted?” Marnie asked softly. 

“That place is too creepy,” Duck added. 

I narrowed my eyes at them, challenging them. “You guys aren’t scared — 
are you?” I demanded. 

Silence. They exchanged nervous glances. 

“Well? Are you all too wimpy to meet me there?” I asked. 

“No way!” Marnie insisted. 

“No way! We’re not scared of a stupid old house!” 

They all began to tell me how brave they were. They all said they would 
meet me there. 

“I saw a ghost once,” Johnny Myers bragged. “Behind my garage. I shouted 
‘Boo!’ and it floated away.” 

These kids are animals, but they have great imaginations. 

The other kids all started teasing Johnny. He stuck to his story. He insisted 
he saw a ghost. So they pushed him to the ground and got his jacket all muddy. 

“Hey, Steve—what are you going to be for Halloween?” Marnie asked. 

“Yeah. What’s your costume?” Andrew demanded. 

“He’s going to be a pile of toxic waste!” someone joked. 

“No. He’s going to be a ballerina!” someone else declared. 

They all hooted and jeered. 

Go ahead and laugh, guys, I thought. Have a good laugh now. Because 
when you see me on Halloween, I’ll be the only one laughing. 

“Uh... I’m going to be a hobo,” I told them. “You’ll recognize me. I’ll be 
wearing a tattered old suit. And my face will be all dirty. I’ll be dressed like a 
bum.” 

“You are a bum!” one of my loyal team members shouted. 

More wild laughing and hooting. More shoving and hair-pulling and 
wrestling on the ground. 

Luckily, their parents and baby-sitters showed up to take them home. I 



watched them go with a big smile on my face. A big, evil smile. 

Then I grabbed up my backpack and hurried home. I ran all the way. I was 
eager to take another look at my mask. 

Chuck stepped out as I jogged past his house. “Hey, Steve... what’s up?” he 
called. 

“Not much!” I called back. “Later, man!” 

I kept running. I didn’t want to hang out with Chuck. I needed to check out 
that mask. I needed to remind myself of how awesome it was. How totally 
terrifying. 

I burst through the front door. Then I ran straight up the stairs to my room, 
taking the stairs three at a time. 

I raced down the long hall. I turned into my room and tossed my backpack 
onto the bed. Then I hurried across the room to my dresser and eagerly jerked 
open my sock drawer. 

“Huh?” 

I peered inside. With a trembling hand, I shoved away several balled-up 
pairs of socks. 

The mask was gone. 



14 


“No!” 

I began pawing frantically through the drawer, tossing all the socks onto the 
floor. 

No mask. Gone. 

The balled-up socks bounced all over the room. My heart was bouncing too. 

Then I remembered that I had moved the mask. Before school that morning. 
I was worried that my mom might do laundry. And open my sock drawer. And 
see it there. 

So I had shoved it to the back of my closet, behind my rolled-up sleeping 

bag. 

Letting out a long whoosh of air, I dropped to my hands and knees. I 
quickly collected all the socks and stuffed them back into the drawer. Then I 
opened the closet door and pulled down the mask from the top shelf. 

Steve, you’ve got to calm down, man, I told myself. It’s just a Halloween 
mask, after all. You’ve got to stop scaring yourself like that. 

Sometimes it helps to scold yourself, to give yourself advice. 

I started to feel a little calmer. I smoothed back the stringy yellow hair and 
mbbed my hand over the craggy, scab-covered skin of the mask. 

The brown lips sneered at me. I poked my little finger through the 
disgusting wormhole in the tooth. I squeezed the spiders hiding inside the ears. 

“This is so cool! ” I declared out loud. 

I couldn’t wait a whole day till Halloween. I had to show it to someone. 

No. I had to scare someone with it. 

Chuck’s face popped instantly into my mind. My old friend Chuck was the 
perfect victim. I knew that he was home. I had seen him there a few minutes ago. 

Wow. Will he be shocked! I told myself. Chuck thought that I ran out of that 
store basement empty-handed. When I sneak into his house and creep up on him 
wearing this disgusting mask, he’ll faint! 

I glanced at the clock. I had an hour before dinnertime. Mom and Dad 
weren’t even home yet. 

Yes, I’ll do it! I decided. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” I practiced my old-man cackle. “Heh-heh-heh.” The 



scariest, most evil cackle I could do. 

Then I grasped the wrinkled neck of the mask in both hands. Stepping in 
front of the mirror, I raised the mask over my head. 

And tugged it down. 

It slid easily over my hair. It felt soft and warm as I pulled it over my face. 

Down over my ears. Over my cheeks. 

Down, down. 

Until I felt the top of the mask settle onto my hair. I twisted it until I could 
see out of the narrow eyeholes. 

Then I lowered my hands to my sides and stepped closer to the mirror to 
check myself out. 

So warm. 

I suddenly felt too warm. 

The rubbery mask pressed tightly against my cheeks and forehead. 

Warmer. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as my face began to burn. 

So hot... 

So hard to breathe. 

“Hey... what is happening to me?” 



15 


I could feel the skin of the mask tightening around my face. 

My cheeks burned. A sour odor swept over me, choked me. 

I gagged. I sucked in a deep breath through my mouth. But the mask was so 
tight, I could hardly breathe. 

I grabbed the ears with both hands. The outside of the mask felt normal. But 
inside, I was burning up! 

I tried to tug the mask off. But it wouldn’t slide up. The hot rubber stuck to 
my face. 

I groaned as the putrid odor washed over me again. 

I tugged harder. The mask didn’t budge. 

I gasped for breath. 

I grabbed the stringy hair—and pulled. I slid my hands under the chin—and 
pushed. 

“Ohhh.” A sick groan escaped my throat. My hands dropped limply to my 
sides. 

I suddenly felt so tired. So weak. 

So totally weak. 

Every breath was a struggle. I bent over. My body began to tremble. 

I felt so weak. And old. 

Old. 

Was this how an old man felt? 

Calm down, Steve, I scolded myself. It’s just a rubber mask. It fits a little 
too snug, that’s all. 

It’s stuck to your face. But you’ll pull it off, and you’ll be fine. 

Calm down. Count to ten. Then examine the mask in the mirror. Grab it 
from the bottom, and you’ll be able to pull it up. No problem. 

I counted to ten. Then I stepped up close to the mirror. 

I nearly cried out when I saw my reflection. The mask really was awesome! 
So real. So gross. 

With my eyes staring out of it, the face seemed to come alive. The brown 
lips sneered back at me. When I moved my lips, they appeared to move too. The 



green gobs of goo trembled inside the big nostrils. The spiders appeared to be 
crawling through the tangled, yellow hair. 

It’s only a mask. A really cool mask, I said to myself. 

I started to feel a little calmer. 

But then a cackle escaped my throat. “Heh-heh-heh.” 

Not my cackle! 

Not in my voice! An old man’s cackle. 

How did that happen? How did I utter such a strange sound? 

I clamped my lips shut. I didn’t want to make that sound again. 
“Heh-heh-heh.” 

Another frightening cackle! In a shrill, high-pitched voice. More like a dry 
croak than a laugh. 

I tightened my jaw. Clenched my teeth. Held my breath so I wouldn’t 
cackle again. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” 

I wasn’t doing it! 

Who was cackling like that? 

Where was the shrill, dry laugh coming from? 

I gaped at the old face in the mirror, suddenly frozen in fear. 

And then I felt a strong hand grab my leg. 



16 


With a choked gasp, I whirled around. 

And peered down through the tight eyeholes of the mask. 

I instantly saw that it wasn’t a hand on my leg. It was teeth. 

Dog teeth. 

“Sparky—it’s you!” I cried. But my voice came out in a dry whisper. 

Sparky backed away. 

I cleared my throat and tried again. “Don’t be afraid, Sparky. It’s only me.” 
My voice! It sounded more like a dry cough. 

It sounded like my grandpa! 

I had an old man’s face—and an old man’s voice. 

And I felt so tired. So totally weak and tired. 

As I reached to pet Sparky, my arms drooped as if they weighed a thousand 
pounds. Both of my knees cracked as I bent down. 

The dog gazed up at me and tilted his head. His short stub of a tail wagged 
furiously. 

“Don’t be scared, Sparky,” I croaked. “I was just trying out this mask. 
Pretty scary, huh?” 

I lowered my face and tried to pick Sparky up. 

But as I leaned forward, I could see the dog’s eyes go wide with terror. 
Sparky let out a shrill yip —jumped out of my hands, and went tearing across the 
room, barking at the top of his lungs. Barking in total fright. 

“Sparky—it’s me!” I cried. “I know I sound different. But it’s me—Steve!” 

I wanted to chase after him. But my legs felt so weak, and my knees refused 
to bend. 

It took me three tries to pull myself up to a standing position. My head 
ached. I was too out-of-breath to run after Sparky. 

Too late, anyway. I could hear him barking his head off, already downstairs. 
“Weird,” I muttered, rubbing my aching back. I hobbled back to the mirror. 
Sparky has seen masks before. He knew it was me. Why was he so scared? Was 
it my weird voice? 

How had the mask dried up my voice? And why did I suddenly feel one 



hundred and ten? 

At least, my face no longer felt on fire. But the skin of the mask still 
pressed so tightly against my face, I could barely move my lips. 

I have to get out of this thing, I decided. Chuck will have to wait until 
Halloween night to be scared out of his skull. 

I raised both hands to my neck and searched for the bottom of the mask. My 
neck felt craggy and wrinkled. The skin was dry. 

Where was the bottom of the mask? 

I leaned close to the mirror on my closet door and narrowed my eyes at my 
reflection. I stared hard at the neck of the mask. 

Wrinkled skin flecked with ugly brown patches. 

But where was the bottom? Where did the mask end and my neck begin? 

My hands began to tremble as they fumbled up and down my throat. I could 
feel my heart begin to race. 

I moved my hands slowly, carefully, up and down my neck. 

Again. And again. 

Finally, I let my hands drop to my side and uttered a weary, frightened sigh. 

There was no mask bottom. No line at all between the mask and my neck. 

The wrinkled, spotted mask skin had become my skin. 

“Nooooo! Nooooo!” I wailed in my old man’s voice. I had to get the thing 
off me! There had to be a way! 

I squeezed the cheeks of the mask and tugged with all my might. 

“Ow!” Sharp pain ran down my face. 

I pulled the hair. That sent a wave of pain shooting down my scalp. 
Frantically, I grabbed at the mask, slapped at it, pulled it, tore at it. 

I felt each move. Each slap and tug made my skin hurt. Every touch hurt me 
as if it were my own skin. 

“The eyeholes!” I croaked. 

I reached for the eyeholes. Maybe I could slip my fingers inside the 
eyeholes and lift the mask off. 

My hands fumbled around my eyes. My trembling fingers searched, poking 
and rubbing. 

No eyeholes. There were no eyeholes. 

The rutted, scab-covered skin had melted onto me. It had become my skin. 

The ugly, disgusting mask had become my face! 

I looked like a horrifying, spider-infested, decaying old man. And I felt as 



old and weird as I looked! 

My throat tightened in terror. I sank against the mirror, pressing my ugly, 
craggy forehead against the glass. 

I shut my eyes. What can I do? What can I do? The question repeated like 
an unhappy chant in my mind. 

And then I heard the front door slam. And I heard Mom’s voice at the 
bottom of the stairway. “Steve—are you home? Steve?” 

What can I do? What can I do? The question repeated and repeated. 

“Steve?” Mom called. “Come down here. I want to show you something.” 

No! I thought, swallowing hard, my dry throat making a sick clicking 
sound. No! I can’t come down! I can’t! I don’t want you to see me like this! 

“Oh, never mind!” Mom called. “I’m coming up there!” 



17 


I heard her footsteps on the stairs. 

A shock of panic made me lurch toward the door. I nearly fell over. My old 
legs were stiff, too stiff to move quickly. 

I hobbled to the door and closed it just as Mom reached the second floor. 
Then I leaned against the door, my hand on my throbbing chest, trying to catch 
my breath. 

Trying to think. Trying to decide what to say. 

I couldn’t let her see me like this. I couldn’t let her see the mask. She’d start 
asking questions. And I couldn’t let her see how the mask had changed me. 

A few seconds later, she knocked gently on the door. “Steve, are you in 
there? What are you doing?” 

“Uh... nothing, Mom.” 

“Well, may I come in? I brought you something.” 

“Not right now,” I croaked. 

Please don’t open the door! I begged silently. Please don’t come into my 
room! 

“Steve, why do you sound so strange?” Mom demanded. “What’s wrong 
with your voice?” 

“Uh...” Think fast, Steve. Think fast. 

“Uh... sore throat, Mom. A really bad sore throat.” 

“Let me take a look at you. Are you sick?” Glancing down, I saw the 
doorknob turn. 

“No!” I screamed, pressing my back against the door. 

“You’re not sick?” 

“I mean, yes,” I croaked in my shaky, old-man voice. “I’m not feeling well, 
Mom. I’m going to lie down for a while. I’ll come down later, okay?” 

I stared at the doorknob, listening to her breathing on the other side of the 
door. “Steve, I bought you those black-and-white cookies that you love. Your 
favorites. Do you want one? Maybe it’ll make you feel better.” 

My stomach growled. Those cookies are my favorites. Dripping with 
chocolate icing on one side and vanilla icing on the other. “Maybe later,” I 
moaned. 



“But I drove two miles out of my way to buy them for you,” Mom said. 

“Later. I’m really not feeling well.” I was telling the truth. My temples 
throbbed. My whole body ached. I felt so weak, I could barely stand up. 

“I’ll call you for dinner,” Mom said. I listened to her make her way back 
down the stairs. Then I hobbled over to the bed and slumped my old man’s body 
down onto the edge. 

“Now what?” I asked myself. I pressed my hands against my scabby 
cheeks. “How do I get out of this thing?” 

I shut my tired, burning eyes and tried to think. After a few minutes, Carly 
Beth’s face floated into my mind. 

“Yes!” I croaked. “Carly Beth is the one person in the world who can help 

me.” 

Carly Beth wore a mask from the same store last Halloween. Maybe the 
same thing happened to her. Maybe her mask stuck to her face and changed her. 

She got her mask off. She will know how I can get my mask off too. 

The phone stood across the room beside the computer on my desk. 
Normally, I’d be over there in three seconds. But it took me three minutes of 
gmnting and straining to get my old body to stand up. Then it took another five 
minutes to drag myself across the room. 

By the time I dropped into my desk chair, I was exhausted. It took all of my 
strength to raise my hand and punch in Carly Beth’s number on the phone. 

I can’t go on like this, I told myself. She’s got to help me. She’s got to know 
how to get this mask off. 

After the third ring, Carly Beth’s father answered. “Hello?” 

“Hi... uh... could I speak to Carly Beth?” I choked out. 

A silence. Then: “Who is this?” Mr. Caldwell sounded confused. 

“It’s me,” I answered. “Is Carly Beth there?” 

“Is this one of her teachers?” he demanded. 

“No. It’s Steve. I—” 

“I’m sorry, sir. I can’t hear you very well. Can you speak up? Why did you 
wish to speak to my daughter? Perhaps I can help you?” 

“No... I—” 

I heard Mr. Caldwell speak softly to someone else at his house. “It’s an old 
man, asking for Carly Beth. I can barely hear him. He won’t say who he is.” 

He came back on the phone. “Are you one of her teachers, sir? Where do 
you know my daughter from?” 



“She’s my friend,” I croaked. 

I heard him turn again to someone else in the room, probably Carly Beth’s 
mom. He muffled the phone with his hand, but I heard what he said: “I think it’s 
a nut. Some kind of crank call.” 

He returned to me. “Sorry, sir. My daughter can’t come to the phone.” He 
hung up. 

I sat there listening to the buzz in my spider-filled ear. 

Now what? I asked myself. 

Now what? 



18 


I must have fallen asleep in the desk chair. I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened by Dad pounding on my bedroom door. “Steve— 
dinnertime!” he called in. 

I sat up with a start. My back ached from sleeping sitting up. I rubbed my 
wrinkled neck, trying to rub away the stiffness. 

“Steve—are you coming down to dinner?” Dad asked. 

“I—I’m not very hungry,” I croaked. “I’m going to take a nap, Dad. I think 
I’m getting sick.” 

“Hey, don’t get sick the night before Halloween,” he replied. “You don’t 
want to miss out on trick-or-treating.” 

“I—I’ll be okay,” I stammered in my hoarse voice. “If I get a good night’s 
sleep, I’ll be fine.” 

Yeah. Right. 

I’ll be one hundred and fifty. But I’ll be fine. 

I let out an unhappy sigh. 

“We’ll bring you up some soup or something later,” Dad called in. Then he 
disappeared downstairs. 

I stared at the phone. Should I try Carly Beth again? 

No, I decided. She won’t believe it’s me. She’ll hang up the way her father 
did. 

I scratched my ears. I could feel the spiders crackling around in them. I 
touched the bare spot on top of my head where the skin was ripped apart. The 
skin was soft and wet. I could feel the patch of hard skull that showed through. 

“Ohhhh.” Another long sigh. 

I’ve got to think, I told myself. I’ve got to think of a way out of this. 

But I felt so weary, so sleepy. 

I pulled myself up and slumped to the bed. A few seconds later, I fell sound 
asleep. 

I awoke to bright sunlight streaming through my bedroom window. 

I blinked several times, startled by the bright morning light. Morning. 
Halloween morning. 



It should have been a happy day. An exciting day. But instead... 

I reached up with both hands and touched the sides of my face. 

Smooth! 

My cheeks felt smooth. Soft and smooth. 

I rubbed my ears. Small ears. My ears. No spiders! 

I raised both hands to my hair. And touched my hair. Not the stringy, old 
man’s hair. 

Hesitantly, carefully, I touched the torn spot on top of my head where the 
skull showed through. 

Not there! 

“I’m me again!” I cried out loud. I let out a long whoop of joy. 

No old man’s mask. No old man’s voice. No old man’s body. 

It had all been a dream. A horrible nightmare. 

Still blinking in the light, I gazed happily around my room. 

“I dreamed it all!” I cried. 

Going down to that dark store basement. Pawing through the carton of 
masks. The man in the cape. The mask of the old man. Sneaking it home and 
trying it on. 

The mask sticking to my skin. Refusing to come off. 

All a dream! 

All a horrifying nightmare that was over now. 

I was so happy! This had to be the happiest moment of my life. 

I started to jump out of bed. I wanted to leap around my room, to dance for 

joy- 

But then my eyes blinked open. And I woke up for real... 



19 


...I woke up for real. 

And knew that I had only dreamed that it was all a dream! 

I grabbed my face—and felt the craggy wrinkles, the heavy scabs. I rubbed 
my nose and brushed the green gobs stuck in my nostrils. 

I had dreamed that the mask didn’t exist. 

I had dreamed that I had my own face back. My own voice and body. 

All a dream. A wonderful dream. 

But now I was really awake—and really in trouble. 

I pulled myself up and brushed the stringy, yellow hair out of my eyes. “I 
have to tell Mom and Dad,” I decided. “I can’t spend another day like this.” 

I had slept in my clothes. I staggered to my feet and dragged my old body 
to the door. I tugged open the door—and saw a note taped on the other side. 

Dear Steve, 

Hope you’re feeling better. Mom and I had to go visit your Aunt Helen this 
morning. We left early to beat the traffic. We’ll be home in time to help you with 
your hobo costume. Love, Dad 

My hobo costume? 

Not this year. Besides, since I was now at least one hundred and fifty, I was 
a little old to go trick-or-treating! 

Crinkling the note in my hand, I made the long trip down to the kitchen, 
holding on to the banister, taking one step at a time. I had a sudden craving for a 
steaming bowl of oatmeal and a cup of hot milk. 

“Oh, no!” I croaked. I was starting to think like an old man! 

I made myself a breakfast of orange juice and corn flakes. I carried it to the 
table and sat down to eat. The juice glass felt strange against my fat, brown lips. 
And it was almost impossible to chew the cornflakes with just one long, crooked 
tooth. 

“What am I going to do?” I moaned out loud. 

Then, suddenly, I had an answer. 

I decided to go ahead with my plan to terrify the first graders. Why 



shouldn’t I pay back those bratty kids for all the trouble they gave me day after 
day on the soccer field? 

Yes! I decided. When Mom and Dad get home, I’ll greet them and show off 
my old-man costume. They won’t know it isn’t a costume. They’ll think it’s 
really cool. 

Then, later, I’ll go to the spooky old Carpenter mansion to meet the kids. 
And I’ll scare the first graders out of their masks! 

And then what? 

Then I’ll find Carly Beth. It won’t be hard to find her. She’s having a 
Halloween party at her house after trick-or-treating. 

I’ll find Carly Beth and get her to tell me the secret. I’ll get her to show me 
how to remove this horrible mask. 

Then I will be a very happy guy. 

Sitting there alone in the kitchen, struggling to choke down my cornflakes, 
it seemed like a really good plan. 

Too bad it didn’t work out the way I hoped. 



20 


When Mom and Dad returned home that evening, I hobbled downstairs to greet 
them. They both gasped when they saw my ugly, scabby face. 

Mom dropped the bag she was carrying. Her mouth fell open to her knees. 

Dad’s eyes bulged. He stared at me for a long time. Then he burst out 
laughing. “Steve—that is the best costume!” he exclaimed. “Where did you get 
that?” 

“It’s disgusting,” Mom said. “Ohh. I can’t stand that open patch on top of 
the head. And that horrible hole in your tooth.” 

Dad walked in a circle around me, admiring my new look. 

I had put on the patched, black suit that I wore as my hobo costume. And I 
had found one of my grandpa’s old canes in the closet, which I leaned on now. 

“It’s great!” Dad declared, squeezing my shoulder. 

“I bought the mask at a party store,” I croaked. It was almost the truth. 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. “The old man’s voice is very good,” 
Mom said. “Have you been practicing?” 

“Yes. All day,” I replied. 

“Do you feel better?” Dad asked. “We didn’t want to disturb you this 
morning since you weren’t feeling good. Your mom and I had to leave so 
early...” 

“I’m feeling much better,” I lied. Actually, my legs were trembling and my 
whole body was drenched in a cold sweat. 

Feeling weak, I leaned harder on the cane. 

“Yuck! What’s that in your hair?” Mom cried. 

“Spiders,” I told her. I shuddered. I could feel them crawling over my head 
and in my ears. 

“They’re so real-looking,” Mom declared, raising a hand to her cheek. She 
shook her head. “Are you sure you don’t want to be a hobo? That mask must be 
so hot and uncomfortable.” 

If she only knew how uncomfortable it was! 

“Leave him be,” Dad scolded her. “He looks great. He’s going to terrify 
everyone on the street tonight.” 

I hope so, I thought. I glanced at my watch. Time to get going. 



“Well, he’s terrifying me!” Mom exclaimed. She shut her eyes. “I can’t 
stand to look at you, Steve. Why did you buy something so... so ugly?” 

“I think it’s funny,” Dad told her. He poked a finger at my long tooth. 
“Great mask. Is it rubber?” 

“Yeah. I guess,” I muttered in my quivering, old voice. 

Mom made a disgusted face. “Are you trick-or-treating with Chuck?” 

I yawned. I suddenly felt sleepy. “I promised my soccer players I’d meet 
them,” I croaked. “Then I’m going over to Carly Beth’s house.” 

“Well, don’t stay out too late,” Mom said. “And if that heavy mask gets too 
hot, take it off for a while—okay?” 

I wish! I thought bitterly. 

“See you later,” I said. Leaning on the cane, I began dragging myself to the 
front door. 

Mom and Dad laughed at my funny walk. 

I wasn’t laughing. I wanted to cry. 

Only one thing kept me from breaking down and telling them the truth. 
Only one thing kept me from telling Mom and Dad that I was trapped inside this 
horrible mask, that it had turned me into a weak, ancient creature. 

Revenge. 

I could see the terrified expressions on the faces of my soccer team. And I 
could hear their howls of horror as they went running for their lives. 

That cheered me up and kept me going. 

I grabbed the doorknob and struggled to pull open the front door. 

“Steve—wait!” Dad cried. “My camera. Wait. I want to take a picture.” He 
disappeared in search of the camera. 

“Your trick-or-treat bag!” Mom cried. “You forgot your trick-or-treat bag.” 
She rummaged around in the front closet until she found the shopping bag with 
little pumpkins all over both sides. 

I knew I couldn’t manage the cane and the shopping bag. But I took it from 
her anyway. I’ll throw the bag away when I get outside, I decided. I didn’t plan 
to trick-or-treat. I knew it would take me half an hour just to walk up someone’s 
driveway! 

Dad burst back into the living room. “Say cheese!” he cried, raising his 
little camera. 

I tried to twist my wormy lips into a smile. 

Dad flashed the camera once. Then three more times. 



Blinded by flashbulb lights, I said good-bye and made my way out the door. 
The white circles followed me into the night. I nearly fell off the front stoop. 

I grabbed the railing and waited for my heart to stop pounding. Slowly the 
flashes of light faded from my eyes, and I began to pull myself down the 
driveway. 

It was a clear, cold night. No wind at all. The nearly bare trees stood as still 
as statues. 

I limped onto the sidewalk and started in the direction of the Carpenter 
mansion. There was no moon. But the street appeared brighter than usual. Most 
houses had all of their front lights on to welcome trick-or-treaters. 

I stuffed the shopping bag into a trash can at the foot of our neighbors’ 
driveway. Then I continued down the block, my cane tap-tapping on the 
sidewalk. 

My back began to ache. My old legs trembled. I leaned over the cane, 
breathing hard. 

After half a block, I had to take a rest against a lamppost. Luckily, the 
Carpenter mansion was on the next block. 

As I started on my way, two little girls came hurrying down the sidewalk, 
followed by their father. One girl wore colorful butterfly wings. The other wore 
lots of makeup, a gold crown, and a long fancy dress. 

“Ooh, he’s ugly,” the butterfly whispered to her friend as they came near. 

“Yuck!” I heard the princess reply. “Look at the green stuff in his nose.” 

I leaned close to them, opened my lips in a snarl, and rasped, “Get out of 
my way! ” 

The little girls both let out frightened squeals and took off down the 
sidewalk. Their father flashed me an angry stare and hurried after them. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” An evil cackle escaped my lips. 

Seeing their frightened faces gave me new energy. Leaning on my cane, I 
tap-tapped my way across the street. 

A few minutes later, the Carpenter mansion came into view. The huge old 
house stood dark and empty. Its stone turrets rose up to the purple night sky like 
castle towers. 

Huddled under a streetlamp at the bottom of the weed-choked front yard 
stood my soccer team. My Hogs. My first graders. 

My victims. 

They were all in costumes. I saw Power Rangers and Ninja Turtles. 



Mummies and monsters. Two ghosts, a Beauty, and a Beast. 

But I recognized them anyway. I recognized them because they were 
shoving each other, grabbing at trick-or-treat bags, shouting and fighting. 

I leaned against my cane, watching them from halfway down the block. My 
heart started to pound. My whole body trembled. 

This was it. My big moment. 

“Okay, guys,” I murmured softly to myself. “It’s show time! ” 



21 


I was trembling with excitement as I dragged myself up to them. I stepped into 
the light, my wormy lips twisted in a frightening sneer. 

I stared from one to another, giving them a chance to see my terrifying face. 
Giving them a chance to see the spiders crawling through my hair. The 
wormhole in my tooth. The patch of skull poking up through my rutted scalp. 
They grew quiet. I could feel their eyes on me. I could sense their instant 

fear. 

I opened my mouth to let out a frightening growl that would send them 
running for their mommies. 

But Marnie Rosen, wearing a white bride’s dress and veil, stepped up to me 
before I could get it out. “Can we help you, sir?” she asked. 

“Are you lost?” one of the Power Rangers asked. 

“Do you need directions?” 

“Can we help you get somewhere?” 

No. No! 

This wasn’t going right. This wasn’t going the way I’d planned—the way 
I’d dreamed! 

Marnie took my arm. “Which way were you headed, sir? We’ll walk with 
you. It’s kind of a scary night to be walking around a strange neighborhood.” 

The others pushed in closer, trying to be helpful. 

Trying to be helpful to an old man. An old man they weren’t the least bit 
scared of. 

“Nooooo!” I howled in protest. “I’m the ghost of the Carpenter mansion! 
I’ve come to pay you back for trespassing on my front yard!” 

I tried to shriek—but my voice came out in a weak whisper. I don’t think 
they heard a word I uttered. 

I’ve got to scare them, I told myself. I’ve got to! 

I raised both hands together in the air as if I planned to strangle them all. 

My cane flew out of my grasp. I lost my balance and tottered over 
backward. 

“Ohhhh!” I let out a groan as I hit the sidewalk sitting up. 

They all cried out. But not in fear. They cried out because they were 



worried about me. 

Helping hands reached down to pull me to my feet. 

“Are you okay? Here’s your cane.” I recognized Duck Benton’s scratchy 
voice. 

I heard murmurs of sympathy. “Poor old guy,” someone whispered. 

“Are you hurt?” 

“Can we get you some help?” 

No. No. No. No. No. 

They weren’t terrified. The weren’t the tiniest bit afraid. 

I sank onto the cane. I suddenly felt so weary. So totally exhausted I could 
barely keep my head up. 

Forget about scaring them, Steve, I told myself. You’ve got to get to Carly 
Beth’s house before you collapse. You’ve got to find out from Carly Beth how to 
get the mask off. How to get your old face—and strength—back. 

Marnie was still holding on to my trembling arm. “Where are you trying to 
go?” she asked, her freckled face filled with concern. 

“Uh... do you know where Carly Beth Caldwell’s house is?” I asked in a 
weak croak. 

“It’s on the next block. Across the street. I know her brother,” I heard 
Andrew Foster say. 

“We’ll take you there,” Marnie offered. 

She gripped my arm tighter. A mummy stepped up and took my other arm. 
They began to walk me slowly, gently down the sidewalk. 

I don’t believe this! I thought bitterly. They’re supposed to be scared out of 
their costumes! They should be shrieking and crying by now. 

But instead, they’re helping me walk. 

I sighed. The sad thing was, I felt so tired and weak, I couldn’t have made it 
to Carly Beth’s without their help. 

They led me halfway up her driveway. Then I thanked them and told them I 
could make it the rest of the way. 

I watched them scurry away to go trick-or-treating. “I guess Steve isn’t 
going to show up,” Duck said. 

“He was probably too big a wimp to go out on Halloween night!” Marnie 
joked. 

They all laughed. 

Leaning heavily on the cane, I turned toward Carly Beth’s house. The lights 



were all on. But I couldn’t see anyone in the windows. 

She probably isn’t back from trick-or-treating yet, I decided. 

I heard chattering voices. Footsteps on the gravel drive. 

I wheeled around to see Carly Beth and her friend Sabrina Mason hurrying 
across the lawn, heading toward the house. 

I recognized Carly Beth’s duck costume. She wore it every year. Except for 
last Halloween, when she wore that terrifying mask. 

Sabrina was some kind of superhero. She wore silvery tights and a long 
silvery cape. She had a silvery mask pulled over her face, but I recognized her 
long, black hair. 

“Carly Beth—!” I tried to shout. But her name came out in a choked 
whisper. 

She and Sabrina kept chattering excitedly as they hurried across the lawn. 

“Carly Beth—! Please!” I cried. 

Halfway to the house, they both turned. They saw me. 

Yes! 

“Carly Beth—” I cried. 

She pulled off her duck mask and took a few steps toward the driveway. 
She squinted hard at me. “Who are you?” 

“It’s me!” I cried weakly. “I—” 

“Are you the man who tried to call me earlier?” she demanded coldly. 

“Well... yes,” I croaked. “You see, I need—” 

“Well, leave me alone!” Carly Beth screamed. “Why are you following me? 
Leave me alone, or I’ll get my father!” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered helplessly. 

The two girls spun away and began jogging to the house. 

Leaving me standing there in the driveway. 

Leaving me all alone. 

Leaving me doomed. 



22 


I let out a bitter wail. “Carly Beth—it’s me! It’s me! Steve!” I cried. “Steve 
Boswell!” 

Did she hear me? 

Yes. 

She and Sabrina had stepped onto the stone walk that led to the front porch. 
In the square of yellow light from the porch, I saw them both turn around. 

“It’s Steve! It’s Steve!” I repeated, my throat aching from my desperate 
cries. 

Slowly, cautiously, both girls made their way back to me. 

“Steve?” Carly Beth stared hard at me, her mouth falling open. 

“Is that a mask?” Sabrina demanded, keeping close to Carly Beth. 

“Yes, it’s a mask,” I croaked. 

“Yuck. It’s disgusting!” Sabrina declared. She pulled off her silver mask to 
see better. “Are those spiders? Yuck!” 

“I need help,” I confessed. “This mask—” 

“You went to the party store!” Carly Beth cried. The duck mask fell to the 
ground. She raised both hands to the sides of her face. “Oh, no! No! Steve, I 
warned you!” 

“Yes. That’s where I got it,” I said, pointing to my hideous face. “I didn’t 
listen to you. I didn’t know.” 

“Steve, I told you not to go there,” Carly Beth said, her expression still tight 
with horror. Hands still pressed against her cheeks. 

“Now the mask won’t come off,” I wailed. “It’s stuck to me. It’s part of me. 
And it’s—it’s turning me into an old, old man. A feeble old man.” 

Carly Beth shook her head sadly. She stared at my ugly face, but didn’t say 
a word. 

“You’ve got to help me,” I pleaded. “You’ve got to help me get this mask 

off.” 

Carly Beth let out a frightened sigh. “Steve—I don’t think I can.” 



23 


I grabbed her duck feathers and held on. “You’ve got to help me, Carly Beth,” I 
begged. “Why won’t you help me?” 

“I want to help you,” she explained. “But I’m not sure I can.” 

“But you had a mask from the same store last Halloween,” I protested. 
“You pulled the mask off. You escaped from it—right?” 

“It can’t be pulled off,” Carly Beth said. “There’s no way to pull it off.” 

Over her shoulder, I saw three kids in costumes at the next house. A woman 
appeared in the doorway. I saw her dropping candy bars into the three trick-or- 
treat bags. 

Some kids are having fun tonight, I thought bitterly. 

I am not having fun tonight. 

I may never have fun again. 

“Come into the house,” Carly Beth suggested. “It’s cold out here. I’ll try to 
explain.” 

I tried to follow them up the driveway. But my legs wobbled like rubber. 
Carly Beth and Sabrina practically had to carry me into her house. They dropped 
me down on the green leather couch in the living room. 

On a table across the room, a carved jack-o’-lantern grinned at me. The 
pumpkin had more teeth than I did! 

Carly Beth dropped down on the couch arm. Sabrina sat on the edge of the 
armchair beside it. She leaned over and sifted through her trick-or-treat bag. 
How could she think of candy at a time like this? 

I turned to Carly Beth. “How do I get the mask off?” I croaked. 

Carly Beth chewed her bottom lip. She raised her eyes to me, her 
expression grim. “It isn’t a mask,” she said softly. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“It isn’t a mask,” she explained. “It’s a real face. A living face. Did you 
meet the man in the black cape?” 

I nodded. 

“He’s some kind of weird scientist, I think. He made the faces. In his lab.” 

“He—he made them?” I stammered. 

Carly Beth nodded solemnly. “They are real, living faces. The man in the 



cape tried to make them good-looking. But something went wrong. They all 
came out ugly. As ugly as the one you’re wearing.” 

“But, Carly Beth—” I started. 

She raised a hand to hush me. “The caped man calls the faces The Unloved. 
No one wants them because they turned out so ugly. They are The Unloved. 
They’re alive. And they attach themselves to anyone who comes near enough.” 

“But how do I get it off?” I cried impatiently. I raised my hands and tugged 
at my rutted, scabby cheeks. “I can’t spend the rest of my life like this. What can 
I do?” 

Carly Beth jumped up and began pacing back and forth in front of Sabrina 
and me. Sabrina unwrapped a Milky Way bar and began chewing it, watching 
Carly Beth pace. 

“The same thing happened to me last Halloween,” Carly Beth said. “I had 
chosen a really ugly mask. It was so scary. It attached itself to my head. And 
then it turned me evil.” 

“And what did you do?” I cried, leaning forward on my cane. 

“I went back to the party store. I found the man in the cape. He told me 
there was only one way to get rid of the mask. It could only be done with a 
symbol of love.” 

“Huh?” I gaped at her. I didn’t understand. 

“I had to find a symbol of love,” Carly Beth continued. “At first, I didn’t 
know what the man meant. I didn’t know what to do. But then I remembered 
something my mom had made for me.” 

“What?” I demanded eagerly. “What was it?” 

“It was that head,” Sabrina chimed in, her mouth bulging with chocolate. 

“My mom had sculpted a head of me,” Carly Beth said. “It looked just like 
me. You’ve seen it. Mom sculpted it because she loves me. It was a symbol of 
love.” 

Carly Beth dropped back down beside me. “I placed Mom’s sculpted head 
over The Unloved face. And The Unloved disappeared. The ugly face slipped 
right off.” 

“Great!” I cried happily. “Go get it. Hurry!” 

“Huh?” Carly Beth stared at me, confused. 

“Go get the sculpted head,” I begged. “I’ve got to get this thing off me!” 

Carly Beth shook her head. “You don’t get it, Steve. You can’t use my 
symbol of love. It will only work for me. You have to find your own symbol of 



love.” 

“But maybe it won’t work for Steve’s mask,” Sabrina interrupted. “Maybe 
each mask is different.” 

“Give me a break, Sabrina,” I muttered angrily. “It’s got to work! Don’t you 
understand? It’s got to!” 

“You have to find your own symbol of love,” Carly Beth repeated. “Can 
you think of one, Steve?” 

I stared back at her, thinking hard. I thought. And thought. Symbol of 
love... symbol of love... No. I couldn’t think of anything. Not a single thing. 
And then an idea popped into my mind. 



24 


I leaned on the cane and tried to pull myself up from the couch. But my feeble 
arms gave way, and I fell back into the cushion. 

“You’ve got to help me get home,” I told Carly Beth. “I thought of a 
symbol of love. It’s at my house.” 

“Okay. Let’s go!” she replied. 

“But what about the kids coming over here?” Sabrina asked, swallowing a 
chunk of Milky Way. “What about the party?” 

“You stay here and greet them,” Carly Beth told her. “If Steve really can 
find a symbol of love at his house—and if it works—we’ll be right back.” 

“It’ll work,” I said. “I know it will.” 

But I had my fingers crossed. Which made it even harder to climb up from 
the couch. 

Carly Beth saw me struggling. She took both my hands and pulled me to 
my feet. “Yuck! What are those things moving around in your ears?” she cried, 
making a disgusted face. 

“Spiders,” I said quietly. 

She swallowed hard. “I sure hope you find something that works.” 

“Me too,” I murmured as she guided me to the door. 

Carly Beth turned back into the living room. “Don’t eat all the chocolate 
while we’re gone,” she called to Sabrina. 

“It’s only my second piece!” Sabrina protested with her mouth full. 

We stepped into the darkness. Some kids in costumes were coming up the 
driveway, all carrying bulging trick-or-treat bags. “Hey, Carly Beth—where are 
you going?” a girl called. 

“I’m doing a good deed!” Carly Beth replied. “See you guys later!” She 
turned back to me. “I can’t believe you didn’t listen to me, Steve. You really 
look disgusting.” 

“I can’t even wipe the green gobs out of my nose!” I wailed. 

Holding me by the shoulder, she guided me toward my house. We crossed 
the street onto my block. I heard kids laughing and loud music inside the house 
on the corner. A Halloween party. 

As we passed the house, I stumbled over a moving shadow. Carly Beth 



caught me before I fell. “What was that?” I cried. 

Then I saw it scamper silently across the street. A black cat. 

I laughed. What else could I do? I had to laugh. 

Go ahead, cat, I thought bitterly. Go ahead and cross my path. I couldn’t 
have any worse luck—could I? 

My house came into view past a row of tall evergreen shrubs. Through the 
shrubs, I could see that nearly all the downstairs lights were on. 

“Are your parents home?” Carly Beth asked, helping me across the grass. 

I nodded. “Yeah. They’re home.” 

“Do they know about the... uh...” 

“No,” I replied. “They think it’s a costume.” 

As we stepped onto the front stoop, I could hear Sparky start to bark inside 
the house. I pushed open the door, and the little dog let out an excited yip and 
leaped up at me. 

His paws landed on my waist and pushed me back hard. I toppled against 
the wall. 

“Down, Sparky! Please! Get down!” I pleaded in my old man’s croak. 

I knew Sparky was glad to see me. But I was too feeble for his usual 
greeting. 

“Down, boy! Please!” 

Carly Beth finally managed to pull the dog off me so that I could stand up. 
Then she held onto Sparky until I regained my balance. 

“Steve—is that you?” I heard Mom call from the den. “You’re back so 
early!” 

Mom stepped into the living room. She had changed into the gray flannel 
housedress she usually relaxes in at night, and she had her blond hair in curlers. 

“Oh, hi, Carly Beth!” she cried in surprise. “I wasn’t expecting visitors. I 

“That’s okay, Mom,” I croaked. “We’re only staying a minute. We came 
back to get something.” 

“Don’t you love Steve’s costume?” Mom asked Carly Beth. “Isn’t that the 
most horrible mask you ever saw?” 

“You mean he’s wearing a mask?” Carly Beth joked. She and Mom enjoyed 
a good laugh. 

Sparky sniffed my shoes. 

“What did you come back here for?” Mom asked me. 



“Those black-and-white cookies,” I replied eagerly. “You know. The ones 
you bought me yesterday.” 

Those cookies were a symbol of love. 

Mom had told me how she drove two miles out of her way to buy them for 
me. She knew they were my favorite cookies in the whole world. And she drove 
out of her way to buy them because she loves me. 

So the cookies were the perfect symbol of love. 

I couldn’t wait to bite into one. One bite, I knew—and I’d be able to pull 
off this horrible mask. 

Mom’s face twisted in surprise. She narrowed her eyes, studying me. “You 
came back here for those cookies? Why? What about all your trick-or-treat 
candy?” 

“Uh... well...” I stammered. My brain stalled. I couldn’t think of a good 
reason. 

“He had a strong craving,” Carly Beth chimed in. “He told me he’s been 
thinking about those cookies all night.” 

“That’s right. I had a craving,” I repeated. “Candy bars can’t compare, 
Mom. Those cookies are the best.” 

“I love them, too,” Carly Beth added. “So I came back with Steve. We want 
to bring them to my Halloween party.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. “What a shame,” she said. 

“Huh?” I cried, feeling my heart skip a beat. “What do you mean? What’s 
wrong?” 

Mom shook her head. “The cookies are gone,” she replied softly. “The dog 
found the box this morning and broke into it. I’m sorry, guys. But Sparky ate 
them all.” 



25 


Mom’s words sent a cold shiver down my back. I let out a weak moan. And 
stared down at Sparky. 

The dog gazed up at me and began wagging his stubby tail. As if he were 
pleased with himself! 

“You’ve ruined my life, Sparky!” That’s what I felt like screaming. “You 
greedy pig! Couldn’t you save me just one cookie? Now I’m doomed. Doomed 
to live with this gross, frightening face forever.” 

And all because Sparky loved black-and-white cookies as much as I did. 

Still wagging his tail, Sparky ran over to me and brushed his furry, black 
body against my leg. He wanted to be petted. 

Forget it, I thought. No way I’m petting you—you traitor. 

I heard Dad calling Mom from the den. “Have fun, guys,” Mom said. She 
waved to Carly Beth and me and hurried off to see what Dad wanted. 

Have fun, guys? 

I’m never going to have fun again, I realized. 

Feeling weak and defeated, I turned to Carly Beth. “Now what do we do?” I 
whispered. 

“Quick—pick up Sparky,” she whispered back, motioning to the dog with 
both hands. 

“Huh? Do what? I’m never touching this dog again!” I croaked miserably. 

Panting hard, his tongue hanging to the floor, Sparky brushed my ankle 
again. 

“Pick him up!” Carly Beth insisted. 

“Why?” 

“Sparky is your symbol of love!” Carly Beth declared. “Look at him, Steve. 
Look how much that dog loves you.” 

“He loves me so much, he ate all my cookies!” I wailed. 

Carly Beth frowned at me. “Forget about the cookies. Pick up the dog. 
Sparky is your symbol of love. Pick him up and hold him against you. And I’ll 
bet the mask will come right off.” 

“I guess it’s worth a try,” I said softly. I started to pick up the little black 
terrier. My back creaked as I bent down. My aching knees cracked. 



Please work! I pleaded silently. Please let this work! 

I reached for Sparky—and he darted through my hands and ran across the 
carpet toward the den. 

“Sparky—come back! Sparky!” I cried, still bent over, still reaching out 
both hands. 

The dog stopped halfway across the living room and turned back. 

“Come back, Sparky!” I called in my old man’s quivering voice. “Come 
back, boy! Come back to Steve!” 

His stubby tail started wagging again. He stared at me, head tilted, and 
didn’t move. 

“He’s playing games with me,” I told Carly Beth. “He wants me to chase 
him.” 

I got down on my knees and motioned to Sparky with both hands. “Come, 
boy! Come! I’m too old to chase you! Come, Sparky!” 

To my surprise, the dog let out a yip, ran back across the room, and jumped 
into my arms. 

“Hug him tight, Steve,” Carly Beth urged. “Hug him tight. It’s going to 
work. I know it will!” 

The little dog felt so heavy in my weak, aching arms. But I held him against 
my chest. Held him tight. 

Held him as tight as I could. 

Held him for a long, long time. 

And nothing happened. 



26 


After about a minute, the dog got tired of being squeezed. He jumped out of my 
arms, bounced over the carpet, and disappeared into the den. 

I tugged at the mask with both hands. 

But I knew I was wasting my strength. It didn’t feel any different. Nothing 
had changed. The hideous face was still tightly attached to my head. 

Carly Beth put a hand gently on my shoulder. “Sorry,” she murmured. “I 
guess each mask is different.” 

“You mean I need something else to get it off,” I said, shaking my old, 
spider-infested head sadly. 

Carly Beth nodded. “Yes. Something else. But we don’t know what it is.” 

I uttered a helpless cry. “I’m doomed!” I wailed. “I can’t even climb up off 
my knees!” 

Carly Beth slid both of her hands under my shoulders and lifted me to my 
feet. I steadied myself, leaning on the cane. 

And then I had an idea. 

“The man in the cape,” I croaked. “He’ll know what I can do.” 

“You’re right!” Carly Beth’s face brightened. “Yes, you’re right, Steve. He 
helped me last Halloween. If we go back to the party store, I know he’ll help 
you!” 

She started to pull me to the front door. But I held back. “There’s just one 
little problem,” I told her. 

She turned back to me. “Problem?” 

“Yeah,” I replied. “I forgot to tell you. The party store is closed. It went out 
of business.” 

We walked there anyway. Well, I didn’t exactly walk. I limped and hobbled, 
feeling weaker and more feeble every second. Carly Beth practically had to carry 
me. 

The streets stood empty, glimmering dimly under the rows of streetlamps. 
Lights were going out in all the houses. It was pretty late. All of the trick-or- 
treaters had gone home. 

Two dogs followed us down the street. Big German shepherds. Maybe they 



thought we’d share our Halloween candy with them. Of course, I didn’t have any 
Halloween candy. 

“Go away,” I snarled at them. “I don’t like dogs anymore. Dogs are 
useless!” 

To my surprise, they seemed to understand. They turned and went loping 
across a dark front lawn, disappearing around the side of the house. 

A few minutes later, we passed the row of small shops and stepped up in 
front of the party store. Dark. Empty. 

“Out of business,” I murmured. 

Carly Beth pounded on the front door. I peered into the blue shadows 
beyond the dusty front window. Nothing moved. No one in there. 

“Open up! We need help!” Carly Beth shouted. She banged on the wooden 
door with both fists. 

Silence inside. No one stirred. 

A cold wind swept down the street. I shivered. I tried to bury my ugly head 
in my shoulders. “Let’s go,” I mumbled. Defeated. 

Doomed. 

Carly Beth refused to give up. She pounded the door with both fists. 

I turned away from the window—and gazed at the alley beside the store. 
“Whoa. Wait,” I called to her. “Come over here.” 

I dragged myself to the alley. Carly Beth followed. She rubbed her 
knuckles. I guess they were sore from pounding so hard on the door. 

I could see from the sidewalk that the trapdoor was shut. But I led Carly 
Beth into the alley. We stopped beside the trapdoor. 

“It leads into the basement of the party store,” I explained. “All the masks 
and other stuff are down there.” 

“If we can get down there,” Carly Beth whispered, “maybe we can find a 
way to help you.” 

“Maybe,” I whispered back. 

Carly Beth bent down and grabbed the wire handle to the trapdoor. She 
tugged it up hard. 

The door didn’t budge. 

“I think it’s locked,” she groaned. 

“Try again,” I urged. “It sticks. It’s very hard to open.” 

She bent down, grasped the handle in both hands, and pulled again. 

This time the door swung up, revealing the concrete stairs that led down to 



the basement. 

“Come on. Hurry, Steve.” Carly Beth tugged my arm. 
My last chance, I thought. My last chance. 

Trembling, I followed her down into the heavy darkness. 



27 


We huddled close together as we made our way across the basement floor. Pale 
light from a streetlamp floated in through the open trapdoor. 

Across the room, I heard the steady drip drip drip I’d heard before. The 
large cartons stood just where Chuck and I had left them. Three or four of them 
were still open. 

“Well. Here we are,” Carly Beth murmured. Her words sounded hollow, 
echoing softly against the stone basement walls. Her eyes darted around the 
room, then stopped on me. “Now what?” 

I shrugged. “Search through the cartons, maybe?” 

I stepped over to the nearest one and peered inside. “This one has all the 
masks,” I told her. I picked up a monster mask covered in bristly fur. 

“Yuck,” Carly Beth groaned. “Put it down. We don’t need another mask.” 

I dropped the mask back into the carton. It made a soft plop as it landed on 
the other masks. 

“I don’t know what we need,” I said. “But maybe we can find 
something...” 

“Look at these!” Carly Beth cried. She had pulled open another carton. She 
held up some kind of jumpsuit. It had a long, pointy tail on the back. 

“What’s that?” I demanded, stepping around two cartons to get to her. 

“A costume,” she replied. She leaned into the carton and pulled out another 
one. A pair of furry tights covered with leopard spots. “The box is filled with 
costumes.” 

“Big deal,” I grumbled. “That’s not going to help me.” 

I sighed. “Nothing is going to help me.” 

Carly Beth didn’t seem to hear me. She leaned over the edge of the box and 
pulled out another costume. She held it up in front of her. A shiny black suit. 
Very fancy. Like a tuxedo. 

As I stared at it, my face began to tingle. 

“Put it down,” I said glumly. “We need to find—” 

“Oh, yuck!” Carly Beth cried. “This suit—it’s crawling with spiders!” 

“Huh?” I gasped. My face tingled harder. I heard a loud buzzing in my ears. 
The tingle became an itch. 



“Hey, I’ll bet this is the costume that goes with your mask!” Carly Beth 
declared. She carried it over to me. “See? Spiders and more spiders!” 

I scratched my itching cheeks. The itch was quickly becoming painful. I 
scratched harder. 

“Get it away from me! It’s making me itch!” I cried. 

Carly Beth ignored my plea. She held the shiny black suit up in front of me, 
beneath my itching, burning face. 

“See? You have the head—and this is the body that goes with it,” she said, 
holding it against me. Admiring it. 

“Put it away!” I shrieked. “My face—it’s burning! Ow!” 

I slapped frantically at my cheeks. My forehead. My chin. 

“Owwwwww!” I howled. “I feel so weird! What is happening to me?” 



28 


“It’s burning hot!” I shrieked. “Owwwwww/ What is happening ?” 

I grabbed the sides of my face, trying to soothe away the burning pain. 

As I gripped my cheeks, the face began to slide under my hands. 

I felt it begin to rise. Up, up. 

I pulled my hands away—as the old man’s head slid over my head. Lifted 
off. Floated up. 

Cool air greeted my cheeks. I took a deep breath of the cold, fresh air. 

The craggy old head hovered above me for a moment. Then it floated 
toward the shiny black suit in Carly Beth’s hand. 

The head floated down onto the collar of the suit. 

Carly Beth let out a startled cry as the suit’s arms thrashed out. The trouser 
legs kicked. The suit twitched and squirmed as if trying to break free. 

Carly Beth let go of it and jumped back. 

A smile spread over the ugly old face. The suit legs lowered themselves to 
the floor. The old man performed a little dance, arms flapping, trouser legs 
hopping. 

And then he turned away from us. The head attached to the suit. The trouser 
legs bent at the knees, he shuffled toward the steps. 

Carly Beth and I both cried out in shock as the old man climbed up the 
steps and disappeared out the trapdoor. 

We stood there, eyes bulging, mouths wide-open. We stared at the opening 
at the top of the stairs. Stared in silence. Stared in amazement. 

And then we both began to laugh. 

We fell on each other, laughing, laughing till tears rolled down our cheeks. 

I laughed louder and harder than I had ever laughed. Because I was 
laughing in my voice. Laughing with my face. My real face. 

The old-man face found its body—and escaped. 

And now I was me again! 

This had to be the best Halloween ever! I had never been so happy in all my 
life just to have things normal. 

Carly Beth and I danced down the street as we made our way home. We 



sang at the top of our lungs. Sang and twirled each other around. 

And danced and strutted down the middle of the street. 

We were both so happy! 

We were half a block from my house—when the creature leaped out from 
behind a hedge. 

It opened its jaws in a broken-toothed roar. 

Carly Beth and I grabbed each other and uttered shrill cries of terror. 

The creature had bright purple skin that glowed in the light from the 
streetlamp. Fiery red eyes. A mouth full of broken, rotting teeth. And a fat, 
brown worm poking out from the middle of its cheek. 

“Huh?” I stared at the worm as it bobbed from the creature’s skin. Stared at 
the frightening purple face. 

And recognized it. 

“Chuck!” I cried. 

He let out a hoarse laugh from behind the mask. “I gotcha!” he bellowed. “I 
got both of you! You should have seen the looks on your faces!” 

“Chuck—” 

“I’ve been waiting here. Waiting to surprise you,” he rasped. The disgusting 
worm bobbed up and down in his cheek as he talked. 

“You didn’t see me grab this mask when I ran out of that store basement,” 
he growled. “I kept it a secret. I wanted to give you a good scare.” 

“You scared me to death!” Carly Beth admitted, giving him a playful shove. 
“Now take off the mask and let’s go to my house.” 

“Uh... I have a problem,” Chuck replied, lowering his voice. 

“Problem?” 

Chuck nodded. “I’m having a little trouble getting this mask off. Think you 
guys could help me?” 



THE HEADLESS GHOST 

Goosebumps - 37 
R.L. Stine 



1 


Stephanie Alpert and I haunt our neighborhood. 

We got the idea last Halloween. 

There are a lot of kids in our neighborhood, and we like to haunt them and 
give them a little scare. 

Sometimes we sneak out late at night in masks and stare into kids’ 
windows. Sometimes we leave rubber hands and rubber fingers on windowsills. 
Sometimes we hide disgusting things in mailboxes. 

Sometimes Stephanie and I duck down behind bushes or trees and make the 
most frightening sounds—animal howls and ghostly moans. Stephanie can do a 
terrifying werewolf howl. And I can toss back my head and shriek loud enough 
to shake the leaves on the trees. 

We keep almost all the kids on our block pretty frightened. 

In the mornings, we catch them peeking out their doors, seeing if it’s safe to 
come out. And at night, most of them are afraid to leave their houses alone. 

Stephanie and I are really proud of that. 

During the day we are just Stephanie Alpert and Duane Comack, two 
normal twelve-year-olds. But at night, we become the Twin Terrors of Wheeler 
Falls. 

No one knows. No one. 

Look at us, and you see two sixth graders at Wheeler Middle School. Both 
of us have brown eyes and brown hair. Both of us are tall and thin. Stephanie is a 
few inches taller because she has higher hair. 

Some people see us hanging out together and think we’re brother and sister. 
But we’re not. We don’t have any brothers and sisters, and we don’t mind one 
bit. 

We live across the street from one another. We walk to school together in 
the morning. We usually trade lunches, even though our parents both pack us 
peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches. 

We’re normal. Totally normal. 

Except for our secret late-night hobby. 

How did we become the Twin Terrors? Well, it’s sort of a long story.... 



Last Halloween was a cool, clear night. A full moon floated over the bare trees. 

I was standing outside Stephanie’s front window in my scary Grim Reaper 
costume. I stood up on tiptoes, trying to peek inside to check out her costume. 

“Hey—beat it, Duane! No looking!” she shouted through the closed 
window. Then she pulled down the shade. 

“I wasn’t looking. I was just stretching!” I shouted back. 

I was eager to see what Stephanie was going to be. Every Halloween, she 
comes up with something awesome. The year before, she came waddling out 
inside a huge ball of green toilet paper. You guessed it. She was an iceberg 
lettuce. 

But this year I thought maybe I had her beat. 

I’d worked really hard on my Grim Reaper costume. I wore high platform 
shoes—so high that I’d tower over Stephanie. My black, hooded cape swung 
along the ground. I hid my curly brown hair under a tight rubber skullcap. And I 
smeared my face with sick-looking makeup, the color you see on moldy bread. 

My dad didn’t want to look at me. He said I turned his stomach. 

A success! 

I couldn’t wait to make Stephanie sick! I banged my Grim Reaper sickle on 
Stephanie’s window. “Hey, Steph—hurry up!” I called. “I’m getting hungry. I 
want candy!” 

I waited and waited. I started pacing back and forth across her front lawn, 
my long cape sweeping over the grass and dead leaves. 

“Hey! Where are you?” I called again. 

No Stephanie. 

With an impatient groan, I turned back to the house. 

And a huge, hairy animal jumped me from behind and chewed off my head. 



2 


Well, it didn’t really chew off my head. 

But it tried to. 

It growled and tried to sink its gleaming fangs into my throat. 

I staggered back. The creature looked like an enormous black cat, covered 
in thick, black bristles. Gobs of yellow goo poured from its hairy ears and black 
nose. Its long, pointed fangs glowed in the dark. 

The creature snarled again and shot out a hairy paw. “Candy... give me all 
your candy!” 

“Stephanie—?” I choked out. It was Stephanie. Wasn’t it? 

The creature jabbed its claws into my stomach in reply. That’s when I 
recognized Stephanie’s Mickey Mouse watch on its hairy wrist. 

“Wow. Stephanie, you look awesome! You really—” I didn’t finish. 
Stephanie ducked behind the hedge and yanked me down beside her. 

My knees hit the sidewalk hard. “Ow! Are you crazy?” I shrieked. “What’s 
the big idea?” 

A group of little kids in costumes paraded by. Stephanie leapt out of the 
hedge. “Arrrggghhh!” she growled. 

The little kids totally freaked. They turned and started to run. Three of them 
dropped their trick-or-treat bags. Stephanie scooped up the bags. “Yummmm!” 

“Whoa! You really scared them,” I said, watching the little kids run up the 
street. “That was cool.” 

Stephanie started to laugh. She has a high, silly laugh that always starts me 
laughing, too. It sounds like a chicken being tickled. “That was kind of fun,” she 
replied. “More fun than trick-or-treating.” 

So we spent the rest of the night scaring kids. 

We didn’t get much candy. But we had a great time. 

“I wish we could do this every night!” I exclaimed as we walked home. 

“We can,” Stephanie said, grinning. “It doesn’t have to be Halloween to 
scare kids, Duane. Get my meaning?” 

I got her meaning. 

She tossed back her bristly head and let out her chicken laugh. And I 
laughed, too. 



And that’s how Stephanie and I started haunting our neighborhood. Late at 
night, the Twin Terrors strike, up and down our neighborhood. We’re 
everywhere! 

Well... almost everywhere. 

There’s one place in our neighborhood that even Stephanie and I are afraid 
of. 

It’s an old stone house on the next block. It’s called Hill House. I guess 
that’s because it sits up on a high hill on Hill Street. 

I know. I know. A lot of towns have a haunted house. 

But Hill House really is haunted. 

Stephanie and I know that for sure. 

Because that’s where we met the Headless Ghost. 



3 


Hill House is the biggest tourist attraction in Wheeler Falls. Actually, it’s the 
only one. 

Maybe you’ve heard of Hill House. It’s written up in a lot of books. 

Tour guides in creepy black uniforms give the Hill House tour every hour. 
The guides will act real scary and tell frightening stories about the house. Some 
of the ghost stories give me cold shivers. 

Stephanie and I love to take the tour—especially with Otto. Otto is our 
favorite guide. 

Otto is big and bald and scary-looking. He has tiny black eyes that seem to 
stare right through you. And he has a booming voice that comes from deep 
inside his huge chest. 

Sometimes when Otto leads us from room to room in the old house, he 
lowers his voice to a whisper. He talks so low, we can barely hear him. Then his 
tiny eyes will bulge. He’ll point—and scream: “There’s the ghost! There!” 

Stephanie and I always scream. 

Even Otto’s smile is scary. 

Stephanie and I have taken the Hill House tour so often, we could probably 
be tour guides. We know all the creepy old rooms. All the places where ghosts 
have been spotted. 

Real ghosts! 

It’s the kind of place we love. 

Do you want to know the story of Hill House? Well, here’s the story that 
Otto, Edna, and the other guides tell: 

Hill House is two hundred years old. And it’s been haunted practically from the 
day the stones were gathered to build it. 

A young sea captain built the house for his new bride. But the day the big 
house was finished, the captain was called out to sea. 

His young wife moved into the huge house all alone. It was cold and dark, 
and the rooms and hallways seemed to stretch on forever. 

For months and months, she stared out of their bedroom window. The 
window that faced the river. Waiting patiently for the captain’s return. 



Winter passed. Then spring, then summer. 

But he never came back. 

The captain was lost at sea. 

One year after the sea captain disappeared, a ghost appeared in the halls of 
Hill House. The ghost of the young sea captain. He had come back from the 
dead, back to find his wife. 

Every night he floated through the long, twisting halls. He carried a lantern 
and called out his wife’s name. “Annabel! Annabel!” 

But Annabel never answered. 

In her grief, she had fled from the old house. She never wanted to see it 
again. 

Another family had moved in. As the years passed, many people heard the 
ghost’s nightly calls. “Annabel! Annabel!” Through the twisting halls and cold 
rooms of the house. 

“Annabel! Annabel!” 

People heard the sad, frightening calls. But no one ever saw the ghost. 

Then, one hundred years ago, a family named Craw bought the house. The 
Craws had a thirteen-year-old boy named Andrew. 

Andrew was a nasty, mean-natured boy. He delighted in playing cruel tricks 
on the servants. He scared them out of their wits. 

He once threw a cat out of a window. He was disappointed when it 
survived. 

Even Andrew’s own parents couldn’t stand to spend time with the mean- 
tempered boy. He spent his days on his own, exploring the old mansion, looking 
for trouble he could get into. 

One day he discovered a room he had never explored before. He pushed 
open the heavy wooden door. It let out a loud creak. 

Then he stepped inside. 

A lantern glowed dimly on a small table. The boy saw no other furniture in 
the large room. No one at the table. 

“How strange,” he thought. “Why should I find a burning lantern in an 
empty room?” 

Andrew approached the lantern. As he leaned down to lower the wick, the 
ghost appeared. 

The sea captain! 

Over the years, the ghost had grown into an old and terrifying creature. He 



had long, white fingernails that curled in spirals. Cracked, black teeth poked out 
from between swollen, dry lips. And a scraggly white beard hid the ghost’s face 
from view. 

The boy stared in horror. “Who—who are you?” he stammered. 

The ghost didn’t utter a word. He floated in the yellow lantern light, glaring 
hard at the boy. 

“Who are you? What do you want? Why are you here?” the boy demanded. 

When the ghost still didn’t reply, Andrew turned—and tried to run. 

But before he moved two steps, he felt the ghost’s cold breath on his neck. 

Andrew grabbed for the door. But the old ghost swirled around him, swirled 
darkly, a swirl of black smoke in the dim yellow fight. 

“No! Stop!” the boy screamed. “Let me go!” 

The ghost’s mouth gaped open, revealing a bottomless black hole. Finally, it 
spoke—in a whisper that sounded like the scratch of dead leaves. “Now that you 
have seen me, you cannot leave.” 

“No!” The boy shrieked. “Let me go! Let me go!” 

The ghost ignored the boy’s cries. He repeated his dry, cold words: “Now 
that you have seen me, you cannot leave.” 

The old ghost raised his hands to the boy’s head. His icy fingers spread over 
Andrew’s face. The hands tightened. Tightened. 

Do you know what happened next? 



4 


The ghost pulled off the boy’s head—and hid it somewhere in the house! 

After hiding the head, hiding it away in the huge, dark mansion, the ghost 
of the sea captain let out a final howl that made the heavy stone walls tremble. 

The terrifying howl ended with the cry, “Annabel! Annabel!” 

Then the old ghost disappeared forever. 

But Hill House was not freed from ghosts. A new ghost now haunted the 
endless, twisting halls. 

From then on, Andrew haunted Hill House. Every night the ghost of the 
poor boy searched the halls and rooms, looking for his missing head. 

All through the house, say Otto and the other tour guides, you can hear the 
footsteps of the Headless Ghost, searching, always searching. 

And each room of the house now has a terrifying story of its own. 

Are the stories true? 

Well, Stephanie and I believe them. That’s why we take the tour so often. 

We must have explored the old place at least a hundred times. 

Hill House is such awesome fun. 

At least it was fun—until Stephanie had another one of her bright ideas. 

After Stephanie’s bright idea, Hill House wasn’t fun anymore. 

Hill House became a truly scary place. 



5 


The trouble started a few weeks ago when Stephanie suddenly got bored. 

It was about ten o’clock at night. We were out haunting the neighborhood. 
We did our terrifying wolf howl outside Geena Jeffers’ window. Then we went 
next door to Terri Abel’s house. We put some chicken bones in her mailbox— 
just because it’s creepy to reach in your mailbox and feel bones. 

Then we crept across the street to Ben Fuller’s house. 

Ben was our last stop for the night. Ben is a kid in our class, and we have a 
special scare for him. 

You see, he’s afraid of bugs, which makes him really easy to scare. 

Even though it’s pretty cold out, he sleeps with his bedroom window open. 
So Stephanie and I like to step up to his window and toss rubber spiders onto 
Ben as he sleeps. 

The rubber spiders tickle his face. He wakes up. And starts to scream. 

Every time. 

He always thinks the spiders are real. 

He screams and tries to scramble out of bed. He gets all tangled in his 
covers and thuds onto the floor. 

Then Stephanie and I congratulate each other on a job well done. And we 
go home to bed. 

But tonight, as we tossed the rubber spiders at Ben’s sleeping face, 
Stephanie turned to me and whispered, “I just had a great idea.” 

“Huh?” I started to reply. But Ben’s scream interrupted me. 

We listened to him scream, then thud to the floor. 

Stephanie and I slapped each other a high five. Then we took off, running 
across the dark backyards, our sneakers thumping the hard, nearly-frozen 
ground. 

We stopped in front of the split oak tree in my front yard. The tree trunk is 
completely split in two. But Dad doesn’t have the heart to have the tree taken 
away. 

“What is your great idea?” I asked Stephanie breathlessly. 

Her dark eyes flashed. “I’ve been thinking. Every time we go out to haunt 
the neighborhood, we scare the same old kids. It’s starting to get boring.” 



I wasn’t bored. But I knew that once Stephanie gets an idea, there’s no 
stopping her. “So, do you want to find some new kids to scare?” I asked. 

“No. Not new kids. Something else.” She began to walk around the tree. 
Circling it. “We need a new challenge.” 

“Like what?” I asked. 

“Our scares are all kid stuff,” she complained. “We make some spooky 
sounds, toss a few things inside an open window—and everyone is frightened to 
death. It’s too easy.” 

“Yeah,” I agreed. “But it’s funny.” 

She ignored me. She stuck her head through the split in the tree trunk. 
“Duane, what’s the scariest place in Wheeler Falls?” 

That was easy. “Hill House, of course,” I answered. 

“Right. And what makes it so scary?” 

“All the ghost stories. But especially the one about the boy searching for his 
head.” 

“Yes!” Stephanie cried. All I could see now was her head, poking through 
the split oak tree. “The Headless Ghost!” she cried in a deep voice, and let out a 
long, scary laugh. 

“What’s your problem?” I demanded. “Are you trying to haunt me now?” 

Her head seemed to float in the darkness. “We need to haunt Hill House,” 
she declared in a whisper. 



6 


“Excuse me?” I cried. “Stephanie, what are you talking about?” 

“We’ll take the Hill House tour and sneak off on our own,” Stephanie 
replied thoughtfully. 

I shook my head. “Give me a break. Why would we do that?” 

Stephanie’s face seemed to glow, floating by itself in the tree trunk. “We’ll 
sneak off on our own—to search for the ghost’s head.” 

I stared back at her. “You’re kidding, right?” 

I walked behind the tree and tugged her away from it. The floating head 
trick was starting to give me the creeps. 

“No, Duane, I’m not kidding,” she replied, shoving me away. “We need a 
challenge. We need something new. Prowling around the neighborhood, 
terrifying everyone we know—that’s just kid stuff. Bor-ring.” 

“But you don’t believe the story about the missing head—do you?” I 
protested. “It’s just a ghost story. We can search and search. But there is no head. 
It’s all a story they made up for the tourists.” 

Stephanie narrowed her eyes at me. “I think you’re scared, Duane.” 

“Huh? Me?” My voice got pretty shrill. 

A cloud rolled over the moon, making my front yard even darker. A chill 
ran down my back. I pulled my jacket around me tighter. 

“I’m not afraid to sneak off from the tour and search Hill House on our 
own,” I told Stephanie. “I just think it’s a big waste of time.” 

“Duane, you’re shivering,” she teased. “Shivering with fright.” 

“I am not!” I screamed. “Come on. Let’s go to Hill House. Right now. I’ll 
show you.” 

A grin spread over Stephanie’s face. She tossed back her head and let out a 
long howl. A victory howl. “This is going to be the coolest thing the Twin 
Terrors have ever done!” she cried, slapping me a high five that made my hand 
sting. 

She dragged me up Hill Street. The whole way there, I didn’t say one word. 
Was I afraid? 

Maybe a little. 

We climbed the steep, weed-choked hill and stood before the front steps of 



Hill House. The old house looked even bigger at night. Three stories tall. With 
turrets and balconies and dozens of windows, all dark and shuttered. 

All the houses in our neighborhood are brick or clapboard. Hill House is the 
only one made out of stone slabs. Dark gray slabs. 

I always have to hold my breath when I stand close to Hill House. The 
stone is covered with a blanket of thick green moss. Two hundred years of it. 
Putrid, moldy moss that doesn’t exactly smell like a flower garden. 

I peered up. Up at the round turret that stretched to the purple sky. A 
gargoyle, carved in stone, perched at the very top. It grinned down at us, as if 
challenging us to go inside. 

My knees suddenly felt weak. 

The house stood in total darkness, except for a single candle over the front 
doorway. But the tours were still going on. The last tour left at ten-thirty every 
night. The guides said the late tours were the best—the best time to see a ghost. 

I read the sign etched in stone beside the door. ENTER HILL HOUSE— 
AND YOUR LIFE WILL BE CHANGED. FOREVER. 

I’d read that sign a hundred times. I always thought it was funny—in a 
corny sort of way. 

But tonight it gave me the creeps. 

Tonight was going to be different. 

“Come on,” Stephanie said, pulling me by the hand. “We’re just in time for 
the next tour.” 

The candle flickered. The heavy wooden door swung open. By itself. I 
don’t know how, but it always does that. 

“Well, are you coming or not?” Stephanie demanded, stepping into the dark 
entryway. 

“Coming,” I gulped. 



7 


Otto met us as we stepped inside the door. Otto always reminds me of an 
enormous dolphin. He has a big, smooth bald head. And he’s sort of shaped like 
a dolphin. He must weigh about three hundred pounds! 

Otto was dressed entirely in black, as always. Black shirt. Black pants. 
Black socks. Black shoes. And gloves—you guessed it—black. It’s the uniform 
that all the tour guides wear. 

“Look who’s here!” he called. “Stephanie and Duane!” He broke out into a 
wide grin. His tiny eyes flashed in the candlelight. 

“Our favorite guide!” Stephanie greeted him. “Are we in time for the next 
tour?” 

We pushed through the turnstile without paying. We’re such regulars at Hill 
House that they don’t even charge us anymore. 

“About five minutes, guys,” Otto told us. “You two are out late tonight, 
huh?” 

“Yeah... well,” Stephanie hesitated. “It’s more fun to take the tour at night. 
Isn’t it, Duane?” She jabbed my side. 

“You can say that again,” I mumbled. 

We moved into the front hall with some others who were waiting for the 
tour to begin. Teenagers mostly, out on dates. 

The front hall is bigger than my living room and dining room put together. 
And except for the winding staircase in the center, it’s completely bare. No 
furniture at all. 

Shadows tossed across the floor. I gazed around the room. No electric 
lights. Small torches were hung from the peeling, cracked walls. The orange 
torchlight flickered and bent. 

In the dancing light, I counted the people around me. Nine of them. 
Stephanie and I were the only kids. 

Otto lighted a lantern and crossed to the front of the hall. He held it up high 
and cleared his throat. 

Stephanie and I grinned at each other. Otto always starts the tour the same 
way. He thinks the lantern adds atmosphere. 

“Ladies and gentlemen,” he boomed. “Welcome to Hill House. We hope 



you will survive your tour tonight.” Then he gave a low, evil laugh. 

Stephanie and I mouthed Otto’s next words along with him: 

“In 1795, a prosperous sea captain, William P. Bell, built himself a home on 
the highest hill in Wheeler Falls. It was the finest home ever built here at the 
time—three stories high, nine fireplaces, and over thirty rooms. 

“Captain Bell spared no expense. Why? Because he hoped to retire here and 
finish his days in splendor with his young and beautiful wife. But it was not to 
be.” 

Otto cackled, and so did Stephanie and I. We knew every move Otto had. 

Otto went on. “Captain Bell died at sea in a terrible shipwreck—before he 
ever had a chance to live in his beautiful house. His young bride, Annabel, fled 
the house in horror and sorrow.” 

Now Otto’s voice dropped. “But soon after Annabel left, strange things 
began to happen in Hill House.” 

This was Otto’s cue to start walking toward the winding stairs. The old, 
wooden staircase is narrow and creaky. When Otto starts to climb, the stairs 
groan and grumble beneath him as if in pain. 

Keeping silent, we followed Otto up the stairs to the first floor. Stephanie 
and I love this part, because Otto doesn’t say a word the whole time. He just 
huffs along in the darkness while everyone tries to keep up with him. 

He starts talking again when he reaches Captain Bell’s bedroom. A big, 
wood-paneled room with a fireplace and a view of the river. 

“Soon after Captain Bell’s widow ran away,” Otto reported, “people in 
Wheeler Falls began reporting strange sightings. Sightings of a man who 
resembled Captain Bell. He was always seen here, standing by his window, 
holding his lantern aloft.” 

Otto moved to the window and raised his lantern. “On a windless night, if 
you listened carefully, you could sometimes hear him calling out her name in a 
low, mournful voice.” 

Otto took a deep breath, then called softly: “Annabel. Annabel. Annabel...” 

Otto swung the lantern back and forth for effect. By now, he had everyone’s 
complete attention. 

“But of course, there’s more,” he whispered. 



8 


As we followed him through the upstairs rooms, Otto told us how Captain Bell 
haunted the house for about a hundred years. “People who moved into Hill 
House tried all kinds of ways to get rid of the ghost. But it was determined to 
stay.” 

Then Otto told everyone about the boy finding the ghost and getting his 
head pulled off. “The ghost of the sea captain vanished. The headless ghost of 
the boy continued to haunt the house. But that wasn’t the end of it.” 

Into the long, dark hallway now. Torches darting and flickering along the 
walls. “Tragedy continued to haunt Hill House,” Otto continued. “Shortly after 
young Andrew Craw’s death, his twelve-year-old sister Hannah went mad. Let’s 
go to her room next.” 

He led us down the hall to Hannah’s room. 

Stephanie loves Hannah’s room. Hannah collected porcelain dolls. And she 
had hundreds of them. All with the same long yellow hair, painted rosy cheeks, 
and blue-tinted eyelids. 

“After her brother was killed, Hannah went crazy,” Otto told us all in a 
hushed voice. “All day long, for eighty years, she sat in her rocking chair over 
there in the corner. And she played with her dolls. She never left her room. 
Ever.” 

He pointed to a worn rocking chair. “Hannah died there. An old lady 
surrounded by her dolls.” 

The floorboards creaked under him as Otto crossed the room. Setting the 
lantern down, he lowered his big body into the rocking chair. 

The chair made a cracking sound. I always think Otto is going to crush it! 
He started to rock. Slowly. The chair groaned with each move. We all watched 
him in silence. 

“Some people swear that poor Hannah is still here,” he said softly. “They 
say they’ve seen a young girl sitting in this chair, combing a doll’s hair.” 

He rocked slowly, letting the idea sink in. “And—then we come to the story 
of Hannah’s mother.” 

With a grunt, Otto pulled himself to his feet. He grabbed up the lantern and 
made his way to the top of the long, dark stairway at the end of the hall. 



“Soon after her son’s tragedy, the mother met her own terrible fate. She was 
on her way down these stairs one night when she tripped and fell to her death.” 

Otto gazed down the stairs and shook his head sadly. 

He does this every time. As I said, Stephanie and I know his every move. 

But we hadn’t come here tonight to watch Otto perform. I knew that sooner 
or later, Stephanie would want to get going. So I started glancing around. To see 
if it was a good time for us to sneak away from the others. 

And that’s when I saw the strange kid. Watching us. 

I didn’t see him when we first came in. In fact, I’m sure he wasn’t there 
when the tour started. I had counted nine people. No kids. 

The boy was about our age, with wavy blond hair and pale skin. Very pale 
skin. He was wearing black jeans and a black turtleneck that made his face look 
even whiter. 

I edged over to Stephanie. She was hanging back from the group. 

“You ready?” she whispered. 

Otto had started back down the stairs. If we were going to sneak away from 
the tour, now was the time. 

But I could see that weird kid still staring at us. 

Staring hard. 

He was giving me the creeps. 

“We can’t go. Someone’s watching us,” I whispered to Stephanie. 

“Who?” 

“That weird kid over there.” I motioned with my eyes. 

He was still staring at us. He didn’t even try to be polite and turn away 
when we caught him. 

Why was he watching us like that? What was his problem ? 

Something told me we should wait. Something told me not to hide from the 
others just yet. 

But Stephanie had other ideas. “Forget him,” she said. “He’s nobody.” She 
grabbed my arm—and tugged. “Let’s go!” 

We pressed against the cold wall of the hallway and watched the others 
follow Otto down the stairs. 

I held my breath until I heard the last footsteps leave the stairway. We were 
alone now. Alone in the long, dark hall. 

I turned to Stephanie. I could barely see her face. “Now what?” I asked. 



9 


“Now we do some exploring on our own!” Stephanie declared, rubbing her 
hands together. “This is so exciting!” 

I gazed down the long hallway. I didn’t feel real excited. I felt kind of 
scared. 

I heard a low groan from a room across the hall. The ceiling creaked above 
our heads. The wind rattled the windows in the room we had just come from. 

“Steph—are you sure—?” I started. 

But she was already hurrying down the hall, walking on tiptoes to keep the 
floors from squeaking. “Come on, Duane. Let’s search for the ghost’s head,” she 
whispered back to me, her dark hair flying behind her. “Who knows? We might 
find it.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” I rolled my eyes. 

I didn’t think the chances were too good. How do you find a hundred-year- 
old head? And what if you do find it? 

Yuck! 

What would it look like? Just a skull? 

I followed Stephanie down the hall. But I really didn’t want to be there. I 
like haunting the neighborhood and scaring other people. 

I don’t like scaring myself! 

Stephanie led the way into a bedroom we had seen on other tours. It was 
called the Green Room. Because the wallpaper was decorated with green vines. 
Tangle after tangle of green vines. Up and down the walls and across the ceiling, 
too. 

How could anyone sleep in here? I wondered. It was like being trapped in a 
thick jungle. 

We both stopped inside the doorway and stared at the tangles of vines on all 
sides of us. Stephanie and I call the Green Room by another name. The 
Scratching Room. 

Otto once told us that something terrible happened here sixty years ago. 
The two guests who stayed in the room woke up with a disgusting purple rash. 

The rash started on their hands and arms. It spread to their faces. Then it 
spread over their entire bodies. 



Big purple sores that itched like crazy. 

Doctors from all around the world were called to study the rash. They 
couldn’t figure out what it was. And they couldn’t figure out how to cure it. 

Something in the Green Room caused the rash. 

But no one ever figured out what it was. 

That’s the story Otto and the other guides tell. It might be true. All the 
weird, scary stories Otto tells might be true. Who knows? 

“Come on, Duane!” Stephanie prodded. “Let’s look for the head. We don’t 
have much time before Otto sees that we’re missing.” 

She trotted across the room and dove under the bed. 

“Steph—please!” I started. I stepped carefully over to the low, wooden 
dresser in the corner. 

“We’re not going to find a ghost’s head in here. Let’s go,” I pleaded. 

She couldn’t hear me. She had climbed under the bed. 

“Steph—?” 

After a few seconds, she backed out. As she turned toward me, I saw that 
her face was bright red. 

“Duane!” she cried. “I... I...” 

Her dark eyes bulged. Her mouth dropped open in horror. She grabbed the 
sides of her face. 

“What is it? What’s wrong?” I cried, stumbling across the room toward her. 

“Ohhh, it itches! It itches so badly!” Stephanie wailed. 

I started to cry out. But my voice got caught in my throat. 

Stephanie began to rub her face. She frantically rubbed her cheeks, her 
forehead, her chin. 

“Owwww. It itches! It really itches!” She started to scratch her scalp with 
both hands. 

I grabbed her arm and tried to pull her up from the floor. “The rash! Let’s 
get you home!” I cried. “Come on! Your parents will get the doctor! And... 
and...” 

I stopped when I saw that she was laughing. 

I dropped her arm and stepped back. 

She stood up, straightening her hair. “Duane, you jerk,” she muttered. “Are 
you going to fall for every dumb joke tonight?” 

“No way!” I replied angrily. “I just thought—” 

She gave me a shove. “You’re too easy to scare. How could you fall for 



such a stupid joke?” 

I shoved her back. “Just don’t pull any more dumb jokes, okay?” I snarled. 
“I mean it, Stephanie. I don’t think it’s funny. I really don’t. I’m not going to fall 
for any more stupid jokes. So don’t even try.” 

She wasn’t listening to me. She was staring over my shoulder. Staring in 
open-mouthed shock. 

“Oh, I d-don’t believe it!” she stammered. “There it is! There’s the head!” 



10 


I fell for it again. 

I couldn’t help myself. 

I let out a shrill scream. 

I spun around so hard, I nearly knocked myself over. I followed Stephanie’s 
finger. I squinted hard in the direction she pointed. 

She was pointing to a gray clump of dust. 

“Sucker! Sucker!” She slapped me on the back and started to giggle. 

I uttered a low growl and balled my hands into tight fists. But I didn’t say 
anything. I could feel my face burning. I knew that I was blushing. 

“You’re too easy to scare, Duane,” Stephanie teased again. “Admit it.” 

“Let’s just get back to the tour,” I grumbled. 

“No way, Duane. This is fun. Let’s try the next room. Come on.” 

When she saw that I wasn’t following her, she said, “I won’t scare you like 
that anymore. Promise.” 

I saw that her fingers were crossed. But I followed her anyway. 

What choice did I have? 

We crept through the narrow hall that connected us to the next room. And 
found ourselves in Andrew’s room. Poor, headless Andrew. 

It still had all his old stuff in it. Games and toys from a hundred years ago. 
An old-fashioned wooden bicycle leaning against one wall. 

Everything just the way it was. Before Andrew met up with the sea 
captain’s ghost. 

A lantern on the dresser cast blue shadows on the walls. I didn’t know if I 
believed the ghost story or not. But something told me that if Andrew’s head 
were anywhere, we’d find it here. In his room. 

Under his old-fashioned-looking canopy bed. Or hidden under his dusty, 
faded toys. 

Stephanie tiptoed over to the toys. She bent down and started to move 
things aside. Little wooden bowling pins. An old-fashioned board game, the 
colors all faded to brown. A set of metal toy soldiers. 

“Check around the bed, Duane,” she whispered. 



I started across the room. “Steph, we shouldn’t be touching this stuff. You 
know the tour guides never let us touch anything.” 

Stephanie set down an old wooden top. “Do you want to find the head or 
not?” 

“You really think there’s a ghost’s head hidden in this house?” 

“Duane, that’s what we’re here to find out—right?” 

I sighed and stepped over to the bed. I could see there was no use arguing 
with Stephanie tonight. 

I ducked my head under the purple canopy and studied the bed. A boy 
actually slept in this bed, I told myself. 

Andrew actually slept under this quilt. A hundred years ago. 

The thought gave me a chill. 

I tried to picture a boy about my age sleeping in this heavy, old bed. 

“Go ahead. Check out the bed,” Stephanie instructed from across the room. 

I leaned over and patted the gray and brown patchwork quilt. It felt cold 
and smooth. 

I punched the pillows. They felt soft and feathery. Nothing hidden inside 
the pillow cases. 

I was about to test the mattress when the quilt began to move. 

It rustled over the sheets. A soft, scratchy sound. 

Then, as I stared in horror, the gray and brown quilt began to slide down the 

bed. 

There was no one in the bed. No one! 

But someone was pushing the quilt down, down to the bottom of the bed. 



11 


I swallowed a scream. 

“You’ve got to move faster, Duane,” Stephanie said. 

I turned and saw her standing at the end of the bed. Holding the bottom of 
the quilt in both hands. 

“We don’t have all night!” she declared. She pulled the quilt down farther. 
“Nothing in the bed. Come on. Let’s move on.” 

A sigh escaped my lips. Stephanie had tugged down the quilt and scared me 
again. 

No ghost in the bed. No ghost pushing down the covers to climb out and 
grab me. 

Only Stephanie. 

At least this time she hadn’t seen how frightened I was. 

We worked together to pull the quilt back into place. She smiled at me. 
“This is kind of fun,” she said. 

“For sure,” I agreed. I hoped she couldn’t see that I was still shaking. “It’s a 
lot more fun than tossing rubber spiders into Ben Fuller’s bedroom window.” 

“I like being in this house so late at night. I like sneaking off from the 
group. I can feel a ghost lurking nearby,” Stephanie whispered. 

“You c-can?” I stammered, glancing quickly around the room. 

My eyes stopped at the bottom of the door to the hallway. 

There it sat. On the floor. Wedged between the door and the wall. Half- 
hidden in deep shadow. 

The head. 

This time, I saw the head. 

Not a joke. Not a cruel trick. 

Through the gray-black shadows, I saw the round skull. And I saw the two 
black eye sockets. Empty eye sockets. Two dark holes in the skull. 

Staring up at me. 

Staring. 

I grabbed Stephanie’s arm. I started to point. 

But there was no need. 



Stephanie saw it, too. 



12 


I was the first to move. I took a step toward the door. Then another. 

I heard sharp gasps. Someone breathing hard. Close behind me. 

It took me a few seconds to realize it was Stephanie. 

Keeping my eyes on the head, I made my way into the dark corner. My 
heart started to pound as I bent down and reached for it with both hands. 

The black eye sockets stared up at me. Round, sad eyes. 

My hands trembled. 

I started to scoop it up. 

But it slipped out of my hands. And started to roll away. 

Stephanie let out a cry as the head rolled over the floor toward her. 

In the orange light from the lantern, I saw her frightened expression. I saw 
that she was frozen there. 

The head rolled over the floor and bumped against her sneaker. It came to a 
stop inches in front of her. 

The empty black eye sockets stared up at her. 

“Duane—” she called, staring down at it, hands pressed against her cheeks. 
“I didn’t think—I didn’t really think we’d find it. I—I—” 

I hurried back across the room. It’s my turn to be the brave one, I decided. 
My turn to show Stephanie that I’m not a wimp who’s afraid of every shadow. 
My turn to show Stephanie. 

I scooped up the ghost’s head in both hands. I raised it in front of Stephanie. 
Then I moved toward the lantern on the dressertop. 

The head felt hard. Smoother than I thought. 

The eye sockets were deep. 

Stephanie stayed close by my side. Together we made our way into the 
orange lantern light. 

I let out a groan when I realized I wasn’t carrying a ghost’s head. 

Stephanie groaned too when she saw what I held in my hands. 



13 


A bowling ball. 

I was carrying an old wooden bowling ball, the pale wood cracked and 
chipped. 

“I don’t believe it,” Stephanie murmured, slapping her forehead. 

My eyes went to the wooden bowling pins, lying among Andrew’s old toys. 
“This must be the ball that went with those pins,” I said softly. 

Stephanie grabbed it from me and turned it between her hands. “But it only 
has two holes.” 

I nodded. “Yeah. In those days, bowling balls only had two holes. My dad 
told me about it one day when we went bowling. Dad never could figure out 
what they did with their thumb.” 

Stephanie stuck her fingers into the two holes. The “eye sockets”. She 
shook her head. I could see she was really disappointed. 

We could hear Otto’s voice, booming from somewhere downstairs. 

Stephanie sighed. “Maybe we should go down and rejoin the tour,” she 
suggested. She rolled the ball back to the pile of toys. 

“No way!” I exclaimed. 

I liked being the brave one for a change. I didn’t want to quit while I was 
ahead. 

“It’s getting kind of late,” Stephanie said. “And we’re not going to find any 
ghost head up here.” 

“That’s because we’ve already explored these rooms a hundred times,” I 
told her. “I think we should find a room we’ve never explored before.” 

She scrunched up her face, thinking hard. “Duane, do you mean—?” 

“I mean, the ghost head is probably hidden in a room the tour doesn’t go 
through. Maybe upstairs. You know. On the top floor.” 

Stephanie’s eyes grew wide. “You want to sneak up to the top floor?” 

I nodded. “Why not? That’s probably where all the ghosts hang out— 
right?” 

She studied me, her eyes searching mine. I knew she was surprised by my 
brave idea. 

Of course, I didn’t feel very brave at all. I just wanted to impress her. I just 



wanted to be the brave one for a change. 

I was hoping that she’d say no. I was hoping she’d say, “Let’s go back 
downstairs, Duane.” 

But instead, an excited grin spread over her face. And she said, “Okay. Let’s 
do it!” 



14 


So I was stuck being the brave one. 

We both had to be brave now. The Twin Terrors, on their way up the dark, 
creaking stairway that led to the third floor. 

A sign beside the stairs read: NO VISITORS. 

We stepped right past it and began climbing the narrow staircase. Side by 

side. 

I couldn’t hear Otto’s voice anymore. Now I could only hear the creak and 
squeak of the steps beneath our sneakers. And the steady thud thud thud of my 
heart. 

The air grew hot and damp as we reached the top. I squinted down a long, 
dark hallway. There were no lanterns. No candles. 

The only light came from the window at the end of the hall. Pale light from 
outside that cast everything in an eerie, ghostly blue. 

“Let’s start in the first room,” Stephanie suggested, whispering. She 
brushed her dark hair off her face. 

It was so hot up here, I had sweat running down my forehead. I mopped it 
up with my jacket sleeve and followed Stephanie to the first room on the right. 

The heavy wooden door was half open. We slid in through the opening. 
Pale blue light washed in through the dust-caked windows. 

I waited for my eyes to adjust. Then I squinted around the large room. 

Empty. Completely empty. No furniture. No sign of life. 

Or ghosts. 

“Steph—look.” I pointed to a narrow door against the far wall. “Let’s check 
it out.” 

We crept across the bare floor. Through the dusty window, I glimpsed the 
full moon, high over the bare trees now. 

The doorway led to another room. Smaller and even warmer. A steam 
radiator clanked against one wall. Two old-fashioned-looking couches stood 
facing each other in the center of the room. No other furniture. 

“Let’s keep moving,” Stephanie whispered. 

Another narrow door led to another dark room. “The rooms up here are all 
connected,” I murmured. I sneezed. Sneezed again. 



“Ssshhh. Quiet, Duane,” Stephanie scolded. “The ghosts will hear us 
coming.” 

“I can’t help it,” I protested. “It’s so dusty up here.” 

We were in some kind of sewing room. An old sewing machine stood on a 
table in front of the window. A carton at my feet was filled with balls of black 
yarn. 

I bent down and pawed quickly through the balls of yarn. No head hidden 
in there. 

We stepped into the next room before we realized it was completely dark. 

The window was partly shuttered. Only a tiny square of gray light crept 
through from outside. 

“I-I can’t see anything,” Stephanie declared. I felt her hand grasp my arm. 
“It’s too dark. Let’s get out of here, Duane.” 

I started to reply. But a loud thump made my breath catch in my throat. 

Stephanie’s hand squeezed my hand. “Duane, did you make that thump?” 

Another thump. Closer to us. 

“No. Not m-me,” I stammered. 

Another thump on the floor. 

“We’re not alone in here,” Stephanie whispered. 

I took a deep breath. “Who is it?” I called. “Who’s there?” 



15 


“Who’s there?” I choked out. 

Stephanie squeezed my arm so hard, it hurt. But I made no attempt to move 
away from her. 

I heard soft footsteps. Ghostly footsteps. 

A cold chill froze the back of my neck. I clamped my jaw shut to keep my 
teeth from chattering. 

And then yellow eyes floated toward us through the thick darkness. 

Four yellow eyes. 

The creature had four eyes! 

A gurgling sound escaped my throat. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. 

I stared straight ahead. Listening. 

Watching. 

The eyes floated apart in pairs. Two eyes moved to the right, two to the left. 

“Noooo!” I cried out when I saw more eyes. 

Yellow eyes in the corners of the room. Evil eyes glinting at us from against 
the wall. 

Yellow eyes all along the floor. 

Yellow eyes all around us. 

Catlike yellow eyes glaring in silence at Stephanie and me as we huddled 
together in the center of the room. 

Catlike eyes. 

Cat’s eyes. 

Because the room was filled with cats. 

A shrill yowl gave them away. A long meeeeyoww from the windowsill 
made Stephanie and me both sigh in relief. 

A cat brushed against my leg. Startled, I jumped aside, bumping into 
Stephanie. 

She bumped me back. 

More cats meowed. Another cat brushed the back of my jeans leg. 

“I-I think these cats are lonely,” Stephanie stammered. “Do you think 
anyone ever comes up here?” 



“I don’t care,” I snapped. “All these yellow eyes floating around. I 
thought... I thought... well... I don’t know what I thought! It’s creepy. Let’s get 
out of here.” 

For once, Stephanie didn’t argue. 

She led the way to the door at the back of the room. All around us, cats 
were howling and yowling. 

Another one brushed my leg. 

Stephanie tripped over a cat. In the darkness, I saw her fall. She landed on 
her knees with a hard thud. 

The cats all began to screech. 

“Are you okay?” I cried, hurrying to help pull her up. 

The cats were howling so loud, I couldn’t hear her reply. 

We jogged to the door, pulled it open, and escaped. 

I closed the door behind us. Silence now. “Where are we?” I whispered. 

“I-I don’t know,” Stephanie stammered, keeping close to the wall. 

I moved to a tall, narrow window and peered through the dusty glass. The 
window led out to a small balcony. The balcony jutted out from the gray 
shingled roof. 

Pale white moonlight washed in through the window. 

I turned back to Stephanie. “We’re in some kind of back hallway,” I 
guessed. The long, narrow hallway seemed to stretch on forever. “Maybe these 
rooms are used by the workers. You know. Manny, the night watchman. The 
house cleaners. And the tour guides.” 

Stephanie sighed. She stared down the long hallway. “Let’s go downstairs 
and find Otto and the tour group. I think we’ve done enough exploring for 
tonight.” 

I agreed. “There must be stairs at the end of this hall. Let’s go.” 

I took four or five steps. Then I felt the ghostly hands. 

They brushed over my face. My neck. My body. 

Sticky, dry, invisible hands. 

The hands pushed me back as they clung to my skin. 

“Ohhhh, help!” Stephanie moaned. 

The ghosts had her in their grasp, too. 



16 


The ghost’s filmy hands brushed over me. I could feel the soft fingers—dry and 
soft as air—tighten around my skin. 

Stephanie’s hands thrashed wildly. Beside me in the dark hall, she struggled 
to free herself. 

“It-it’s like a net!” she choked out. 

I swiped at my face. My hair. 

I spun away. But the dry fingers clung to me. Tightening. Tightening. 

And I realized we hadn’t walked into a ghost’s grasp. 

Tugging and tearing frantically with both hands, I realized we had walked 
into cobwebs. 

A thick curtain of cobwebs. 

The blanket of sticky threads had fallen over us like a fisherman’s net. The 
more we struggled, the tighter it wrapped itself around us. 

“Stephanie—it’s cobwebs !” I cried. I tugged a thick, stringy wad of them 
off my face. 

“Of course it’s cobwebs!” she shot back, squirming and thrashing. “What 
did you think it was?” 

“Uh... a ghost,” I muttered. 

Stephanie snickered. “Duane, I know you have a good imagination. But if 
you start seeing ghosts everywhere, we’ll never get out of here.” 

“I... I... I...” I didn’t know what to say. 

Stephanie thought the same thing I did. She thought she’d been grabbed by 
a ghost. But now she was pretending she knew all along. 

We stood there in the darkness, tearing the sticky threads off our faces and 
arms and bodies. I let out an angry groan. I couldn’t brush the stuff from my 
hair! 

“I’m going to itch forever !” I wailed. 

“I’ve got more bad news for you,” Stephanie murmured. 

I pulled a thick wad off my ear. “Huh?” 

“Who do you think made these cobwebs?” 

I didn’t have to think about it. “Spiders?” 



My arms and legs started to tingle. My back began to itch. I felt a light 
tingling on the back of my neck. 

Were there spiders crawling up and down my body? Hundreds and 
hundreds of them? 

Forgetting the wispy strings of cobweb, I started to run. Stephanie had the 
same idea. We both ran down the long hall, scratching and slapping at ourselves. 

“Steph—the next time you have a great idea, don’t have a great idea!” I 
warned her. 

“Let’s just get out of here!” she groaned. 

We reached the end of the hall, still scratching as we ran. 

No stairway. 

How do we get back downstairs? 

Another hall twisted to the left. Low candles over the doorways flickered 
and danced. Shadows darted over the worn carpet like slithering animals. 

“Come on.” I pulled Stephanie’s arm. We had no choice. We had to follow 
this hallway, too. 

We jogged side by side. The rooms were ah dark and silent. 

The candle flames dipped as we ran past. Our long shadows ran ahead of 
us, as if eager to get downstairs first. 

I stopped when I heard someone laughing. 

“Whoa,” Stephanie murmured, breathing hard. Her dark eyes grew wide. 

We both listened hard. 

I heard voices. Inside the room at the end of the hall. 

The door was closed. I couldn’t make out the words. I heard a man say 
something. A woman laughed. Other people laughed. 

“We caught up to the tour,” I whispered. 

Stephanie scrunched up her face. “But the tour never comes up here to the 
top floor,” she protested. 

We stepped up close to the door and listened again. 

More laughter on the other side. A lot of people talking cheerfully, all at the 
same time. It sounded like a party. 

I pressed my ear against the door. “I think the tour ended, and everyone is 
just chatting,” I whispered. 

Stephanie scratched the back of her neck. She pulled a stringy gob of 
cobweb from her hair. “Well, hurry, Duane. Open the door. Let’s join them,” she 
urged. 



“I hope Otto doesn’t ask us where we’ve been,” I replied. 
I grabbed the doorknob and pushed open the door. 
Stephanie and I took a step inside. 

And gasped in shock at what we saw. 



17 


The room stood empty. 

Empty, silent, and dark. 

“What happened? Where is everyone?” Stephanie cried. 

We took another step into the dark room. The floor creaked beneath us. The 
only sound. 

“I don’t get it,” Stephanie whispered. “Didn’t we just hear voices in here?” 
“Lots,” I said. “They were laughing and talking. It really sounded like a 
party.” 

“A big party,” Stephanie added, her eyes darting around the empty room. 
“Tons of people.” 

A cold chill ran down the back of my neck. “I don’t think we heard people,” 
I whispered. 

Stephanie turned to me. “Huh?” 

“They weren’t people,” I croaked. “They were ghosts.” 

Her mouth dropped open. “And they all disappeared when we opened the 
door?” 

I nodded. “I—I think I can still feel them in here. I can feel their presence.” 
Stephanie let out a frightened squeak. “Feel them? What do you mean?” 

At that moment, a cold wind came whooshing through the room. It rushed 
over me, cold and dry. And it chilled me down to my toes. 

Stephanie must have felt it, too. She wrapped her arms around her chest. 
“Brrr! Do you feel that breeze? Is the window open? How come it got so cold in 
here all of a sudden?” she asked. 

She shivered again. Her voice became tiny. “We’re not alone in here, are 

we?” 

“I don’t think so,” I whispered. “I think we just crashed someone’s party.” 
Stephanie and I stood there, feeling the cold of the room. I didn’t dare 
move. Maybe a ghost stood right beside me. Maybe the ghosts we heard were all 
around us, staring at us, preparing to swoop over us. 

“Stephanie,” I whispered. “What if we really have crashed their party? 
What if we’ve invaded the ghosts’ quarters?” 

Stephanie swallowed hard. She didn’t reply. 



Hadn’t Andrew, the ghost boy, lost his head when he stumbled into the 
ghost’s living quarters? Were we standing in the same living quarters? The same 
room where Andrew found the ghost of the old sea captain? 

“Stephanie, I think we should get out of here,” I said softly. “Now.” 

I wanted to run. I wanted to fly down the stairs. Fly out of Hill House. Fly 
to my safe, warm home where there were no ghosts. 

No ghosts. 

We spun around and bolted for the door. 

Were the ghosts going to try to stop us? 

No. We made it back into the flickering orange light of the hallway. I pulled 
the door shut behind us. 

“The stairs. Where are the stairs?” Stephanie cried. 

We stood at the end of the hall. Facing a solid wall. The flowers on the 
wallpaper appeared to open and close, moving in the darting candlelight. 

I banged both fists against the wall. “How do we get out of here? How?” 

Stephanie had already pulled open a door across the hall. I followed her 
inside. 

“Oh, no!” Ghostly figures filled the room. It took me a few seconds to 
realize that I was staring at sheets pulled over furniture. Chairs and couches 
covered with sheets. 

“M-maybe this is the ghosts’ living room,” I stammered. 

Stephanie didn’t hear me. She had already burst through the open door 
against the far wall. 

I followed her into another room, cluttered with large crates. The crates 
were piled nearly to the ceiling. 

Another room. Then another. 

My heart began to pound. My throat ached. 

I felt so discouraged. Were we ever going to find our way to the stairs? 

Another door. Another dark, empty room. 

“Hey, Steph—” I whispered. “I think we’re going in circles.” 

Out into a long, twisting hallway. More candles. More flowers flickering 
darkly on the wallpaper. 

We ran side by side down the hall. Until we came to a door I hadn’t seen 
before. A door with a horseshoe nailed onto it. 

Maybe it meant that our luck was about to change. I sure hoped so! 

I grabbed the knob with a trembling hand. I pulled open the door. 



A staircase! 

“Yes!” I cried. 

“Finally!” Stephanie gasped. 

“This must be the servants’ staircase,” I guessed. “Maybe we’ve been in the 
servants’ quarters all this time.” 

The stairway was blanketed in darkness. The stairs looked steep. 

I took a step down, holding onto the wall. Then another step. 

Stephanie had one hand on my shoulder. When I stepped down, she stepped 
down, too. 

Another step. Another. The soft thuds of our sneakers echoed in the deep 
stairwell. 

We had taken about ten steps when I heard footsteps. 

Someone coming up the stairs. 



18 


Stephanie bumped me hard. I shot out both hands. Grabbed the wall to keep 
from falling down the stairs. 

No time to turn and run. 

The footsteps grew louder. And heavier. Light from a flashlight swept over 
Stephanie, then me. 

Squinting against the light, I saw a dark figure climbing up to us. “So there 
you are!” his voice boomed, echoing in the stairwell. 

A familiar voice. 

“Otto!” Stephanie and I both cried. 

He bounced up in front of us, moving the flashlight from her face to mine. 
“What are you two doing up here?” he demanded breathlessly. 

“Uh... we got lost,” I answered quickly. 

“We got separated from the tour,” Stephanie added. “We tried to find you.” 

“Yes. We tried,” I chimed in. “We were searching everywhere. But we 
couldn’t catch up to the group.” 

Otto lowered the flashlight. I could see his tiny dark eyes narrowing at us. I 
don’t think he believed our story. 

“I thought you two knew my tour by heart,” he said, rubbing his chin. 

“We do,” Stephanie insisted. “We just got turned around. We got lost. And 
we—” 

“But how did you get up here on the top floor?” Otto demanded. 

“Well...” I started. But I couldn’t think of a good answer. I turned back to 
Stephanie on the step above me. 

“We heard voices up here. We thought it was you,” she told Otto. 

It wasn’t exactly a lie. We did hear voices. 

Otto lowered the beam of light to the stairs. “Well, let’s get back 
downstairs. No one is allowed on this floor. It’s private.” 

“Sorry,” Stephanie and I murmured. 

“Watch your step, kids,” Otto warned. “These back stairs are very steep and 
rickety. I’ll lead you back to the group. Edna took over for me while I went to 
find you.” 



Edna was our second-favorite tour guide. She was old and white-haired. 
Very pale and frail-looking, especially in her black tour-guide outfit. 

But she was a great storyteller. With her quivering, old voice, she really 
made you believe every frightening story she told. 

Stephanie and I eagerly clumped down the stairs, following Otto. His 
flashlight swept in front of us as he led us out onto the second floor. We followed 
a long hallway. A hallway I knew very well. 

We stopped outside Joseph Craw’s study. Joseph was Andrew’s father. I 
peeked inside. A bright fire blazed in the fireplace. 

Edna stood beside the fireplace, telling the tragic story of Joseph Craw to 
the tour group. 

Stephanie and I had heard the sad story a hundred times. A year after 
Andrew had his head cut off, Joseph came home late one winter night. He took 
off his coat, then moved to the fireplace to warm himself. 

No one knows how Joseph was burned up. At least, that’s how Otto, Edna, 
and the other guides tell the story. Was he pushed into the fireplace? Did he fall 
in? 

One guess is as good as another. 

But when the maid came into the study the next morning, she found a 
horrifying sight. 

She found two charred, blackened hands gripping the mantel. 

Two hands, holding on tightly to the marble mantelpiece. 

All that was left of Joseph Craw. 

It’s a yucky story—isn’t it? 

It gives me a chill every time I hear it. 

As Otto led us to the study, Edna was just getting to the sickening part. The 
ending. “Do you want to rejoin the group?” Otto whispered. 

“It’s pretty late. I think we’d better get home,” Stephanie told him. 

I quickly agreed. “Thanks for rescuing us. We’ll catch the tour again soon.” 

“Good night,” Otto said, clicking off his flashlight. “You know the way 
out.” He hurried into the study. 

I started to leave. But stopped when I saw the boy again, the pale boy with 
the wavy blond hair. The boy in the black jeans and black turtleneck. 

He stood away from the tour group. Close to the door. And he was staring 
at Stephanie and me again. Staring hard at us, a cold expression on his face. 

“Come on,” I whispered, grabbing Stephanie’s arm. I tugged her away from 



the study door. 

We quickly found the front stairway. A few seconds later, we pushed open 
the front door and stepped outside. A cold wind greeted us as we started down 
the hill. Wisps of black cloud floated like snakes over the moon. 

“Well, that was fun!” Stephanie declared. She zipped her coat to her chin. 

“Fun?” I wasn’t so sure. “It was kind of scary.” 

Stephanie grinned at me. “But we weren’t afraid—right?” 

I shivered. “Right.” 

“I’d like to go back and explore some more,” she said. “You know. Maybe 
go back to that room with all the voices. Find some real ghosts.” 

“Yeah. Great,” I agreed. I didn’t feel like arguing with her. I felt pretty tired. 

She pulled a wool muffler from her coat pocket. As she swung it around her 
neck, one end caught in a low pine bush. 

“Hey—!” she cried out. 

I moved to the bush and started to pull the muffler free. 

And that’s when I heard the voice. 

Just a whisper. A whisper from the other side of the bush. 

But I heard it very clearly. 

“Did you find my head ? ” 

That’s what I heard. 

“Did you find my head? Did you find it for me?” 



19 


I uttered a startled gasp and stared into the bush. “Stephanie—did you hear 
that?” I choked out. 

No reply. 

“Stephanie? Steph?” 

I spun around. She was staring at me, her mouth open in surprise. 

“Did you hear that whisper?” I asked again. 

Then I realized she wasn’t staring at me. She was staring past me. 

I turned—and saw the strange, blond boy standing there beside the pine 
bush. “Hey—did you just whisper to us?” I demanded sharply. 

He narrowed his pale gray eyes at me. “Huh? Me?” 

“Yeah. You,” I snapped. “Were you trying to scare us?” 

He shook his head. “No way.” 

“You didn’t whisper from behind this bush?” I asked again. 

“I just got out here,” the boy insisted. 

We saw him in Joseph Craw’s study less than a minute ago, I told myself. 
How did he get out here so fast? 

“Why did you follow us?” Stephanie demanded, shoving her muffler 
around her coat collar. 

The boy shrugged. 

“Why were you staring at us?” I asked, stepping up close to Stephanie. 

The wind howled over the hilltop. The row of pine bushes shook in the 
gusty wind, as if shivering. Thin black clouds continued to snake their way over 
the pale moon. 

The boy wore no coat. Only the black turtleneck and black jeans. The wind 
fluttered his long, wavy hair. 

“We saw you staring at us,” Stephanie repeated. “How come?” 

He shrugged again. He kept his strange, gray eyes down at the ground. “I 
saw you sneak away,” he said. “I wondered if... if you saw anything 
interesting.” 

“We got lost,” I told him, glancing at Stephanie. “We didn’t see much.” 

“What’s your name?” Stephanie asked. 



“Seth,” he replied. 

We told him our names. 

“Do you live in Wheeler Falls?” Stephanie asked. 

He shook his head. He kept his eyes down at his shoes. “No. I’m just 
visiting.” 

Why wouldn’t he look us in the eye? Was he just shy? 

“Are you sure you didn’t whisper something from behind that bush?” I 
asked again. 

He shook his head. “No way. Maybe someone was playing a joke on you.” 

“Maybe,” I said. I stepped closer and kicked the bush. I don’t know what I 
expected. 

But nothing happened. 

“You and Stephanie went exploring on your own?” Seth asked. 

“Yeah. A little,” I confessed. “We’re kind of into ghosts.” 

When I said that, he jerked his head up. He raised his gray eyes and gazed 
hard at Stephanie, then at me. 

His face had been a blank. No life to it. No expression at all. 

But now I could see that he was really excited. 

“Do you want to see some real ghosts?” he asked us, staring hard. “Do 


you?” 



20 


Seth stared at us as if challenging us. “Do you two want to see some real 
ghosts?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Stephanie replied, returning his stare. 

“What do you mean, Seth?” I demanded. “Have you ever seen a ghost?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. In there.” He pointed with his head, back to the big 
stone house. 

“Huh?” I cried. “You saw a real ghost in Hill House? When?” 

“Duane and I have taken the tour a hundred times,” Stephanie told him. 
“We’ve never seen any ghost in there.” 

He snickered. “Of course not. Do you think the ghosts come out when the 
tour groups are in there? They wait till the house closes. They wait until all the 
tourists go home.” 

“How do you know?” I asked. 

“I sneaked in,” Seth replied. “Late one night.” 

“You what?” I cried. “How?” 

“I found a door around back. It was unlocked. I guess everyone forgot about 
it,” Seth explained. “I sneaked in after the house was closed. And I—” 

He stopped suddenly. His eyes were on the house. 

I turned and saw the front door open. People stepped out, fastening their 
coats. The last tour had ended. People were heading for home. 

“Over here!” Seth whispered. 

We followed him behind the pine bushes and ducked down low. The people 
walked past us. They were laughing and talking about the house and all the ghost 
stories. 

When they were down the hill, we stood up again. Seth brushed his long 
hair off his forehead. But the wind blew it right back. 

“I sneaked in late at night, when the house was dark,” he repeated. 

“Your parents let you go out so late at night?” I asked. 

A strange smile crossed his lips. “They didn’t know,” he said softly. The 
smile faded. “Your parents let you two out?” 

Stephanie laughed. “Our parents don’t know, either.” 



“Good,” Seth replied. 

“And you really saw a ghost?” I asked. 

He nodded. Brushed his hair back again. “I crept past Manny, the night 
watchman. He was sound asleep. Snoring away. I made my way to the front of 
the house. I was standing at the bottom of the big staircase—when I heard a 
laugh.” 

I gulped. “A laugh?” 

“From the top of the stairs. I backed up against the wall. And I saw the 
ghost. A very old lady. In a long dress and a black bonnet. She wore a heavy 
black veil over the front of her face. But I could see her eyes through the veil. I 
could see them because they glowed bright red—like fire!” 

“Wow!” Stephanie cried. “What did she do?” 

Seth turned to the house. The front door had closed. The lantern over the 
door had been put out. The house stood in total darkness. 

“The old ghost came sliding down the banister,” he reported. “She tossed 
back her head—and screamed all the way down. And as she slid, her red eyes 
left a bright trail, like the tail of a comet.” 

“Weren’t you scared?” I asked Seth. “Didn’t you try to run away?” 

“There was no time,” he replied. “She came sliding down the banister, right 
toward me. Eyes blazing. Screaming like some kind of crazed animal. I was 
pressed against the wall. I couldn’t move. And when she reached the bottom, I 
thought she’d grab me. But she vanished. Disappeared into the darkness. And all 
that was left was the faint red glow, floating in the air. The glow of her eyes.” 

“Oh, wow!” Stephanie cried. 

“That’s awesomel” I agreed. 

“I want to sneak back in again,” Seth declared, watching the house. “I’ll bet 
there are more ghosts in there. I really want to see them.” 

“Me, too!” Stephanie cried eagerly. 

Seth smiled at her. “So you’ll come with me? Tomorrow night? I don’t want 
to go back alone. It’ll be so much more fun if you come, too.” 

The wind swirled sharply. The black clouds rolled over the moon, covering 
it, shutting out its light. The old house appeared to grow darker on its hilltop 
perch. 

“So you’ll come with me tomorrow night?” Seth asked again. 

“Yeah. Great!” Stephanie told him. “I can’t wait. How about you, Duane?” 
She turned to me. “You’ll come, too—won’t you, Duane? Won’t you?” 



21 


I said yes. 

I said I couldn’t wait to see a real ghost. 

I said I was shivering because of the cold wind. Not because I was scared. 

We made a plan to meet at midnight tomorrow at the back of Hill House. 
Then Seth hurried away. And Stephanie and I walked home. 

The street was dark and empty. Most of the house lights were out. Far in the 
distance, a dog howled. 

Stephanie and I walked quickly, leaning into the wind. We usually didn’t 
stay out this late. 

Tomorrow night, we’d be even later. 

“I don’t trust that guy,” I told Stephanie as we reached her front yard. “He’s 
too weird.” 

I expected her to agree. But she said, “You’re just jealous, Duane.” 

“Huh? Me? Jealous?” I couldn’t believe she said that. “Why would I be 
jealous?” 

“Because Seth is so brave. Because he saw a ghost and we didn’t.” 

I shook my head. “Do you believe that crazy story about a ghost sliding 
down the banister? I think he made it up.” 

“Well,” Stephanie replied thoughtfully, “we’ll find out tomorrow night— 
won’t we!” 

Tomorrow night came too quickly. 

I had a math test in the afternoon. I don’t think I did too well on it. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about Seth, and Hill House, and ghosts. 

After dinner, Mom cornered me in the living room. She brushed back my 
hair and studied my face. “Why do you look so tired?” she asked. “You have 
dark circles around your eyes.” 

“Maybe I’m part raccoon,” I replied. That’s what I always say when she 
tells me I have circles around my eyes. 

“I think you should go to bed early tonight,” Dad chimed in. Dad always 
thinks that everyone should go to bed early. 

So I went to my room at nine-thirty. But of course I didn’t go to sleep. 



I read a book and listened to a tape on my Walkman. And waited for Mom 
and Dad to go to bed. And watched the clock. 

Mom and Dad are very heavy sleepers. You can pound and pound on their 
bedroom door, and they don’t wake up. They once slept through a hurricane. 
That’s the truth. They didn’t hear the tree that fell onto our house! 

Stephanie’s parents are heavy sleepers, too. That’s why it’s so easy for the 
two of us to sneak out of our bedroom windows. That’s why it’s so easy for us to 
haunt our neighborhood at night. 

As the clock neared midnight, I wished we were going out on one of our 
usual haunting trips. I wished we were going to hide under Chrissy Jacob’s 
window and howl like wolves. And then toss rubber spiders into Ben Fuller’s 
bed. 

But Stephanie had decided that was too boring. 

We needed excitement. We needed to go ghost hunting. With a strange kid 
we’d never seen before. 

At ten to twelve, I pulled on my down coat and crept out of my bedroom 
window. Another cold, windy night. I felt sprinkles of frozen rain on my 
forehead. Sol pulled up my hood. 

Stephanie was waiting for me at the bottom of her driveway. She had pulled 
her brown hair back in a ponytail. Her coat was open. She wore a heavy ski 
sweater underneath, pulled down over her jeans. 

She raised her head and let out a ghostly howl. “Owooooooo!” 

I clapped my hand over her open mouth. “You’ll wake up the whole block!” 

She laughed and backed away from me. “I’m a little excited. Aren’t you?” 
She opened her mouth in another howl. 

The frozen rain pattered the ground. We hurried toward Hill House. The 
swirling wind scattered twigs and dead leaves as we walked. Most of the house 
lights had been turned off. 

A car rolled by slowly as we turned onto Hill Street. Stephanie and I ducked 
behind a hedge. The driver might wonder why two kids were wandering around 
Wheeler Falls at midnight. 

I wondered, too. 

We waited for the car to disappear. Then we continued our journey. 

Our sneakers crunched over the hard ground as we climbed the hill that led 
to the old haunted house. Hill House rose above us, like a silent monster waiting 
to swallow us up. 



The last tour had ended. The lights were all off. Otto and Edna and the other 
tour guides were probably all home by now. 

“Come on, Duane. Hurry,” Stephanie urged. She started to run around the 
side of the house. “Seth is probably waiting.” 

“Wait up!” I cried. We followed a narrow dirt path around to the back. 

Squinting into the darkness, I searched for Seth. No sign of him. 

The backyard was cluttered with equipment of all kinds. A row of rusted 
metal trashcans formed a fence along one wall. A long wooden ladder lay on its 
side in the tall weeds. Wooden cartons and barrels and cardboard boxes were 
strewn everywhere. A hand lawnmower tilted against the house. 

“It—it’s so much darker back here,” Stephanie stammered. “Do you see 
Seth?” 

“I can’t see anything ,” I replied in a whisper. “Maybe he changed his mind. 
Maybe he isn’t coming.” 

Stephanie started to reply. But a choked cry from the side of the house made 
us both jump. 

I turned to see Seth stagger into view. 

His blond hair was wild, flying around his face. His eyes bulged. His hands 
gripped his throat. 

“The ghost!” he cried, stumbling clumsily. “The ghost—he—he got me!” 

Then Seth collapsed at our feet and didn’t move. 



22 


“Nice try, Seth,” I said calmly. 

“Nice fall,” Stephanie added. 

He raised his head slowly, staring up at us. “I didn’t fool you?” 

“No way,” I replied. 

Stephanie rolled her eyes. “That’s Joke Number One,” she told Seth. 
“Duane and I have pulled that one a thousand times.” 

Seth climbed to his feet and brushed off the front of his black turtleneck. He 
scowled, disappointed. “Just trying to give you a little scare.” 

“You’ll have to do better than that,” I told him. 

“Duane and I are experts at giving scares,” Stephanie added. “It’s sort of 
our hobby.” 

Seth straightened his hair with both hands. “You two are weird,” he 
murmured. 

I brushed cold raindrops off my eyebrows. “Can we get inside?” I asked 
impatiently. 

Seth led the way to the narrow door at the far side of the house. “Did you 
two have any trouble sneaking out?” he asked, whispering. 

“No. No trouble,” Stephanie told him. 

“Neither did I,” he replied. He stepped up to the door and lifted the wooden 
latch. “I took the tour again tonight,” he whispered. “Otto showed me some new 
things. Some new rooms we can explore.” 

“Great!” Stephanie exclaimed. “Do you promise we’ll see a real ghost?” 
Seth turned back to her. A strange smile spread over his face. “Promise,” he 

said. 



23 


Seth gave the door a tug, and it creaked open. 

We slipped inside. Into total blackness. Too dark to see where we were. 

I took a few steps into the room—and bumped into Seth. 

“Ssshhh,” he warned. “Manny the night watchman is posted in the front 
room. He’s probably asleep already. But we’d better stay in back.” 

“Where are we?” I whispered. 

“In one of the back rooms,” Seth whispered. “Wait a few seconds. Our eyes 
will adjust.” 

“Can’t we turn on a light?” I asked. 

“Ghosts won’t come out in the light,” Seth replied. 

We had closed the door behind us. But a cold wind still blew at my back. 

I shivered. 

A soft rattling sound made my breath catch in my throat. 

Was I starting to hear things? 

I pulled off my hood to hear better. 

Silence now. 

“I think I know where I can find some candles,” Seth whispered. “You two 
wait here. Don’t move.” 

“D-don’t worry,” I stammered. I didn’t plan to go anywhere until I could 

see! 

I heard Seth move away, making soft, scraping footsteps over the floor, 
keeping as quiet as he could. His footsteps faded into silence. 

Then I felt another rush of cold wind against the back of my neck. 

“Oh!” I cried out when I heard the rattling again. 

A gentle rattling. Like the rattling of bones. 

Another cold gust of wind swept over me. A ghost’s cold breath, I thought. 
My whole body shook as a chill ran down my back. 

I heard the rattling bones again. Louder. A clattering sound. So close. 

I reached out in the thick blackness. Tried to grab onto a wall. Or a table. Or 
anything. 

But my hands grabbed only air. 



I swallowed hard. Calm down, Duane, I ordered myself. Seth will be back 
in a moment with some candles. Then you’ll see that everything is okay. 

But another jangle and clatter of bones made me gasp. 

“Steph—did you hear that?” I whispered. 

No reply. 

A cold wind tingled my neck. 

The bones rattled again. 

“Steph? Do you hear that noise, too? Steph?” 

No reply. 

“Stephanie? Steph?” I called. 

She was gone. 



24 


Panic time. 

My breaths came short and fast. My heart clattered louder than the skeleton 
bones. My whole body began to shake. 

“Stephanie? Steph? Where are you?” I choked out weakly. 

Then I saw the two yellow eyes moving toward me. Two glowing eyes, 
floating silently, gleaming with evil. Coming nearer. Nearer. 

I froze. 

I couldn’t move. I couldn’t see anything but those two gleaming, yellow 

eyes. 

“Ohh!” I uttered a moan as they floated closer. And I could see them more 
clearly. See that they were candle flames. 

Two candle flames, moving side by side. 

In the soft yellow light, I saw Seth’s face. And Stephanie’s. They each 
carried a lighted candle in front of them. 

“Stephanie—where were you?” I cried in a choked whisper. “I—I thought 

55 

“I went with Seth,” she replied calmly. 

The orange glow from her candle washed over me. I guess Stephanie could 
see how panicked I was. “I’m sorry, Duane,” she said softly. “I said I was going 
with Seth. I thought you heard me.” 

“S-something is rattling,” I stammered. “Bones, I think. I keep feeling a 
cold wind, and I keep hearing—” 

Seth handed me a candle. “Light it,” he instructed. “We’ll look around. See 
what’s rattling.” 

I took the candle and raised it to his. But my hand was shaking so badly, it 
took me five tries to light the wick. Finally, the candle flamed to life. 

I gazed around in the flickering orange light. 

“Hey—we’re in the kitchen,” Stephanie whispered. 

A gust of cold wind blew past me. “Did you feel that?” I cried. 

Seth pointed his candle flame toward the kitchen window. “Look, Duane— 
that window-pane. It’s missing. The cold air is blowing in through the hole.” 

“Oh. Right.” 



Another blast of air. And then the rattling. 

“Did you hear it?” I demanded. 

Stephanie giggled. She pointed to the kitchen wall. In the dim light, I saw 
big pots and pans hanging on the wall. “The wind is making them rattle,” 
Stephanie explained. 

“Ha-ha.” I uttered a feeble laugh. “I knew that. I was just trying to scare 
you,” I lied. “You know. Give you a thrill.” 

I felt like a total jerk. But why should I admit that a bunch of pots on the 
wall nearly had me scared out of my skin? 

“Okay. No more jokes,” Stephanie insisted, turning to Seth. “We want to 
see a real ghost.” 

“Follow me. HI show you something that Otto told me about,” Seth 
whispered. 

Holding his candle in front of him, he led the way across the kitchen to the 
wall beside the stove. He lowered his candle in front of a cabinet door. Then he 
pulled open the cabinet door and moved the candle closer so we could see inside. 

“Why are you showing us a kitchen cabinet?” I demanded. “What’s scary 
about that?” 

“It’s not a cabinet,” Seth replied. “It’s a dumbwaiter. Watch.” He reached 
inside and pulled a rope beside the cabinet shelf. The shelf began to slide up. 

He raised the shelf, then lowered it. “See? This dumbwaiter is like a little 
elevator. It was used to send food from the kitchen to the master bedroom 
upstairs.” 

“You mean for midnight snacks?” I joked. 

Seth nodded. “The cook would put the food on the shelf. Then he would 
pull the rope, and the shelf would carry it upstairs.” 

“Thrills and chills,” I said sarcastically. 

“Yeah. Why are you showing it to us?” Stephanie demanded. 

Seth brought the candle up close to his face. “Otto told me that this 
dumbwaiter is haunted. A hundred and twenty years ago, things suddenly started 
to go wrong with it.” 

Stephanie and I moved closer. I lowered my candle and examined the 
dumbwaiter cabinet. “What went wrong?” I asked. 

“Well,” Seth began softly, “the cook would put food on the shelf and send it 
upstairs. But when the shelf reached the bedroom up there, the food was gone.” 

Stephanie narrowed her eyes at Seth. “It disappeared between the first and 



second floor?” 

Seth nodded solemnly. His gray eyes glowed in the soft candlelight. “This 
happened several times. When the shelf reached the second floor, it was empty. 
The food had vanished.” 

“Wow,” I murmured. 

“The cook became very frightened,” Seth continued. “He was afraid that 
the dumbwaiter had become haunted. He decided to stop using it. And he 
ordered everyone on his staff never to use the dumbwaiter again.” 

“And that’s the end of the story?” I asked. 

Seth shook his head. “And then something horrible happened.” 

Stephanie’s mouth dropped open. “What? What happened?” 

“Some kids were visiting the house. One of them was a boy named Jeremy. 
Jeremy was a real show-off, and very athletic. When he saw the dumbwaiter, he 
decided it would be fun to ride it to the second floor.” 

“Oh, wow,” Stephanie murmured. 

I felt a chill. I thought I could guess what was coming. 

“So Jeremy squeezed onto the shelf. And one of the other kids pulled the 
rope. Suddenly the rope caught. The kid couldn’t get it to move up or down. 
Jeremy was stuck somewhere between the floors. 

“The other kids called up to him, ‘Are you okay?’ But Jeremy didn’t reply. 
They started to get very worried. They tugged and tugged, but they couldn’t 
move the rope. 

“Then suddenly, the shelf came crashing back down.” 

“And was Jeremy on it?” I asked eagerly. 

Seth shook his head. “There were three covered bowls on the shelf. The 
kids lifted the lid off the first bowl. Inside was Jeremy’s heart, still beating. 

“They opened the second bowl. Inside were Jeremy’s eyes, still staring in 
horror. And they opened the third bowl. And saw Jeremy’s teeth, still 
chattering.” 

The three of us stood silent in the orange glow of candlelight. We stared at 
the dumbwaiter shelf. 

I shivered. The pots rattled against the wall. But I was no longer frightened 
by them. I raised my eyes to Seth. “Do you think that story is true?” 

Stephanie laughed. Nervous laughter. “It can’t be true,” she said. 

Seth’s face remained solemn. “Do you believe any of Otto’s stories?” he 
asked me quietly. 



“Well. Yes. No. Some.” I couldn’t decide. 

“Otto swears the story is true,” Seth insisted. “But of course, he may just be 
doing his job. His job is to make this house as scary as possible.” 

“Otto is a great storyteller,” Stephanie murmured. “But enough stories. I 
want to see a real ghost.” 

“Follow me,” Seth replied. His candle flame dipped low as he spun around. 
He led us back through the kitchen, into a long, narrow room at the back. 
“This is the old butler’s pantry,” he announced. “All of the food for the house 
was stored in here.” 

Stephanie and I stepped past him, raising our candles to see the room better. 
When I turned around, Seth was closing the pantry door behind us. 

Then I saw him turn the lock. 

“Hey—what are you doing?” I cried. 

“Why are you locking us in here?” Stephanie demanded. 



25 


I dropped my candle. It bounced on the hard floor, and the flame went out. The 
candle rolled under a shelf. 

When I glanced back up, Stephanie was storming toward Seth. “Seth—what 
are you doing?” she demanded angrily. “Unlock that door. This isn’t funny!” 

I gazed around the long, narrow room. Shelves from floor to ceiling on 
three walls. No windows. No other door to escape through. 

With a sharp cry, Stephanie grabbed for the door handle. But Seth moved 
quickly to block her way. 

“Hey—!” I cried, my heart pounding. I stepped up beside Stephanie. 
“What’s the big idea, Seth?” 

His silvery eyes glowed with excitement behind his candle flame. He stared 
back at us without speaking. The same cold stare I had seen on his face the night 
before. 

Stephanie and I took a step back, huddling close together. 

“Sorry, guys. But I played a little trick on you,” he said finally. 

“Excuse me?” Stephanie cried, more angry than frightened. 

“What kind of trick?” I asked. 

He pushed back his long, blond hair with his free hand. The flickering 
candle sent shadows dancing across his face. “My name isn’t Seth,” he said 
softly, so softly I could barely hear him. 

“But—but—” I stammered. 

“My name is Andrew,” he said. 

Stephanie and I both cried out in surprise. 

“But Andrew is the name of the ghost,” Stephanie protested. “The ghost 
who lost his head.” 

“I am the ghost,” he said softly. A dry laugh escaped his lips. More like a 
cough than a laugh. “I promised you a real ghost tonight. Well... here I am.” 

He blew out the candle. He appeared to vanish with the light. 

“But, Seth—” Stephanie started. 

“Andrew,” he corrected her. “My name is Andrew. My name has been 
Andrew for more than a hundred years.” 

“Let us out of here,” I pleaded. “We won’t tell anyone we saw you. We 



won’t—” 

“I can’t let you go,” he replied in a whisper. 

I remembered the story of the sea captain’s ghost. When Andrew stumbled 
into the sea captain’s room and saw the old ghost, the sea captain had said the 
same thing to him. “Now that you have seen me, I can never let you go. ” 

“You—you lost your head!” I blurted out. 

“So you can’t be Andrew!” Stephanie cried. “You have a head!” 

In the dim light from Stephanie’s candle, I could see the sneer spread over 
Andrew’s face. “No,” he said softly. “No, no, no. I do not have my head. This is 
one that I borrowed.” 

He raised both hands to the sides of his face. “Here. Let me show you,” he 

said. 

Then he pressed his hands against his cheeks and started to tug the head up 
from the black turtleneck. 



26 


“No! Stop!” Stephanie screeched. 

I shut my eyes. I didn’t really want to see him pull off his head. 

When I opened my eyes, Andrew had lowered his hands. 

I gazed once again around the narrow pantry. How could we escape? How 
could we get out of there? The ghost was blocking the only exit. 

“Why did you trick us?” Stephanie asked Andrew. “Why did you bring us 
here? Why did you lie to us?” 

Andrew sighed. “I told you. I borrowed this head.” He ran one hand 
through the hair, then down over the cheek, as if petting it. “I borrowed it. But I 
have to return it.” 

Stephanie and I stared back at him in silence, waiting for him to continue. 
Waiting for him to explain. 

“I saw you last night in the tour group,” he said finally, his eyes locked on 
me. “The others couldn’t see me. But I made myself visible to you.” 

“Why?” I asked in a trembling voice. 

“Because of your head,” he replied. “I liked your head.” 

“Huh?” A frightened gasp escaped my throat. 

He gripped the blond hair again. “I have to return this head, Duane,” he said 
calmly, coldly. “So I’m going to take yours.” 



27 


A frightened giggle escaped my throat. 

Why do people suddenly start laughing when they’re terrified? I guess it’s 
because if you don’t laugh, you’ll scream. Or explode or something. 

Trapped in that small, dark room with a hundred-year-old ghost that wanted 
my head, I felt like laughing, screaming, and exploding all at once! 

I stared hard at Andrew, squinting in the dim light. “You’re kidding, right?” 

He shook his head. His silvery eyes narrowed, hard and cold. “I need your 
head, Duane,” he said softly. He shrugged, as if apologizing. “I’ll pull it off 
quickly. It won’t hurt a bit.” 

“But—but I need it, too!” I sputtered. 

“I’m only going to borrow it,” Andrew said. He took a step toward us. “I’ll 
return it when I find my own head. Promise.” 

“You’re not cheering me up,” I replied. 

He took another step toward us. 

Stephanie and I backed up a step. 

He took a step. We backed up a step. 

We didn’t have much more room to back up. We were nearly to the back 
wall of pantry shelves. 

Suddenly Stephanie spoke up. “Andrew, we’ll find your head!” she offered. 
Her voice shook. 

I turned to her. I’d never seen her scared before. Knowing that Stephanie 
was scared made me even more scared! 

“For sure!” I croaked. “We’ll find your real head. We’ll search all night. We 
know this house really well. I’m sure we can find it if you give us a chance.” 

He stared back at us without replying. 

I wanted to get down on my knees and beg him to give us a chance. 

But I was afraid that if I got down on my knees, he’d pull off my head. 

“We’ll find it, Andrew. I know we will,” Stephanie insisted. 

He shook his head. His borrowed head. “There’s no way,” he murmured 
sadly. “How long have I been searching this house? For more than a hundred 
years. For more than a hundred years, I’ve searched every hallway, every room, 
every closet.” 



He took another step closer. His eyes were locked on my head. I knew he 
was studying it, thinking about how it would look on his shoulders. 

“In all these years, I haven’t found my head,” Andrew continued. “So what 
makes you think you can find it tonight?” 

“Well... uh...” Stephanie turned to me. 

“Uh... maybe we’ll get lucky!” I declared. 

Lame. How lame can you get? 

“Sorry,” Andrew murmured. “I need your head, Duane. We’re wasting 
time.” 

“Give us a chance!” I cried. 

He took a step closer. He was studying my hair now. Probably deciding if 
he should let it grow longer. 

“Andrew—please!” I begged. 

It was no use. His eyes were glassy now. He reached out both hands and 
took another step. 

Stephanie and I backed up. 

“Give me your head, Duane,” the ghost whispered. 

My back bumped a shelf on the wall behind me. 

“I need your head, Duane.” 

Stephanie and I huddled close and pressed our backs against the shelves. 

The ghost floated closer, hands outstretched. 

We pressed ourselves tighter against the shelves. My elbow bumped 
something hard. I heard some heavy objects fall from the shelf. 

“I need your head, Duane.” 

He clenched and unclenched his hands. Two more steps and he’d be close 
enough to grab me. 

“Your head. Give me your head.” 

I jammed my back against the shelves. 

I heard a creaking sound—and the shelf started to slide. 

I stumbled back. And realized that the whole wall was sliding. 

“Wh-what’s happening?” I stammered. 

The ghost reached for my head. “Gotcha!” 



28 


The ghost leaped at me, hands outstretched. 

I ducked—and stumbled back as the wall slid away. 

The wall made a loud grinding sound as it slowly spun around. 

Stephanie fell to the hard floor. 

I pulled her up quickly as Andrew made another wild grab for my head. 

“A tunnel!” I shouted over the grinding of the wall. 

As the wall spun away, it revealed a dark opening. Just big enough to 
squeeze through. 

I pulled Stephanie to the opening—and we squeezed inside. 

We found ourselves in a long, low passageway. Some kind of tunnel. 
Hidden behind the sliding wall. 

I’d always heard about old houses that had secret halls and hidden rooms 
built in them. I never thought I’d be so glad to find one! 

Stephanie and I started to run. Our footsteps echoed loudly on the concrete 

floor. 

We ran past bare, concrete walls, cracked and pitted by time. We had to 
stoop as we ran. The ceiling wasn’t as tall as we were! 

Stephanie slowed down to glance back. “Is he following us?” 

“Just keep running!” I cried. “This tunnel has got to lead out of here! Out of 
this house! It’s got to!” 

“I can’t see where it leads!” she replied breathlessly. 

The low tunnel stretched out in a straight line. I could see only darkness at 
the end. 

Did it stretch on forever? 

If it did, I’d keep running forever. I didn’t plan to stop running until I was 
safely outside. 

And once I was outside, I planned never to visit Hill House again. And I 
planned to stay away from ghosts and to keep my head on my shoulders where it 
belonged. 

Big plans. 

But plans don’t always work out. 



“Ohh!” Stephanie and I both cried out as we nearly crashed into a solid 
concrete wall. 

The tunnel ended. It just ended. 

“It—it doesn’t go anywhere !” I gasped. Breathing hard, I pounded both fists 
against the wall. “Who would build a secret tunnel that leads nowhere?” 

“Push on the wall,” Stephanie cried. “Let’s both push. Maybe this wall will 
slide open, too.” 

We turned and leaned our shoulders into the wall. And pushed. Groaning 
and gasping, I pushed with all my strength. 

I was still pushing when I heard the scraping footsteps moving toward us 
down the tunnel. 

Andrew! 

“Push!” Stephanie cried. 

We shoved ourselves against the wall. 

“Come on—slide! Slide!” I ordered it. 

I glanced back and saw Andrew, jogging slowly, steadily toward us. 

“We’re trapped,” Stephanie moaned. She collapsed against the wall with a 

sigh. 

Andrew came trotting closer. 

“Duane—I want your head!” he called, his voice echoing against the 
concrete walls. 

“Trapped,” Stephanie murmured. 

“Maybe not,” I choked out. I pointed into the dark corner. “Look. A ladder.” 

“Huh?” Stephanie leaped to her feet. She squinted at the ladder. A metal 
ladder, the rungs blanketed with dust. It led straight up the wall, through a small, 
square opening in the low ceiling. 

To where? 

“Give me your head!” the ghost called. 

I grabbed the sides of the metal ladder. I raised a foot onto the first rung and 
peered straight up. 

Into thick blackness. I couldn’t see a thing up there. 

“Duane—” Stephanie whispered. “We don’t know where it leads!” 

“It doesn’t matter,” I replied, starting to climb. “We don’t have a choice— 
do we?” 



29 


“Where are you going, Duane? I need your head!” 

I ignored the ghost’s shout and scrambled up the ladder. Stephanie kept 
bumping me from behind. 

My sneakers slipped on the thick dust. My hands slid over the cold, metal 
railings. 

“Duane—you can’t get away!” Andrew called from down below. 

Straight up. Straight up the ladder. Stephanie and I, breathing hard, 
climbing frantically, as fast as we could climb. 

Straight up. 

Until the ladder started to tilt. 

“Noooo!” I uttered a scream as it spilled forward. 

A crumbling, cracking noise drowned out my scream. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that the wall was breaking apart. 
Crumbling into powdery chunks. 

And we were falling. 

I heard Stephanie scream. 

I grabbed the metal railings with both hands—and held on tight. 

But the ladder was sailing down now. Tumbling over the cracking, 
crumbling old wall. 

“Oww!” I landed hard. Bounced once. Twice. 

My hands flew up and I was tossed off the ladder. I rolled onto my stomach, 
rolled in the chunks of dirt and concrete of the broken wall. 

Stephanie landed on her knees. She shook her head, dazed. 

Chunks of wall spilled all around us. Stephanie’s hair was covered in dust. 

I shielded my eyes and waited for the wall to stop crumbling down. 

When I opened my eyes, Andrew stood above me. His hands were balled 
into fists. His mouth hung open. And he was staring... staring past me. 

I struggled to my feet. Turned to see what he was staring at. 

“A hidden room!” Stephanie cried, moving beside me. “A room behind the 
old wall.” 

Slipping over the chunks of broken concrete, I took a few steps closer to the 



room. 

And saw what Andrew was staring at. 

A head. 

A boy’s head lying on the floor of the hidden room. 

“I don’t believe it!” Stephanie gasped. “We found it! We actually found it!” 

I swallowed hard. And took a careful step forward. 

The head was pale, shimmering white, even in the dim light. 

I could see clearly that it was a boy’s head. But the long, wavy hair had 
turned to white. The round eyes glowed green, sparkling like emeralds in the 
shimmering, pale face. 

“The ghost head,” I murmured. 

I turned back to Andrew. “Your head—we found it for you.” 

I expected to see a smile on his face. I expected him to shout or jump for 

joy- 

For a hundred years, he had waited for this happy moment. And now his 
long search was over. 

But to my shock, Andrew’s face was twisted in horror. 

He wasn’t even looking at his long lost head. He stared above it. And as he 
stared, his entire body began to quiver. Frightened cries escaped his lips. 
“Andrew—what is your problem?” I demanded. 

But I don’t think he even heard me. 

He stared up at the ceiling, trembling. Hands balled into tight fists at his 
sides. Then, slowly, he raised one hand and pointed. “Nooooo,” he moaned. 
“Ohhhh, nooooooo.” 

I turned to see what had frightened him. 

Turned in time to see a filmy figure float down from the ceiling. 

At first I thought it was a thin window curtain, falling from above. 

But as it curled slowly, softly to the floor, I saw that it had arms. And legs. 

I could see right through it! 

The air around us suddenly grew cold. 

“It—it’s a ghost\” Stephanie cried, grabbing my arm. 



30 


The ghost landed softly, silently on the floor of the hidden room, raising its arms 
like bird wings. 

Stephanie and I both gasped as it raised its arms and stood upright. 

It was short and very thin. It wore baggy, old-fashioned-looking pants and a 
long-sleeved shirt with a high collar. 

A high collar. 

A collar. 

And no head. 

The ghost had no head! 

I felt a burst of cold air as it bent down, shimmering, bending, as if made of 
soft gauze. It reached down. Lifted the head off the floor. 

Lifted the head to the stiff, tall collar. 

Gently pressed the head into place. 

And as the head touched the ghostly, gauzy neck, the green eyes flashed. 

The cheeks twitched. The pale white eyebrows arched up and down. 

And then the mouth moved. 

The ghost turned to us—to Stephanie and me. And the lips moved in a 
silent “Thank you.” 

And then the arms rose into the air. Its green eyes still on us, the ghost 
floated up into the air. Lighter than air, it floated silently up. 

I watched in amazement, my heart pounding, until the ghostly figure 
vanished in the darkness. 

And then Stephanie and I both turned to Andrew at the same time. We had 
just seen the headless ghost. We had just seen Andrew, the boy from a hundred 
years ago. We had just watched him collect his head. 

But the boy who claimed to be Andrew was still there. He stood behind us, 
still trembling, his eyes wide, staring into the hidden room, making soft 
swallowing sounds. 

I narrowed my eyes at him. “If you aren’t Andrew,” I started—“if you 
aren’t the headless ghost—then who are you?” 



31 


Stephanie turned on the boy, too. “Yeah. Who are you?” she asked angrily. 

“If you’re not the headless ghost, why did you chase us?” I demanded. 

“Well. I... uh...” The boy raised both hands as if surrendering. Then he 
started to back away. 

He had only gone three or four steps when we heard footsteps coming down 
the long tunnel. 

I turned to Stephanie. Another ghost? 

“Who’s in here?” a deep voice boomed. 

I saw a circle of light from a flashlight sweeping over the tunnel floor. 

“Who is here?” the voice repeated. 

I recognized the deep voice. Otto! 

“Uh... back here,” the boy called softly. 

“Seth—is that you?” The circle of light floated closer. Otto appeared behind 
it, squinting at us. “What’s going on? What are you doing back here? This part 
of the house is dangerous. It’s all falling apart.” 

“Well... we were exploring,” Seth started. “And we got lost. It really wasn’t 
our fault.” 

Otto gazed at Seth sternly. Then his face filled with surprise as his flashlight 
washed over Stephanie and me. “You two! How did you get in? What are you 
doing here?” 

“He... well... he let us in,” I answered. I pointed at Seth. 

Otto turned back to Seth and shook his head unhappily. “More of your 
tricks? Were you scaring these kids?” 

“Not really, Uncle Otto,” Seth replied, keeping his eyes on the ground. 

Uncle Otto? So Seth was Otto’s nephew! 

No wonder he knew so much about Hill House. 

“Tell the truth, Seth,” Otto insisted. “Were you pretending to be a ghost 
again? Haven’t you played that trick on enough kids? Haven’t you scared 
enough kids to death?” 

Seth stood silent. 

Otto rubbed a hand back over his smooth, bald head. Then he let out a 



weary sigh. “We have a business to run here,” he told Seth. “Do you want to 
scare my customers away? Do you want to get the whole neighborhood upset?” 

Seth lowered his head and still didn’t reply. 

I could see that he was in major trouble. So I decided to jump in. “It’s okay, 
Otto,” I said. “He didn’t scare us.” 

“That’s right,” Stephanie chimed in. “We didn’t believe he was a ghost. Did 
we, Duane?” 

“Of course not,” I replied. “He didn’t fool us for a minute.” 

“Especially when we saw the real ghost,” Stephanie added. 

Otto turned to her, studying her in the light from the flashlight. “The what?” 

“The real ghost!” Stephanie insisted. 

“We saw the real ghost, Uncle Otto!” Seth exclaimed. “It was awesomel” 

Otto rolled his eyes. “Save the jokes, Seth. It’s too late at night. You’re just 
trying to get out of trouble.” 

“No. Really!” I insisted. 

“Really!” Seth and Stephanie cried. 

“We saw the headless ghost, Uncle Otto. You’ve got to believe us!” Seth 
pleaded. 

“Sure, sure,” Otto muttered. He turned and motioned with his flashlight. 
“Come on. Everyone out.” 



32 


After our scary night at Hill House, Stephanie and I gave up haunting the 
neighborhood. 

It just wasn’t that exciting anymore. Especially since we’d seen a real 
ghost. 

We stopped sneaking out at night. We stopped peeking into kids’ windows 
in scary masks. We stopped hiding behind bushes and howling like werewolves 
in the middle of the night. 

We gave up all the scary stuff. And we never even talked about ghosts. 

Stephanie and I found other things to be interested in. I tried out for the 
basketball team at school, and I became a starting forward. 

Stephanie joined the Theater Arts Club. This spring, she’s going to be 
Dorothy in The Wizard of Oz. Either Dorothy or a Munchkin. 

We had a good winter. Lots of snow. Lots of unscary fun. 

Then late one evening we were heading home from a birthday party. It was 
the first warm night of spring. Tulips were blooming in some of the front yards 
we passed. The air smelled fresh and sweet. 

I stopped in front of Hill House and gazed up at the old mansion. Stephanie 
stopped beside me. She read my mind. “You want to go in, don’t you, Duane?” 

I nodded. “How about taking the tour? We haven’t been in there since...” 
My voice trailed off. 

“Hey, why not?” Stephanie replied. 

We climbed the steep hill. Tall weeds brushed the legs of my jeans as I 
made my way to the front door. The huge old house stood as dark and as creepy 
as ever. 

As Stephanie and I climbed onto the front stoop, the door creaked open. As 
it always had. 

We stepped into the small front entryway. A few seconds later, Otto 
bounced into view. Dressed all in black. A friendly smile on his round, bald 
head. 

“You two!” he exclaimed happily. “Welcome back.” He called into the front 
room. “Edna, come see who is here.” 

Edna came tottering into the room. “Oh, my!” she cried, pressing a hand 



against her pale, wrinkled face. “We were wondering if we would see you two 
again.” 

I gazed into the front room. No other customers. 

“Could you take us on the tour?” I asked Otto. 

He smiled his toothy smile. “Of course. Wait. I’ll get my lantern.” 

Otto took us around Hill House. He gave us the complete tour. 

It was great to see the house again. But it no longer held any secrets for 
Stephanie and me. 

After the tour, we thanked Otto and said good night. 

We were halfway down the hill when a police car pulled up to the curb. A 
dark-uniformed officer stuck his head out of the passenger window. “What were 
you kids doing up there?” he called. 

Stephanie and I made our way down to the police car. The two officers eyed 
us suspiciously. 

“We just took the tour,” I explained, pointing up to Hill House. 

“Tour? What tour?” the officer demanded gruffly. 

“You know. The haunted house tour,” Stephanie replied impatiently. 

The police officer stuck his head farther out the window. He had blue eyes, 
and freckles all over his face. “What were you really doing up there?” he asked 
softly. 

“We told you,” I said shrilly. “Taking the tour. That’s all.” 

Behind the wheel, the other policeman chuckled. “Maybe a ghost gave 
them the tour,” he told his partner. 

“There are no tours,” the freckle-faced officer said, frowning. “There 
haven’t been any tours in that house for months.” 

Stephanie and I both uttered cries of surprise. 

“The house is empty,” the police officer continued. “Shut down. There 
hasn’t been anyone in there all winter. Hill House went out of business three 
months ago.” 

“Huh?” Stephanie and I exchanged startled glances. Then we both turned to 
gaze up at the house. 

The gray stone turrets rose up into the purple-black sky. Nothing but 
darkness all around. 

And then I saw a trail of soft light across the front window. Lantern light. 
Orange and soft as smoke. 

In the soft light, I saw Otto and Edna. They floated in front of the window. I 



could see right through them, as if they were made of gauze. 

They’re ghosts, too, I realized, staring into the soft, smoky light. 
I blinked. And the light faded out. 






Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats







THE ABOMINABLE 
SNOWMAN OF PASADENA 

Goosebumps - 38 
R.L. Stine 





1 


All my life, I’ve wanted to see snow. 

My name is Jordan Blake. My life has been twelve years of sun, sand, and 
chlorine. I’d never felt cold, ever —unless you count air-conditioned 
supermarkets. And I don’t. It doesn’t snow in the supermarket. 

I’d never felt cold, that is, until the adventure. 

Some people think I’m a lucky guy to live in Pasadena, California, where 
it’s always sunny and warm. It’s okay, I guess. But if you’ve never seen snow, it 
seems like something out of a science-fiction movie. 

Fluffy white frozen water that falls out of the sky? It piles up on the ground, 
and you can make forts and snowmen and snowballs out of it? You have to admit 
it sounds weird. 

One day, my wish came true. I got to see snow at last. And it turned out to 
be weirder than I thought. 

Way weirder. 

“Pay attention, kids. This is going to be cool.” 

Dad’s face glowed under the red darkroom light. My sister, Nicole, and I 
watched him developing film. With a pair of tongs, he dipped a sheet of special 
paper in a chemical bath. 

I’ve watched Dad develop film all my life. He’s a professional 
photographer. But I’d never seen him so excited about photos before—and that’s 
saying a lot. 

Dad takes nature photos. Well, actually, he takes pictures of everything! 

He never stops taking pictures. My mom says that once when I was a baby I 
saw Dad and screamed. I didn’t recognize him without a camera in front of his 
face. I used to think he had a zoom lens for a nose! 

Our house is filled with embarrassing pictures of me—me as a baby in 
baggy diapers, me with food all over my face, me crying after scraping my knee, 
me hitting my sister... 

Anyway, Dad had just returned from a trip to the Grand Tetons. That’s a 
mountain range in Wyoming—part of the Rocky Mountains. He was all worked 
up about the pictures he took there. 

“I wish you kids had seen those bears,” Dad said. “A whole family of them. 



The cubs reminded me of you two—always teasing each other.” 

Teasing. Ha. Dad thinks Nicole and I tease each other. That’s putting it 
mildly. Nicole—Miss Know-it-all—drives me crazy. 

Sometimes I wish she’d never been born. I’ve made it my mission to make 
her feel the same way. I mean, I try to make her wish she’d never been born. 

“You should have taken us with you to the Grand Tetons, Dad,” I 
complained. 

“It’s very cold in Wyoming this time of year,” Nicole said. 

“How do you know, Brainiac?” I jabbed her in the ribs. “You’ve never been 
to Wyoming.” 

“I read up on it while Dad was away,” she explained. Of course. “There’s a 
picture book about it in the library if you want to know more, Jordan. It’s just 
right for you—it’s for first graders.” 

I couldn’t think of anything to say back. That’s my problem. I’m too slow 
with the comebacks. So I jabbed her again. 

“Hey, hey,” Dad murmured. “No jabbing. I’m working here.” 

Dumb Nicole. Not that she’s dumb—she’s really smart. But in a dumb way 
—that’s my opinion. She’s so smart she skipped fifth grade—and landed in my 
class. She’s a year younger than I am and she’s in my class —and she gets 
straight A’s. 

Dad’s pictures floated in the chemical bath, slowly becoming clear. “Did it 
snow in the mountains while you were there, Dad?” I asked. 

“Sure, it snowed,” Dad replied. He was concentrating on his work. 

“Did you go skiing?” I asked. 

Dad shook his head. “I was too busy working.” 

“How about ice-skating?” Nicole asked. 

Nicole acts as if she knows everything. But like me, she’d never seen snow, 
either. We’d never left Southern California—and you could tell by looking at us. 

We’re both tan all year round. Nicole’s hair is greenish-blond from the 
chlorine in the community pool, and mine is brown with blond streaks. We’re on 
the school swim team. 

“I’ll bet it’s snowing at Mom’s house right now,” Nicole said. 

“Could be,” Dad replied. 

Mom and Dad are divorced. Mom just moved to Pennsylvania. We’re going 
to spend the summer with her. But we stayed in California with Dad to finish out 
the school year. 



Mom sent us some pictures of her new house. It was covered with snow. I 
stared at the pictures, trying to imagine the cold. 

“I wish we stayed at Mom’s house while you were gone,” I said. 

“Jordan, we’ve been over this.” Dad sounded a little impatient. “You can 
visit your mother when she’s settled. She hasn’t even bought furniture yet. 
Where would you sleep?” 

“I’d rather sleep on a bare floor than listen to Mrs. Witchens snoring on the 
couch,” I grumbled. 

Mrs. Witchens stayed with Nicole and me while Dad was away. She was a 
nightmare. Every morning we had to clean our rooms—she actually inspected 
them for dust. Every single night she served us liver, brussels sprouts, and fish- 
head soup with a tall glass of soy milk. 

“Her name’s not Witchens ,” Nicole corrected me. “It’s Hitchens .” 

“I know that, Sicole,” I retorted. 

Under the red light in the darkroom, the photos grew clearer. I heard 
excitement in Dad’s voice. 

“If these shots come out well, I can publish them in a book,” he said. “I will 
call it The Brown Bears of Wyoming, by Garrison Blake. Yes, that has a nice ring 
to it.” 

He stopped to pull a photo out of the liquid. It dripped as he stared at it. 

“That’s weird,” he murmured. 

“What’s weird?” Nicole asked. 

He set the picture down without saying anything. Nicole and I glanced at it. 

“Dad—” Nicole said. “I hate to break it to you, but that looks like a teddy 
bear.” 

It was a picture of a teddy bear. A stuffed brown toy bear with a lopsided 
grin, sitting in the grass. Not the kind of creature you usually find in the Grand 
Tetons. 

“There must be some mistake,” Dad said. “Wait until the rest of the photos 
develop. You’ll see. They’re amazing.” 

He pulled up another picture. He studied it. “Huh?” 

I grabbed the photo. Another teddy bear. 

Dad picked up a third picture. Then a fourth. He moved faster and faster. 

“More teddy bears!” he cried. He was frantic. Even in the darkroom, I could 
see the panic on his face. 

“What’s going on?” he shouted. “Where are the photos I took?” 



2 


“Dad—” Nicole began. “Are you sure those bears you saw were real?” 

“Of course I’m sure!” Dad boomed at her. “I know the difference between a 
brown bear and a teddy bear!” 

He began to pace back and forth across the darkroom floor. “Did I lose the 
film somehow?” he murmured, clutching his head with one hand. “Could 
someone have switched it?” 

“The weird part is that you were taking pictures of bears,” Nicole noted. 
“And you ended up with teddy bears. That’s just so strange.” 

Dad furiously tapped his hands on the developing table. He muttered to 
himself. He was starting to lose it. 

“Did I lose the film on the plane somehow? Switch carry-on bags with 
someone else, maybe?” 

I turned my back to Dad, my shoulders shaking. 

“Jordan? What’s the matter?” Dad grabbed my shoulders. “Are you all 
right?” 

He spun me around. “Jordan!” Dad cried. “You’re—laughing!” 

Nicole crossed her arms. She narrowed her eyes at me. “What did you do to 
Dad’s pictures?” 

Dad frowned. His voice was calmer now. “All right, Jordan. What’s the big 
joke?” 

I gasped for breath, trying to stop laughing. “Don’t worry, Dad. Your 
pictures are okay.” 

He shoved one of the teddy bear shots in my face. “Okay! You call this 
okay?!” 

“I borrowed your camera before you left for Wyoming,” I explained. “I 
took a bunch of shots of my old teddy bear, for a joke. The rest of the film 
should have your real bears on it.” 

I can’t resist a good practical joke. 

Nicole said, “I had nothing to do with it, Dad. I swear.” 

Little Miss Goody-Goody. 

Dad shook his head. “A joke?” He turned back to the photos and developed 
a few more. The next shot showed a real bear cub fishing in a stream. Dad 



laughed. 

“You know,” he said, putting the picture of the real bear next to one of the 
teddy bear shots, “they don’t look as different as you’d think.” 

I knew Dad wouldn’t stay angry. He never does. That’s one reason I like to 
play tricks on him. He likes to play practical jokes, too. 

“Did I ever tell you about the trick I pulled on Joe Morrison?” he asked. Joe 
Morrison is a photographer friend of Dad’s. 

“Joe had just gotten back from Africa, where he had spent months 
photographing gorillas. He was all excited about these fabulous gorilla shots 
he’d taken. I saw the pictures, and they were really spectacular. 

“Joe had a big meeting set up with the editor of a nature magazine. He was 
going to go in and show the editor these photos. He was sure the magazine 
would snap them up in a second. 

“Joe didn’t know that the editor and I had gone to college together. So I 
called her up and asked her to help me play a little joke on Joe. 

“When Joe went to see her, he showed her the pictures. She looked at them 
without saying a word. 

“Finally he couldn’t stand the suspense any longer. He blurted out, ‘Well? 
Do you like them or not?’ He’s an impatient guy, Joe.” 

“What did she say?” I asked. 

“She frowned and said, ‘You’re a good photographer, Mr. Morrison. But 
I’m afraid you’ve been tricked. The creatures you photographed aren’t gorillas at 
all.’ 

“Joe’s jaw practically fell off his face. He said, ‘What do you mean, they’re 
not gorillas?’ 

“She said, with a perfectly straight face, ‘They’re people in gorilla suits. 
Can’t you tell the difference between a real gorilla and a man in a gorilla suit, 
Mr. Morrison?”’ 

I chuckled. Nicole asked, “Then what happened?” 

“Joe practically had a nervous breakdown. He snatched up the photos and 
stared at them. He shouted, ‘I don’t get it! How could that happen? I spent six 
months of my life studying people in gorilla suits?’ 

“Finally the editor burst out laughing and told him it was a joke. She loved 
the photos and wanted to publish them. Joe wouldn’t believe her at first—it took 
her fifteen minutes to get him to calm down.” 

Dad and I both laughed. 



“I think that’s really mean, Dad,” Nicole scolded. 

I get my joker streak from Dad. Nicole takes after Mom. She’s more 
practical. 

“Joe thought it was funny once he got over the shock,” Dad assured her. 
“He’s played his share of tricks on me, believe me.” 

Dad swished another photo through the chemical bath. Then he held it up 
with his tongs. It showed two bear cubs wrestling. He smiled with satisfaction. 

“This roll came out great,” he said. “But I’ve got a lot more work to do in 
here, kids. Go on outside for a while, okay?” 

He turned the red light off and flipped on the normal light. Nicole opened 
the door. 

“Don’t get all messed up and dirty, though,” Dad added. “We’re all going 
out to dinner tonight. I want to celebrate my luck with the brown bears.” 

“We’ll be careful,” Nicole promised. 

“Speak for yourself,” I said. 

“I mean it, Jordan,” Dad warned. 

“Just kidding, Dad.” 

A wave of heat blasted us when we opened the darkroom door. Nicole and I 
stepped out into the backyard, blinking in the afternoon sun. It always takes my 
eyes a long time to adjust after I’ve been in the darkroom. 

“What do you want to do?” Nicole asked. 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “It’s so hot. It’s too hot to do much of anything.” 

Nicole closed her eyes and zoned out for a minute. 

“Nicole?” I nudged her. “Nicole? What are you doing?” 

“I’m thinking about the snow in Dad’s pictures of the Grand Tetons. I 
thought it would make me feel cooler.” 

She stood perfectly still with her eyes closed. A bead of sweat dripped 
down her forehead. 

“Well?” I asked. “Is it working?” 

She opened her eyes and shook her head. “No. How can I imagine snow if 
I’ve never felt it?” 

“Good point.” I sighed and gazed around me. 

We live in a subdivision in the suburbs of Pasadena. There are only three 
different kinds of houses in our neighborhood. The same three house styles are 
repeated for miles around. 

It’s so boring to look at, it makes me feel even hotter, somehow. Each block 



has a couple of palm trees, not enough to give much shade. There’s a vacant lot 
across the street from us, next door to the Millers’. The most exciting feature of 
our backyard—maybe the whole block—is Dad’s disgusting compost heap. 

I squinted and stared some more. Everything appeared bleached in the 
sunlight. Even the grass looked almost white. 

“I’m so bored I could scream,” I complained. 

“Let’s ride our bikes,” Nicole suggested. “Maybe the breeze will cool us 

off.” 

“Maybe Lauren will want to go with us,” I added. 

Lauren Sax lives next door to us. She’s in our class at school. I see her so 
often, she might as well be my sister. 

We rolled out our bikes from the garage and walked them over to Lauren’s. 
We left our bikes at the side of her house. Then we went around back. 

We found Lauren sitting on a towel under a palm tree in her backyard. 
Nicole sat beside Lauren on the towel. I leaned against the tree. 

“It’s so hot!” Lauren whined. She tugged on her yellow shorts. She’s tall 
and muscular, with long brown hair and bangs. 

She has a nasal voice, good for complaining. “This is supposed to be winter. 
It’s winter everywhere else. A normal winter has snow and ice and sleet and 
freezing rain and cold, cold air. What do we get? Nothing but sun! Why do we 
have to be so hot?” 

Suddenly I felt a pain in my back. 

“Ow!” I jerked forward. Something stabbed me. Something stinging sharp 
—and ice cold! My face twisted in pain. 

“Jordan!” Nicole gasped. “What’s wrong? What’s wrong?” 



3 


I clutched the icy spot on my back. “What is it?” I cried. “It’s so cold!” 

Nicole jumped to her feet and examined my back. “Jordan, you’ve been 
stabbed!” she announced. “With a purple Popsicle!” 

As I turned around I heard mean laughter. The Miller twins jumped out 
from behind the tree. 

I should’ve known. The Miller twins—Kyle and Kara. The twin pug noses, 
the beady little eyes, the matching short-cropped red hair. Yuck. They carried 
twin Super Soakers, red ones. 

The Miller twins love practical jokes. They’re worse than I am. And much 
meaner. 

Everyone in the neighborhood is afraid of them. They pounce on little kids 
waiting at the bus stop and rob them of their lunch money. Once they blew up 
the Saxes’ mailbox with a stink bomb. Last year, Kyle sucker-punched me 
during a basketball game. He thought it was funny to watch me turn purple. 

The Millers like to pick on me more than anyone, for some reason. 

Kara is just as scary as her brother Kyle. I hate to admit it, but Kara can 
take me out with one punch. I know that for a fact. She gave me a black eye last 
summer. 

“‘Oh, it’s so hot. It’s so hot!”’ Kara sneered, making fun of Lauren’s whiny 
voice. 

Kyle flipped his Super Soaker from one hand to the other behind his back. 
He tried to make it look like a really complicated move. 

“Arnold taught me how to do that,” he bragged. 

Kyle wanted me to think he was talking about Arnold Schwarzenegger. He 
claims he knows Arnold. I have my doubts. 

Nicole tugged on the back of my shirt. “Dad’s going to kill you, Jordan,” 
she said. 

“Why?” 

I craned my neck backwards. The back of my white polo shirt was stained 
dark purple. 

“Oh, great,” I muttered. 

“Dad said not to get messed up,” Nicole reminded me. As if I needed to be 



reminded. 

“Don’t worry, Jordan,” Kyle said. “We’ll clean it off for you.” 

“Uh—that’s okay,” I murmured, backing away. Whatever Kyle meant by 
“clean it off”, I knew I wouldn’t like it. 

I was right. 

He and Kara raised their Super Soakers and squirted me, Nicole, and 
Lauren. 

“Stop it!” Lauren screamed. “You’re getting us all wet!” 

Kyle and Kara laughed their maniac laughs. “You said you were hot!” 

They drenched us. My shirt was so wet I could wring a glass of water out of 
it. I glared at them. 

Kyle shrugged. “We were only trying to help.” 

Yeah. Sure they were. 

I should’ve been grateful that all they did was soak us. We got off easy. 

I can’t stand the Miller twins. Neither can Nicole and Lauren. They think 
they’re so hot. Just because they’re thirteen and they have a swimming pool in 
their backyard. 

Their father works at a movie studio. They’re always bragging about how 
they go to sneak previews and hang out with movie stars. 

I haven’t seen a movie star show up at their house yet. Not once. 

“Aw, you’re all wet,” Kara said, sneering. “Why don’t you take a bike ride 
to dry off?” 

Nicole and I exchanged glances. When we’re alone, we don’t get along so 
well. But when the Millers are around, we have to stick together. 

We knew the Millers too well. They wouldn’t mention our bikes without a 
reason. A bad reason. 

“What did you do to our bikes?” Nicole demanded. 

The Millers faked wide-eyed innocence. “Who—us? We didn’t do anything 
to your precious bikes. Go see for yourself.” 

Nicole and I glanced around the side of Lauren’s house, where we’d left our 
bikes. 

“They look okay from here,” Nicole whispered. 

“There’s something wrong with them,” I said. “They look weird.” 

We approached our bikes. They looked weird all right. The handlebars had 
been unscrewed and twisted backwards. 

“Hope you have reverse gear,” Kyle snickered. 



Normally, I’m not the kind of guy who goes around getting into fights. But 
something in me snapped. This time Kyle and Kara had gone too far. 

I jumped on Kyle. We tumbled to the ground. We wrestled. I tried to pin 
him with my knee, but he pushed me over onto my side. 

“Stop it!” Nicole screamed. “Stop it!” 

Kyle rolled me onto my back. “You thought you could jump me, Jordan? 
You’re too big a wimp!” 

I kicked him. He pinned my shoulder to the ground with one knee. 

Nicole shouted hysterically, “Jordan! Look out!” 

I glanced up. Kara stood over me, clutching a rock the size of her head. A 
mean grin spread across her face. 

“Drop it, Kara!” Kyle ordered. 

I tried to roll out of the way, but I couldn’t move. Kyle had me pinned. 

Kara heaved the rock. Then she let it drop—right onto my head. 



4 


I squeezed my eyes shut. 

The rock landed on my forehead—and bounced off. 

I opened my eyes. Kara laughed like a hyena. She picked up the rock and 
dropped it on my face again. It bounced off, just like the first time. 

Lauren grabbed it. “It’s made of sponge,” she announced. She squeezed it 
in her hand. “It’s a fake.” 

Kyle laughed. “It’s a movie prop, moron.” 

“You should’ve seen your face,” Kara added. “What a chicken!” 

I kicked Kyle off me and pounced on him again. This time I was so mad I 
had the strength of two Kyles. I wrestled him to the ground. I had him pinned! 

“What’s going on, guys?” 

Uh-oh. Dad. 

I leaped to my feet. “Hi, Dad. We were just kidding around.” 

Kyle sat up, rubbing his elbow. 

Dad didn’t even seem to notice that we’d been fighting. He was excited 
about something. 

“Listen, kids—I have great news. Wilderness magazine just called. They 
want to fly me to Alaska!” 

“Great, Dad,” I said sarcastically. “You get to go on another exciting trip 
while we stay here and die of boredom.” 

“And heat,” Nicole added. 

Dad laughed. “I called Mrs. Hitchens to see if she could come stay with you 
again—” he began. 

“Not Mrs. Hitchens again!” I cried. “Dad, she’s horrible! I can’t stand her 
cooking. I’ll starve to death if she stays with us!” 

“You will not, Jordan,” Nicole said. “Even if you ate only bread and water, 
you could survive a week easily.” 

“Nicole? Jordan? Hello?” Dad said, knocking lightly on our heads. “Will 
you please listen to me? I haven’t finished yet.” 

“Sorry, Dad.” 

“Anyway, Mrs. Hitchens can’t come. So, I guess you two will just have to 



come along with me.” 

“To Alaska?” I cried. I was too excited to believe it. 

“Hurray!” Nicole yelled. We jumped up and down. 

“You guys are so lucky!” Lauren said. Kara and Kyle stood by. Saying 
nothing. 

“We’re going to Alaska!” I shouted. “We’ll get to see snow! Tons of snow! 
Alaskan snow!” 

I was thrilled. And Dad hadn’t even told us the interesting part yet. 

“It’s a strange project,” Dad continued. “They want me to track down some 
kind of snow creature—an Abominable Snowman.” 

“Wow!” I gasped. 

Kyle and Kara snorted. 

Nicole shook her head. “An Abominable Snowman? Has anybody really 
seen him?” 

Dad nodded. “Some kind of snow creature has been spotted. Who knows 
what it really is. Whatever it is, the magazine wants me to shoot photos of it. I’m 
sure it’s a wild-goose chase. There’s no such thing as an Abominable 
Snowman.” 

“So why are you going?” Nicole asked. 

I poked her in the ribs. “Who cares? We’re going to Alaska!” 

“The magazine is paying a big fee,” Dad explained. “And even if we don’t 
find a snow creature, I’ll still get some great shots of the tundra.” 

Lauren asked, “What’s a tundra?” 

Dad began to reply, but Nicole stepped forward. “I’ll handle this one, Dad,” 
she interrupted. I felt like screaming. She does that in school all the time, too. 

“A tundra is a huge frozen plain. It exists in the Arctic, in Alaska, and in 
Russia. The word tundra comes from the Russian, meaning—” 

I clapped my hand over her big mouth. “Any other questions, Lauren?” 

Lauren shook her head. “That’s all I needed to know.” 

“Egghead here goes on forever if you don’t stop her.” I let go of Nicole’s 
mouth. She stuck her tongue out at me. 

“This trip is going to be great,” I cried happily. “We’ll see ice and snow for 
real! We’re going hunting for an Abominable Snowman! Awesome!” 

An hour earlier we’d been bored out of our minds. Now suddenly 
everything had changed. 

Dad smiled. “I’ve got to go back to the darkroom for a while. Don’t forget 



—we’re going out to dinner tonight.” He wandered back across the lawn and 
into the house. 

As soon as Dad was gone, Kara started laughing. “An Abominable 
Snowman! What a joke!” 

Typical Kara—she was too chicken to say a word while Dad was around. 

Kyle made fun of me, jumping up and down and squealing, “Alaska! 
Alaska! I’ll get to see snow!” 

“You both will probably turn blue and freeze,” Kara sneered. 

“We’ll be fine,” Nicole said. “It’s your turn to freeze!” She grabbed Kara’s 
Super Soaker and sent a spray of water into Kara’s face. 

“Stop it!” Kyle shouted. He dove at Nicole. Nicole laughed and ran away, 
turning around to soak them every few feet. 

“Give that back!” Kara yelled. 

The Millers chased Nicole. Kyle raised his Super Soaker and let Nicole 
have it in the back. 

Lauren and I ran after them. Nicole raced into our backyard. She turned 
around and squirted the Millers again. 

“You can’t catch me!” she cried, shooting and walking backward. 

She was backing right into Dad’s compost heap. 

Should I warn her? I thought. 

No way. 

“Take that!” she shouted, blasting the Millers with water. 

Then she slipped and fell backward—into the compost heap. 

“Yuck,” Lauren groaned. 

Nicole stood up slowly. Greenish-brown slime oozed in her hair and 
dripped down her back, her arms, and her legs. “Ugh!” she screamed, frantically 
wiping the glop off her hands. “Uggghhh!” 

We all stood and stared. She looked like some kind of Abominable 
Snowman herself. All covered in glop. 

We were still staring when Dad popped his head out the back door. “You 
kids ready to go to dinner?” he called. 



5 


“There it is!” Dad shouted over the roar of the small plane’s engine. “Iknek. 
That’s the airstrip.” 

I stared out the window at the tiny brown patch where we’d be landing. For 
the last half hour I’d seen nothing but miles and miles of snow. Wow. It was so 
white ! 

It was cool the way the snow sparkled in the sunlight. It made me think of 
Christmas carols. I couldn’t get “Winter Wonderland” out of my head—and it 
was driving me crazy! 

I watched for giant footprints as we flew. How big would an Abominable 
Snowman’s footsteps be? Big enough to see from a low-flying plane? 

“I hope there’s a restaurant down there,” Nicole said. “I’m starving.” 

Dad patted her shoulder. “We’ll have a big, hot meal before we set out. But 
after that, it’s camping food.” 

“How are we going to build a fire in the snow?” Nicole asked. 

“We’ll be staying in a little cabin,” Dad replied. “It’s a long way out in the 
tundra, but it’s better than sleeping in tents. There should be a stove in the cabin. 
I hope so, anyway.” 

“Can we build an igloo and sleep in that?” I asked. “Or dig out an ice 
cave?” 

“You can’t build an igloo just like that, Jordan,” Nicole snapped. “It’s not 
like a snow fort or something. Right, Dad?” 

Dad took the lens cap off his camera and started taking pictures through the 
plane window. “Sure,” he said absently. “Uh-huh.” 

Nicole turned to the window, too. I mimicked her behind her back. You 
can’t build an igloo just like that, I mouthed. She acts like she’s my teacher or 
something. It’s really embarrassing when she does it in front of everybody at 
school. 

“How are we going to find the cabin?” Nicole asked. “Everything looks the 
same in all this snow.” 

Dad turned and snapped a picture of her. “Did you say something, Nicole?” 

“I was wondering how we’re going to find the cabin,” Nicole repeated. “Do 
you know how to use a compass, Dad?” 



“A compass? No, but that doesn’t matter. A man named Arthur Maxwell is 
supposed to meet us at the airport. He’ll be our guide through the tundra.” 

“I know Arthur,” the pilot shouted back to us. “He’s an old musher from 
way back. Knows everything about dogs and sleds. He knows this part of Alaska 
better than anybody, I guess.” 

“Maybe he’s seen the Abominable Snowman,” I suggested. 

“How do you know there is such a thing?” Nicole taunted. “We haven’t 
seen any sign of him yet.” 

“Nicole, people have seen him with their own eyes,” I replied. “And if 
there’s no such thing, what are we doing here?” 

“Some people say they’ve seen him,” Nicole said. “Or maybe they think 
they’ve seen one. I won’t believe it until I get more facts.” 

The plane circled the small town. I played with the zipper on my new 
Arctic jacket. I’d been hungry a few minutes earlier, but now I was too excited to 
think about food. 

There really is an Abominable Snowman down there, I thought. I know 
there is. I felt a chill, despite a blast of hot air from the plane’s heater. 

What if we find him? What will happen then? 

What will happen if the Abominable Snowman doesn’t like to be 
photographed? 

The plane flew very low now, getting ready to land. We touched down with 
a bump and taxied along the runway. The plane lurched as the pilot put on the 
brakes. 

Something big loomed at the end of the runway. Something huge, white, 
and monstrous. 

“Dad, look!” I cried. “I see him! The Abominable Snowman!” 



6 


The plane squealed to a stop right in front of the big monster. 

Dad, Nicole, and the pilot all laughed—at me. 

I hate that. But I couldn’t blame them. The big white monster was a polar 

bear. 

A statue of a polar bear. 

“The polar bear is the symbol of the town,” the pilot explained. 

“Oh,” I murmured. I knew I was blushing. I turned away. 

“Jordan knew that,” Dad said. “He was just playing one of his practical 
jokes.” 

“Uh—yeah.” I went along with it. “I knew it was a statue all along.” 

“You did not, Jordan,” Nicole said. “You were really scared!” 

I punched Nicole in the arm. “I was not! It was a joke.” 

Dad put an arm around each of us. “Isn’t it great the way these two kid each 
other?” he said to the pilot. 

“If you say so,” the pilot replied. 

We hopped out of the plane. The pilot opened the cargo hold. Nicole and I 
grabbed our backpacks. 

Dad had brought a huge, airtight trunk for film, cameras, food, sleeping 
bags, and other supplies. The pilot helped him carry it off the airstrip. 

The trunk was so big, Dad could fit inside it. It reminded me of a red plastic 
coffin. 

Iknek Airport was like a tiny wooden house, just two rooms. Two pilots in 
leather jackets sat at a table playing cards. 

A tall, brawny man with dark hair, a thick beard, and leathery skin stood up 
and crossed the room to greet us. His gray parka hung open over a flannel shirt 
and deerskin pants. 

This must be our guide, I realized. 

“Mr. Blake?” the man said to Dad. His voice was low and hoarse. “I’m 
Arthur Maxwell. Need some help there?” He grabbed one end of the trunk from 
the pilot. 

“This is an awfully big trunk you brought,” Arthur added. “Do you really 
need all this stuff?” 



Dad reddened. “I’ve got a lot of cameras, tripods and things.... Well, maybe 
I overpacked.” 

Arthur frowned at me and Nicole. “I’d say so.” 

“Call me Garry,” Dad said. “These are my kids, Jordan and Nicole.” He 
nodded toward us. 

Nicole said “Hi,” and I added, “Nice to meet you.” I can be polite when I 
have to be. 

Arthur stared at us. Then he grunted. 

“You didn’t mention kids,” he mumbled to Dad after a minute. 

“I’m sure I did,” Dad protested. 

“I don’t remember it,” Arthur replied, frowning. 

Everyone was silent. We pushed through the airport door and started down 
the muddy road. 

“I’m hungry,” I said. “Let’s go into town and get some food.” 

“How far is it to town, Arthur?” Dad asked. 

“How far?” Arthur echoed. “You’re looking at it.” 

I stared around in surprise. There was only one road. It began at the airport 
and ended in a pile of snow about two blocks away. A few wooden buildings 
were sprinkled along it. 

“This is it?” I cried. 

“It’s not Pasadena,” Arthur grumbled. “But we call it home.” 

He led us down the muddy road to a diner called Betty’s. 

“I guess you’re hungry,” he grumbled. “Might as well eat a hot meal before 
we set out.” 

We settled into a booth by a window. Nicole and I ordered hamburgers, 
french fries, and Cokes. Dad and Arthur ordered coffee and beef stew. 

“I’ve got a sled and four dogs ready to go,” Arthur announced. “The dogs 
can pull this trunk of yours and the other supplies. We’ll walk beside the sled.” 

“That sounds fine,” Dad said. 

“Whoa!!” I protested. “We’re walking? How far?” 

“Ten miles or so,” Arthur replied. 

“Ten miles!” I’d never walked that far before. “Why do we have to walk? 
Why can’t we take a helicopter or something?” 

“Because I want to take photos along the way, Jordan,” Dad explained. 
“The landscape is fascinating. You never know what we’ll come across.” 

Maybe we’ll come across the Abominable Snowman, I thought. That would 



be cool. 

Our food arrived. We all ate in silence. Arthur wouldn’t look me in the eye. 
He wouldn’t look any of us in the eye. He stared out the window while he ate. 
Outside on the street, a Jeep drove by. 

“Have you ever seen this snow creature we’re looking for?” Dad asked 
Arthur. 

Arthur speared a piece of meat with his fork and popped it into his mouth. 
He chewed. He chewed some more. Dad, Nicole, and I all watched him, waiting 
for his answer. 

Finally he swallowed. “Never seen it,” he said. “Heard about it, though. 
Lots of stories.” 

I waited to hear one of the stories. But Arthur kept on eating. 

I couldn’t stand waiting any longer. “What kind of stories?” 

He swabbed at some gravy with his bread. He stuffed it into his mouth. 
Chewed. Swallowed. 

“A couple of people in town,” he said. “They’ve seen the monster.” 
“Where?” Dad asked. 

“Out by the big snow ridge,” Arthur said. “Beyond the musher’s cabin. 
Where we’re staying.” 

“What does he look like?” I asked. 

“They say he’s big,” Arthur said. “Big and covered with brown fur. You 
might think he’s a bear. But he’s not. He walks on two feet like a man.” 

I shuddered. The Abominable Snowman sounded a lot like a vicious cave 
monster I saw in a horror movie once. 

Arthur shook his head. “Personally, I hope we never find him.” 

Dad’s jaw dropped. “But that’s what we’re here for. It’s my job to find him 
—if he exists.” 

“He exists all right,” Arthur declared. “Friend of mine—another musher— 
he was out in a blizzard one day. Ran smack into the snow monster.” 

“What happened?” I asked. 

“You don’t want to know.” Arthur stuffed more bread into his mouth. 

“We certainly do want to know,” Dad persisted. 

Arthur stroked his beard. “The monster picked up one of the dogs and made 
off with him. My friend chased after him, trying to get the dog back. Never 
found him. But he could hear the dog whining. Pitiful howls. Whatever 
happened to that dog—it sounded pretty bad.” 



“He’s probably a carnivore,” Nicole said. “A meat-eater. Most animals 
around here are. There’s so little vegetation—” 

I jabbed Nicole. “I want to hear about the snowman—not your stupid nature 
facts.” 

Arthur flashed Nicole an annoyed glance. I figured he was thinking, What 
planet is she from? That’s what I’m usually thinking, anyway. 

He cleared his throat and continued. “My friend came back to town. He and 
another guy went out to try and capture the snow monster. Darn foolish, if you 
ask me.” 

“What happened to them?” I asked. 

“Don’t know,” Arthur said. “They never came back.” 

“Huh?” I gaped at the big guide. I swallowed hard. “Excuse me? Did you 
say they never came back?” 

Arthur nodded solemnly. “They never came back.” 



7 


“Maybe they got lost in the tundra,” Dad suggested. 

“Doubt it,” Arthur said. “Those two knew what they were doing. The 
monster killed them. That’s what happened.” 

He paused to butter another slice of bread. 

“Close your mouth, Jordan,” Nicole said. “I don’t want to look at your 
chewed-up french fries.” 

I guess my mouth had been hanging open. I shut it and swallowed. 

Arthur seems like a weird guy, I thought. But he’s not lying to us. He 
definitely believes in the Abominable Snowman. 

Nicole asked him, “Has anyone else seen the snow monster?” 

“Yep. A couple of TV people from New York. They heard about what 
happened to my friend and came to town to investigate. They set out into the 
tundra. Never came back, either. We found one of them, frozen to death in a 
block of ice. Who knows what became of the other. 

“Then Mrs. Carter—she lives at the end of Main Street—she saw the snow 
monster a few days later,” Arthur continued in a low voice. “She was looking 
through her telescope and spied him out in the tundra. He was chewing on bones, 
she said. Don’t believe me, go ask her yourself.” 

Dad made a noise. I glanced at him. He was trying to keep from laughing. 

I didn’t see what was so funny. This snow monster sounded pretty scary to 
me. 

Arthur glared at Dad. “You don’t have to believe me if you don’t want to, 
Mr. Blake,” he said. 

“Call me Garry,” Dad repeated. 

“I’ll call you what I please, Mr. Blake,” Arthur said sharply. “What I’m 
telling you is true. That monster is real—and he’s a killer! You’re taking a big 
risk, chasing after him. No one has ever caught him. Anyone who goes out after 
him... doesn’t return.” 

“We’ll take our chances,” Dad said. “I’ve heard stories like this before, in 
other parts of the world. Stories about monsters in the jungle or weird creatures 
in the ocean. So far the stories have never turned out to be true. I have a feeling 
the Abominable Snowman will be no different.” 



Part of me really wanted to see the snow creature. But part of me hoped 
Dad was right. I don’t deserve to die, I thought—just because I want to see 
snow! 

“Well,” Dad said, wiping his mouth. “Let’s get going. Everybody ready?” 

“I’m ready,” Nicole piped up. 

“Me too,” I said. I couldn’t wait to get out in the snow. 

Arthur said nothing. Dad paid the lunch check. 

We waited for change. “Dad,” I asked, “what if the Abominable Snowman 
is real? What if we run into him? What will we do?” 

He pulled something small and black out of his coat pocket. 

“This is a radio transmitter,” he explained. “If we get into any kind of 
trouble out in the wilderness, I can radio the ranger station in town. They’ll send 
a helicopter to rescue us.” 

“What kind of trouble, Dad?” Nicole asked. 

“I’m sure there won’t be any trouble,” Dad assured us. “But it’s good to be 
prepared for emergencies. Right, Arthur?” 

Arthur smacked his lips and cleared his throat. But he didn’t reply. I figured 
he was angry because Dad didn’t believe his stories about the snow monster. 

Dad returned the radio transmitter to his coat pocket. He left a tip for the 
waitress. Then we spilled outside into the cold Alaskan air, ready to head out for 
the frozen tundra. 

Was an Abominable Snowman waiting for us somewhere out there? 

We would soon find out. 



8 


Smack! 

Bulls-eye. I hit Nicole in the middle of her backpack with a snowball. 

“Dad!” Nicole cried. “Jordan hit me with a snowball!” 

Dad had his camera in front of his face, clicking away, as usual. “Good for 
you, Nicole,” he said absently. Nicole rolled her eyes. 

Then she ripped off my ski cap. She stuffed it with snow and smushed it on 
top of my head. 

Snow trickled down my face. The cold burned my skin. 

At first I thought snow was cool. I could mush it up in my hand to make 
snowballs. Fall down in it without getting hurt. Put it on my tongue and let it 
melt into water. 

But I was beginning to feel the cold. My toes and fingers were getting 
numb. We had already walked two miles out of town. When I looked back, I 
couldn’t see it. I could only see snow and sky. 

Only eight more miles to the cabin, I thought, wiggling my fingers inside 
my mittens. Eight more miles! It was going to take forever. And all around us, 
nothing but snow—miles and miles of it. 

Dad and Arthur trudged beside the dogsled. Arthur had brought along four 
Alaskan huskies—Binko, Rocky, Tin-tin, and Nicole’s favorite, Lars. They 
pulled Dad’s big trunk and the other supplies in a long, narrow sled. 

Nicole and I each carried a backpack filled with emergency food and other 
supplies. Just in case, Dad said. 

In case of what? I wondered. In case we get lost? In case the dogs run away 
with the sled? In case the Abominable Snowman captures us? 

Dad snapped pictures of the dogs, of us, of Arthur, of the snow. 

Nicole threw herself backwards into a snowdrift. “Look—an angel!” she 
cried, waving her arms up and down. 

She jumped up and we checked out the snow angel. “Cool,” I admitted. I 
lay on my back to make one, too. When Nicole came closer to inspect it, I 
whopped her with a snowball. 

“Hey!” she cried. “I’m going to get you for that!” 

I leaped up and darted away. The deep snow crunched under my shoes. 



Nicole ran after me. We raced ahead of the dogsled. 

“Be careful, kids!” Dad called after us. “Stay out of trouble!” 

I stumbled in the snow. Nicole pounced on me. I wriggled free and bolted 
away. 

What kind of trouble could we get into? I thought as my feet crunched 
along. There’s nothing but snow for miles around. We couldn’t even get lost out 
here! 

I turned around and ran backwards, waving at Nicole. “Try and catch me, 
Miss Factoid!” I teased. 

“Name-calling is so immature!” she yelled, chasing after me. 

Then she stopped and pointed behind me. “Jordan! Look out!” 

“Hey—I’m not falling for that old trick,” I called back. I skipped backwards 
through the snow. I didn’t want to take my eyes off her, in case she planned to 
pelt me with snowballs. 

“Jordan, I mean it!” she screamed. “Stop!” 



9 


Thud! 

I landed hard on my back in a pile of snow. “Unh!” I grunted, stunned. 

I struggled to catch my breath. Then I stared around me. 

I had fallen down some kind of deep crevasse. I sat shivering in the pile of 
snow, surrounded by narrow cliffs of bluish ice and rock. 

I stood and looked up. The opening of the crevasse was at least twenty feet 
above me. Frantically, I clutched at the icy walls. I grabbed onto a jutting rock 
and fumbled for a foothold, hoping to climb out. 

I hoisted myself up a couple of feet. Then my hand slipped and I slid back 
to the bottom. I tried again. The ice was too slick. 

How would I ever get out of here? 

Where were Dad and Nicole? I tried to warm my cheeks with my mittens. 
Why don’t they come to get me? I’m going to freeze down here! 

Nicole’s face appeared at the top of the crevasse. I’d never been so happy to 
see her in my life. 

“Jordan? Are you all right?” 

“Get me out of here!” I shouted. 

“Don’t worry,” Nicole assured me. “Dad’s coming.” 

I leaned against the pit wall. The sunlight didn’t reach the bottom. My toes 
felt ready to break off. They were so cold! I jumped up and down to keep warm. 

A few minutes later, I heard Dad’s voice. “Jordan? Are you hurt?” 

“No, Dad!” I called up to him. He, Nicole, and Arthur all stared down at me 
from above. 

“Arthur is going to lower a rope down to you,” Dad instructed. “Hold on to 
it, and we’ll hoist you out of there.” 

I stepped aside as Arthur tossed one end of a knotted rope into the crevasse. 
I clutched the rope with my mittened hands. 

Arthur shouted, “Heave! ” 

Dad and Arthur tugged on the rope. I planted my feet in footholds in the 
ice, bracing myself against the side of the crevasse. The rope slipped out of my 
hands. I clutched it tighter. 

“Hold on, Jordan!” Dad called. 



They pulled again. My arms felt as if they were going to be yanked out of 
their sockets. “Ow!” I cried. “Careful!” 

Slowly they hoisted me to the top of the crevasse. I wasn’t much help—my 
feet kept slipping on the icy walls. Dad and Arthur each took one of my hands 
and dragged me out of the pit. 

I lay on the snow, trying to catch my breath. 

Dad tested my arms and legs for sprains and breaks. “You sure you’re all 
right?” he asked. 

I nodded. 

“It was a mistake to haul kids along,” Arthur grumbled. “The snow is not as 
solid as it looks, you know. If we hadn’t seen you fall, we never would have 
found you.” 

“We’ve got to be more careful,” Dad agreed. “I want you both to stick close 
to the sled.” He leaned over the side of the crevasse and snapped a picture. 

I stood up and brushed the snow from the seat of my pants. “I’ll be careful 
from now on,” I promised. 

“Good,” Dad said. 

“We’d better push on,” Arthur said. 

We started walking again across the snow. I gave Nicole a shove once in a 
while, and she shoved me back. But we were quieter now. Neither of us wanted 
to end up frozen to death at the bottom of a snow hole. 

Dad snapped away as we walked. “How much farther to the cabin?” he 
asked Arthur. 

“Another couple of miles,” Arthur replied. He pointed to a steep mountain 
of snow in the distance. “See that snow rise, about ten miles off? That’s where 
the monster was last spotted.” 

The Abominable Snowman had been seen by that snow rise, I thought. 
Where was he now? 

Could he see us coming? Was he hiding somewhere, watching us? 

I kept my eyes on the snow rise as we walked. It seemed to grow bigger as we 
came closer to it. The snow rise was dotted with pine trees and boulders. 

After about an hour, a tiny brown speck appeared a mile or so away. 

“That’s the abandoned musher’s cabin where we’ll stop for the night,” Dad 
explained. He rubbed his gloves together and added, “It sure will be nice to sit 
by a roaring fire.” 



I clapped my mittens together to keep the blood flowing through my hands. 
“I can’t wait,” I agreed. “It must be minus two thousand degrees out here!” 

“Actually, it’s about minus ten,” Nicole stated. “At least, that’s the average 
temperature for this area at this time of year.” 

“Thank you, Weather Girl,” I joked. “And now for sports. Arthur?” 

Arthur frowned into his beard. I guess he didn’t get the joke. 

He fell behind us a little to check the back of the sled. Dad turned around to 
snap Arthur’s picture. 

“When we get to the musher’s cabin I’ll take a few more scenery photos,” 
Dad said, as he changed his film. “Maybe I’ll photograph the cabin, too. Then 
we’ll all turn in. We have a big day tomorrow.” 

By the time we reached the cabin it was almost eight o’clock at night. 

“Took us too long to get here,” Arthur grumbled. “We left town after lunch. 
It should’ve taken us about five hours. The kids having accidents and all is 
slowing us down.” 

Dad stood a few feet away from him, shooting a portrait of Arthur while he 
talked. 

“Mr. Blake, did you hear me?” Arthur growled. “Stop taking my picture!” 

“What?” Dad said, letting his camera drop to his chest. “Oh, yeah—the 
kids. Bet they’re hungry.” 

I explored the musher’s cabin. It didn’t take long. The tiny wooden shack 
was empty except for an old wood-burning stove and a couple of broken-down 
cots. 

“Why is the cabin so empty?” Nicole asked. 

“Mushers don’t stop here anymore,” Arthur explained. “They’re afraid of 
the monster.” 

I didn’t like the sound of that. I glanced at Nicole. She rolled her eyes. 

Arthur bedded the dogs in a lean-to outside the cabin. The lean-to was a 
shed built against the back cabin wall. It was filled with straw for the dogs to 
sleep on. I spotted a rusty old dogsled propped in a corner. 

Then Arthur lit a fire and began to fix some supper. 

“Tomorrow we’ll search for this so-called monster,” Dad announced. 
“Everybody get a good night’s sleep.” 

After supper we crawled into our sleeping bags. I lay awake for a long time, 
listening to the howling wind outside. Listening for the thudding footsteps of an 
Abominable Snowman. 



“Nicole, get off me!” She rolled over in her sleeping bag and jabbed her elbow 
into my ribs. I knocked her arm away and snuggled deeper inside my own toasty 
warm sleeping bag. 

Nicole opened her eyes. Bright morning sunshine streamed into the cabin. 

“I’ll be back in a minute to fix breakfast, kids,” Dad said. He sat in a chair, 
lacing up his snow boots. “First I’m going out to check on the dogs. Arthur went 
out to feed them a few minutes ago.” 

He bundled up and stepped outside. I rubbed my nose—it was cold. The 
fire in the stove had gone out during the night. No one had relit it yet. 

I forced myself to climb out of my sleeping bag and start pulling on clothes. 
Nicole began dressing, too. 

“Do you think there’s a hot shower in this dump?” I wondered aloud. 

Nicole smirked at me. “You know perfectly well there’s no hot shower, 
Jordan.” 

“Oh, wow! This is incredible!” I heard Dad’s shout from outside. 

I jammed my feet into my boots and raced out the door. Nicole pushed right 
behind me. 

Dad stood at the side of the musher’s cabin, pointing in shock at the ground. 

I gazed down—and saw deep footprints in the snow. Huge footprints. 
Enormous footprints. 

So big that only a monster could have made them. 



10 


“Unbelievable,” Dad murmured, staring at the snow. 

Arthur hurried over from the lean-to. He stopped when he saw the prints. 

“No!” he cried. “He was here!” 

His ruddy face grew pale. His jaw trembled with terror. 

“We’ve got to get away from here—now!” he said to Dad in a low, 
frightened voice. 

Dad tried to calm him down. “Hold on a minute. Let’s not jump to 
conclusions.” 

“We’re in terrible danger!” Arthur insisted. “The monster is nearby! He’ll 
rip us all to shreds!” 

Nicole knelt in the snow, studying the footprints. “Do you think they’re 
real?” she asked. “Real Abominable Snowman footprints?” 

She thinks they’re real, I thought. She believes. 

Dad knelt beside her. “They look pretty real to me.” 

Then I saw a light glimmer in his eyes. He lifted his head and squinted at 
me suspiciously. 

I backed away. 

“Jordan!” Nicole cried in an accusing voice. 

I couldn’t help it. I started laughing. 

Dad shook his head. “Jordan. I should’ve known.” 

“What?” Arthur looked confused—and then angry. “You mean the kid 
made these prints? It’s a joke?” 

“I’m afraid so, Arthur,” Dad sighed. 

Arthur scowled at me. Beneath his beard, his face reddened to the color of a 
slab of raw steak. 

I cowered. I couldn’t help it. Arthur scared me. He sure didn’t like kids— 
especially not kids who play jokes. 

“I’ve got work to do,” Arthur muttered. He turned and stomped away 
through the snow. 

“Jordan, you crumb,” Nicole said. “When did you do it?” 

“I woke up early this morning and sneaked out,” I admitted. “You were all 



sleeping. I carved the footprints over my own prints, with my mittens. Then I 
stepped in the prints on my way back, to cover my tracks. 

“You believed,” I added, jabbing a finger at Nicole. “For a minute there, 
you believed in the snow monster.” 

“I did not!” Nicole protested. 

“Yes, you did. I got you to believe!” 

I glanced from Nicole’s peevish face to Dad’s stern one. “Don’t you think 
it’s funny?” I asked. “It’s just a joke!” 

Usually Dad liked my jokes. 

Not this time. 

“Jordan, we’re not at home in Pasadena now. We’re out in the middle of 
nowhere. The wilds of Alaska. Things could get very dangerous. You saw that 
yesterday when you fell down the crevasse.” 

I nodded and hung my head. 

“I’m serious, Jordan,” Dad warned me. “No more practical jokes. I’m here 
to work. And I don’t want anything to happen to you, or Nicole, or any of us. 
Understood?” 

“Yes, Dad.” 

No one said anything for a minute. Then Dad patted me on the back. “Okay, 
then. Let’s go inside and get some breakfast.” 

Arthur returned to the cabin a few minutes later. He stamped the snow off 
his boots, glaring at me. 

“You think you’re funny,” he muttered. “But wait till you see the snowman. 
Will you be laughing then?” 

I swallowed hard. 

The answer to his question was no. Definitely no. 



11 


After breakfast we hitched the dogs to the sled and set off for the snow rise. 
Arthur wouldn’t talk to me and would hardly look at me. I guess he was angry 
about my joke. 

Everybody else has forgiven me, I thought. Why won’t he? 

Nicole and I walked at the front of the sled with the dogs. Behind me I 
heard Dad’s camera clicking furiously. I knew that meant he’d found something 
good to photograph. I turned around. 

A large herd of elk moved toward us, toward the snow rise. We stopped to 
watch them. 

“Look at them,” Dad whispered. “Amazing.” He quickly loaded new film 
into his camera and started snapping away again. 

The elk calmly picked their way across the snow, antlers high. They 
stopped to eat at a stand of bushes. Arthur pulled back the rein on the lead sled 
dog to keep him from barking. 

Suddenly, one elk lifted its head. It seemed to sense something. 

The other elk tensed up, too. Then they turned and began to gallop away 
across the tundra. Their hooves thundered over the snow. 

Dad let his camera fall against his chest. “That’s strange,” he said. “I 
wonder what happened.” 

“Something scared them,” Arthur said grimly. “It wasn’t us. And it wasn’t 
the dogs.” 

Dad scanned the horizon. “What was it, then?” 

We all waited for Arthur’s answer. But he only said, “We ought to turn 
around and head back to town right now.” 

“We’re not going back,” Dad insisted. “Not after coming all this way.” 

Arthur stared at him. “Are you going to take my advice or not?” 

“No,” Dad replied. “I’ve got a job to do here. And I’ve hired you to do a 
job. We’re not going back without a good reason.” 

“We’ve got a good reason,” Arthur insisted. “Only you won’t see it that 
way.” 

“Push ahead,” Dad ordered. 

Arthur frowned and shouted “Mush!” to the dogs. The sled began to move. 



We followed it, on toward the snow rise. 

Nicole walked a few feet ahead of me. I picked up a pile of snow and patted 
it into a ball. But then I thought I’d better not throw it. No one seemed to be in 
the mood for snowball fights. 

We marched through the snow for a couple of hours. I slipped off my 
mittens and wiggled my fingers. Frost kept collecting on my upper lip. I wiped it 
away. 

We reached a stand of pine trees at the base of the snow rise. Suddenly the 
dogs stopped short. They began to bark. 

“Mush!” Arthur shouted. 

The dogs refused to go farther. 

Nicole ran up to her favorite dog, Lars. “What is it, Lars? What’s the 
matter?” 

Lars howled. 

“What’s wrong with them?” Dad asked Arthur. 

Arthur’s face paled again. His hands shook. He stared intently into the trees, 
squinting into the brightness. 

“Something’s frightened the dogs,” he said. “Look how their fur stands on 
end.” 

I patted Lars. It was true. His fur stood straight up. The dog growled. 

“Not much scares these dogs,” Arthur said. “Whatever it is, it’s scaring 
them bad.” 

The dogs all howled. 

Nicole huddled close to Dad. 

“There’s something dangerous on that snow rise,” Arthur said. “Something 
dangerous—and very near.” 



12 


“I’m warning you, Mr. Blake,” Arthur said. “We’ve got to go back.” 

“No way,” Dad protested. “We’re not going back. I mean it.” 

The dogs barked and skittered nervously. Arthur shook his head. “I won’t 
go any farther. The dogs won’t, either.” 

Dad shouted, “Mush!” to the dogs. They howled and started backing up. 

“Mush!” he cried again. Instead of going forward, the dogs tried to turn 
around in the snow. 

“You’re upsetting them,” Arthur said. “They won’t go any farther—I told 
you that. 

“If we turn around now,” Arthur added, “we can make it back to the cabin 
before it gets too late.” 

“What are we going to do, Dad?” I asked. 

Dad frowned. “Maybe Arthur’s right. Something is definitely frightening 
the dogs. There could be a bear or something nearby.” 

“Not a bear, Mr. Blake,” Arthur insisted. “These dogs are spooked. And so 
am I.” 

He marched away across the snow, heading back toward the musher’s 
cabin. 

“Arthur!” Dad called. “Come back here!” 

Arthur didn’t turn around. He didn’t say a word. He just kept walking. 

He must be really scared, I thought. And that sent a chill of fear down my 
back. 

Still barking excitedly, the dogs pulled the sled around and started 
following Arthur. 

Dad peered into the woods. “I wish I could see what’s out there.” 

“Let’s go check it out,” I urged. “Whatever it is, it’ll probably make a great 
photo.” That usually gets Dad. 

He glanced back at Arthur, the dogs, and the sled, rushing toward the cabin. 
“No—it’s too dangerous. We have no choice. Let’s go, kids.” 

We trudged back to the cabin. “Maybe I can persuade Arthur to push on 
tomorrow,” Dad muttered. 

I didn’t say anything. But I had a feeling it wouldn’t be easy to get Arthur 



to climb that snow rise. 

And maybe Arthur was right, I thought. Those dogs really were scared. It 
was definitely creepy. 

Arthur was unhitching the dogs from the sled when we reached the cabin. 
The dogs had calmed down a lot. 

I yanked off my backpack and collapsed on top of my sleeping bag. 

“We might as well eat supper,” Dad grumbled. I could tell he was in a 
terrible mood. “Jordan—why don’t you and Nicole go gather some firewood. 
But be careful.” 

“We will, Dad,” Nicole promised. 

I stood up and started out of the cabin. 

“Jordan!” Dad scolded. “Put your knapsack back on. I don’t want you going 
anywhere without it. Understood?” 

“We’re just going for firewood,” I protested. “I’m tired of carrying it. We’ll 
only be gone for a few minutes—and anyway, Nicole is wearing hers.” 

“No arguments,” Dad snapped. “If you get lost, that food could keep you 
alive until we find you. You leave this cabin, you wear that backpack. Is that 
clear?” 

Boy, was he in a bad mood. “It’s clear,” I said, strapping on my pack. 

Nicole and I crunched across the snow to the nearest trees. They lined a 
snow ridge about half a mile away. 

We climbed the snow ridge. I made it to the top first. 

“Nicole—look!” 

On the other side of the snow ridge, I saw a frozen stream. The first water 
we’d seen since we’d set out. 

Nicole and I skittered down the ridge and stared into the icy stream. I tested 
the ice with my foot. 

“Don’t step on it, Jordan!” Nicole cried. “You might fall in.” 

I tapped the ice with the tip of my boot. “It’s solid,” I told her. 

“Still,” Nicole said. “Don’t take any chances. Dad will kill you if you have 
another accident.” 

“I wonder if there are fish swimming under there,” I said, staring into the 
ice. 

“We should tell Dad about this,” Nicole said. “He might want to photograph 
it.” 

We left the stream to gather dead branches under the trees. We lugged them 



over the snow ridge and back across the snow to the cabin. 

“Thanks, kids,” Dad said when we burst into the cabin. He took the wood 
from us and started a fire in the stove. “How about pancakes for supper tonight?” 

He’s in a better mood now, I thought with relief. 

Nicole told Dad about the frozen stream. 

“Interesting,” Dad said. “I’ll go take a look at it after supper. I’ve got to find 
something to photograph besides all this ice and snow.” 

The pancakes cheered all of us up—except for Arthur. 

He ate a lot, but he didn’t say much. He appeared jittery. He dropped his 
fork on the floor. Muttering to himself, he picked it up and started eating without 
wiping it off. 

When supper was over, Nicole and I helped Dad clean up. 

We were gathering up the supplies when the dogs started to bark. 

I saw Arthur freeze. 

“What’s that?” I cried. “What’s upset the dogs?” 



13 


The dogs yelped and barked. 

Was someone out there? 

An animal? A monster? 

“I’ll go check,” Arthur said solemnly. He pulled on his coat and wool cap 
and hurried out of the cabin. 

Dad grabbed his coat. “Stay here,” he instructed Nicole and me. He 
followed Arthur. 

We stared at each other, listening to the yelping dogs. A few seconds later, 
the barking stopped. 

Dad poked his head back into the cabin. “Nothing out there. We don’t know 
what got them upset. But Arthur is calming them down.” 

Dad grabbed his camera. “You two get some sleep, okay? I’m going to 
check out that stream. I won’t be gone long.” 

He draped the camera over his fur coat collar. The cabin door slammed 
behind him. 

We heard Dad’s footsteps crunching over the snow. Then silence. Nicole 
and I climbed into our sleeping bags. 

I rolled onto my side, trying to get comfortable. It was after eight o’clock, 
but still light outside. The sun filtered through the window of the cabin. 

The light reminded me of when I was little. Mom used to try to make me 
take a nap in the afternoon. I never could sleep in the daytime. 

I closed my eyes. I opened them. I wasn’t sleepy. 

I turned my head and glanced at Nicole. She lay on her back, her eyes wide 
open. 

“I can’t sleep,” I announced. 

“Me either,” she replied. 

I squirmed in my sleeping bag. 

“Where’s Arthur?” Nicole asked. “I wonder what’s taking him so long?” 

“I guess he’s hanging out with the dogs,” I said. “I think he likes them 
better than he likes us.” 

“That’s for sure,” Nicole agreed. 



We tossed and turned some more. The sky stayed bright. The light poured 
in through the cabin window. 

“I give up,” I groaned. “Let’s go outside and build a snowman or 
something.” 

“Dad said to stay put.” 

“We won’t go anywhere. We’ll stay by the cabin,” I assured her. 

I crawled out of my sleeping bag and started getting dressed. Nicole sat up. 
“We shouldn’t,” she warned. 

“Come on. What could happen?” 

She stood up and pulled on her sweater. “If I don’t do something, I’ll go 
stir-crazy,” she admitted. 

We bundled up. I pulled open the cabin door. 

“Jordan—wait!” Nicole cried. “You forgot your backpack.” 

“We’re just going out the door,” I complained. 

“Come on. Dad said we have to. He’ll be furious if he finds us outside. And 
he’ll be even more furious if you’re not wearing your pack.” 

“Oh, all right,” I grumbled. I hoisted the pack over my shoulders. “Like 
something’s really going to happen to us.” 

We stepped out into the cold. I kicked at the snow. 

Nicole grabbed my coat sleeve. “Listen!” she whispered. 

We heard the crunch of footsteps behind the cabin. “It’s Arthur,” I told her. 
We crept around to the back. It was Arthur. 

He crouched beside the dogsled, hitching up one of the dogs. Two others 
were already tied to the sled. 

“Arthur!” I cried. “What’s up?” 

Startled, he turned to us. He didn’t reply. Instead, he jumped on the back of 
the sled. 

“Mush!” he commanded the dogs at the top of his lungs. 

The dogs leaned forward, tugging hard. The sled began to slide away. 
“Arthur! Where are you going?” I screamed. “Come back!” 

The sled picked up speed. 

“Arthur! Arthur!” Nicole and I ran after him, shouting his name. 

But the sled raced farther and farther away from us. 

Arthur never turned back. 



14 


Nicole and I chased after the sled, watching it grow tinier and tinier. 

“Arthur! Come back!” 

“He’s got our food!” I cried. 

We couldn’t let him get away. We ran as fast as we could, our boots falling 
deep into the snow. 

The sled climbed over a tall ridge of snow. 

“Stop! Stop!” Nicole screamed. “Please!” 

“We can’t keep up with the dogs,” I gasped. 

“We have to try,” Nicole cried frantically. “We can’t let Arthur leave us 
here!” 

The sled disappeared over the top of the ridge. We clawed our way up. The 
snow slid under our feet. 

By the time we reached the top, Arthur and the dogs were far ahead of us. 
We watched in horror as they quickly disappeared across the tundra. 

Exhausted, I collapsed in the snow. “They’re getting away,” I choked out. 

“Jordan, get up!” Nicole pleaded. 

“We can’t catch him,” I moaned. 

Then Nicole said in a small voice, “Where are we?” 

I stood up and gazed around. Snow, snow, snow. All around us, nothing but 
snow. No landmarks. No sign of the cabin. 

Clouds had covered the sun. The wind picked up. Snow began to fall. 

I had no idea where we were. 

“Which way is the cabin?” I asked in a shrill voice. “Which way did we 
come?” 

We scanned the horizon through the falling snow. I didn’t see the cabin 
anywhere. 

Nicole tugged on my arm. “The cabin is that way. Let’s go!” 

“No!” The snow came down harder and faster, stinging my eyes. I shouted 
into the wind. “The cabin’s the other way! That’s not the way we came.” 

“Look!” Nicole yelled, pointing down. “Our tracks! We’ll just follow them 
home.” 



We started down the ridge, following the ruts we’d made in the snow. The 
wind howled, growing stronger. 

We followed our own footprints for a short while. It was so hard to see in 
the falling snow. All white and gray. The whole world. White and gray. 

Nicole peered at me through the thick curtain of snow. “I can hardly see 
you!” she shouted. 

We crouched low, searching for our footprints. 

“They’re gone!” I cried. The snow had already covered them up. 

Nicole clutched my arm. “Jordan, I’m getting scared.” 

I was getting scared, too. But I didn’t tell Nicole. 

“We’ll find the cabin,” I assured her. “Don’t worry. I bet Dad’s looking for 
us right now.” 

I wished I believed it myself. The wind pelted us with hard, icy snow. I 
squinted into the wind. Nothing but white. White on white. White on gray. 

“Don’t let go of me!” I shouted to Nicole. 

“What?” 

“I said, don’t let go of me! We could easily lose each other in the storm!” 

She tightened her grip on my arm to show she understood. 

“I’m so cold,” she shouted. “Let’s run!” 

We tried to run through the snow, stumbling against the wind. “Dad!” we 
called out. “Dad!” 

I had no idea where we were going—but I knew we had to go somewhere. 

“Look!” Nicole cried, pointing through the thick snow. “I think I see 
something!” 

I stared as hard as I could, but I didn’t see anything. 

Nicole pulled me along. “Come on!” she shouted. 

We ran blindly. Suddenly, the ground gave way under our feet. 

Still holding onto Nicole, I felt myself being sucked down under the snow. 



15 


Down we fell. Down into the freezing white. 

The snow rushed up, swirled around us. 

And buried us. 

Another crevasse, I thought. Another deep pit in the snow. 

Much deeper than the first. 

We both cried out as we landed. Tangled up in each other. 

“Get off!” Nicole shrieked. “Where are we? Get off!” 

Feeling dazed, I struggled to my feet. Then I grabbed both of her hands and 
tugged her up. 

“Oh no,” Nicole groaned. 

We both stared up to the top. I could barely make out the gray of the sky, 
high above our heads. 

And all around us, high walls of snow. Powdery snow that blew down on 
us. I peered up to the top of the pit. Chunks of snow broke off the icy walls. 
They made soft thuds as they landed beside us on the snowy pit floor. 

“We’re trapped down here!” Nicole wailed. “Dad will never find us. 
Never!” 

I grabbed the shoulders of her coat. A chunk of snow fell off the pit wall 
and landed on top of my boots. “Try to stay calm,” I told her. But my voice 
trembled as I said it. 

“Calm? How can I stay calm?” she demanded shrilly. 

“Dad will find us,” I said. I wasn’t sure I believed it. I swallowed hard, 
trying to fight down my panic. 

“Daaaaaad!” Nicole screamed. She cupped her hands around her mouth, 
raised her head toward the sky, and screamed at the top of her lungs. 
“Daaaaaaad! Daaaaaaaaad!” 

I clapped a mitten over her mouth. 

Too late. 

I heard a low rumbling. 

The rumbling became a roar as the snow walls began to crack and crumble. 

Crumble down. Down on us. 



Trembling in horror, I knew what was happening. 
Nicole had started an avalanche. 



16 


As sheets of snow tumbled down on us, I grabbed Nicole. 

I pushed her against the pit wall. Then I flattened myself against the wall, 

too. 

The snow roared down. 

I pressed myself tight against the wall—and to my shock, the wall gave 

way! 

“Ooooh!” I let out a startled cry. Nicole and I tumbled through the side of 
the pit. 

We stumbled forward into total darkness. 

I heard a crash behind us. My heart pounding, I turned in time to see the pit 
fill up. Snow piled over the opening in the wall. 

Nicole and I were sealed in. Shut in this dark hole. 

Our way out was gone. The pit was gone. 

We crouched in the dark tunnel-like opening, trembling, gasping in fright. 
“Where are we?” Nicole choked out. “What do we do now?” 

“I don’t know.” I grabbed the wall. We seemed to be in a narrow 
passageway. The walls around us were made of rock instead of snow. 

My eyes adjusted to the darkness. I could see a dim light at the end of the 
passageway. 

“Let’s see what’s down there,” I urged Nicole. 

We crawled on our hands and knees through the passage toward the light. 
The passage ended. We stood up. 

We found ourselves in a big cave. The top of the cave towered high above 
our heads. Water trickled slowly down one of the walls. A dim glow came from 
somewhere near the back. 

“The light must be coming from outside,” Nicole said. “That means there’s 
a way out of here.” 

We crept slowly through the cave. The only sound I could hear was the 
drip, drip, drip of melting icicles. 

Soon we’ll be out of here, I thought. “Jordan,” she whispered. “Look!” 

On the floor of the cave I could make out a footprint. A gigantic footprint. 
Bigger than the fake one I’d made in the snow that morning. 



Five of my shoes could fit inside that footprint. 

I took a few steps—and saw another footprint. 

Nicole grabbed my arm. 

“Do you think it’s...?” She stopped. 

I knew what she was thinking. 

We traced the giant footprints across the cave floor. They led us straight to a 
shadowy corner in the back—and stopped. 

I glanced up. 

Nicole gasped. 

We both saw it at the same time. 

The creature. 

The Abominable Snowman! 

He loomed over us. 

He stood upright like a human, covered in brown fur. Black eyes stared out 
of an ugly face, half-human, half-gorilla. 

He wasn’t that tall—about a head taller than me—but he seemed huge. His 
body was thick and powerful, with gigantic feet and fur-covered hands—as big 
as baseball gloves. 

“We’re t-trapped!” Nicole stammered. 

She was right. 

The entrance behind us had been blocked by the avalanche. There was no 
way we could slip past this giant creature. 

No way. 

The Abominable Snowman glared down at us. Then it started to move. 



17 


My teeth began to chatter. 

I squeezed my eyes shut and trembled, waiting for the monster to grab us. 

A second passed. Then another. 

Nothing happened. 

I opened my eyes. The snowman hadn’t moved. 

Nicole took a step forward. “He’s frozen!” she cried. 

I blinked in the dim light. “Huh?” It was true. The snowman stood frozen in 
a huge block of clear ice. 

I touched the ice. The monster stood inside it like a statue. 

“If he’s frozen in ice,” I wondered, “then what made those giant 
footprints?” 

Nicole bent down to study the prints. She shuddered again at their huge 

size. 

“They lead right to the block of ice,” she declared. “The snowman must 
have made them somehow.” 

“Maybe he walked back here and accidently froze,” I suggested. I touched 
the back wall of the cave, where icy water dripped from above. 

“Or maybe he goes into the ice to rest,” I added. “Like Dracula going to 
sleep in his coffin at dawn.” 

I backed away. It was too frightening, being this close to him. But the 
monster stayed perfectly still under the thick ice. 

Nicole leaned close to the ice. “Look at his hands!” she cried. “Or paws, or 
whatever.” 

Like the rest of his body, his hands were covered with brown fur. He had 
thick fingers, like a man’s. Jutting out of them were long, sharp claws. 

A chill ran down my spine at the sight of those claws. What did he use them 
for? Ripping wild animals to pieces? Tearing up people who got in his way? 

He had powerful legs, with shorter claws on his toes. I studied his face. Fur 
covered his whole head, except for a circle of hairless skin around his eyes, nose, 
and mouth. The skin was a pinkish red. His lips were thick and white and set in a 
mean-looking grimace. 

“He’s definitely a mammal,” Nicole declared. “The fur is a dead giveaway.” 



I rolled my eyes. “This is no time for biology lessons, Nicole. Wait until 
Dad sees this. He’ll go crazy! If he can get a picture of this, he’ll be famous!” 

“Yeah,” Nicole sighed. “If we can find Dad. If we ever get out of here.” 

“There’s got to be a way out,” I said. I moved to a side wall and pressed it 
with my hands, searching for a hole, a chink in the rock, anything. 

After a few minutes I found a tiny crack. “Nicole!” I cried. “I found 
something!” 

She raced to my side. I pointed out the crack in the cave wall. She frowned 
with disappointment. 

“That’s just a crack,” she said. 

“You don’t know everything,” I protested. “Maybe there’s a secret door 
here. A hidden passage. Or something.” 

She sighed. “I guess it’s worth a shot.” 

We pressed on the crack. We stuck our fingers into it. We kicked it. I even 
tried karate-chopping it. 

Nothing. 

“I hate to break this to you, Jordan,” she said. “But I was right. As always. 
All you found was a crack in the wall.” 

“Well, keep looking,” I snarled. “We’ve got to get out of here!” 

I kept searching. I ran my hands along the wall, my back to the monster. 

Suddenly I heard a noise. A loud crack! 

“Nicole!” I cried. “Did you find something?” 

I whirled around. I realized Nicole hadn’t made that sound. She stared at the 
monster in horror. 

“What?” I asked her. “What’s wrong?” 

I heard another crack! 

“The ice is cracking!” Nicole screamed. “The monster—he’s breaking out!” 



18 


Crack! 

The block of ice splintered apart. Nicole and I pressed ourselves against a 
wall, watching in horror. 

The Abominable Snowman burst from the ice. Chunks of ice smashed on 
the floor and shattered like glass. The snowman shook himself, growling like a 
wolf. 

“Run!” I screamed. 

Nicole and I took off. But there was nowhere to go. We scrambled to the 
other side of the cave—as far away from the monster as we could get. 

“The passageway!” I cried. I ducked down and started to crawl through the 
passage. 

Nicole grabbed me. 

“Wait! It’s blocked! The avalanche—remember?” 

Yes. Of course. The way out of the cave was blocked by tons of snow. 

Across the cave, the monster uttered a ferocious roar that shook the walls. 

Nicole and I cowered in a corner of the cave. I felt her trembling next to 
me. 

“Maybe he didn’t see us,” I whispered. 

“Then why is he roaring?” Nicole whispered back. 

The monster twitched his gorilla nose in the air, sniffing. 

Oh, no! I thought. Can he smell us from across the cave? 

He turned his huge, furry head one way and then the other. 

He’s searching for us, I realized. He smells us. 

“Unh!” he grunted. He stared into a corner of the cave—our corner of the 

cave. 

“Unh!” he grunted again. 

“Oh, no!” Nicole moaned. “He sees us!” 

The big creature staggered toward us, grunting with each heavy step. 

I pressed myself against the cave wall, wishing the cave would swallow us 
up. 

Anything would be better than having him swallow us! 



The monster kept coming. His footsteps shook the floor of the cave. Boom, 
boom, boom. 

We huddled on the floor. We tried to make ourselves as small as we could. 
He stopped inches in front of us and roared again. A deafening roar. 

“His teeth!” Nicole cried. 

I saw them, too. Two rows of huge, razor-sharp teeth. 

The monster growled. 

And reached for us. His sharp claws flashed. 

He swiped at me. I tried to duck away. 

The monster snarled in frustration. He reached out again.... 

He clamped a powerful paw on Nicole’s head. 

“Help!” Nicole screamed. “He’s crushing me!” 



19 


“Let go of her!” I shrieked. 

But I knew I was helpless. 

The Abominable Snowman growled and turned Nicole around roughly. 

Then he reached behind her and grabbed her backpack. He ripped it off her 
shoulder with a sharp, hard tug. 

“Hey!” I cried in horror. 

With one claw he sliced open the canvas backpack. He reached inside. And 
pulled something out. 

A bag. A bag of trail mix. 

Nicole and I stared in amazement as he poured the trail mix into his mouth. 

“Weird,” I choked out. “He likes trail mix.” 

The monster crumpled up the bag and shifted through Nicole’s pack, 
searching for more. 

“That’s all there is,” Nicole whispered to me. 

With an angry growl, the monster tossed Nicole’s pack away. 

“Now what?” Nicole whispered. 

I reached into my own backpack, and with a trembling hand I yanked out 
my bag of trail mix. I heaved it at the monster. 

The bag hit the floor and slid to the monster’s feet. He bent down. Grabbed 
it. Tore it open. And hungrily gulped down the trail mix. 

When he finished, I shoved my pack toward him. 

He grunted. Then he dumped out my stuff. 

No more trail mix. 

Uh-oh. 

The monster stretched and roared. Then he reached down. With two 
gigantic arms, he grabbed Nicole and me. 

He lifted us up. 

He raised us toward his face. 

Toward his mouth. 

Preparing to eat us. 



20 


I struggled, but he was too strong. I pounded my fists on his chest. I kicked as 
hard as I could. He didn’t seem to feel it. 

He clutched Nicole and me like a couple of dolls. 

“Please don’t eat us!” I begged. “Please!” 

The monster grunted. He draped us both over the crook of one arm. Then he 
staggered back across the cave, gripping us tightly. 

I kicked him in the side. No reaction. Nothing. 

“Let go!” I shrieked. “Let us down!” 

“Where’s he taking us?” Nicole cried, bouncing as the creature tromped 
across the cave. 

Maybe he wants to roast us, I thought grimly. Maybe he doesn’t like his 
kids raw. 

He lugged us to the back of the cave. With one powerful swipe of the paw, 
he knocked a boulder aside. A narrow passage appeared behind it. 

Nicole moaned. “Why didn’t we see that before? Maybe we could have 
escaped!” 

“Too late now,” I groaned. 

The snowman pulled us through the passage. We came out into a smaller 
cave, flooded with light. I glanced up. 

Above us I could see the gray sky. 

Away out! 

Balancing us in one arm, the monster scaled the wall of the cave. With big, 
lurching steps, he climbed out of the hole. 

Cold air blasted me in the face. But the monster’s body pulsed with heat. 

The blizzard had stopped. Fresh snow covered the tundra. 

The monster stumbled through the snow, grunting as he walked. 

His gigantic feet sank deep into the snow. But with each huge step he 
covered a lot of ground. 

Where was he taking us? Where? 

Maybe he has another cave, I thought with a shudder. A cave with more 
monsters in it. His friends. They’ll all feast on us! 



I tried again to break out of the snowman’s grip. I kicked and squirmed as 
hard as I could. 

The monster growled. He dug his claws into my side. 

“Ow!” I yelped. But I stopped squirming. If I moved, his claws dug deeper. 
Poor Dad, I thought sadly. He’ll never know what happened to us. 

Unless he finds our bones buried in the snow. 

Suddenly, I heard barking. A dog! 

The Abominable Snowman stopped. He growled and sniffed the air. Then 
he gently dropped Nicole and me in the snow. 

We landed unsteadily on our feet. 

Nicole stared at me in surprise. 

We started to run, stumbling through the deep snow. I glanced back. 

“Is he chasing us?” Nicole asked. 

I couldn’t be sure. I couldn’t see him now. I only saw white. 

“Keep running!” I shouted. 

Then I saw something familiar in the distance. A brown speck. 

I bumped Nicole. “The cabin!” 

We ran even faster. If we could just get to the cabin... 

From the cabin we heard furious barking—the dog Arthur had left behind. 
“Dad! Dad!” we shrieked. We burst through the door. “We found him! We 
found the Abominable Snowman!” 

“Dad?” 

The cabin stood empty. Empty and bare. 

Dad was gone. 



21 


My eyes darted around the empty cabin. 

“Dad? Dad?” 

My heart skipped a beat. My throat went dry. 

Where did he go? 

Was he out searching for Nicole and me? Did he get lost in the snow? 

“We—we’re all alone,” I murmured. 

Nicole and I ran to the window. A thin layer of snow frosted the pane. We 
peered out into the bright sunlight. 

No sign of Dad. 

“At least the snowman didn’t follow us,” I said. 

“Jordan, why did he drop us?” Nicole asked softly. 

“I think the barking dog scared him,” I replied. 

If that dog hadn’t barked, what would the monster have done to us? 

As the question pushed into my mind, I heard the dog start to bark again. 
Nicole and I both gasped. 

“The snowman—!” I cried. “He’s back! Hide!” 

We glanced around, frantically searching for a good hiding place. The cabin 
was so bare—it wouldn’t take the monster long to find us. 

“Behind the stove!” Nicole urged. 

We dashed to the small, square stove and crouched behind it. 

Outside the cabin we heard the slow, heavy footsteps of the monster. 

Crunch, crunch, crunch. Footsteps over the snow. 

Nicole grabbed my hand. We froze, waiting. Listening. 

Crunch, crunch. 

Please don’t come into the cabin, I prayed. Please don’t capture us again. 
The footsteps stopped outside the door. I squeezed my eyes shut. 

The door burst open. A blast of cold air blew into the room. 

“Jordan? Nicole?” 

Dad! 

We jumped out from behind the stove. There stood Dad, with his camera 
around his neck. 



We both ran to him and hugged him. “Dad! I’m so glad it’s you!” 

“Hi!” he replied. “What’s going on, guys? I expected you to be asleep.” He 
glanced around the cabin. “Hey—where’s Arthur?” 

“He took off!” I cried breathlessly. “He took the sled. He took all the food 
and three of the dogs.” 

“We chased after him,” Nicole added. “But he got away.” 

Dad’s face filled with surprise, then horror. “I’d better radio for help. We 
won’t last long without food.” 

“Dad—listen.” I blocked his way to the radio. “Nicole and I—found the 
Abominable Snowman!” 

He sidestepped around me. “This is no time for jokes, Jordan. If we don’t 
get help, we could starve to death out here!” 

“He’s not joking, Dad,” Nicole insisted, tugging Dad’s arm. “We really 
found the snowman. He lives in a cave under the snow.” 

Dad stopped and studied Nicole. He always believes her. But this time he 
wasn’t sure. 

“It’s true!” I cried. “Come on—we’ll show you!” 

Nicole and I tugged him out the door. 

“Jordan, if this is one of your tricks, you are going to be in major trouble,” 
he warned. “We’re in a serious situation here and—” 

“Dad, he’s not kidding!” Nicole cried impatiently. “Come on!” 

We led him out into the snow to the spot where the snowman had dropped 
us. We pointed out his huge footprints. 

“Why should I believe this?” Dad said. “You faked the snowman’s 
footprints this morning, Jordan. These just look a little bigger.” 

“Dad, I swear—I didn’t make these prints!” 

“We’ll show you the cave, Dad,” Nicole promised. “Follow the footprints. 
You’ll see. It’s unbelievable!” 

I knew Dad went along with us only because Nicole insisted. He trusted 
her. She never played jokes on him. 

Leaning into the wind, we traced the giant prints across the snow. Dad 
couldn’t resist snapping pictures of them—just in case. 

The footsteps led us back to the cave. They stopped at an opening in the 
ground. 

“The cave is down that hole,” I told Dad, pointing. 

I think Dad believed us now. “Let’s go. Check it out,” he said. 



“Huh?” I cried. “Back down there? To the monster?” 

Dad was already sliding down to the cave opening. He reached up to help 
Nicole climb down. 

I hesitated. “Dad—wait. You don’t understand. There’s a monster down 
there!” 

“Come on, Jordan,” Dad urged. “I want to see this for myself.” 

I had no choice. Dad was going in there no matter what I said. And I didn’t 
want to wait outside alone. I scrambled down to the opening of the cave. 

The three of us felt our way along the narrow passage until we reached the 
mouth of the big cave. 

Keeping close together, Dad and Nicole walked in. But I stopped at the 
entrance and stared into the cave. 

“Jordan! Come on!” Dad whispered. 

There’s a monster in there, I thought with a shudder. A huge monster with 
long claws and sharp teeth. 

We managed to escape from him once. Why are we going back? What’s 
going to happen to us in there? 

I had a bad feeling. A very bad feeling. 



22 


Dad grabbed me by the hand and pulled me into the cave. I heard the drip of icy 
water against the back wall. I blinked in the darkness. 

Where was he? Where was the Abominable Snowman? 

I heard Dad’s camera clicking away. I tried to stay close to Dad. I cried out 
when I spotted the snowman. I expected him to roar and lumber after us. 

But he stood stiffly, staring straight ahead. 

Refrozen again. Inside a huge block of ice. 

Nicole stepped closer to the block of ice. “How does he do that?” 

“This is amazing !” Dad cried, snapping picture after picture. “ Incredible /” 

I stared up at the monster’s face. He glared out at us from inside the ice. His 
black eyes glittered, his mouth set in a toothy snarl. 

“This is the most amazing discovery in history!” 

Dad exclaimed. “Do you realize how famous we are going to be?” 

He stopped shooting for a second and peered up at the brown-furred 
monster. 

“Why stop here?” he murmured. “Why go home with nothing but photos? 
Why not take the snowman himself back to California? Do you know what a 
sensation that will create?” 

“But—how?” Nicole asked. 

“He’s alive, you know, Dad,” I warned. “I mean, he can crack out of that 
ice. And when he does, it’s really scary. I don’t think you could control him.” 

Dad knocked gently on the ice, testing it. “We won’t let him out of the ice,” 
he said. “At least not until we’ve got him under control.” 

Dad walked all the way around the block of ice, rubbing his chin. “If we cut 
the ice a bit, it might fit into the supply trunk,” he said. “Then we could carry the 
snowman back to California in the block of ice, locked in the trunk. It’s airtight, 
so the ice won’t melt.” 

He stepped up close to the ice and snapped a few more shots of the 
snowman’s snarling face. “Let’s go get the trunk, kids.” 

“Dad—wait.” I didn’t like this idea. “You don’t understand. The snowman 
could rush us! He let us go once. But why take another chance?” 

“Look at his teeth, Dad,” Nicole pleaded. “He’s so strong, he picked us both 



up at once!” 

“It’s worth the risk,” Dad insisted. “Neither of you is hurt, right?” 

Nicole and I nodded. “Yes, but—” 

“Let’s go.” Dad had made his mind up. He wasn’t going to listen to our 
warnings. 

I’d never seen him so excited. As we hurried from the cave, he called to the 
snowman, “Don’t go away—we’ll be right back!” 

We rushed over the snow to the cabin. Dad pulled the supply trunk outside. 
It was about six feet long and three feet wide. 

“The snowman will fit,” he said. “But with him inside the trunk, it will be 
very heavy.” 

“We need the dogsled to pull it,” Nicole said. 

“But Arthur took the sled,” I reminded them. “So I guess the deal is off. 
We’ll just have to go home without an Abominable Snowman. Too bad!” 

“Maybe there’s another sled around somewhere,” Dad suggested. “This is 
an old musher’s cabin, after all.” 

I remembered the old sled I’d seen in the dog shed. Nicole had seen it, too. 
She led Dad to it. 

“Fantastic!” Dad cried. “Now let’s go get that snowman before he escapes.” 

We hitched Lars, our only dog, to the old sled and towed the supply trunk to 
the cave. 

Then we crept silently into the cave, pulling the trunk behind us. “Careful, 
Dad,” I warned. “He might have broken out of the ice by now.” 

But the Abominable Snowman stood where we’d left him, frozen in his 
block of ice. 

Dad began to cut the ice down to size with a hacksaw. 

I paced nervously. “Hurry!” I whispered. “He could burst out any minute!” 

“This isn’t easy,” Dad snapped. “I’m working as fast as I can.” He hacked 
away. 

Each second felt like an hour to me. I watched the snowman carefully for 
any signs of movement. 

“Dad, do you have to saw so loudly?” I complained. “The noise could wake 
him up!” 

“Relax, Jordan,” Dad said. But his voice was tight and shrill, too. 

Then I heard a crack. 

“Look out!” I cried. “He’s breaking out!” 



Dad straightened up. “I cracked the ice a bit, Jordan.” 

I studied the monster. He hadn’t moved. 

“Okay, kids,” Dad said. “We’re ready.” Dad had cut the ice into a six-foot- 
long rectangle. “Help me slide this into the trunk.” 

I opened the lid of the trunk. Nicole and I helped Dad tip the ice over and 
gently drop it into the trunk. It just barely fit. 

We slid the trunk along the ground to the opening of the cave. Dad tied a 
rope around it and climbed out of the hole. “I’ll tie the rope to the sled,” Dad 
called from above. “That way Lars can help me hoist it out.” 

“Hey,” I whispered to Nicole, “let’s sneak some snowballs into the trunk— 
just for fun. We can throw them at Kyle and Kara when we get home. Snow 
from the cave of the Abominable Snowman—they’ll never top that!” 

“No—please. Don’t open the trunk,” Nicole begged. “We just barely got the 
snowman inside.” 

“We can squeeze a few snowballs in,” I insisted. I quickly made a bunch of 
snowballs, packing them tight. Then I cracked open the trunk and slipped them 
inside, next to the block of ice. 

I checked the monster one last time for signs of life. The ice was solid. We 
were safe. 

“They won’t melt in there,” I said sealing the lid of the trunk shut. We 
locked it with the bolt and tightened the rope around it. I felt pretty sure the 
snowman wouldn’t be able to break out of there; even if he did crack through the 
ice. 

“Ready?” Dad shouted from up above. “One, two, three—heave!” 

Dad and Lars tugged on the rope until the chest lifted off the ground. Nicole 
and I squatted beneath it to help push it up. 

“Again!” Dad yelled. “Heave!” 

We pushed as hard as we could. “It’s so heavy!” Nicole complained. 

“Come on, kids!” Dad called. “Push!” 

We gave the trunk a shove. Dad and Lars tugged it over the lip of the cave 
opening. 

Dad collapsed in the snow. “Whew,” he muttered, wiping his brow. “Well, 
the hardest part is over.” 

He helped Nicole and me scramble out. 

We all rested a few minutes. Then we dragged the trunk onto the sled. Dad 
secured it with the rope. Lars pulled the sled back to the cabin. 



Once inside, Dad hugged us both. “What a day! What a great day!” 

He turned to me. “See, Jordan? Nothing terrible happened.” 

“We’re lucky,” I said. 

“I’m so sleepy,” Nicole complained, sinking onto her sleeping bag. 

I glanced out the window. The sun sat high in the sky, as usual. But I knew 
it had to be very late. 

Dad glanced at his watch. “It’s almost midnight. You two should get some 
sleep.” He frowned. “I’d hate to wake up here in the morning with no food, 
though. I’m going to radio for help. You guys can sleep when we get back to 
town.” 

“Can we stay in a hotel?” I asked Dad. “In a bed?” 

“If we can find one,” he promised. He opened his pack, searching for the 
radio. 

He shuffled stuff around in his pack. Then he pulled things out, one by one. 
A compass. An extra camera. Cans of film. A pair of socks, balled up. 

I didn’t like the look on his face. He turned the pack over and dumped 
everything on the floor. He sifted through it, again, getting frantic. 

“Dad? What’s the matter?” 

When he turned to me, he had a terrified expression on his face. “The 
radio,” he murmured. “It’s gone.” 



23 


“No!” Nicole and I both shrieked. 

“I don’t believe it!” Dad cried, pounding his fist against his empty pack. 
“Arthur must have taken the radio so we wouldn’t report him.” 

I stomped around the room, frightened and furious. Our dogs, our sled, our 
food—Arthur had taken them all. 

And now the radio. 

Did Arthur leave us here to freeze? To starve? 

“Calm down, Jordan,” Dad said. 

“But, Dad—” Nicole interrupted. 

Dad shushed her. “Just a second, Nicole. I’ve got to think of a way out of 
this.” Dad searched the cabin. “Don’t panic. Don’t panic. Don’t panic,” he 
instructed himself. 

“But Dad—” Nicole said, tugging at his sleeve. 

“Nicole!” I snapped. “We’re in huge trouble. We could die out here!” 

“Dad!” she insisted. “Listen to me! You wrapped up the radio last night so 
it wouldn’t freeze. It’s in your sleeping bag!” 

Dad’s mouth dropped open. “You’re right!” he cried. He hurried to his 
sleeping bag and reached inside. He dug into his sleeping bag—and pulled out 
the radio, wrapped in a wool scarf. 

He switched on the radio and fiddled with the dials. “Iknek, Iknek. Come 
in, Iknek.” 

Dad asked the Iknek airport to send us a helicopter. He tried to describe 
where we were. 

Nicole and I smiled sleepily at each other. 

“We’re going home!” she said happily. “Home to sunny, hot Pasadena.” 

“I’m going to kiss a palm tree!” I declared. “I never want to see snow 
again.” 

I had no idea that our snowy adventure was just beginning! 



24 


“Ahhhh,” I sighed. “Feel that sun? Nice and hot.” 

“The radio said it’s a hundred degrees today,” Nicole reported. 

“I love it!” I beamed. “Love it!” 

I slapped more tanning lotion on my chest. 

Our Alaska trip all seemed unreal, now that we were home in Pasadena. 
The cold, the snow, the wind blowing over the rolling white tundra. The snarling, 
brown-furred Abominable Snowman. It all seemed like a dream. 

But I knew it was no dream. 

Dad had hidden the trunk with the Abominable Snowman inside the 
darkroom in the backyard. Every time I passed it, I remembered the trip... 
remembered the creature lying frozen in there—and shivered. 

In our swimsuits, Nicole and I caught some rays in the backyard. Good old 
sunny Pasadena. Where it never, never snowed. 

Thank goodness. 

Lauren came over to hear about our trip. I wanted to tell her the whole story. 
But Dad told us to keep quiet about it—at least until the snowman was safely 
settled somewhere. 

“I don’t believe you two!” Lauren snorted. “A week ago you wouldn’t shut 
up about snow. Now you’re letting the sun burn you to a crisp!” 

“Well, we did the cold thing and now we’re doing the hot thing,” I told her. 
“Anyway, I’ve seen enough snow to last me the rest of my life.” 

“Tell me about the trip,” Lauren insisted. “Tell me everything!” 

“It’s a big secret,” Nicole told her. She and I exchanged glances. 

“Secret? What kind of secret?” Lauren demanded. 

Before we could reply, Dad emerged from the darkroom. He squinted in the 
sunlight. He wore a down jacket, a ski cap, and gloves. He had turned the air- 
conditioning way up in the darkroom and covered the trunk with ice packs, to 
keep the snowman cold. 

“I’m going into the city now,” he announced, removing his coat. Dad had a 
meeting with some scientists and wildlife experts in Los Angeles. 

He wanted to turn the Abominable Snowman over to the right people. He 
wanted to be sure the snowman would be treated well. 



“Are you kids going to be all right while I’m gone?” he asked. 

“Of course,” Nicole replied. “We survived the Alaskan tundra. I think we 
can live through one afternoon in our own backyard.” 

“My mom is home,” Lauren said. “She’ll be around if we need anything.” 
“Good.” Dad nodded. “Okay, I’m off. But remember—Jordan and Nicole, 
are you listening? Don’t touch the supply trunk. Stay away from it— 
understood?” 

“Gotcha, Dad,” I promised. 

“All right. I’ll bring a pizza home for dinner.” 

“Good luck, Dad!” Nicole called. I watched him jump into the car and drive 
off. 

“So what’s the big secret?” Lauren asked as soon as Dad was gone. “What’s 
in the supply trunk?” 

Nicole and I glanced at each other. 

“Come on. Spill,” Lauren urged. “I won’t leave you alone until you tell 

me.” 

I couldn’t resist. I had to tell someone. “We found him. We found him and 
we brought him back.” 

“Found who?” 

“The snowman!” Nicole exclaimed. “The Abominable Snowman!” 

Lauren rolled her eyes. “For sure. And did you find the Tooth Fairy up 
there, too?” 

“Yes, we did,” I joked. 

“He’s lying in the darkroom right now,” Nicole told Lauren. 

Lauren’s face twisted in confusion. “Who—the Tooth Fairy?” 

“No. The Abominable Snowman. Areal one,” I said. “Trapped in a block of 

ice.” 

Along with four or five snowballs, I thought to myself. 

Snowballs I could throw at Lauren. For a nice little surprise. 

“Prove it,” Lauren challenged us. “You’re making it all up. You think 
you’re really funny.” 

Nicole and I exchanged glances. I knew what she was thinking. Dad had 
just told us to stay away from the trunk. 

“You two are as bad as the Miller twins,” Lauren complained. 

That did it. “Come on,” I said. “We’ll show you.” 

“We’d better not, Jordan,” Nicole argued. 



“We won’t hurt anything,” I promised. “We’ll just pull open the lid a tiny 
bit so Lauren can see him. Then we’ll slam it shut. No harm done.” 

I climbed off my lounge chair and started across the lawn to the darkroom. 
Nicole and Lauren followed me. 

I knew they would. 

I opened the darkroom door and switched on the light. A blast of cold air 
swept over me, making my bare chest tingle. 

Nicole hesitated in the doorway. “Jordan, maybe we shouldn’t.” 

“Oh, come on, Nicole,” Lauren chided. “There’s no Abominable Snowman. 
You two are ridiculous!” 

“We’re not ridiculous!” Nicole protested. 

“We might as well show her, Nicole,” I said. 

Nicole didn’t reply. She stepped into the darkroom and shut the door. 

In my bathing suit, I was shivering from the cold. It was almost like being 
back in Alaska. 

I knelt beside the huge trunk. I unhooked the latches. 

Slowly, carefully, I lifted the heavy lid. 

Peered inside. 

And let out a chilling, bloodcurdling scream of horror. 



25 


Nicole and Lauren shrieked and leaped back. 

Nicole backed into the wall with a crash. 

Lauren ducked under the developing table. 

I couldn’t keep a straight face. I started to laugh. “Gotcha!” I cried 
gleefully. I was so pleased with myself. 

I had scared them to death. They were both stiffer than the Abominable 
Snowman. He lay frozen and still inside his block of ice. 

“Jordan—you creep!” Nicole declared angrily. She punched me in the back. 

Lauren punched me too. Then she peered into the open trunk. 

And let out another scream. “He’s real! You—you weren’t kidding!” I could 
see that she was breathing hard. 

“It’s okay, Lauren,” I assured her. “He can’t hurt you. He’s frozen.” 

She stepped closer and stared down at him. 

“He’s huge!” she cried in amazement. “His—his eyes are open. They’re so 
mean-looking!” 

“Close the lid, Jordan,” Nicole insisted. “Quick. We’ve seen enough.” 

“Now do you believe us?” I asked Lauren. 

She nodded. “It’s... awesome!” She shook her head, stunned at the amazing 
sight. 

Before I shut the lid, I sneaked two snowballs out of the bottom of the 
trunk. Snickering, I passed one to Nicole. 

“What’s so funny?” Lauren asked suspiciously. 

“Nothing,” I said. I sealed the lid shut and latched the trunk. That’ll hold 
him, I thought. We’re safe. Dad will never know we sneaked a peek at the 
monster. 

We left the darkroom, closing the door carefully behind us. 

“That creature is just so awesome!” Lauren exclaimed. “What is your dad 
going to do with him?” 

“We’re not sure yet,” Nicole replied. “Dad’s trying to figure that out.” 

She held her hands behind her back, hiding the snowball from Lauren. 
Suddenly she shouted, “Hey, Lauren! Think fast!” 



She threw the snowball at Lauren. It missed. 

Splat! It hit a tree. 

“Nice shot, ace!” I cried sarcastically. 

But then I gaped at the tree in shock. 

The snowball—it didn’t crumble to the ground. 

It started to growl 

Thick white snow spread quickly up the tree trunk—and over the branches. 
Within seconds, the entire tree was covered with snow! 

“Wow!” Lauren gasped. “Nicole—how did you do that?” 

Nicole and I stared open-mouthed at the snow-covered tree. 

I was so stunned, the snowball fell out of my hand. 

I jumped back as it hit the ground—and spread! 

“Oh, wow!” I shrieked. I watched snow spread over the lawn like a white 
blanket. 

It spread under our bare feet. Over the driveway. Out to the street. 

“Ooooh! It’s cold!” Nicole wailed, hopping from foot to foot. 

“This is too weird!” I cried. “It’s a hundred degrees out—and the snow isn’t 
melting! It’s spreading—and growing deeper!” 

I turned to see Lauren hopping and dancing, whirling around wildly. 
“Snow! Snow!” she sang. “It’s wonderful! Snow in Pasadena!” 

“Jordan—” Nicole said quietly. “This isn’t right. We should have left this 
snow in the cave. It isn’t normal snow.” 

Of course she was right. Any cave where an Abominable Snowman lives 
has got to be a weird place. But how could we have guessed—? 

“Let’s build a snowman!” Lauren cried gleefully. 

“No!” Nicole warned. “Don’t touch it. Don’t do anything, Lauren. Not until 
we’ve figured this out.” 

I don’t think Lauren heard my sister. She was too excited. She kicked a 
spray of snow at an evergreen bush. The bush froze over with snow. 

“What are we going to do?” I asked Nicole. “What’s going to happen when 
Dad comes home? He’ll kill us!” 

Nicole shrugged. “Beats me.” 

“But—but—you’re supposed to be the brain ]” I sputtered. 

“This is so cool!” Lauren squealed. “Snow in Pasadena!” She picked up a 
chunk of snow and started balling it up between her hands. 

“Snowball fight!” she shouted. 



“Stop it, Lauren!” I cried. “We’re in big trouble here. Don’t you understand 

_ ?” 

Lauren fired the snowball at Nicole. 

Instantly, thick white snow spread all over Nicole’s body. Covering her. 
Covering her until she looked like a snowman! 

“Nicole!” I cried, running over the snowy ground to her. “Nicole—are you 
okay?” 

I grabbed her arm. Stiff as an icicle. She was frozen solid! 

“Nicole?” I stared into her snow-covered eyes. “Can you hear me, Nicole? 
Can you breathe in there? Nicole? Nicole?” 



26 


“Oh, no!” Lauren shrieked. “What have I done?” 

My sister was a statue. A frozen, snow-covered statue. 

“Nicole, I’m so sorry,” Lauren cried. “Can you hear me? I’m so sorry!” 

“Let’s take her inside,” I suggested frantically. “If we get her in the warm 
house, maybe we can warm her up.” 

Lauren grabbed one of Nicole’s arms. I grabbed the other. We carefully 
dragged her stiff body to the house. Her bare toes, hard as ice, left a long trail in 
the snow. 

“She’s so freezing!” Lauren cried. “How can we melt the snow?” 

“Let’s put her next to the oven,” I said. “Maybe if we turn it up full blast, 
the snow will melt.” 

We stood her in front of the oven. For good measure, I turned on all the 
burners on top of the stove. 

“That ought to do it,” I said. A bead of sweat trickled down my face. From 
the heat—or from worry? 

Lauren and I watched and waited. 

Watched and waited. 

I didn’t move. I didn’t breathe. 

The snow didn’t melt. 

“It’s not working,” Lauren groaned. “Nothing’s happening.” 

I tapped Nicole’s arm. Solid ice. 

I tried to stay calm. But I felt as if a hundred butterflies were tap dancing in 
my stomach. “All right, it’s not working. We’ll have to try something else. 
Something else...” 

Tears rolled down Lauren’s cheeks. “Like what?” Lauren demanded in a 
trembling voice. 

“Well...” I racked my brain for the hottest place I could think of. “The 
furnace! We’ll hold her in front of the furnace.” 

We dragged Nicole into the furnace shed behind the garage. The snow 
seemed to weigh a ton. It took all our strength to drag her. 

I turned the furnace on full blast. Lauren stood Nicole in front of the open 
furnace door. 



A blast of hot air sent Lauren and me staggering back. “If this doesn’t work, 
nothing will,” Lauren sobbed. 

The heat roared out of the furnace. I saw reflections of the red flames on 
Nicole’s icy face. 

My heart pounding, I watched to see the ice start to drip and the snow slide 
off her. 

But the ice didn’t melt. My sister remained a human snow cone. 

“Jordan—what are we going to do?” Lauren wailed. 

I shook my head, thinking hard. “The furnace isn’t working. What else is 
hot?” I was too scared to think clearly. 

“Don’t worry, Nicole,” Lauren told my frozen sister. “We’ll get you out of 
this—somehow.” 

I suddenly remembered how warm the Abominable Snowman had felt 
when he carried us across the Alaskan tundra. There we were, ten degrees below 
zero, surrounded by deep snow, and heat had poured off the creature’s body. 

“Come on, Lauren,” I ordered. “We’re taking her to the darkroom.” 

Struggling and straining, we dragged Nicole back outside and across the 
backyard to the darkroom. 

“Stay here,” I told Lauren. “I’ll be right back.” 

I raced into the kitchen. I pulled open all the cupboards and drawers, 
desperately searching for one thing—trail mix. 

Please, please let there be trail mix somewhere in this house! I prayed. 

“Yes!” I found a plastic bag of trail mix behind an old box of spaghetti. I 
grabbed it and flew back to the darkroom. 

Lauren stared at the bag in my hand. “What’s that?” 

“Trail mix.” 

“Trail mix? Jordan, can’t you wait to eat later?” 

“It’s not for me—it’s for him” I motioned at the trunk. 

“What?” 

I unlatched the trunk and pulled it open. The Abominable Snowman lay 
inside as before, frozen in the block of ice. 

I grabbed a handful of trail mix and waved it above the snowman’s face. 
“Wake up!” I begged. “Please wake up! Look—I brought you some trail mix!” 

“Jordan—have you totally lost it?” Lauren screeched. “What on earth are 
you doing?” 

“I can’t think of any other way to save Nicole!” I cried. 



My hand trembled as I frantically waved the trail mix over the snowman. 
“Come on! You know you love trail mix. Wake up! Please wake up! Come out 
and help us.” 

I leaned over, staring hard at the monster’s eyes. Watching for him to blink. 
Watching for any signs of life. 

But the eyes didn’t move. The creature stared lifelessly up through the 
block of ice. 

I refused to give up. 

“Yum, yum!” I shouted, my voice high and wild. 

“Trail mix! Boy, is that good!” I popped a few raisins into my mouth and 
chewed. “Mmm-mm! Delicious trail mix. So good! So tasty! Come on—wake 
up and try some!” 

“He’s not moving!” Lauren sobbed. “Give up, Jordan. It isn’t going to 
work.” 



27 


I jumped when I heard a soft sound. A faint crick. 

I stared down at the block of ice. 

Did the monster move? 

No. Silence now. The Abominable Snowman’s black eyes glittered up at 
me, lifeless and blank. 

Was it my imagination? 

Lauren is right, I thought sadly. My plan isn’t working. 

Nothing is working. 

I gently touched my sister’s stiff, frozen arm. Maybe when Dad gets home, 
I hoped. Maybe he’ll think of some way to save her. 

“What are we going to dooooo?” Lauren sobbed. She was no help at all. 
Crack. 

I heard it again—louder this time. 

And then: Crrraaaaaccckkkk! 

A long crack ripped across the ice. 

The Abominable Snowman groaned. 

Lauren leaped back with a wild scream. “It’s alive!” 

The ice broke up. The furry snowman slowly pulled himself up, moaning. 
Lauren cried out in fear. She pressed herself against the darkroom wall. 
“What’s he going to do?” 

“Shhh!” 

The monster shook shards of broken ice from his shoulders. He lifted 
himself out of the trunk. He uttered a low growl. 

“Jordan, look out!” Lauren cried. 

The monster lurched toward me. My heart jumped. I wanted to back away 
—or run away. But I couldn’t. I had to stay and help Nicole. 

“Unh!” the snowman grunted. He swiped a giant paw at me. 

Lauren let out another shrill scream. 

I leaped back. What would the monster do? 

“Unh!” the monster cried again. He took another swipe. 

“Let’s get out of here!” Lauren shouted. “He’s going to hurt you!” 



I wanted to run. But Nicole... 

The monster swiped at me again—and snatched the bag of trail mix out of 
my hands. 

I suddenly realized that was all he wanted. He had been grabbing for the 
trail mix. 

He poured the trail mix into his mouth, gulping it down, swallowing it 
noisily. Then he tossed the bag away. 

Lauren pressed her back against the corner of the darkroom. “Make him go 
back into the trunk!” she cried. 

“Are you crazy? How can I do that?” 

The snowman growled and staggered across the floor. 

His heavy footsteps shook the floor. He stopped in front of Nicole. 

He reached his powerful arms around her snow-covered body—and 
squeezed. 

“Stop him!” Lauren screamed. “He’s crushing her!” 



28 


I couldn’t move. I stared in horror. 

The big creature hugged Nicole hard—so hard that he lifted her off the 
ground. 

“Stop!” I finally choked out. “You’re hurting her!” 

Without thinking of the danger, I dove forward. I grabbed his furry arms 
with both hands—and struggled to pull him off my sister. 

With an angry grunt, he brushed me away. 

I stumbled back—and fell into Lauren. 

I turned to see the monster squeezing Nicole. 

Lauren pointed down at the floor. “Jordan—look!” 

Gazing down, I saw a small puddle under Nicole’s feet. Water dripped off 
her and onto the floor. As it hit the floor, it evaporated. Vanished from sight. 

Did I see Nicole’s toes wiggle? 

Yes! 

I stepped closer. Caught a glimpse of her face. 

A dot of pink appeared on her cheeks. 

Yes! 

Chunks of snow dropped off her body. They thudded to the floor, melted, 
and disappeared. 

I turned to Lauren. “It’s working!” I cried happily. “He’s defrosting her!” 

A trembling smile crossed Lauren’s worried face. 

A few seconds later, the snowman let Nicole go. The ice and snow had all 
melted and disappeared. The snowman gave a satisfied grunt and stepped back. 

Nicole moved her arms stiffly. She rubbed her face, as if she were waking 
up. 

“Nicole!” I cried, grabbing her by the shoulders. Warm. Her shoulders were 
warm. “Are you okay?” 

She shook her head, dazed. “What happened?” 

Lauren ran up to Nicole and threw her arms around her. “You were frozen!” 
she said. “Frozen like a snowman! But thank goodness—you’re all right!” 

I turned to see the snowman watching us. 



“Thank you,” I called to him. 

I don’t know if he understood me. He grunted. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Lauren urged. “I’m freezing!” 

“Maybe the sun will warm you up,” I told her. 

We opened the darkroom door and stepped outside. The sun still beamed 
down. The air felt sweltering hot. But the whole yard was covered in snow. 

“Oh, yeah,” Lauren murmured. “I forgot about that.” 

“Hey—!” I cried out when I saw the Abominable Snowman leap out of the 
darkroom. “He’s escaping!” I shrieked. 

“Dad will kill us!” Nicole cried. 

All three of us started shouting at the creature. 

He ignored our cries and thudded heavily across the snow. His black eyes 
narrowed on the snow-covered tree. He stepped up to the tree. Threw his arms 
around it. And hugged it tightly, just like when he had hugged Nicole. 

I watched as the snow began to melt. The blanket of white slipped down, 
down, shrinking away—until the tree stood green and golden again under the 
sunlight. 

“Wow!” I uttered, hands pressed against my face. 

But the big, furry creature had more surprises in store. 

With a loud grunt, he dropped to the snowy ground. As we stared in 
surprise, he began to roll in the snow. 

The snow appeared to stick to his fur. As he rolled, the snow vanished 
beneath him. 

Before long, the big creature was rolling on green grass. The last of the 
snow had vanished. 

He jumped to his feet. His eyes went wide, and he uttered a pained cry. 

“What’s the matter with him?” Lauren demanded. 

The Abominable Snowman gazed around, stunned, at the green grass, the 
palm trees. Then he raised his eyes to the blazing sun. 

He clutched his fur-covered head and let out a scream of terror. 

He seemed confused for a moment. Frightened. Then he let out a deep grunt 
—and took off down the street. His big paws thudded heavily over the pavement. 

I ran after him. “Wait! Come back!” 

He tore through someone’s yard and kept running. 

I gave up. No way I could catch him. 

Nicole and Lauren caught up to me. “Where’s he going?” Nicole 



demanded. 

“How should I know?” I snapped, struggling to catch my breath. 

“I think he’s looking for someplace cold,” Lauren said. 

Nicole agreed. “You’re probably right. He must be so hot. Pasadena is no 
place for an Abominable Snowman.” 

“He’ll probably find a cave in the mountains,” I said. “It’s a lot colder up 
there. I only hope he finds a way to get trail mix.” 

We trudged back to our yard. Green again. And hot. I knew that Nicole and 
I had one word in our minds—D-A-D. 

He had instructed us not to touch the trunk. We had ignored his warning. 

Now the snowman was gone. Dad’s big discovery. Dad’s big chance for 
fame. 

Gone. Gone forever. 

It was all our fault. 

“At least Dad has his photos,” I said softly. “The photos will amaze 
everyone all by themselves.” 

“I guess so,” Nicole replied, biting her bottom lip tensely. 

We walked back to the darkroom to close up the supply trunk. I glanced 
inside the trunk. Two magic snowballs were left. 

“Those things are dangerous. We’d better get rid of them,” Nicole warned. 

“I’m not touching them.” Lauren backed away. 

“You’re right,” I told my sister. “We should hide them somewhere. They’re 
too dangerous to keep around.” 

Nicole ran into the house and returned with a heavy-duty garbage bag. 
“Quick—stuff them in here.” 

I carefully scooped up each snowball and dropped it in the trash bag. Then I 
twisted the bag closed and knotted it tightly. 

“Now what?” Lauren asked. 

“We should blast them into outer space,” Nicole said. “If anyone gets hold 
of them and starts spreading snow around, we’ll be in big trouble. We need the 
Abominable Snowman to get rid of the snow—and he’s gone.” 

“Pasadena could turn into a ski resort!” I joked. “We could ice skate on 
Kyle and Kara’s swimming pool.” 

I shivered. I didn’t want to think about Kyle and Kara. And I didn’t want to 
think about snow. “We should bury the snowballs,” I told them. “But where?” 

“Not in my yard!” Lauren protested. 



I didn’t want to bury them in our yard, either. What would happen to them 
down there? Would they spread snow underground? Would snow spring up 
through the grass? 

We left the darkroom and scanned the area for good burial spots. 

“What about the empty lot?” Nicole suggested. 

Across the street, right next to Kyle and Kara Miller’s house, stood a vacant 
lot. There was nothing in it but piles of sand and a few empty bottles. 

“Perfect,” I declared. “No one will ever find the snowballs there.” 

Nicole hurried to the garage and grabbed a shovel. We crossed the street, 
glancing around to make sure no one saw us. 

“The coast is clear,” I said. 

I grabbed the shovel and dug a deep hole in the sand. It took longer than I 
thought. Sand kept falling back into the hole. 

Finally, the hole was deep enough. 

Nicole dropped the trash bag into the hole. “Good-bye, snowballs,” she 
said. “Good-bye, Alaska.” 

I covered the hole with sand. Lauren smoothed it out so you couldn’t tell 
the sand had been dug up. 

“Whew,” I groaned, wiping the sweat from my face. “I’m glad that’s over. 
Let’s go inside and cool off.” 

I put away the shovel. Then Nicole, Lauren, and I got ourselves some cold 
apple juice and collapsed in front of the TV. 

A short while later, we heard Dad’s car pull into the driveway. 

“Uh-oh,” Lauren gasped. “I think I’d better go home now. See you guys 
later.” She hurried out the back door. “Good luck!” she called. The door 
slammed behind her. 

I gave Nicole a nervous glance. “How angry will Dad be? He finds an 
amazing, rare creature, brings it home—we let it loose, and it runs away. That’s 
not so bad —is it?” 

Nicole shuddered. “Maybe if we tell him the whole story, he’ll be so glad 
we’re not hurt that he won’t be angry.” 

“Uh-huh. Yeah. Maybe.” 

The front door swung open. “Hey, kids!” Dad called. “I’m home! How’s 
our snowman doing?” 



29 


We ate supper early that evening. Things were pretty quiet around the dinner 
table. 

Tm glad you kids are safe and sound,” Dad said for the fifth time. “That’s 
what counts.” 

“Yeah,” Nicole said, chewing her pizza. 

“Uh-huh,” I added quietly. I usually had three slices. Tonight I could barely 
manage one. And I left the crust on the plate. 

Poor Dad. He was trying so hard not to get upset about losing the 
Abominable Snowman. But Nicole and I knew how bad he felt. 

Dad dropped his half-eaten slice of pizza on his plate. “I’ll tell the Museum 
of Natural History that they’ll have to make do with the photographs.” 

“Photographs are better than nothing,” I said. 

“Better than nothing? Are you crazy?” Nicole cried. “Those pictures are 
going to amaze the whole world!” 

Dad perked up. “That’s true. I mentioned them to some TV producers. They 
went wild.” 

He stood and carried his plate to the sink. “I think I’ll go out to the 
darkroom and develop that film right now. These pictures are going to cheer me 
up. I mean, they’re historic. Historic!” 

I was glad to see Dad snap out of his disappointment. Nicole and I followed 
him, eager to see the photos. 

We sat quietly under the red light while Dad developed the negatives. At 
last he pulled the first set of contact sheets out of the chemical baths. 

Nicole and I leaned close to see the pictures. 

“Huh?” Dad uttered an astonished cry. 

Snow. Nothing but snow. Ten pictures of snow. 

“That’s strange,” Dad choked out. “I don’t remember taking those shots.” 

Nicole flashed me an evil stare. I knew what she was thinking. 

I held my hands up innocently. “I’m not playing any tricks. I swear!” 

“You’d better not be, Jordan,” Dad warned sternly. “I’m in no mood for 
kidding around.” 

Dad turned back to the chemical trays and developed another set of photos. 



As he pulled them up, dripping wet, we all squinted at them. 

More snow. Nothing but snow. 

“This can’t be happening!” Dad screamed. “The Abominable Snowman— 
he should be standing right there!” He pointed. 

His hands shook as he grabbed the rest of the negatives and held them up to 
the red light. “The tundra shots came out fine,” he declared. “The dogs, the sled, 
the elk herd—all there. All perfect. All of them. But the shots in the monster’s 
cave—” 

His voice trailed off. He shook his head sadly. “I don’t get it. I just don’t get 
it. How could this be? Not a single shot of the creature. Not one.” 

I sighed. I felt so bad for Dad. I felt so bad for all three of us. 

No Abominable Snowman. No photos of the Abominable Snowman. 

It was almost as if he never existed. As if the whole thing never happened. 

Nicole and I left Dad in the darkroom to finish his work. 

We trudged around the house to the front. Nicole groaned and grabbed my 
arm. “Oh, no! Look!” 

Across the street in the vacant lot, I saw the Miller twins kneeling down, 
digging in the sand. 

“They’re digging up the snowballs!” I gasped. 

“Those creeps!” Nicole growled. “They must have been spying on us while 
we buried them.” 

“We’ve got to stop them!” I cried. 

We hurried across the street, running full speed. 

I saw Kyle rip open the garbage bag—and pull out one of the snowballs. 

He swung back his arm and aimed at Kara. 

“No—Kyle! Stop!” I screamed. “Don’t throw it! Stop! Don’t throw it, 
Kyle!” 

THWOCK. 



HOW I GOT MY 
SHRUNKEN HEAD 


Goosebumps - 39 
R.L. Stine 





1 


Have you ever played Jungle King? It’s a computer game, and it’s really cool. 
Unless you sink into a quicksand pit or get squeezed to death by the Living 
Vines. 

You’ve got to be fast to swing from vine to vine without letting them curl 
around your body. And to grab the shmnken heads that are hidden under trees 
and bushes. 

If you collect ten shrunken heads, you get an extra life. You need a lot of 
extra lives in this game. It’s not for beginners. 

My friends Eric and Joel play Jungle King with me. They are twelve, like 
me. My sister Jessica is eight. She hangs around, but we don’t let her play. That’s 
because she always dives into the quicksand pits. She likes the thwuck thwuck 
thwuck sound it makes when your body is being sucked under. 

Jessica just doesn’t get it. 

“Mark, why can’t we play a different game?” Joel asked me. 

I knew why he wanted to quit. He had just been trampled by a red rhino, the 
meanest kind. 

Joel, Eric, and I were up in my room during our winter break from school, 
huddled around my computer. Jessica was on the window seat, reading a book. 
Sunlight poured over her, making her red hair sparkle. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I shouted as I picked up my eighth shrunken head. Kah-lee- 
ah is my jungle cry. It’s a word that popped into my head one day. I guess I made 
it up. 

My face was two inches from the monitor screen. I ducked as spears came 
flying at me from behind a leafy fern. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I let out my battle cry as I picked up another shrunken head. 

“Come on, Mark,” Eric pleaded. “Don’t you have any other games?” 

“Yeah. Don’t you have any sports games?” Joel demanded. “How about 
March Madness Basketball? That’s a cool game!” 

“How about Mutant Football?” Eric asked. 

“I like this game,” I replied, keeping my eyes on the screen. 

Why do I like Jungle King so much? I think it’s because I love swinging 
from vine to vine across the sky. 



You see, I’m a little chubby. Actually, I’m short and chubby. I’m built sort 
of like the red rhinos. And so I guess I like being able to swing so lightly, to fly 
above the ground like a bird. 

Also, it’s an awesome game. 

Joel and Eric don’t like it because I always win. In our first game this 
afternoon, an alligator chewed Joel in half. I think that put him in a bad mood. 

“Do you know what game my dad bought me?” Joel asked. “Battle 
Solitaire. ” 

I leaned closer to the screen. I had to get past the biggest quicksand pit. One 
slip, and I’d be sucked into the sandy slime. 

“What kind of game is that?” Eric asked Joel. 

“It’s a card game,” Joel told him. “You know. Solitaire. Only the cards fight 
each other.” 

“Cool,” Eric replied. 

“Hey, guys—I’m in a tough spot here,” I said. “Give me a break, okay? I’ve 
got to concentrate. I’m right over the quicksand pit.” 

“But we don’t want to play anymore,” Eric complained. 

I grabbed a vine. Swung hard. Then reached for the next one. 

And someone bumped my shoulder. “Owww!” 

I saw a flash of red hair and knew it was Jessica. She bumped me again and 
giggled. 

I watched myself tumbling down on the screen. Sucked into the bottomless 
slime pit. 

Thwuck thwuck thwuck. I died. 

I spun around angrily. “Jessica—!” 

“My turn!” She grinned at me, her wide, toothy grin. 

“Now we have to start all over again!” I announced. 

“No way,” Eric protested. “I’m going home.” 

“Me, too,” Joel said, pulling his baseball cap lower on his forehead. 

“One more game!” I pleaded. 

“Come on, Mark. Let’s go outside,” Joel said, pointing to the bright 
sunshine pouring through the bedroom window. 

“Yeah. It’s a great day out. Let’s throw a Frisbee or something,” Eric 
suggested. “Or get our skateboards.” 

“One more game. Then we’ll go outside,” I insisted. 

I watched them head out the door. 



I really didn’t want to leave the jungle. I don’t know why I like jungles so 
much. But I’ve been really into jungles since I was a teeny kid. 

I like to watch all the old jungle movies on TV. And when we were little, I 
used to pretend I was Tarzan, King of the Jungle. Jessica always wanted to play, 
too. So I let her be Cheetah, my talking chimpanzee. 

She was very good at it. 

But after she was six or seven, Jessica refused to be a chimp anymore. She 
became a full-time pest instead. 

“I’ll play Jungle King with you, Mark,” she offered, after my two friends 

left. 

“No way,” I replied, shaking my head. “You just want to take a dive into the 
quicksand pit.” 

“No. I’ll play it right,” she promised. “I’ll try to win this time. Really.” 

I was about to let her play when the doorbell rang downstairs. 

“Is Mom home?” I asked, listening for her footsteps. 

“I think she’s in the backyard,” Jessica replied. 

So I hurried downstairs to answer the front door. Maybe Eric and Joel 
changed their minds, I thought. Maybe they’ve come back for another round of 
Jungle King. 

I pulled open the front door. 

And stared at the grossest thing I ever saw in my life. 



2 


I stared at a head. 

A human head, wrinkled and leathery. About the size of a tennis ball. 

The pale, dry lips were pulled back in a sneer. The neck was stitched closed 
with heavy black string. The eyes—solid black eyes—stared up at me. 

A shrunken head. A real shrunken head. 

I was so shocked, so totally amazed to find it at my front door, that it took 
me a long time to see the woman who was holding it. 

She was a tall woman, about my mom’s age, maybe a little older. She had 
short black hair with streaks of gray in it. She wore a long raincoat buttoned to 
the top even though it was a warm, sunny day. 

She smiled at me. I couldn’t see her eyes. They were hidden behind large 
black-framed sunglasses. 

She held the shrunken head by the hair—thick black hair. Her other hand 
held a small canvas suitcase. 

“Are you Mark?” she asked. She had a soft, smooth voice, like someone in 
a TV commercial. 

“Uh... yeah,” I replied, staring at the shrunken head. They never looked so 
ugly in photos I’d seen. So wrinkled and dry. 

“I hope I didn’t startle you with this thing,” the woman said, smiling. “I was 
so eager to give it to you, I took it out of my bag.” 

“Uh... give it to me?” I asked, not taking my eyes off it. The head stared 
back at me with those glassy black eyes. They looked more like teddy-bear eyes 
than human eyes. 

“Your aunt Benna sent it for you,” the woman said. “As a present.” 

She held out the head to me. But I didn’t take it. I had spent all day 
collecting shrunken heads in the game. But I wasn’t sure I wanted to touch this 
one. 

“Mark—who is here?” My mom stepped up behind me. “Oh. Hello.” 

“Hello,” the woman replied pleasantly. “Did Benna write and tell you I was 
coming? I’m Carolyn Hawlings. I work with her. On the island.” 

“Oh, my goodness,” Mom exclaimed. “Benna’s letter must have gotten lost. 
Come in. Come in.” She pulled me back so that Carolyn could enter the house. 



“Look what she brought for me, Mom,” I said. 

I pointed to the small green head dangling by the hair from Carolyn’s hand. 

“Yuck!” Mom cried, raising a hand to her cheek. “That isn’t real —is it?” 

“Of course it’s real!” I cried. “Aunt Benna wouldn’t send a fake —would 
she?” 

Carolyn stepped into the living room and set down her small suitcase. I took 
a deep breath. Worked up my courage. And reached for the shrunken head. 

But before I could take it, Jessica swooped in—and grabbed it out of 
Carolyn’s hand. 

“Hey—!” I shouted, reaching for her. 

She darted away, giggling, her red hair flying behind her. Holding the head 
in both hands. 

But then she stopped. 

Her smile faded. And she stared down at the head in horror. 

“It bit me!” Jessica cried. “It bit me!” 



3 


I gasped. Mom squeezed my shoulder. 

Jessica started to giggle. 

One of her dumb jokes. 

She tossed the head from hand to hand. And grinned at me. “You’re dumb, 
Mark. You’ll believe anything.” 

“Just give me back my head!” I cried angrily. I dove across the living room 
and grabbed for it. 

She started to pull it away—but I held on tightly. 

“Hey—you scratched it!” I shrieked. 

She did. I held the head up close to my face to examine it. Jessica had 
scratched a long white line on the right earlobe. 

“Jessica—please,” Mom begged, crossing her arms and lowering her voice. 
That’s what Mom does when she’s about to get steamed. “Shape up. We have a 
guest.” 

Jessica crossed her arms and pouted back at Mom. 

Mom turned to Carolyn. “How is my sister Benna doing?” 

Carolyn pulled off her sunglasses and tucked them into a raincoat pocket. 
She had silvery-gray eyes. She looked older without the dark glasses on. I could 
see hundreds of tiny wrinkles at the corners of her eyes. 

“Benna is fine,” she replied. “Working hard. Too hard. Sometimes she 
disappears into the jungle for days.” 

Carolyn sighed and started to unbutton her raincoat. “I’m sure you know 
Benna’s work is her life,” she continued. “She spends every minute exploring the 
jungles of Baladora. She wanted to come visit. But she couldn’t leave the island. 
So she sent me instead.” 

“Well, it’s very nice to meet you, Carolyn,” Mom said warmly. “I’m sorry 
we didn’t know you were coming. But any friend of Benna’s is more than 
welcome.” 

She took Carolyn’s raincoat. Carolyn wore khaki pants and a short-sleeved 
khaki shirt. It looked like a real jungle-exploring suit. 

“Come sit down,” Mom told her. “What can I offer you?” 

“A cup of coffee would be nice,” Carolyn replied. She started to follow 



Mom to the kitchen. But she stopped and smiled at me. “Do you like your 
present?” 

I gazed down at the wrinkled, leathery head in my hands. “It’s beautiful!” I 
declared. 

That night before going to bed, I placed the head on my dresser. I brushed its 
thick black hair straight back. The forehead was dark green and wrinkled like a 
pmne. The glassy black eyes stared straight ahead. 

Carolyn told me that the head was over one hundred years old. I leaned 
against the dresser and stared at it. It was so hard to believe that it had once 
belonged to a real person. 

Yuck. 

How had the guy lost his head? I wondered. 

And who decided to shrink it? And who kept it after it was shrunk? 

I wished Aunt Benna were here. She would explain everything to me. 

Carolyn was sleeping in the guest room down the hall. We had sat in the 
living room, talking about Aunt Benna all night. Carolyn described the work 
Aunt Benna was doing on the jungle island. And the amazing things she was 
finding there on Baladora. 

My aunt Benna is a pretty famous scientist. She has been on Baladora for 
nearly ten years. She studies the animals in the jungle. And the plant life, too. 

I loved listening to Carolyn’s stories. It was as if my Jungle King computer 
game had come to life. 

Jessica kept wanting to play with my shrunken head. But I wouldn’t let her. 
She had already put a scratch on its ear. 

“It’s not a toy. It’s a human head,” I told my sister. 

“I’ll trade you two of my Koosh balls for it,” Jessica offered. 

Was she crazy? 

Why would I trade a valuable treasure like this for two Koosh balls? 

Sometimes I worried about Jessica. 

At ten o’clock, Mom sent me up to my room. “Carolyn and I have some 
things to talk about,” she announced. I said good night and made my way 
upstairs. 

I placed the shrunken head on my dresser and changed into my pajamas. 
The dark eyes in the head appeared to flash for a second when I turned out the 
lights. 



I climbed into bed and pulled up the covers. Silvery moonlight washed into 
the room from the bedroom window. In the bright moonlight, I could see the 
head clearly, staring at me from the dresser top, bathed in shadows. 

What a horrible sneer on its face, I thought with a shiver. Why is it locked 
in such a frightening expression? 

I answered my own question: You wouldn’t smile either, Mark, if someone 
shrunk your head! 

I fell asleep staring at the ugly little head. 

I slept heavily, without any dreams. 

I don’t know how long I slept. But sometime in the middle of the night, I 
was awakened by a terrifying whisper. 

“Mark... Mark...” 



4 


“Mark... Mark...” 

The eerie whisper grew louder. 

I sat straight up, and my eyes shot open. And in the heavy darkness, I saw 
Jessica, standing beside the bed. 

“Mark... Mark... ” she whispered, tugging my pajama sleeve. 

I swallowed hard. My heart pounded. “Huh? You? What’s your problem?” 

“I-I had a bad dream,” she stammered. “And I fell out of bed.” 

Jessica falls out of bed at least once a week. Mom says she’s going to build 
a tall fence around Jessica’s bed to keep her in. Or else buy her a king-size bed. 

But I think Jessica would just roll around even harder in a big bed and still 
fall out. My sister is a pest even in her sleep! 

“I need a drink of water,” she whispered, still tugging my sleeve. 

I groaned and pulled my arm away. “Well, go downstairs and get it. You’re 
not a baby,” I growled. 

“I’m scared.” She grabbed my hand and pulled. “You have to come with 

me.” 

“Jessica—!” I started to protest. But why bother? Whenever Jessica has a 
scary dream, I end up taking her downstairs for a glass of water. 

I climbed out of bed and led the way to the door. We both stopped in front 
of the dresser. The shrunken head stared out at us in the darkness. 

“I think that head gave me bad dreams,” Jessica whispered softly. 

“Don’t blame the head,” I replied, yawning. “You have bad dreams just 
about every night—remember? It’s because you have a sick mind.” 

“Do not!” she cried angrily. She punched my shoulder. Hard. 

“If you hit me, I won’t get you a drink,” I told her. 

She reached out a finger and poked the shrunken head on one of its 
wrinkled cheeks. “Yuck. It feels like leather. It doesn’t feel like skin.” 

“I guess heads get hard when you shrink them,” I said, straightening the 
thick tuft of black hair. 

“Why did Aunt Benna send you a shrunken head and not send me one?” 
Jessica asked. 



I shrugged. “Beats me.” We tiptoed out into the hall and turned toward the 
stairs. “Maybe it’s because Aunt Benna doesn’t remember you. The last time she 
visited us, you were just a baby. I was only four.” 

“Aunt Benna remembers me,” Jessica replied. She loves to argue. 

“Well, maybe she thinks that girls don’t like shrunken heads,” I said. We 
made our way down to the kitchen. The stairs squeaked under our bare feet. 

“Girls like shrunken heads,” Jessica argued. “I know I do. They’re cool.” 

I filled a glass with water and handed it to her. She made gulping sounds as 
she drank. “You’ll share your head with me—right?” she asked. 

“No way,” I told her. 

How do you share a head? 

We made our way back upstairs in the darkness. I took her to her room and 
tucked her in. Then I crept back to my room and slipped into bed. 

I yawned and pulled the covers up to my chin. 

I shut my eyes, but opened them again quickly. What was that yellow light 
across the room? 

At first, I thought someone had turned the hall light on. 

But, squinting across the room, I saw that it wasn’t a light. The head. The 
shrunken head—it was glowing! 

As if bright flames surrounded it. A shimmering yellow glow. 

And in the glow, I saw the dark eyes gleam and sparkle. 

And then the lips—the thin, dry lips that had been set in a hard scowl—the 
lips began to twitch. And the mouth pulled up in a horrifying smile. 



5 


“Nooooooo!” 

I let out a terrified wail. 

Glowing brightly, surrounded by eerie yellow light, the head grinned at me, 
its dark eyes flashing. 

My hands thrashed at the covers. I struggled to pull myself out of bed. But 
my legs tangled in the blanket, and I fell with a hard thud to the floor. 

“Nooooooo!” I cried. My body trembled so hard, I could barely scramble to 
my feet. 

Gazing up, I saw the grinning head float over the dresser. Float into the air. 
Float toward me like a glowing comet. 

No! 

I covered my face to shield myself. 

When I glanced back up, the shrunken head glowed on the dresser top. 

Had I imagined it floating up? 

I didn’t care. I ran out of the bedroom. “The head! The head!” I shrieked. 
“It’s glowing. The head is glowing!” 

Jessica jumped out as I ran past her bedroom. “Mark—what’s going on?” 
she called. 

I didn’t stop to answer. I kept on running, down the hall to Mom and Dad’s 
room. “The head!” I wailed. “The head!” I was so terrified, I didn’t know what I 
was doing! 

The door was closed. But I shoved it open without knocking. Mom was 
lying on her back on her side of the bed. My dad was away this week on a 
business trip. But Mom still slept on her side of the bed. 

As I burst in, she sat up and uttered a startled cry. “Mark?” 

I ran up beside her. “Mom—the shrunken head—it started to glow!” I cried, 
my voice high and shrill. “It’s glowing, and it—it grinned at me!” 

Mom stood up and wrapped me in a hug. She felt so warm and soft. I was 
shaking all over. I suddenly felt as if I were a little boy again. 

“Mark, you had a nightmare,” Mom said softly. She ran her hand over the 
back of my hair, the way she used to do when I was little. 

“But, Mom—” 



“That’s all it was. A nightmare. Take a deep breath. Look how you’re 
shaking.” 

I pulled away from her. I knew it wasn’t a nightmare. I’d been wide awake. 
“Come and see,” I insisted. “Hurry.” 

I pulled her out into the hall. A light clicked on in Carolyn’s room, and her 
door swung open. “What’s happening?” she asked sleepily. She was wearing a 
long black nightshirt. 

“Mark says his shrunken head glowed,” Mom reported. “I think he had a 
bad dream.” 

“No, I didn’t!” I shouted angrily. “Come on. I’ll show you!” 

I started to pull Mom down the hall. But I stopped when I saw the intense 
expression on Carolyn’s face. She had been sleepy a second ago. But now her 
eyes were wide, and she was staring at me hard. Staring at my face, studying me. 

I turned away from her and nearly bumped into Jessica. “Why did you wake 
me up?” Jessica demanded. 

I pushed past her and led everyone down the hall to my room. “The head 
glowed!” I cried. “And it smiled at me. Look. You’ll see!” 

I burst into my room and strode up to the dresser. 

The head was gone. 



6 


I stared in shock at the bare dresser top. 

Behind me, someone clicked on the bedroom light. I blinked in the bright 
light, expecting the shrunken head to appear. 

Where was it? 

My eyes searched the floor. Had it fallen and rolled away? Had it floated 
out of the room? 

“Mark—is this some kind of joke?” Mom asked. She suddenly sounded 
very tired. 

“No—” I started. “Really, Mom. The head—” 

And then I saw the sly grin on Jessica’s face. And I saw that my sister had 
both hands behind her back. 

“Jessica—what are you hiding?” I demanded. 

Her grin grew wider. She never could keep a straight face. “Nothing,” she 

lied. 

“Let me see your hands,” I said sharply. 

“No way!” she replied. But she burst out laughing and brought her hands in 
front of her. And of course she had the shrunken head gripped tightly in her right 
hand. 

“Jessica—!” I let out an angry cry and snatched it away from her. “It’s not a 
toy,” I scolded her angrily. “You keep your paws off it. Hear?” 

“Well, it wasn’t glowing,” she sneered. “And it wasn’t smiling, either. You 
made that all up, Mark.” 

“Did not!” I cried. 

I examined the head. Its dry lips were pulled back in the toothless snarl it 
always had. The skin was green and leathery, not glowing at all. 

“Mark, you had a bad dream,” Mom insisted, covering her mouth as she 
yawned. “Put the head down, and let’s all get some sleep.” 

“Okay, okay,” I muttered. I flashed Jessica another angry look. Then I set 
the shrunken head down on the dresser. 

Mom and Jessica walked out of my room. “Mark is such a jerk,” I heard 
Jessica say, just loud enough for me to hear. “I asked him to share the shrunken 
head, and he said he wouldn’t.” 



“We’ll talk about it in the morning,” Mom replied, yawning again. 

I started to turn off the light. But I stopped when I saw Carolyn, still 
standing in the hah. Still staring hard at me, a really intense expression on her 
face. 

She narrowed her silvery eyes at me. “Did you really see it glow, Mark?” 
she asked softly. 

I glanced at the head. Dark and still. “Yeah. I did,” I replied. 

Carolyn nodded. She seemed to be thinking hard about something. “Good 
night,” she murmured. Then she turned and padded silently back to the guest 
room. 

The next morning, Mom and Carolyn greeted me with the biggest surprise 
of my life. 



7 


“Your aunt Benna wants you to come visit her in the jungle,” Mom announced at 
breakfast. 

I dropped the spoon into my Froot Loops. My mouth fell open to my knees. 
“Excuse me?” 

Mom and Carolyn grinned at me. I guess they enjoyed shocking me. 
“That’s why Carolyn came,” Mom explained. “To take you back with her to 
Baladora.” 

“Wh-why didn’t you tell me?” I shrieked. 

“We didn’t want to tell you until we worked out all the details,” Mom 
replied. “Are you excited? You get to visit a real jungle!” 

“Excited isn’t the word!” I exclaimed. “I’m... I’m... I’m... I don’t know 
what I am!” 

They both laughed. 

“I get to go, too!” Jessica declared, bouncing into the kitchen. 

I let out a groan. 

“No, Jessica. You can’t go this time,” Mom said, putting a hand on my 
sister’s shoulder. “This is Mark’s turn.” 

“That isn’t fair!” Jessica wailed, shoving Mom’s hand away. 

“Yes, it is,” I replied happily. “Kah-lee-ah!” I cheered. Then I leaped to my 
feet and did a celebration dance around the kitchen table. 

“Not fair! Not fair!” Jessica chanted. 

“Jessica, you don’t like jungles,” I reminded her. 

“Yes, I do!” she insisted. 

“Next time will be your turn,” Carolyn said, taking a long sip of coffee. 
“I’m sure your aunt would love to show you the jungle, Jessica.” 

“Yeah. When you’re older,” I sneered. “You know, the jungle is too 
dangerous for a kid.” 

Of course, when I said that to my sister, I had no idea of just how dangerous 
the jungle could be. No idea that I was heading toward dangers I couldn’t even 
imagine. 

After breakfast, Mom helped me pack my suitcase. I wanted to bring shorts and 



T-shirts. I knew it was hot in the jungle. 

But Carolyn insisted that I pack long-sleeved shirts and jeans, because of 
the scratchy weeds and vines we’d be walking through. And because of all the 
jungle insects. 

“You have to protect yourself from the sun,” Carolyn instructed. “Baladora 
is so close to the equator. The sun is very strong. And the temperature stays in 
the nineties all day.” 

Of course I carefully packed the shrunken head. I didn’t want Jessica to get 
her paws on it while I was away. 

I know, I know. Sometimes I’m pretty mean to my sister. 

As we drove to the airport, I thought about poor Jessica, staying home 
while I went off to exciting adventures with Aunt Benna. 

I decided to bring her back a really cool souvenir from the jungle. Some 
poison ivy, maybe. Or some kind of poisonous snake. Ha-ha! 

At the airport, Mom kept hugging me and telling me to be careful. Then she 
hugged me some more. It was really pretty embarrassing. 

Finally, it came time for Carolyn and me to board the plane. I felt scared 
and excited and glad and worried—all at once! 

“Be sure to send postcards!” Mom called as I followed Carolyn to the gate. 

“If I can find a mailbox!” I called back. 

I didn’t think they had mailboxes in the jungle. 

The flight was very long. So long, they showed three movies in a row! 

Carolyn spent a lot of time reading through her notebooks and papers. But 
when the flight attendants served dinner, she took a break. And she told me 
about the work Aunt Benna had been doing in the jungle. 

Carolyn said that Aunt Benna had made many exciting discoveries. She had 
discovered two kinds of plants that no one had ever seen before. One is a kind of 
crawling vine that she named after herself. Benna-lepticus. Or something like 
that. 

Carolyn said that Aunt Benna was exploring parts of the jungle where no 
one had ever gone. And that she was turning up all kinds of jungle secrets. 
Secrets that will make Aunt Benna famous when she decides to announce them. 

“When was the last time your aunt visited you?” Carolyn asked. She 
struggled to pull open the plastic wrapping around her silverware. 

“A long time ago,” I told her. “I can hardly remember what Aunt Benna 



looks like. I was only four or five.” 

Carolyn nodded. “Did she give you any special presents?” she asked. She 
pulled out the plastic knife and started to spread butter on her dinner roll. 

I scrunched up my face, thinking hard. “Special presents?” 

“Did she bring you anything from the jungle when she visited you?” 
Carolyn asked. She lowered the dinner roll to the tray and turned to me. 

She had her dark glasses on again, so I couldn’t see her eyes. But I had the 
feeling she was staring at me, studying me. 

“I don’t remember,” I replied. “I know she didn’t bring me anything as cool 
as a shrunken head. That head is really awesome!” 

Carolyn didn’t smile. She turned back to her food tray. I could tell she was 
thinking hard about something. 

I fell asleep after dinner. We flew all night and landed in Southeast Asia. 

We arrived just after dawn. The sky outside the airplane window was a deep 
purple. A beautiful color I’d never seen before. A big red sun rose slowly 
through the purple. 

“We change planes here,” Carolyn announced. “A huge jet like this could 
never land in Baladora. We have to take a tiny plane from here.” 

The plane was tiny, for sure. It looked like a toy. It was painted a dull red. It 
had two red propellers on the slender wings. I searched for the rubber bands that 
made the propellers spin! 

Carolyn introduced me to the pilot. He was a young man in a red-and- 
yellow Hawaiian shirt and khaki shorts. He had slicked-down black hair and a 
black mustache. His name was Ernesto. 

“Can this thing fly?” I asked him. 

He grinned at me from beneath the mustache. “I hope so,” he replied, 
chuckling. 

He helped us up metal steps into the cabin. Then he hoisted himself into the 
cockpit. Carolyn and I filled the cabin. There was only room for the two of us 
back there! 

When Ernesto started the engine, it chugged and sputtered like a power 
mower starting up. 

The propellers began to twirl. The engine roared. So loud I couldn’t hear 
what Ernesto was shouting to us. 

Finally I figured out that he was telling us to fasten our seat belts. 

I swallowed hard and stared out the tiny window. Ernesto backed the plane 



out of the hangar. The roar was so loud, I wanted to cover my ears. 

This is going to be exciting, I thought. It’s kind of like flying inside a kite! 

A few minutes later, we were in the air, flying low over the blue-green 
ocean. The bright morning sunlight made the water sparkle. 

The plane bumped and jerked. I could feel the wind blowing it, making us 
bounce. 

After a while, Carolyn pointed out the islands down below. They were 
mostly green, with ribbons of yellow sand around them. 

“Those are all jungle islands,” Carolyn told me. “See that one?” She 
pointed to a large, egg-shaped island. “Some people found buried pirate’s 
treasure on that island. Gold and jewels worth millions of dollars.” 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. 

Ernesto leaned over the throttle and brought the plane lower. So low I could 
clearly make out trees and shrubs. The trees all seemed tangled together. I 
couldn’t see any roads or paths. 

The ocean water darkened to a deep green. The engine roared as the plane 
bounced against strong winds. 

“That’s Baladora up ahead!” Carolyn announced. She pointed out the 
window as another island came into view. Baladora was larger than the other 
islands, and very jagged. It curved around like a crescent moon. 

“I can’t believe that Aunt Benna is down there somewhere!” I exclaimed. 

Carolyn smiled beneath her dark glasses. “She’s there, okay.” 

I glanced to the front as Ernesto turned in his seat to face us. I saw instantly 
that he had a troubled expression on his face. 

“We have a little problem,” he said, shouting over the roar of the engine. 

“Problem?” Carolyn asked. 

Ernesto nodded grimly. “Yes. A problem. You see... I don’t know how to 
land this thing. You two will have to jump.” 

Panic made me gasp. “But—but—but—” I sputtered. “We don’t have 
parachutes!” 

Ernesto shrugged. “Try to land on something soft,” he said. 



8 


My mouth dropped open. My breath caught in my chest. Both hands gripped the 
arms of the seat. 

Then I saw the smile on Carolyn’s face. She shook her head, her eyes on 
Ernesto. “Mark is too smart for you,” she told him. “He’s not going to fall for a 
dumb joke like that.” 

Ernesto laughed. He narrowed his dark eyes at me. “You believed me— 
right?” 

“Ha-ha. No way!” I choked out. My knees were still shaking. “I knew you 
were kidding,” I lied. “Kind of.” 

Carolyn and Ernesto both laughed. “You’re mean,” she told Ernesto. 

Ernesto’s eyes flashed. His smile faded. “You’ve got to get used to thinking 
fast in the jungle,” he warned. 

He turned back to the controls. I kept my eyes out the window, watching the 
island of Baladora sweep beneath us. Broad-winged white birds swooped over 
the tangled green trees. 

A short strip of land had been cleared near the south shore of the island. 
Beyond it, I could see ocean waves smacking against dark rocks. 

The little plane hit hard as we landed—hard enough to make my knees 
bounce up in the air. We bounced again on the bumpy, dirt landing strip. Then 
we rolled to a stop. 

Ernesto cut the engine. He pushed open the cabin door. Then he helped us 
out of the plane. We had to duck our heads. 

Ernesto carried our suitcases out. Carolyn had her small canvas bag. My 
suitcase was a little larger. He set them down on the landing strip and gave us a 
short, two-fingered salute. Then he climbed back into the little red plane and 
pulled the door closed behind him. 

I shut my eyes as the propellers whirred, showering sand over me. A few 
seconds later, Ernesto took off. The plane nosed up steeply, just barely making it 
over the trees at the end of the landing strip. 

The plane turned sharply and headed back over the water. Carolyn and I 
picked up our bags. “Where do we go now?” I asked, squinting in the bright 
sunlight. 



Carolyn pointed. A clearing of tall grass stretched beyond the narrow, dirt 
airstrip. At the edge of the clearing where the trees started, I could see a row of 
low gray buildings. 

“That’s our headquarters,” Carolyn told me. “We built the airstrip right next 
to it. The rest of the island is jungle. No roads. No other houses. Just 
wilderness.” 

“Do you get cable?” I asked. 

She stopped short. Then laughed. I don’t think she expected me to make a 

joke. 

We carried our suitcases toward the low gray buildings. The morning sun 
was still low in the sky. But the air was already hot and wet. Hundreds of tiny 
white insects—some kind of gnat—hovered over the tall grass, darting one way 
then the other. 

I heard shrill buzzing. And somewhere in the distance, the high cry of a 
bird, followed by a long, sad reply. 

Carolyn walked quickly, taking long strides over the tall grass, ignoring the 
darting white gnats. I jogged to keep up with her. 

Sweat ran down my forehead. The back of my neck started to itch. 

Why was Carolyn in such a hurry? 

“We’re kind of trapped here, right?” I said, studying the low, twisted trees 
beyond the small headquarters buildings. “I mean, how do we get off the island 
when we’re finished?” 

“We radio for Ernesto,” Carolyn replied, not slowing her pace. “It takes him 
about an hour to get here from the mainland.” 

That made me feel a little better. I scurried over the tall grass, struggling to 
keep up with Carolyn. 

My suitcase began to feel heavy. I wiped sweat from my eyes with my free 
hand. 

We were nearing the headquarters. I expected Aunt Benna to come running 
out to greet me. But I couldn’t see any sign of anyone. 

A radio antenna was perched off to the side. The low buildings were 
perfectly square. Flat-roofed. They looked like upside-down cartons. Square 
windows had been cut in each wall. 

“What is that stretched over all the windows?” I asked Carolyn. 

“Mosquito netting,” she replied. She turned back to me. “Have you ever 
seen a mosquito as big as your head?” 



I laughed. “No.” 

“Well, you will.” 

I laughed again. She was joking—right? 

We stepped up to the first building, the largest in the row. I set down my 
suitcase, pulled off my baseball cap, and mopped my forehead with my 
shirtsleeve. Wow. It was hot. 

A screen door led into the building. Carolyn held it open for me. 

“Aunt Benna—!” I cried eagerly. Leaving the suitcase on the ground, I ran 
inside. “Aunt Benna?” 

Sunlight filtered through the netting over the window. It took a few seconds 
for my eyes to adjust to the darker light. 

I saw a table cluttered with test tubes and other equipment. I saw a 
bookshelf filled with notebooks and books. 

“Aunt Benna?” 

Then I saw her. Wearing a white lab coat. Standing with her back to me, at a 
sink against the wall. 

She turned, wiping her hands on a towel. 

No. 

Not Aunt Benna. 

A man. A white-haired man in a white lab coat. 

His hair was thick and brushed straight back. Even in the dim light, I could 
see the pale blue of his eyes, blue as the sky. Such strange eyes. They looked like 
blue glass. Like marbles. 

He smiled. Not at me. 

He was smiling at Carolyn. 

He motioned to me by tilting his head. “Does he have it?” he asked 
Carolyn. He had a scratchy, hoarse voice. 

Carolyn nodded. “Yes. He has it.” I could see that she was breathing hard. 
Short, shallow breaths. 

Was she excited? Nervous? 

A smile crossed the man’s face. His blue eyes appeared to twinkle. 

“Hi,” I said awkwardly. I felt really confused. What did that question mean? 
What did I have? 

“Where is my aunt Benna?” I asked. 

Before he could answer, a girl appeared from the back room. She had 
straight blond hair and the same pale blue eyes. She was dressed in a white T- 



shirt and white tennis shorts. She appeared to be about my age. 

“This is my daughter Kareen,” the man said in his hoarse voice, more like a 
whisper. “I am Dr. Richard Hawlings.” He turned to Kareen. “This is Benna’s 
nephew. Mark.” 

“Tell me something I don’t know,” Kareen replied sharply, rolling her eyes. 
She turned to me. “Hey, Mark.” 

“Hi,” I replied. Still confused. 

Kareen flipped her blond hair back over the shoulders of her T-shirt. “What 
grade are you in?” 

“Sixth,” I told her. 

“Me, too. Except I’m not in school this term. I’m in this dump.” She 
frowned at her father. 

“Where is my aunt?” I asked Dr. Hawlings. “Is she working or something? I 
thought she’d be here. You know. When I arrived.” 

Dr. Hawlings stared at me with those strange blue eyes. It took him a long 
time to reply. Finally, he said, “Benna isn’t here.” 

“Excuse me?” I wasn’t sure I’d heard him correctly. It was hard to 
understand his raspy voice. “Is she... uh... working?” 

“We don’t know,” he replied. 

Kareen played with a strand of her hair. She twisted it around her finger, 
staring at me. 

Carolyn stepped behind the lab table and leaned her elbows on it. She rested 
her head in her hands. “Your aunt Benna is missing,” she said. 

Her words made my head spin. 

They were so unexpected. And she said them so flatly. Without any feeling 
at all. 

“She’s... missing !” 

“She’s been missing for a few weeks,” Kareen said, glancing at her father. 
“The three of us—we’ve been trying really hard to find her.” 

“I-I don’t understand,” I stammered. I shoved my hands into my jeans 
pockets. 

“Your aunt is lost in the jungle,” Dr. Hawlings explained. 

“But—Carolyn said—” I started. 

Dr. Hawlings raised a hand to silence me. “Your aunt is lost in the jungle, 
Mark.” 

“But-but why didn’t you tell my mom?” I asked, confused. 



“We didn’t want to worry her,” Dr. Hawlings replied. “Benna’s your mom’s 
sister, after all. So Carolyn brought you here because you can help us find her.” 

“Huh?” My mouth dropped open in shock. “Me? How can I help?” 

Dr. Hawlings stepped across the small room toward me. His eyes locked on 
mine. “You can help us, Mark,” he said in his hoarse whisper. “You can help us 
find Benna—because you have Jungle Magic.” 



9 


“I have what?” 

I stared at Dr. Hawlings. I didn’t know what he was talking about. 

Was Jungle Magic some kind of computer game? Was it like Jungle King? 

Why did he think I had it? 

“You have Jungle Magic,” he repeated, staring back at me with those 
amazing blue eyes. “Let me explain.” 

“Daddy, give Mark a break,” Kareen interrupted. “He’s been flying for a 
hundred hours. He must be wrecked!” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I’m a little tired.” 

“Come sit down,” Carolyn said. She led me over to a tall stool beside the 
lab table. Then she turned to Kareen. “Do we have any Cokes left?” 

Kareen pulled open a small refrigerator against the back wall. “A few,” she 
replied, bending down to get to the bottom shelf. “Ernesto is supposed to bring 
another carton on his next flight.” 

Kareen brought me a can of Coke. I popped it open and tilted the can to my 
mouth. The cold liquid felt so good on my hot, dry throat. 

Kareen leaned against the table, close to me. “Have you ever been to a 
jungle before?” 

I swallowed more Coke. “No. Not really. But I’ve seen a lot of jungle 
movies.” 

Kareen laughed. “It’s not like in the movies. I mean, there aren’t herds of 
gazelles and elephants gathering at the water hole. At least, not on Baladora.” 

“What animals are on the island?” I asked. 

“Mosquitoes, mostly,” Kareen answered. 

“There are some beautiful red birds,” Carolyn said. “Called scarlet ibises. 
You won’t believe their color. Kind of like flamingos, only much brighter.” 

Dr. Hawlings had been studying me the whole while. He walked over to the 
table and dropped down onto a stool across from me. 

I held the cold soda can against my hot forehead. Then I lowered it to the 
table. “Tell me about my aunt Benna,” I said to him. 

“Not much to tell,” Dr. Hawlings replied, frowning. “She was studying a 
new kind of tree snail. Somewhere on this end of the jungle. But one night she 



didn’t return.” 

“We’re very worried about her,” Carolyn said, twisting a strand of hair. She 
bit her lower lip. “Very worried. We searched and searched. Then we decided 
you could help us.” 

“But how can I help?” I demanded. “I told you—I’ve never been to a 
jungle.” 

“But you have Jungle Magic,” Carolyn replied. “Benna gave it to you. The 
last time she visited you. We read about it. It’s in Benna’s notebooks over there.” 

Carolyn pointed to a stack of black notebooks on the bookshelf against the 
wall. I gazed at them, thinking hard. I still didn’t understand. 

“Aunt Benna gave me some kind of magic?” I asked. 

Dr. Hawlings nodded. “Yes, she did. She was afraid the secret might fall 
into the wrong hands. So she gave it to you.” 

“Don’t you remember?” Carolyn asked. 

“I was so little,” I told them. “I was only four. I don’t remember. I don’t 
think she gave me anything.” 

“But she did,” Carolyn insisted. “We know you have Jungle Magic. We 
know that you—” 

“How?” I interrupted. “How do you know I have it?” 

“Because you saw the shrunken head glow,” Carolyn replied. “The head 
will only glow for people who have the magic. We read that in Benna’s 
notebooks.” 

I swallowed hard. My throat suddenly felt dry again. My heart began to 

race. 

“You’re telling me I have some special kind of magic powers?” I asked in a 
tiny voice. “But I don’t feel strange or anything. I’ve never done anything 
magic!” 

“You have the magic,” Dr. Hawlings said softly. “The magic is hundreds of 
years old. It belonged to the Oloyan people. They used to live on this island.” 

“They were headshrinkers,” Carolyn added. “Hundreds of years ago. That 
head I brought you—it was Oloyan. We have uncovered many others.” 

“But your aunt uncovered the secret of their ancient magic,” Dr. Hawlings 
said. “And she gave it to you.” 

“You’ve got to help us find her!” Kareen declared. “You’ve got to use the 
magic. We’ve got to find poor Benna—before it’s too late.” 

“I-I’ll try,” I told them. 



But secretly, I thought: They’ve made a big mistake. 
Maybe they mixed me up with someone else. 

I don’t have any Jungle Magic. None at all. 

What am I going to do? 



10 


I spent the day exploring the edge of the jungle with Kareen. We uncovered 
some amazing yellow spiders that were nearly as big as my fist. And Kareen 
showed me a plant that can snap its leaves closed around an insect and keep it 
trapped for days until the plant has digested it all. 

Pretty cool. 

We climbed low, smooth-barked trees. We sat in the tree limbs and talked. 

Kareen is okay, I think. She’s very serious. She doesn’t laugh a whole lot. 
And she doesn’t like the jungle at all. 

Kareen’s mom died when she was a little kid. She wants to go back to New 
Jersey and live with her grandmother. But her father won’t let her. 

As I talked with her, I kept thinking about Jungle Magic. And I kept 
thinking about how—whatever it was—I didn’t have it. 

Sure, I always liked jungle movies. And jungle books and jungle games. I 
always thought jungles were really awesome. But that doesn’t mean I have any 
special powers or anything. 

And now Aunt Benna was missing. And her friends on Baladora were so 
desperate to find her, they had brought me here. 

But what could I do? 

What? 

As I lay in bed that night, the questions didn’t go away. 

I stared up at the low ceiling of the small wooden shack, wide awake. There 
were six or seven flat-roofed shacks in a row, behind the main building. We each 
had our own little shack to sleep in. 

My little cabin had a narrow bed with a flat, lumpy mattress. A low bedside 
table where I placed my shrunken head. A small dresser with all the drawers 
stuck except the bottom one. A narrow closet, just big enough for the clothes I’d 
brought. And a tiny bathroom in the back. 

Through the netting over the open window, I could hear the chirp of insects. 
And in the distance, I heard a caww caww cawww. Some sort of animal cry. 

How can I help find Aunt Benna? I wondered as I stared up at the dark 
ceiling and listened to the strange sounds. 

What can I do? 



I tried to remember her. I tried to remember her visit to my house when I 
was four. 

I pictured a short, dark-haired woman. Chubby like me. A round pink face. 
Intense dark eyes. 

I remembered that she talked very fast. She had sort of a chirpy voice, and 
she always seemed excited. Very enthusiastic. 

And I remembered... 

Nothing else. 

That’s all I could remember about my aunt. 

Did she give me Jungle Magic? No. I didn’t remember anything about that. 

I mean, how do you give someone magic? 

I kept thinking about it and thinking about it. I struggled to remember more 
about her visit. 

But I couldn’t. 

I knew that Carolyn and Dr. Hawlings had made a terrible mistake. I’ll tell 
them in the morning, I decided. I’ll tell them they got the wrong kid. 

A terrible mistake... terrible mistake. The words repeated in my mind. 

I sat up. No way I could get to sleep. My brain wouldn’t let me. I was wide 
awake. 

I decided to take a walk around the headquarters building. Maybe explore 
back where the trees grew thick and the jungle started. 

I crept to the screen door and peered out. My little cabin stood at the end of 
the row. I could see the other cabins from my door. All dark. Kareen, Carolyn, 
and Dr. Hawlings had gone to sleep. 

Cawwww cawwwww. The strange cry repeated in the distance. A soft wind 
made the tall grass bend and shift. Tree leaves rustled, making a whispering 
sound. 

I was wearing a long, baggy T-shirt pulled down over boxers. No need to 
get dressed, I decided. No one else is awake. Besides, I’ll just take a very short 
walk. 

I slipped into my sandals. Pushed open the screen door. And stepped 
outside. 

Cawwww cawwwww. The cry sounded a little closer. 

The night air felt hot and wet, nearly as hot as during the day. A heavy dew 
had fallen, and my sandals slid over the damp, tall grass. The wet grass tickled 
my feet through the sandals. 



I made my way past the silent, dark shacks. To my right, the trees bent and 
swayed. Black shadows against a purple sky. No moon. No stars tonight. 

Maybe taking a walk is a bad idea, I told myself. Maybe it’s too dark. 

I need a flashlight, I realized. I remembered Carolyn’s warning earlier when 
she showed me where I would sleep. “Never go out at night without a flashlight. 
At night,” she had warned me, “we are not in charge here. At night, this is the 
creatures’ world.” 

The back of the headquarters building loomed ahead of me. I decided to 
turn around. 

But before I could turn, I realized I wasn’t alone. 

In the darkness, I caught a pair of eyes, staring back at me. 

I gasped. A chill ran down my back. 

Staring hard through the purple night, I saw another pair of eyes. 

And then another and another. 

Dark eyes, staring at me without moving, without blinking. 

Dark eyes, on top of each other. 

I froze. I couldn’t move. 

I knew that I was trapped. There were too many of them. Too many. 



11 


My legs trembled. Chill after chill rolled down the back of my neck. 

And as I stared at the eyes, the dark eyes in pairs, eyes on top of eyes—as I 
stared at them, they began to glow. 

Brighter. Brighter. 

And in the golden light, I saw that these were not creature eyes. 

These were not animal eyes. 

These were human eyes. 

I stared at the glowing eyes of a hundred shrunken heads! 

A pile of shrunken heads. A11 heaped together. Eyes on top of eyes. Heads 
like tight fists, mouths curled into snarls, or open in toothless horror. 

Heads on heads. Dark and wrinkled and leathery. 

So terrifying in the cold golden glow from their eyes. 

I uttered a choked cry—and took off. 

My legs felt rubbery and weak. My heart pounded in my chest. I ran around 
the headquarters building, the yellow glow fading slowly from my eyes. I ran as 
fast as I could. To the front of the dark building. To the screen door. 

Gasping for breath, I pulled open the door. And leaped inside. 

I pressed my back against the wall and waited. Waited for the eerie glow to 
fade completely. Waited for my heart to stop racing, for my breathing to slow. 

After a minute or two, I began to feel a little calmer. 

Those heads, I wondered. Why are they piled back there like that? 

I shook my head hard, trying to shake away the ugly picture of them. They 
were all people once, I realized. Hundreds of years ago, they were people. 

And now... 

I swallowed hard. My throat felt tight and dry. 

I started across the room to the refrigerator. I need something cold to drink, 
I told myself. I bumped the edge of the lab table. 

My hands shot out, and I knocked something over. I grabbed it before it 
rolled off the table. 

A flashlight. 

“Hey—!” I cried out happily. 



I’m going to listen to Carolyn’s advice from now on, I promised myself. 
I’m never going out again without a flashlight. 

I pushed the button, and a white beam of light swept over the floor. As I 
raised the flashlight, the light settled on the bookshelf against the wall. 

Aunt Benna’s black notebooks flashed into view. A tall stack of them nearly 
filled the shelf. 

I moved quickly to the bookshelf. With my free hand, I pulled down the top 
notebook. It was heavier than I thought, and I almost dropped it. 

Cradling it in my arms, I carried it over to the lab table. I climbed onto the 
tall stool and opened it up. 

Maybe I can find some answers in here, I thought. 

Maybe I can find the part where Aunt Benna talks about giving me Jungle 
Magic. Maybe I can find out why Dr. Hawlings and Carolyn think I have it. 

I leaned over the notebook and aimed the light onto the pages. Then I began 
flipping through, page after page, squinting in the light. 

Luckily, my aunt has big, bold handwriting. Very clean and easy to read. 

The pages seemed to be organized by year. I kept flipping pages, scanning 
each page quickly—until I came to the year of her visit. 

My eyes rolled down over a long section about lizards. Some kind of tree 
lizards that Aunt Benna was studying. 

Then she described a cave she had found, cut into the rocky shore at the 
other side of the island. The cave, she wrote, had been lived in by the Oloyans, 
maybe two hundred years ago. 

I skimmed over long lists of things Aunt Benna had found in the cave. Her 
handwriting got very jagged, very crooked here. I guess she was really excited 
by her discovery. 

I turned several more pages. And started a section marked “Summer”. 

As I read the words, my mouth dropped open. My eyes nearly bulged out of 
my head. 

The words started to blur. I lowered the flashlight to the page so that I could 
see better. I blinked several times. 

I didn’t want to believe what I was reading. 

I didn’t want to believe what Aunt Benna had written. 

But the words were there. 

And they were terrifying. 



12 


The flashlight shook in my hand. I steadied it between both hands. Then I leaned 
forward and read Aunt Benna’s words, moving my lips silently as I read. 

“Dr. Hawlings and his sister Carolyn will stop at nothing to destroy the 
jungle and all the creatures who live here,” my aunt wrote in her bold, clear 
handwriting. “They do not care who they hurt or who they kill. They care only 
about getting what they want.” 

I swallowed hard. Steadied the circle of light over the notebook page. And 
kept reading. 

“Finding the secret of Jungle Magic in that cave was my most amazing 
discovery,” Aunt Benna wrote. “But I know the secret is not safe as long as Dr. 
Hawlings and Carolyn are around. They will use the Jungle Magic to do evil. 
And so I have given the Jungle Magic and its secret to my nephew Mark. He 
lives four thousand miles away in the United States. And so I hope the secret 
will be safe. 

“If the Jungle Magic ever falls into Hawlings’ hands,” my aunt continued, 
“the jungle will be destroyed. The island of Baladora will be destroyed. And so 
will I.” 

I gasped and turned the page. I struggled to keep the flashlight steady so 
that I could read more. 

“If Hawlings gets the Jungle Magic,” Aunt Benna wrote, “he will shrink my 
head until there is no trace of me. I must keep my nephew four thousand miles 
away from Hawlings. Because he will shrink Mark’s head, too, to get at the 
magic I have hidden there.” 

“Ohhhh.” A terrified moan escaped my throat. 

Shrink my head? 

Dr. Hawlings will shrink my head? 

I read the last words again: “I must keep my nephew four thousand miles 
away...” 

But I’m not four thousand miles away! I told myself. 

I’m here. I’m right here! 

Carolyn brought me here to steal the magic. To take it from me. She and Dr. 
Hawlings planned to shrink my head! 



I slammed the notebook shut. I took a deep breath and held it. But it didn’t 
help to slow the thudding of my heart. 

What have they done to Aunt Benna? I wondered. 

Did they try to get the secret from her? Did they do something terrible to 

her? 

Or did she run away from them? Did she escape? 

Did they bring me here to track her down so that they could capture her 
again? Then when I find her, do they plan to shrink both of our heads? 

“Nooooo,” I murmured, trying to stop my body from trembling. 

I thought they were my friends. My friends... 

But I’m not safe here, I told myself. I’m in terrible danger. 

I have to get away. Get dressed and get away from these evil people. As fast 
as I can. 

I dropped off the stool, turned, and started toward the door. 

Got to get out. Got to get away. 

The words repeated in rhythm with my pounding heart. 

I reached for the screen door. Started to push it open. 

But someone was standing there. Standing there in the deep shadows, 
blocking my escape. 

“Where do you think you’re going?” a voice called. 



13 


Kareen pulled open the door and stepped into the room. She wore an oversized 
T-shirt, down past her knees. Her blond hair was wild about her face. “What are 
you doing in here?” she demanded. 

“Let me go!” I cried. I raised the flashlight like a weapon. 

She took a step back. “Hey—!” She let out a startled cry. 

“I have to go,” I insisted, pushing past her. 

“Mark—what’s your problem?” she asked. “Why are you acting so crazy?” 

I stopped with the screen door half open, my shoulder against the frame. “I 
saw Aunt Benna’s notebook,” I told Kareen, shining the flashlight beam on her 
face. “I read what Aunt Benna said. About your father. And about Carolyn.” 

“Oh.” Kareen let out a long sigh. 

I kept the harsh light on her face. She squinted at me, then covered her eyes 
with her arm. 

“Where is my aunt?” I demanded sharply. “Do you know where she is?” 

“No,” Kareen replied. “Lower the light—okay? You don’t have to blind 

me.” 

I lowered the light. “Did your father do something terrible to my aunt? Did 
he hurt Aunt Benna?” 

“No!” Kareen screamed. “How can you ask that, Mark? My father isn’t 
evil. He and Benna just don’t agree about some things.” 

“You’re sure you don’t know where my aunt is? Is she hiding somewhere? 
Hiding from your father? Is she still on the island?” The questions leaped out of 
me. I wanted to grab Kareen and force her to tell me the truth. 

She tugged at both sides of her blond hair. “We don’t know where your aunt 
is. We really don’t,” she insisted. “That’s why Carolyn brought you here. To help 
us find her. We’re worried about Benna. We really are.” 

“That’s a lie!” I cried angrily. “I read my aunt’s notebook. Your father isn’t 
worried about my aunt.” 

“Well, I am,” Kareen insisted. “I like your aunt a lot. She’s been really nice 
to me. I don’t care about Daddy and Aunt Carolyn and their arguments with 
Benna. I’m worried about Benna. I really am.” 

I raised the flashlight again. I wanted to check out Kareen’s expression. I 



wanted to see if she was telling the truth. 

Her blue eyes flashed in the light. I saw a teardrop running down one cheek. 
I decided she was being honest with me. 

“Well, if you’re worried about my aunt, help me get away from here,” I 
said, lowering the light again. 

“Okay, I’ll help you,” she answered quickly, without having to think about 
it. 

I pushed open the screen door and crept outside. Kareen followed. She 
closed the door silently behind her. “Turn off the light,” she whispered. “We 
don’t want Daddy or Carolyn to see.” 

I clicked off the light and started over the wet grass toward my cabin, 
walking fast. Kareen hurried to keep at my side. 

“I’ll get dressed,” I whispered. “Then I’m going to try to find Aunt Benna.” 
A shudder swept down my back. “But how? Where should I go?” 

“Use the Jungle Magic,” Kareen whispered. “It’ll tell you where Benna is. 
It’ll tell you where to go.” 

“But I can’t!” I cried shrilly. “Up until today, I didn’t even know I had any 
kind of magic. I’m still not sure I believe it.” 

“Use the magic—” Kareen whispered, narrowing her eyes at me. 

“But I don’t know how!” I insisted. 

“The magic will guide you,” she replied. “I’m sure it will. I’m sure it will 
show you the way.” 

I wasn’t so sure. But I didn’t say anything. 

My mind was spinning. Aunt Benna’s written words kept weaving through 
my thoughts. 

I should be four thousand miles away, I told myself. I’m only safe if I’m 
four thousand miles away. 

Now, how will I escape from Carolyn and Dr. Hawlings? 

How? 

We were striding down the row of cabins. The air still felt hot and wet, 
heavy. The sky had darkened to black. There were still no stars, no moon. 

I’ll get dressed, and I’ll get away, I told myself. 

Get dressed. Get away. 

“Hurry, Mark,” Kareen whispered at my side. “Hurry. And don’t make a 
sound. Daddy is a very light sleeper.” 

My cabin came into view at the end of the row. 



But before I could reach it, I heard the soft thud of footsteps on the grass. 
Rapid footsteps. 

Kareen gasped and grabbed my arm. “Oh, no! It’s him!” 



14 


I think I jumped a foot in the air. 

Should I run? Try to hide? 

If this was a game of Jungle King, I’d know the right moves. I’d know how 
to escape from the Evil Scientist. I’d grab a vine and swing myself to safety. And 
pick up a few extra lives along the way. 

But, of course, this was no game. 

I pressed my back against the cabin wall and froze there, waiting to be 
caught. 

The rapid footsteps thudded closer. 

I held my breath, but my heart still pounded. 

I held my breath—and watched a funny-looking animal hop into view. 

Not Dr. Hawlings. But a weird-looking rabbit, with huge ears and big paws 
that thudded the ground as it hopped. 

I watched the weird creature dart away, disappearing between two of the 
low cabins. “Is it a rabbit?” 

Kareen raised a finger to her lips, reminding me to be quiet. “It’s a new 
species of giant rabbit your aunt discovered.” 

“Very educational,” I murmured. “But do I need a nature lesson now?” 

Kareen pushed me by the shoulders toward my cabin door. “Hurry, Mark. If 
my dad wakes up...” She didn’t finish her sentence. 

If he wakes up, he’ll shrink my head. I finished the sentence for her. 

My legs suddenly felt as if they were about to collapse. But I forced myself 
into my dark cabin. 

My hands were shaking so hard, I could barely get dressed. I pulled on the 
jeans I’d been wearing that day. And a long-sleeved T-shirt. 

“Hurry!” Kareen whispered from the door. “Hurry up!” 

I wished she’d stop saying that. I jumped every time. 

“Hurry, Mark!” 

I pulled open my suitcase and grabbed the flashlight I’d brought. Then I 
started to the door. 

“Hurry, Mark. Get going!” Kareen whispered. 



I stopped halfway across the cabin. Grabbed the shrunken head. Stuffed it 
into my T-shirt pocket. Then I pushed open the door and stepped back outside. 

Where should I go? What should I do? How could I find my aunt? 

A million questions rushed through my mind. My throat felt so dry, it 
ached. I thought about getting one of those cold Cokes in the lab. But I knew I 
couldn’t risk waking Kareen’s father. 

We started walking across the wet grass. “Don’t turn on the flashlight until 
you’re hidden by the trees,” Kareen instructed. 

“But where do I go? How do I find Aunt Benna?” I whispered, swallowing 

hard. 

“There’s only one path,” Kareen told me, pointing to the tangled dark trees 
at the edge of the clearing. “It will lead you part of the way.” 

“Then what?” I demanded, my voice shaking. 

Her eyes locked on mine. “The Jungle Magic will take you the rest of the 
way.” 

Yeah. Sure. 

And next week, I’ll flap my arms and fly to the moon. 

I had the sudden urge to turn around. Go back to my little shack. Go to bed 
and pretend I never read my aunt’s notebook. 

But then Kareen and I passed the big pile of shrunken heads. The dark eyes 
all seemed to stare up at me. Such sad, sad eyes. 

I don’t want my head to end up on that pile, I decided. No way! 

I started to jog toward the trees. 

Kareen hurried to keep up with me. “Good luck, Mark!” she called softly. 

“Th-thanks,” I stammered. Then I stopped and turned to her. “What are you 
going to tell your dad in the morning?” 

Kareen shrugged. The wind blew her blond hair around her face. “I won’t 
tell him anything,” she said. “I’ll tell him I slept all night. That I didn’t hear a 
thing.” 

“Thanks,” I repeated. Then gripping the flashlight tightly, I turned and ran 
into the trees. 

The path was soft and sandy. The sand felt wet through my sandals. Vines 
and big, flat leaves reached over the path. They slapped against my jeans legs as 
I trotted along. 

Tall weeds grew over the path. After a minute or so, it became too dark to 
see. Had I wandered off the path? 



I clicked on the flashlight and shone the light along the ground. 

The light swept over the tall weeds, strange ferns, tendrils of vines. The 
black-trunked trees appeared to lean toward me, reaching for me with their 
smooth limbs. 

No path. 

Here I am, I thought, squinting into the pale beam of light. Here I am, all 
alone in the jungle. 

Now what do I do? 



15 


“Ow!” 

I swatted a mosquito on my neck. Too late. I could feel the throb of its bite. 

Rubbing my neck, I took a few steps through the tall weeds. I kept the 
circle of light in front of my feet. 

Aa-OO-tah. Aa-OO-tah. 

A shrill cry—very close by—made me stop. 

Night in the jungle belongs to the creatures, I remembered with a shiver. 

Aa-OO-tah. Aa-OO-tah. 

What was it? 

Not a giant rabbit. It sounded really BIG. 

I spun the light in a circle, keeping it low over the grass and vines. The 
smooth tree trunks shone purple in the pale light. 

I didn’t see any animals. 

I lowered the light. 

My whole body was shaking. Despite the damp heat of the night, I couldn’t 
stop shivering. 

A wind made the leaves all flap, the trees bend and whisper. 

The jungle was alive, I realized. 

Insects chittered all around. Fat leaves scraped and cracked. I heard the soft 
crackle of animal footsteps, running over the ground.. 

Aa-OO-tah. Aa-OO-tah. 

What was that? 

Without realizing it, I had pressed myself against a low tree. I took a deep 
breath and held it, listening hard. 

Was the animal moving closer? 

Thick clumps of leaves hung down from the low branches, forming a kind 
of cave. I’m protected under here, I thought, gazing all around. I suddenly felt a 
little safer, hidden under the thick leaves, under the low branches. 

Through my leafy roof, I glimpsed a sliver of white moonlight. It made the 
leaves gleam like silver. 

I clicked off the flashlight and lowered myself to a sitting position on the 



ground. Leaning back against the smooth trunk, I gazed up at the moon, taking 
slow, steady breaths. 

As soon as I felt calmer, I realized how tired I was. The sleepiness swept 
over me like a heavy blanket. I yawned loudly. My eyelids seemed to weigh a 
hundred pounds. 

I tried to stay alert. But I couldn’t fight the drowsiness. 

With the chittering of insects for a lullaby, I leaned my head against the tree 
trunk and drifted into a deep sleep. 

I dreamed about shrunken heads. 

Dozens of shrunken heads, the leathery skin purple and green, the black 
eyes glowing like dark coals, the dry black lips pulled back in angry snarls. 

The heads floated and danced through my dream. They darted back and 
forth like tennis balls. They flew into me, bounced against my chest, bounced off 
my head. But I didn’t feel them. 

They bounced and floated. And then the dry lips opened, and they all began 
to sing. “Hurry, Mark. Hurry. ” That was their song. 

The words came out hoarse and raspy. The sound of air rattling through 
dead leaves. 

“Hurry, Mark. Hurry. ” An ugly, frightening chant. 

“Hurry, Mark. Hurry. ” 

The black lips twisted into a sneer as they sang. The coal eyes glowed. The 
heads—dozens of shriveled, wrinkled heads—bobbed and bounced. 

I woke up with the whispered words in my ear. 

I blinked. Gray morning light shimmered down through the tree leaves. My 
back ached. My clothes felt damp. 

It took me a few seconds to remember where I was. 

The frightening dream stayed in my mind. My hand slid up to my T-shirt 
pocket. I felt the shrunken head tucked tightly inside. 

My face itched. 

I reached up to scratch my cheek—and pulled something off it. A leaf? 

No. 

I squinted at the insect in my hand. A large red ant. Nearly the size of a 
grasshopper. 

“Yuck!” I tossed it away. 

My skin tingled. My back itched. Something moved up and down my legs. 

I jerked myself up straight. Alert. Wide awake now. 



Itching like crazy. My whole body tingling. 

I stared down at myself. Stared down at my jeans and T-shirt. 
And started to scream. 



16 


I jumped to my feet. I thrashed my arms in the air. I kicked my legs. 

My body was covered with giant red ants. 

Hundreds and hundreds of them. Crawling over my arms, my legs, my 
chest. 

Their prickly legs scratched over my throat and the back of my neck. I 
pulled a fat one off my forehead. Then another off my cheek. 

I reached up and felt them crawling in my hair. 

“Ohhhh.” A low moan escaped my throat as I slapped at my hair. Swept my 
hands through it. Watched the big red ants fall to the ground. 

I felt them crawl over the backs of my hands. Hot and prickly. So big. And 
so many of them. 

I dropped to my knees, slapping at my chest, pulling the insects off my 
neck. I began rolling frantically in the tall grass, dripping wet from the heavy 
morning dew. 

I rolled and slapped at myself. Rolled over and over, trying to flatten the 
insects, trying to kick them off me. I grabbed another handful out of my hair and 
heaved them into a leafy bush. 

I struggled back to my feet, twisting and squirming. Pulling at the big red 

ants. 

But there were too many of them. My skin itched and tingled. Their tiny 
feet prickled my arms, my legs, my chest. 

It itched so badly, I felt I couldn’t breathe. 

I’m suffocating, I realized. The ants—they’re going to smother me! 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I screamed, squirming and slapping. “Kah-lee-ah!” 

To my surprise, ants started to drop off my body. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I screamed again. 

Ants showered down to the ground. They leaped out of my hair, dropped 
off my forehead, off the front of my shirt. 

I stared in amazement as they fell to the ground. Then they scurried away, 
climbing over each other, stampeding over and under the tall grass. 

I rubbed my neck. I scratched my legs. My whole body still tingled. I still 
itched all over. 



But the big ants were gone. They had all jumped off when I shouted my 
special word. 

Special word. 

I glanced down over my shirt, trying to rub away the horrible tingling. 
Inside my pocket, the shrunken head’s eyes glowed. A bright yellow glow. 

“Whoa!” I grabbed the head and tugged it from the pocket. I held it up in 
front of me. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I shouted. 

The eyes glowed brighter. 

My special word. 

Where did the word come from? I didn’t know. I thought I made it up. 

But I suddenly knew that the word was the secret behind the Jungle Magic. 

The word—and the shrunken head. 

Somehow the word brought the Jungle Magic to life. When I shouted it out, 
the ants jumped off me and hurried away. 

I gazed at the glowing little head with new excitement. My heart pounded 
in my chest. I concentrated on the head, thinking hard. 

I did have Jungle Magic. 

Dr. Hawlings and Carolyn were right. 

I had Jungle Magic and didn’t know it. And the word Kah-lee-ah was the 
key that unlocked it. 

It had helped me get rid of the gross red ants. Would it help lead me to Aunt 
Benna? 

“Yes!” I cried out loud. “Yes!” 

I knew that it would. I knew I could find her now. 

I was no longer afraid of the jungle and its creatures. No longer afraid of 
anything that might await me in this hot, tangled jungle. 

I had Jungle Magic. 

I had it—and I knew how to use it. 

And now, I had to find Aunt Benna. 

A red morning sun rose over the treetops. The air was already hot and 
damp. Birds chirped and twittered on the tree limbs above me. 

Holding the flashlight in one hand and the shrunken head in the other, I 
started to run toward the sun. 

I’m going east, I told myself. The sun comes up in the east. 

Was it the right direction to find my aunt? 



Yes. I was sure it was right. The Jungle Magic will lead me, I decided. I just 
need to follow it, and it will take me to Aunt Benna, wherever she is hiding on 
this island. 

I ran over fat, leafy vines and low shrubs. I ducked under smooth white tree 
branches. Broad leaves of huge green ferns slapped at me as I ran through them. 

The sun beamed down on my face as I made my way through a wide, sandy 
clearing. Sweat dripped down my forehead. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as my feet slipped on the soft sand. 

My feet slid. I lost my balance. My hands shot out. The flashlight and the 
shrunken head flew onto the sand. 

“Hey—!” 

I started to sink. 

Sand rolled up over my ankles. Up my legs. 

I kicked. I waved my arms wildly. 

I pulled up my knees. Tried to step out of the deep sand. But I was sinking, 
sinking faster now. Sand up to my waist. The more I struggled, the faster I sank. 
Deeper, deeper. Down into the pit of sand. 



17 


I couldn’t move my legs. I had sunk too deep in the hot, wet sand. 

The sand crept up over my waist. 

There’s no bottom, I thought. I’m going to keep sinking. I’m going to sink 
down, down until it covers my head. Until I disappear forever. 

My friends Eric and Joel once told me that there is no such thing as 
quicksand. I wished they were here right now. I could show them how wrong 
they were! 

I opened my mouth to shout for help. But I was too panicked to make a 
sound. Only a tiny squeak came out. 

What good is shouting? I asked myself. 

There’s no one around for miles. No one who will hear me. 

The sand felt thick and heavy as I slid down, down deeper into it. I 
stretched both hands up over my head, my hands grasping, as if trying to grab 
onto something. 

I tried moving my legs. Tried to pump them, like treading water or pedaling 
a bike. 

But the sand was too heavy. I was in too deep. 

My chest heaved with terror now. I gasped in breath after breath. 

I opened my mouth once again to call for help. 

And had an idea. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I screamed, my voice high and frightened. 

“Kah-lee-ah! Kah-lee-ah!” 

Nothing happened. 



18 


“Kah-lee-ah! Kah-lee-ah!” 

I screeched the word at the top of my lungs. 

But I continued to sink deeper, deeper into the wet, marshy pit of sand. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” 

No. Nothing. 

I waved my arms over my head. And stared up at the pale blue sky. At the 
trees at the edge of the clearing. 

Nothing but trees as far as I could see. 

No one around. No one to help me. 

“Oh!” I suddenly realized why the magic word wasn’t working. I didn’t 
have the shrunken head. The head had flown from my hand when I fell into the 
sandpit. 

Where was it? Where? 

Did it sink into the sand? 

My eyes frantically searched the yellow-brown surface. The wet sand 
bubbled all around me, making a pock-pock-pock sound. Like a thick soup. 

I sank deeper. 

And saw the shrunken head. 

It lay on the surface. Its black eyes stared up at the sky. Its hair was tangled 
beneath it, spread over the sand. 

With an excited cry, I stretched out both hands and tried to grab it. 

No. Too far away. Just out of my reach. Inches out of my reach. 

“Unnnnh.” I uttered a low grunt as I struggled to grab it. Stretched out my 
hands. Stretched. Stretched. 

I leaned forward into the sand. Leaned and stretched. 

And grabbed for it. Grabbed for it, curling my fingers. Groaning and 
gmnting. Reaching. Reaching across the wet sand. 

But no. 

I couldn’t get it. The head lay a foot from my fingertips. 

A foot that seemed a mile. 

No way. No way. 



My fingers grabbed only air. I couldn’t reach it. 

I knew I was doomed. 

My hands dropped heavily onto the wet sand. I let out a defeated sigh. 



19 


My hands made a loud slapping sound as they hit the sand. 

And the head bounced. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled cry. My heart started to pound. 

I slapped the surface of the wet sand again with both palms. 

The head bounced. Closer. 

Another hard slap. Another bounce. 

The head lay only a few inches away now. 

I grabbed it, held it tightly—and joyfully shouted out the word. “Kah-lee- 
ah! Kah-lee-ah! ” 

At first, nothing happened. 

My breath caught in my throat. I froze. 

“Kah-lee-ah! Kah-lee-ah! ” 

I expected to fly up. To be lifted out of the sandpit. To float magically over 
to hard ground. 

“Jungle Magic—please work! Please work!” I cried out loud. 

But I didn’t move. I sank a little deeper. The sand crept up over my chest. 

I stared at the shrunken head in my hand. The black eyes appeared to stare 
back at me. 

“Help me!” I cried. “Why aren’t you helping me?” 

And then I saw the vines. 

Yellow-green vines creeping over the sandpit. Moving like long snakes. A 
dozen twisting, crawling vines, slithering toward me from all directions. 

My heart pounded as I watched the vines slither closer. Closer. Until I 
reached out with my free hand and grabbed for the end of one. 

But the vine swept past my hand, moving quickly with surprising force. It 
wrapped itself around my chest—and started to tighten. 

“No!” I uttered a cry of protest. Was it going to strangle me? 

Another vine dipped into the sand. I felt it curl around my waist. 

“No—stop!” I wailed. 

The vines tightened around me. And then they began to pull. 

The wet sand made a thwock sound as I started to move through it. 



Holding the shrunken head in the air, I let the vines tug me through the 
sand. They pulled hard and fast. The sand flew at my sides. 

A few seconds later, the vines tugged me, on my knees, onto hard ground. I 
let out a happy cry. The vines instantly let go. I watched them pull back, curling 
quickly into the tall weeds. 

I hunched there, struggling to catch my breath, watching until the vines 
slithered out of sight. Then I pulled myself to my feet. 

My legs felt shaky and weak. My whole body trembled from my close call. 

But I didn’t care. I felt like jumping up and clapping and shouting for joy. 
The Jungle Magic had worked. The Jungle Magic had saved me once again! 

The wet sand clung to my jeans, my shirt, my arms—even my hair! I shook 
myself furiously. I tucked the shrunken head into my shirt pocket. Then I began 
slapping at my clothes, brushing off chunks of sand. 

Now what? I asked myself, glancing quickly around. The sun had risen high 
in the sky. The trees and ferns and tall grass gleamed, a shimmering blur of green 
and gold. The air had grown hot. My shirt clung wetly to my back. 

Now what? 

How do I find Aunt Benna? 

I pulled the shrunken head from my pocket and held it in front of me. “Lead 
the way,” I ordered it. 

Nothing happened. 

I brushed chunks of sand off its leathery skin. I pried sand from between its 
thin black lips. 

I turned toward the sun and took a few steps. Was I still walking east? 

To my surprise, the dark eyes on the shrunken head suddenly started to 
glow. 

What did that mean? Did that mean I was getting close to Aunt Benna? Did 
it mean I was walking in the right direction? 

I decided to test it. 

I spun around and started walking back toward the sandpit. 

The eyes on the head instantly dimmed back to black. 

I turned and started walking north. 

The eyes remained dark. 

I turned back in the direction of the sun. 

Yes! The eyes began, to glow again. “Kah-lee-ah!” I cried happily. The 
head was guiding me to my aunt. 



Animals howled and insects chittered loudly as I made my way through the 
trees and tall weeds. It all sounded like music to me now. 

“Aunt Benna, here I come!” I cheered. 

I found myself walking deeper into the jungle. I had to keep ducking my 
head to avoid low branches and thick vines that stretched from tree to tree. 

I heard weird bird calls overhead. As if the birds were talking to each other. 
As I ducked under a low limb, the whole tree seemed to shake. And a thousand 
black birds leaped off the branches, cawing angrily, so many of them they 
darkened the sky as they flapped away. 

I suddenly came to a small clearing that forked into two branches, one to 
the left, one to the right. Which way should I go? 

I held the shrunken head in front of me, watching it carefully. I started to 
the left. 

The eyes grew dark. Wrong way. 

I turned and started to the right, watching the eyes begin to glow again. 

Was Aunt Benna hiding somewhere in these trees? Was I getting close? 

The trees ended suddenly again, and I found myself in a grassy clearing. I 
squinted in the bright sunlight, my eyes sweeping over the shimmering green 
grass. 

Alow growl made me spin back toward the trees. 

“Oh—!” I let out a sharp cry as I saw the tiger. My legs nearly crumpled 
under me. 

The tiger raised its head in another growl. An angry growl. It pulled back its 
lips, baring enormous teeth. It arched its back, its yellow-brown fur standing 
straight on end. 

Then with a furious hiss, it came charging at me. 



20 


The tiger’s huge paws pounded over the grass. Its yellow eyes burned into mine. 

I glimpsed two little cubs behind it, nestled in the shade of a tree. 

“I’m not going to hurt your cubs!” I wanted to cry. 

But of course there was no time. 

The tiger let out a furious roar as it charged. 

The roar drowned out my cry as I raised the shrunken head in front of me in 
a trembling hand. “Kah-lee-ah!” 

My voice came out in a whimper. 

I nearly dropped the head. My knees collapsed. I sank to the grass. 

The tiger closed in for the kill. Its heavy paws thudded the dirt as it leaped 
toward me. 

The ground felt as if it were shaking. 

The ground was shaking! 

To my horror, I heard a deafening ripping sound. Like Velcro being torn 
apart. Only a thousand times louder. 

I let out a cry as the ground trembled. Shook. 

Split apart. 

The grass tore away. The dirt split in two. 

The earth opened up. 

And I started to fall. Down into an endless hole in the earth. 

Down, down. 

Screaming all the way. 



21 


“Owww!” 

I landed hard on my elbows and knees. Pain shot through my body. I 
actually saw stars! Hundreds of them, all red and yellow. 

Trying to blink them away, I raised myself to my knees. 

The shrunken head had bounced out of my hand. I spotted it a few feet 
away in the dirt. I dove for it, grabbed it up in my shaking hand, and held onto it 
tightly. 

I felt dizzy and shaken. I closed my eyes and waited for the dizziness to 

pass. 

When I opened them, I realized I had fallen into a deep pit. Walls of dirt 
surrounded me. The blue sky was a small square high above my head. 

Jungle Magic had saved me once again. The magic had caused the ground 
to split open so that I could fall to safety. So that I could escape the tiger. 

I heard a low growl above me. 

With a frightened cry, I gazed up to the top of the pit. And saw two yellow 
eyes glaring down at me. 

The tiger snarled, baring its teeth. 

I didn’t escape, I realized. 

I’m trapped down here. If the tiger leaps down into the pit, it will finish me 
off in seconds. 

I have nowhere to run. No way to escape. 

I fell back against the wall of dirt. I stared up at the snarling tiger. It eyed 
me hungrily, roaring again. Preparing to leap to the attack. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I cried. “Kah-lee-ah!” 

The tiger roared in reply. 

I pressed my back against the dirt. Tried to stop my whole body from 
shaking. 

Please don’t come down here! I begged silently. Please don’t jump down 
into this pit! 

The yellow eyes glowed in the sunlight. The silvery whiskers twitched as 
the tiger snarled its toothy warning. 

And then I saw a little yellow-and-black cat face appear at the top of the pit. 



One of the tiger cubs. It peered down at me over the edge of the grass. 

The other cub popped up beside it. It leaned over the pit edge. Leaned so 
far, it nearly fell in! 

The tiger moved quickly. She lowered her head—and bumped the cub away 
from the edge. Then she picked up the other cub in her teeth and carried it away. 

I swallowed hard. I didn’t move. My back pressed against the cool dirt, I 
stared up to the top. Watched the square of blue sky. And waited for the tiger to 
return. 

Waited. 

And waited. Holding my breath. 

Silence now. So silent I could hear the wind rushing through the tall grass. 

A chunk of dirt broke off the pit wall and toppled to the bottom, crumbling 
as it landed. I kept my gaze on the opening, listening hard, watching for the tiger. 

After what seemed like hours, I let out a long whoosh of air. I stepped away 
from the dirt wall and stretched. 

The tiger isn’t coming back, I decided. 

She only wanted to protect her cubs from me. By now, she has taken them 
away. Far away. 

I stretched again. My heart was still thumping hard in my chest. But I was 
starting to feel a little more normal. 

How do I get out of here? I wondered, gazing at the steep dirt walls. Can I 
climb out? 

I tucked the shrunken head back into my pocket. Then I dug both hands into 
the soft, cool dirt and tried to climb. 

I pulled myself up about a foot or two. But then the dirt broke off under my 
sneakers. It crumbled and fell, sending me sliding back to the bottom. 

No. No way. I can’t climb out, I realized. 

I reached for the shrunken head. I’ll have to use Jungle Magic, I decided. 

The magic got me down here. Now I can use it to get me out. 

I raised the head in front of me. But before I could call out the word, 
darkness fell over the pit. 

Is the sun setting already? I wondered. 

I gazed up to the top. 

No. It wasn’t evening. The square of sky that I could see was still bright 

blue. 

Someone stood up there, blocking the sunlight. 



The tiger? 

A human? 

I squinted hard, struggling to see. 
“Who-who’s there?” I called. 



22 


A face leaned over the edge, peering down at me. Squinting into the bright 
sunlight, I saw straight blond hair. Pale blue eyes. 

“Kareen!” I shouted. 

She cupped her hands around her mouth. “Mark—what are you doing down 
there?” 

“What are you doing here?” I cried. 

Her hair fell over her face. She brushed it back. “I—I followed you. I was 
so worried about you!” 

“Get me out of here!” I shouted up to her. I tried climbing again. But the 
dirt slid out from under my sneakers. 

“How?” she called down. 

“I guess you didn’t bring a ladder with you?” I shouted. 

“Uh—no, Mark,” Kareen sniped. 

I guess she doesn’t have much of a sense of humor. 

“Maybe I could drop a rope down or something,” she suggested. 

“Rope isn’t too easy to find in the middle of the jungle,” I reminded her. 

She shook her head. Her face tightened into a fretful frown. 

“How about a vine?” I called up. “See if you can find a long vine. I could 
climb up a vine.” 

Her expression brightened. She disappeared. I waited impatiently. And 
waited. “Please hurry,” I murmured out loud, my eyes on the square opening at 
the top. “Please hurry.” 

I heard the squawk of birds somewhere up above. Fluttering wings. More 
squawking and cawing. 

Are the birds frightened? I wondered. If they are, why? Has the tiger 
returned? 

I pressed against the dirt wall, watching the sky. 

Finally, Kareen reappeared. “I found a vine. But I don’t know if it’s long 
enough.” 

“Lower it over the side,” I instructed her. “Quick. I have to get out of here. I 
feel like a trapped animal.” 



“It was hard to pull it out of the ground,” she complained. She began 
lowering the vine. It looked like a long snake twining down the side of the pit. 

It stopped a few feet above my head. “I’m going to jump up and grab it,” I 
told Kareen. “Then I’ll try to climb while you pull. Wrap the other end around 
your waist, okay? Just don’t let go of it!” 

“Just don’t pull me down with you!” she called back. 

I waited for her to tie the vine around herself. Then I bent my knees and 
jumped. I missed the end of the vine by a few inches. 

This was one of those times I wished I were tall and thin instead of short 
and chubby. 

But I grabbed the vine on my third try. I wrapped both hands around it. 

Then I pressed the soles of my sneakers against the dirt wall. And started to 
pull myself up, like a mountain climber. 

The dirt kept crumbling out from under me. And the vine grew more and 
more slippery as my hands started to sweat. But with Kareen cheering me on, I 
scrambled to the top. 

I lay in the tall grass for a moment, breathing in the sweet fragrance. It felt 
so wonderful to be out of that deep hole. 

“How did you fall down there anyway?” Kareen asked, tossing her end of 
the vine to the ground. 

“It was easy,” I replied. I climbed to my feet and tried to brush the dirt off 
my clothes. 

“But didn’t you see that big pit there?” she demanded. 

“Not exactly,” I told her. I wanted to change the subject. “How did you find 
me? What are you doing here, Kareen?” 

Her blue eyes locked on mine. “I was worried about you. I—I didn’t think 
you should be all alone in the jungle. So I sneaked away. Daddy was working in 
his lab. I crept away from the headquarters, and I followed you.” 

I brushed clumps of dirt from my hair. “Well, I’m glad,” I confessed. “But 
aren’t you going to be in major trouble with your dad and Carolyn?” 

She bit her lower lip. “Probably. But it will be worth the risk—if we find 
your aunt.” 

Aunt Benna! 

Trying to survive the quicksand and the tiger, I had nearly forgotten about 
her. 

A shadow rolled over us. The air suddenly grew cooler. I glanced up at the 



sky. The sun was lowering itself behind the trees. 

“It’s almost night,” I said quietly. “I—I hope we can find Aunt Benna 
before it gets really dark.” 

I had already spent one night out in the jungle. I didn’t want to spend 
another. 

“Do you know which way to go?” Kareen asked. “Are you just wandering 
around, hoping to get lucky?” 

“No way,” I replied. I pulled the head from my shirt pocket. “This little guy 
is showing me the way.” 

“Excuse me?” Kareen’s face filled with surprise. 

“The eyes light up when I go the right direction,” I explained. “At least, I 
think that’s why they light up.” 

Kareen gasped. “You mean, you really do have Jungle Magic?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I have it. It’s so weird. There’s a word I’ve always said. 
‘Kah-lee-ah.’ Just a crazy word. I thought I made it up when I was a little kid. 
But it’s the word that makes the Jungle Magic work.” 

“Wow!” Kareen exclaimed. A grin spread across her face. “That’s awesome, 
Mark! That means we really will find Benna. That’s so great!” 

The shadows over the ground grew longer as the sun dipped lower. I 
shivered as a cold gust of wind blew over us. 

My stomach growled. I couldn’t remember when my last meal was. I tried 
not to think about food. I had to keep moving. 

“Let’s get going,” I said softly. I raised the head in front of me. Then I 
turned slowly—one direction, then the next—until the eyes began to glow. “This 
way!” I cried, pointing across the clearing to the trees. 

We started walking side by side. The tall grass swished, brushing our legs 
as we stepped through it. Insects chittered in the trees. 

Kareen stared in amazement at the glowing eyes on the leathery head. “Do 
you really think it’s guiding us to Benna?” 

“We’ll soon find out,” I said solemnly. 

We stepped into the shifting darkness beneath the tangled trees. 



23 


As the sunlight faded, the jungle sounds changed. The birds in the trees stopped 
chirping. The shrill sawing of the insects grew louder. We heard strange animal 
howls and cries in the distance, the sound bouncing between the smooth trees. 

I hoped the howls and cries stayed in the distance! 

Dark creatures slithered through the tall weeds and low, fat ferns and 
shrubs. The shrubs appeared to tremble as night creatures scurried through them. 

I heard the warning hiss of snakes. The eerie hoot of an owl. The soft flap 
of bat wings. 

I moved closer to Kareen as we walked. The sounds were all so much more 
realistic than in my Jungle King game! 

I’ll probably never play that game again after this, I thought. It will seem 
way too tame. 

We pushed our way through a clump of tall, stiff reeds. The eyes on the 
shrunken head dimmed to black. 

“Wrong way!” I whispered. 

Kareen and I turned until the eyes glowed again. Then we moved forward, 
making our own path. We stepped over thick vines and pushed through tangles 
of weeds and low shrubs. 

“Ow!” Kareen slapped at her forehead. “Stupid mosquito.” 

The shrill scratching of insects grew louder, drowning out the crunch of our 
sneakers over the leaves and vines on the jungle floor. 

As the darkness deepened, the eyes on the shrunken head appeared to glow 
brighter. Like twin flashlights, guiding us through the trees. 

“I’m getting kind of tired,” Kareen complained. She ducked her head to 
avoid a low branch. “I hope your aunt is nearby. I don’t know how much longer I 
can walk.” 

“I hope she’s nearby, too,” I murmured in reply. I’d had a pretty exhausting 
day myself! 

As we walked, I couldn’t help thinking about Aunt Benna and her 
notebook. I didn’t want to make Kareen feel bad. But I had to say something. 

“My aunt didn’t write very nice things about your dad and Carolyn in her 
notebook,” I said, keeping my eyes at my feet. “I was kind of surprised.” 



Kareen was silent for a long moment. “That’s so horrible,” she said finally. 
“They worked together for so long. I knew they had an argument.” 

“About what?” I asked. 

Kareen let out a sigh. “Daddy has some plans to develop the jungle. He 
thinks there are valuable minerals here. Benna thinks the jungle should be 
preserved.” 

She sighed again. “I think that’s what they fought about. I’m not sure.” 

“The notebook made it seem like your dad is evil or something,” I 
muttered, avoiding her eyes. 

“Evil? Daddy?” she cried. “No. No way. He’s very strong-minded. That’s 
all. He isn’t evil. And I know that Daddy still cares about Benna. He still 
respects her and cares about her. He’s really worried about her. He—” 

“Whoa.” I grabbed Kareen’s arm, interrupting her. “Look.” I pointed 
through the trees. 

I spotted a clearing up ahead. And against the gray sky, I could see the 
black outline of a small shack. 

Kareen gasped. “That little house. Do you think—?” 

We both crept to the edge of the clearing. Something scurried quickly over 
my sneakers, but I ignored it. 

My eyes were on the tiny, dark shack. 

As we moved closer, I could see that it was built of tree limbs and sticks. 
Clumps of fat leaves made the roof. It had no window. But there were narrow 
openings between the branches. 

“Hey—!” I whispered. I saw a pale light flicker in one of the openings. 

A flashlight? A candle? 

“Someone is in there,” Kareen whispered, narrowing her eyes at the shack. 

I heard a cough. 

A woman’s cough? Aunt Benna’s cough? I couldn’t tell. 

“Do you think it’s my aunt?” I whispered, huddling close to Kareen. 

“Only one way to find out,” she whispered back. 

The shrunken head glowed brightly in my hand. The eerie yellow-green 
light splashed over the ground as Kareen and I crept closer. 

Closer. 

“Aunt Benna?” I called in a tiny voice. I cleared my throat. My heart 
pounded. “Aunt Benna? Is that you?” 



24 


I called again and stepped close to the open doorway of the small shack. I heard 
a thump inside. Saw a flash of light. And heard a startled cry. 

A lantern appeared in the doorway. My eyes went to the pale yellow light. 
And then moved up to see the woman holding the lantern. 

She was short—very short. Only about a foot taller than me, and a little 
chubby. Her straight black hair was tied back. In the glow of lantern light, I saw 
that she wore khaki slacks and a khaki safari jacket. 

“Who’s there?” She raised the lantern in front of her. 

“Aunt Benna?” I cried, moving closer. “Is that you?” 

“Mark? I don’t believe it!” she exclaimed. She came running toward me, 
the lantern swinging at her side. The light bounced over the tall grass, making 
shadows dance. 

She wrapped me in a hug. “Mark—how did you find me? What are you 
doing here?” She had a high, chirpy voice, and she talked rapidly, without taking 
a breath. 

She pushed me away from her to study my face. “I don’t believe I even 
recognized you. I haven’t seen you since you were four!” 

“Aunt Benna—what are you doing out here?” I demanded breathlessly. 
“Everyone is so worried—” 

“How did you get to Baladora?” she asked, gripping my shoulder with her 
free hand, holding the lantern high with the other. “What are you doing in the 
jungle? How did you get here?” she cried again. 

“I—I used the Jungle Magic,” I stammered. 

Her eyes went wide. With surprise? With fear? 

I suddenly realized she wasn’t looking at me. “Hello. Who are you?” Aunt 
Benna asked quietly, stretching the lantern toward the trees. 

Kareen stepped out from the edge of the clearing. In all the excitement, I 
didn’t realize that she had lingered behind. 

“That’s Kareen,” I told my aunt. “Do you know Kareen? Dr. Hawlings’ 
daughter?” 

Aunt Benna gasped. She squeezed my shoulder. “Why did you bring her 
here? Don’t you realize—?” 



“It’s okay,” Kareen said quickly. “I was worried about you. That’s why I 
followed Mark.” 

“She helped me,” I explained to Aunt Benna. “Kareen helped me get away 
from them. From Dr. Hawlings and Carolyn. Kareen helped me get through the 
jungle.” 

“But—but—” Aunt Benna sputtered. “You told her about the Jungle 
Magic?” 

“I only came to help!” Kareen insisted. “My father is worried about you. He 

“Your father wants to kill me!” Aunt Benna cried angrily. “That’s why I had 
to mn away. That’s why I had to leave everything behind and hide in the jungle.” 
She glared at Kareen, her eyes squinting, her face pinched and hard in the yellow 
lantern light. 

“Kareen is okay,” I assured her. “She only wants to help, Aunt Benna. 
Really.” 

My aunt turned to me. “Carolyn and Hawlings brought you here?” 

I nodded. “Yes. To find you. Carolyn brought me this.” I pulled the 
shrunken head from my shirt pocket. It had stopped glowing. 

“They told me I had Jungle Magic,” I continued. “I didn’t know what they 
meant. I thought they were crazy. Then, when I went out to look for you in the 
jungle, I discovered that I did have it.” 

Aunt Benna nodded. “Yes. You have it, Mark. I gave it to you when I 
visited you. When you were four. I hypnotized you. And I transferred the Jungle 
Magic from me to you. To keep it safe.” 

“Yes. I read your notebook,” I told her. “I read about why you gave me the 
magic. But it didn’t say what Jungle Magic is. I only know—” 

“It’s a powerful force,” my aunt replied, lowering her voice. “It’s a 
powerful force that will do your will, carry out your wishes.” 

Her eyes filled with sadness. “But we cannot talk about it now,” she said in 
a whisper. “We are in danger here, Mark. Real danger.” 

I started to reply. But I heard rustling, cracking sounds from the trees. 
Footsteps? 

All three of us spun around toward the sound. 

To my surprise, Kareen started running across the grass. She cupped her 
hands around her mouth. “Over here, Daddy!” she shouted. “Over here! I found 
Benna, Daddy! Hurry!” 



25 


I gasped in shock. 

No time to run. 

A beam of light flickered out from the trees. Behind it came Dr. Hawlings, 
trotting over the tall grass. He carried a flashlight in one hand. The light swept 
into my eyes, then moved over Aunt Benna. 

Was Dr. Hawlings carrying a gun? Some kind of weapon? I couldn’t see. 
And I didn’t want to find out. 

I grabbed Aunt Benna’s arm and tugged. I wanted to run, to escape into the 
jungle. 

But my aunt refused to move. She seemed frozen in surprise. Or fear. 

Kareen’s father trotted up to us, breathing hard. Even in the dim light, I 
could see the pleased smile on his face. 

“Good work, Kareen.” He patted her shoulder. “I knew that if you helped 
Mark escape, he would lead us right to his aunt.” 

Still holding onto Aunt Benna’s arm, I stared at Kareen angrily. She had 
tricked me. She had pretended to be my friend. But the whole time, she was 
working to help her father. 

Kareen stared back at me for a moment. Then she lowered her eyes to the 
ground. 

“Why did you trick me?” I demanded. “Why did you do it, Kareen?” 

She raised her eyes to me. “Daddy needs the Jungle Magic,” she replied 
softly. 

“But you lied to me!” I cried. 

“I didn’t have a choice,” Kareen said. “If your father needed your help, 
what would you do?” 

“You did the right thing, Kareen,” Dr. Hawlings told her. 

He raised the light to Aunt Benna’s face. He forced her to cover her eyes. 
“Did you really think you could hide forever, Benna?” he demanded softly. 

“I—I’m sorry,” I told my aunt. “It’s my fault. I—” 

“No.” Aunt Benna put a hand on my shoulder. “It’s not your fault, Mark. 
It’s my fault. You didn’t know anything about any of this. And now I’m afraid 
I’ve gotten you into a lot of trouble.” 



Dr. Hawlings snickered. “A lot of trouble. That’s the truth.” He stepped up 
to Aunt Benna. “I want the secret of Jungle Magic. Tell me the secret, Benna. 
Let me know how it works. And I will allow you and your nephew to leave the 
island in one piece.” 

In one piece? 

I didn’t like the sound of that. 

As Dr. Hawlings stared at my aunt, I slipped the shrunken head from my 
pocket. I’ll use the Jungle Magic, I decided. I’ll use the magic to get us out of 
this jam. 

I raised the head slowly in front of me. I opened my mouth to call out the 
secret word. 

But I was stopped when I caught Aunt Benna’s glance. 

She was signaling me with her eyes. Telling me not to do it. 

“What’s going on?” Dr. Hawlings demanded, angrily turning to me. “What 
are you doing?” 

“Don’t give it away, Mark,” Aunt Benna pleaded. “Don’t let them know the 
secret word.” 

I lowered the shrunken head. “I won’t,” I whispered. 

“It’s okay, Daddy,” Kareen said, her eyes on me. “I know the word. Mark 
told it to me. I can tell you what it is. It’s—” 



26 


I clamped my hand over Kareen’s mouth. “Run!” I cried to Aunt Benna. “Run— 
now!” 

With an angry cry of attack, Aunt Benna lowered her shoulder and barreled 
into Dr. Hawlings. She roared into him like a football player—and sent him 
sprawling against the little shack. 

He uttered a startled yelp. The flashlight flew out of his hand and rolled 
across the ground. 

I spun away from Kareen and followed my aunt. Our shoes thudded over 
the tall grass as we ran for the trees. 

We were nearly to the edge of the clearing when Carolyn stepped in front of 
us. “What’s your hurry?” she demanded, moving to block our way. “The party is 
just starting.” 

Aunt Benna and I whirled around. Dr. Hawlings had moved up behind us. 
We were trapped. 

Carolyn raised her flashlight. Her silvery eyes narrowed at Aunt Benna. 
Carolyn smiled. A cold, unpleasant smile. “How are you, Benna? We missed 
you.” 

“Enough chitchat,” Dr. Hawlings muttered, gesturing with his flashlight. 
“It’s too dark to go back to the headquarters. We’ll have to spend the night here.” 

“How cozy,” Carolyn said, still smiling that cold smile at Aunt Benna. 

Aunt Benna scowled and looked away. “Carolyn, I thought you were my 
friend.” 

“We’re all good friends here,” Dr. Hawlings said. “And good friends like to 
share. That’s why you’re going to share the secret of Jungle Magic with us, 
Benna.” 

“Never!” my aunt declared, crossing her arms in front of her. 

“Never isn’t a word for friends,” Dr. Hawlings scolded. “In the morning, 
we will go back to the headquarters. Then you will share everything, Benna. You 
will share all of your secrets. And you will give the Jungle Magic to Carolyn and 
me.” 

“Like a good friend,” Carolyn added. 

“Let’s go,” Dr. Hawlings said. He put a heavy hand on my back and shoved 



me toward the little shack. Kareen was sitting on the ground, her collar pulled 
up, her back leaning against one wall. 

“You and Benna—in the shack,” Dr. Hawlings ordered, giving me another 
rough shove. “That way, we can keep an eye on you.” 

“You’re wasting your time, Richard,” Aunt Benna told him. She was trying 
to sound tough, but her voice trembled as she said it. 

Dr. Hawlings forced us into the dark shack. Aunt Benna and I stretched out 
on the floor. Through the cracks in the wall, I could see the darting light of their 
flashlights. 

“Are they going to guard us all night?” I whispered. 

Aunt Benna nodded. “We’re their prisoners now,” she whispered back. She 
sighed. “But we can’t let them have the Jungle Magic. We can’t!” 

I slid closer to my aunt. “If we don’t give it to them,” I said softly, “what 
will they do to us?” 

Aunt Benna didn’t reply. 

“What will they do to us?” I repeated. 

She stared down at the floor and didn’t answer. 



27 


A red ball of a sun was rising in the early morning sky when Dr. Hawlings poked 
his head into the shack and woke us up. 

I had slept only a few minutes. The shack had no floor, and the ground was 

hard. 

Whenever I closed my eyes, I dreamed about the shrunken head in my 
pocket. I dreamed that I held it in my hand. It blinked its eyes and its lips began 
to move. 

“You are doomed /” it exclaimed in a horrifying, hoarse whisper. “You are 
doomed. Doomed. Doomed! ” 

Aunt Benna and I scrambled out of the shack, stretching and yawning. Even 
though the sun was still low over the trees, the air already felt hot and wet. 

My whole body ached from lying on the hard ground. My shirt was damp 
and smelly. My stomach growled. I scratched my neck and discovered it was 
covered with mosquito bites. 

Not one of the great mornings. 

And it wasn’t going to get any better. 

We walked for hours through the sweltering jungle. Carolyn and Kareen led 
the way. Dr. Hawlings walked behind Aunt Benna and me, making sure we 
didn’t try to escape. 

No one said a word. The only sounds were the cries of animals, the chirping 
of birds overhead, and the swish of the tall weeds and grass as we pushed 
through. 

Swarms of white gnats flew up off the path, swirling together like small 
tornadoes. The sun beamed down through the trees, burning the back of my 
neck. 

When we finally made it back to the row of cabins, I was hot, sweaty, 
starving, and dying of thirst. 

Dr. Hawlings shoved Aunt Benna and me into an empty cabin. He slammed 
the door behind us and locked it. 

The cabin had two folding chairs and a small bed without sheets or 
blankets. I dropped down wearily onto the bare mattress. “What is he going to do 
to us?” 



Aunt Benna bit her lip. “Don’t worry,” she said softly. “I’ll figure 
something out.” She crossed the small room and tried the window. It was either 
stuck or bolted from the outside. 

“Maybe we can break the glass,” I suggested. 

“No, he’ll hear it,” Aunt Benna replied. 

I rubbed the back of my neck. The mosquito bites were itching like crazy. I 
wiped sweat off my forehead with the back of my hand. 

The door opened. Kareen entered, carrying two small bottles of water. She 
tossed one to me and one to my aunt. Then she turned quickly, closed the door 
hard behind her, and carefully locked it. 

I tilted the bottle to my mouth and gulped down the water without taking a 
breath. There were a few drops left at the bottom. I sprinkled them over the top 
of my head. Then I tossed the bottle to the floor. 

“What are we going to do?” I asked Aunt Benna. 

She was sitting in one of the folding chairs, her feet resting on the other. 
She raised a finger to her lips. “Ssshhh.” 

Outside, I heard the rattle of machinery. A metallic clang. I heard the rush 
of water from a hose. 

I hurried to the window and peered out. But it faced the wrong way. I 
couldn’t see anything. 

“We’ve had one lucky break,” Aunt Benna murmured. 

I stared at her. “Excuse me?” 

“One lucky break,” she repeated. “Hawlings didn’t take away the shrunken 
head. It was so dark last night, I don’t think he saw it.” 

I pulled the head out from my pocket. The black hair had become tangled. I 
started to smooth it back. 

“Put it away, Mark,” Aunt Benna ordered sharply. “We don’t want 
Hawlings to see it. He doesn’t know that the head is needed for Jungle Magic.” 

“This particular head?” I asked, shoving it back in the pocket. “Only this 
head?” 

Aunt Benna nodded. “Yes. That head and the magic word. The word I gave 
you when I hypnotized you. When you were four.” 

The head’s black hair fell over my pocket. I carefully tucked it inside. 

Outside, I heard another metallic clank. I heard a splash. The roar of water 
grew louder. 

“We are in terrible danger,” Aunt Benna said softly. “You will have to use 



the Jungle Magic to save us, Mark.” 

I felt a chill of fear. But I muttered, “No problem.” 

“Wait till I give you the signal,” Aunt Benna instructed. “When I blink my 
eyes three times, pull the shrunken head out and shout the word. Keep watching 
me. Watch for the signal—okay?” 

Before I could reply, the door burst open. Dr. Hawlings and Carolyn hurried 
in, their faces grim. 

Dr. Hawlings carried a large silvery pistol. “Outside,” he ordered, waving 
the pistol at Aunt Benna and me. 

Carolyn led the way down the row of cabins. She turned and made us stop 
behind the main headquarters building. Kareen stood against the wall, a wide- 
brimmed straw hat pulled down over her eyes. 

The sun beamed down. The back of my neck prickled and itched. 

Huddling close to my aunt, I squinted into the bright sunlight. To my right, 
the big pile of shrunken heads came into focus. 

The dark eyes on the leathery, purple-and-brown heads seemed to stare at 
me. The mouths were all twisted in ugly expressions of anger and horror. 

I turned away from the terrifying pile of tiny heads—to see something even 
more terrifying. 

An enormous black pot stood behind the headquarters building. Water 
brimmed over the top, bubbling and boiling. 

The pot stood on some kind of electric burner. Like a stove burner. It glared 
red hot. The boiling water inside the pot bubbled and steamed. 

I turned to Aunt Benna and caught the fear on her face. “You can’t do this!” 
she screamed to Dr. Hawlings. “You know you can’t get away with this!” 

“I don’t want to hurt you,” Dr. Hawlings said calmly, without any emotion 
at all. A smile spread over his face. “I don’t want to harm you, Benna. I just want 
to own the Jungle Magic.” 

I kept my eyes locked on my aunt. Waiting for her signal. Waiting for the 
three blinks that meant I should go into action. 

“Give me the Jungle Magic,” Dr. Hawlings insisted. 

Carolyn stepped up beside him, hands on her waist. “Give it to us, Benna. 
We don’t want trouble. We really don’t.” 

“No!” The word shot out of my aunt’s mouth. “No! No! No! You both 
know that I will never give up the secret of Jungle Magic. Not to you. Not ever!” 

Carolyn sighed. “Please, Benna. Don’t make it difficult.” 



My aunt stared back at her. “Never,” she murmured. 

Aunt Benna blinked. 

I swallowed hard, watching for two more blinks. 

No. Not the signal. Not yet. 

Dr. Hawlings stepped forward. “Please, Benna. I’m giving you one last 
chance. Tell us the secret—now.” 

Aunt Benna shook her head. 

“Then I have no choice,” Dr. Hawlings said, shaking his head. “Since you 
two are the only ones in the world who know the secret, you are both too 
dangerous. The secret must die with you.” 

“Wh-what are you going to do to us?” I blurted out. 

“We’re going to shrink your heads,” Dr. Hawlings replied. 



28 


The pot hissed as water boiled over the side. I stared in horror at the billows of 
steam rising up over the pot. 

Was he really going to shrink our heads? 

Was I going to end up shriveled and leathery, with a head the size of a 
doorknob? 

I forced my legs to stop wobbling and stared at Aunt Benna. Stared at her. 
Stared hard. Watching her eyes. Waiting for the three blinks. 

Hurry! I pleaded silently. Hurry—before he tosses us into the boiling water! 

Kareen watched in silence. What was she thinking? I wondered. I couldn’t 
see her expression. Her face was hidden under the brim of the straw hat. 

“Benna, one last chance,” Dr. Hawlings said softly. “Because I like you. 
And I like your nephew. Don’t let me harm your nephew, Benna. Do it for him, 
okay? Tell me the secret—for Mark’s sake.” 

“It isn’t worth it, Benna,” Carolyn chimed in. “It will be so easy for you to 
give the Jungle Magic to us.” 

“I-I can’t,” Aunt Benna stammered. 

“Then we have no choice,” Dr. Hawlings said, almost sadly. “The boy goes 
in first.” 

He took a step toward me. 

Aunt Benna blinked. Once. Twice. Three times. 

Finally! 

With a trembling hand, I tugged the head from my pocket. 

I raised it in front of me. I opened my mouth to shout the secret word. 

But Dr. Hawlings swiped the head from my hand. 

He grabbed it away—and tossed it onto the big pile of heads. 

Then he dove for me, reaching out to grab me with both hands. 

I ducked out from under him. 

And threw myself onto the disgusting pile of heads. 

I began frantically sorting through them with both hands. Picking one up, 
tossing it aside. Grabbing the next one. The next one. The next one. 

They felt sticky and warm. Hard as baseballs. The hair brushed my hands. 



The dark eyes stared up at me blankly. They were so ugly, my stomach 
tightened. My breath came in wheezing gasps. 

Behind me, I could hear my aunt struggling with Dr. Hawlings. Wrestling 
with him. Trying to keep him away from me. 

I heard Carolyn’s shouts. Kareen’s cries of alarm. 

I had to find my shrunken head. 

I had to find it before Dr. Hawlings broke free of my aunt and grabbed me. 

I picked one up. Tossed it down. Picked up another. Tossed it down. 

How could I find mine? 

Which one was it? 

Which one? Which one? 



29 


I grabbed a head. Saw ants crawling over its cheeks. 

Picked up another. 

It stared at me with glassy green eyes. 

Picked up another. 

It had a long white scratch on its ear. 

I started to toss it back onto the pile. 

But stopped. 

A white scratch on its ear? 

Yes! Mine had a scratch! My sister Jessica—she scratched it back home! 

Yes! This head was mine! 

“Thank you, Jessica!” I cried at the top of my lungs. 

With an angry cry, Dr. Hawlings dove at me. He wrapped his arms around 
me and started to drag me off the pile of heads. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I shouted, holding on tightly to the shrunken head. My 
shrunken head. “Kah-lee-ah!” 

Will it save Aunt Benna and me? I wondered. 

Will the Jungle Magic work this time? 

Dr. Hawlings still had his arms around my shoulders. He was still trying to 
pull me toward the boiling pot. 

“Kah-lee-ah!” I screamed. 

His hands slid away. 

They seemed to shrink. His arms seemed to shrink into his body. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled cry when I realized that he was shrinking. Dr. 
Hawlings’ entire body was shrinking, growing smaller and smaller! 

I raised my eyes to Kareen and Carolyn. They were shrinking, too. 
Shrinking down to the ground. 

Kareen disappeared under the straw hat. Then she came running out from 
under the brim. A tiny Kareen, about the size of a mouse. 

All three of them—Kareen, Carolyn, and Dr. Hawlings—scampered over 
the grass. Mouse-sized. Squeaking angrily in tiny mouse voices. 

I stood beside the pile of heads and watched them scurry over the ground. 



Squeaking and squealing. I watched them until they disappeared into the jungle. 

Then I turned back to Aunt Benna. “It worked!” I cried. “The Jungle Magic 
—it saved us!” 

She rushed forward and wrapped me in a hug. “You did it, Mark. You did 
it! The jungle is safe now! The whole world is safe!” 


* * * 


There were more hugs when Aunt Benna flew me home. Hugs from Mom—and 
even Jessica. 

They met us at the airport. Then Mom drove us home for a big welcome- 
home dinner. I had so many stories to tell, I started telling them in the car. And I 
didn’t stop talking until way past dinner. 

It was nearly bedtime when Aunt Benna led me into the den. She closed the 
door behind us. Then she sat me down on the couch. 

She sat down beside me. “Look into my eyes,” she said softly. “Look 
deeply, Mark. Very deeply.” 

I raised my eyes to hers. “What are you going to do?” I asked. 

I didn’t hear her reply. 

As I stared into her eyes, the room grew fuzzy. The colors all seemed to 
shift and blur. I thought I saw the posters on the den wall flipping over and over. 
I thought I saw the chairs and coffee table sliding across the floor. 

After a while, the room came back into focus. Aunt Benna smiled at me. 
“There,” she said, squeezing my hand. “You’re back to normal, Mark.” 

“Huh?” I squinted at her. “What do you mean?” 

“No more Jungle Magic,” she explained. “I took it back. You’re a normal 
boy again.” 

“You mean, if I shout ‘Kah-lee-ah’ nothing will happen?” I asked. 

“That’s right.” She smiled at me, still holding my hand. “I took back the 
magic. The shrunken head has no powers. And you have no powers. You never 
have to worry about it again.” 

She stood up, yawning. “It’s getting late. Bedtime, don’t you think?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” I was still thinking about how I didn’t have 
Jungle Magic anymore. “Aunt Benna?” 

“Yes?” 


“Can I keep the shrunken head?” 



“Of course,” she replied, tugging me to my feet. “Keep the shrunken head. 
As a souvenir. That way, you will always remember your jungle adventure.” 

“I don’t think I could forget it too easily,” I replied. Then I said good night 
and made my way to bed. 

The next morning, I woke up early and pulled on my clothes as fast as I could. I 
couldn’t wait to get to school and show off the shrunken head to Eric and Joel 
and all the other kids. 

I gulped down my cornflakes and chugged my orange juice. I strapped on 
my backpack. Called good-bye to Mom. Grabbed the shrunken head and headed 
out the door. 

Holding the head carefully in my hand, I started to jog along the sidewalk. 
It was a bright, sunny day. The air smelled warm and sweet. 

My school is only three blocks from my house. But as I jogged along, it 
seemed like miles. 

I couldn’t wait to get there and show off to everyone. 

I couldn’t wait to tell my friends about all my jungle adventures. 

I could see the school in the next block. And I could see a bunch of kids 
hanging out by the front door. 

As I ran across the street, I suddenly felt the head move in my hand. 

It twitched. 

“Huh?” I let out a gasp and stared down at it. 

The eyes blinked, then stared up at me. The lips closed, then opened again. 
“Hey, kid,” the head growled. “Let me tell the part about the tiger!” 



Search





NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY III 


Goosebumps - 40 
R.L. Stine 





1 


The stairs up to my attic are narrow and steep. The fifth step is loose and 
wobbles when you stand on it. All the other stairs creak and groan. 

My whole house creaks and groans. It’s a big, old house. And it’s kind of 
falling apart. Mom and Dad don’t really have the money to repair it. 

“Trina—hurry!” my brother, Dan, whispered. His words echoed in the steep 
attic stairwell. Dan is ten, and he is always in a hurry. 

He’s short and very skinny. I think he looks like a mouse. He has short 
brown hair, dark eyes, and a pointy little chin. And he’s always scurrying around 
like a mouse searching for a place to hide. 

Sometimes I call him Mouse. You know. Like a nickname. Dan hates it. So 
I only call him Mouse when I want to make him mad. 

Dan and I don’t look at all like brother and sister. I’m tall and I have curly 
red hair and green eyes. I’m a little chubby, but Mom says not to worry about it. 
I’ll probably slim down by the time I’m thirteen, next August. 

Anyway, no one would ever call me Mouse! For one thing, I’m a lot braver 
than Dan. 

You have to be brave to go up to our attic. Not because of the creaking 
stairs. Or the way the wind whistles through the attic windows and makes the 
panes rattle. Not because of the dim light up there. Or the shadows. Or the low 
ceiling covered with cracks. 

You have to be brave because of the eyes. 

The dozens of eyes that stare at you through the darkness. 

The eyes that never blink. The eyes that stare with such eerie, heavy 
silence. 

Dan reached the attic ahead of me. I heard him take a few steps over the 
squeaking, wooden floorboards. Then I heard him stop. 

I knew why he stopped. He was staring back at the eyes, at the grinning 
faces. 

I crept up behind him, moving on tiptoe. I leaned my face close to his ear. 
And I shouted, “BOO!” 

He didn’t jump. 

“Trina, you’re about as funny as a wet sponge,” he said. He shoved me 



away. 

“I think wet sponges are funny,” I replied. I admit it. I like to annoy him. 

“Give me a break,” Dan muttered. 

I grabbed his arm. “Okay.” I pretended to break it in two. 

I know it’s dumb. But that’s the way my brother and I kid around all the 

time. 

Dad says we didn’t get our sense of humor from him. But I think we 
probably did. 

Dad owns a little camera store now. But before that he was a ventriloquist. 
You know. He did a comedy act with a dummy. 

Danny O’Dell and Wilbur. 

That was the name of the act. Wilbur was the dummy, in case you didn’t 
guess it. 

Danny O’Dell is my dad. My brother is Dan, Jr. But he hates the word 
junior, so no one ever calls him that. 

Except me. When I want to make him really mad! 

“Someone left the attic light on,” Dan said, pointing to the ceiling light. The 
only light in the whole attic. 

Our attic is one big room. There are windows at both ends. But they are 
both caked with dust, so not much light gets through. 

Dan and I made our way across the room. The dummies all stared at us, 
their eyes big and blank. Most of them had wide grins on their wooden faces. 
Some of their mouths hung open. Some of their heads tilted down so we couldn’t 
see their faces. 

Wilbur—Dad’s first dummy, the original Wilbur—was perched on an old 
armchair. His hands were draped over the chair arms. His head tilted against the 
chair back. 

Dan laughed. “Wilbur looks just like Dad taking a nap!” 

I laughed, too. With his short brown hair, his black eyeglasses, and his 
goofy grin, Wilbur looked a lot like Dad! 

The old dummy’s black-and-yellow checked sports jacket was worn and 
frayed. But Wilbur’s face was freshly painted. His black leather shoes were 
shiny. 

One wooden hand had part of the thumb chipped out. But Wilbur looked 
great for such an old dummy. 

Dad keeps all of the dummies in good shape. He calls the attic his Dummy 



Museum. Spread around the room are a dozen old ventriloquist’s dummies that 
he has collected. 

He spends all of his spare time fixing them up. Painting them. Giving them 
fresh wigs. Making new suits and pants for them. Working on their insides, 
making sure their eyes and mouths move correctly. 

These days, Dad doesn’t get to use his ventriloquist skills very often. 
Sometimes he’ll take one of the dummies to a kid’s birthday party and put on a 
show. Sometimes people in town will invite him to perform at a party to raise 
money for a school or library. 

But most of the time the dummies just sit up here, staring at each other. 

Some of them are propped against the attic wall. Some are sprawled out on 
the couch. Some of them sit in folding chairs, hands crossed in their laps. Wilbur 
is the only one lucky enough to have his own armchair. 

When Dan and I were little, we were afraid to come up to the attic. I didn’t 
like the way the dummies stared at me. I thought their grins were evil. 

Dan liked to stick his hand into their backs and move their mouths. He 
made the dummies say frightening things. 

“I’m going to get you, Trina!” he would make Rocky growl. Rocky is the 
mean-faced dummy that sneers instead of smiles. He’s dressed like a tough guy 
in a red-and-white striped T-shirt and black jeans. He’s really evil-looking, “I’m 
coming to your room tonight, Trina. And I’m going to GET you!” 

“Stop it, Dan! Stop it!” I would scream. Then I would go running 
downstairs and tell Mom that Dan was scaring me. 

I was only eight or nine. 

I’m a lot older now. And braver. But I still feel a little creeped out when I 
come up here. 

I know it’s dumb. But sometimes I imagine the dummies sitting around up 
here, talking to each other, giggling and laughing. 

Sometimes late at night when I’m lying in bed, the ceiling creaks over my 
head. Footsteps! I picture the dummies walking around in the attic, their heavy 
black shoes clonking over the floorboards. 

I picture them wrestling around on the old couch. Or playing a wild game 
of catch, their wooden hands snapping as they catch the ball. 

Dumb? Of course it’s dumb. 

But I can’t help it. 

They’re supposed to be funny little guys. But they scare me. 



I hate the way they stare at me without blinking. And I hate the red-lipped 
grins frozen on their faces. 

Dan and I come up to the attic because Dan likes to play with them. And 
because I like to see how Dad fixes them up. 

But I really don’t like to come up to the attic alone. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy. That’s the only girl dummy in the group. She has 
curly blond hair and bright blue eyes. 

My brother stuck his hand into the dummy’s back and perched her on his 
knee. “Hi, Trina,” he made the dummy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Dan started to make her say something else. 

But he stopped suddenly. His mouth dropped open—like a dummy’s—and 
he pointed across the room. 

“Trina—1-look!” Dan stammered. “Over there!” 

I turned quickly. And I saw Rocky, the mean-looking dummy, blink his 

eyes. 

I gasped as the dummy leaned forward and sneered. “Trina, I’m going to 
GET you!” he growled. 



2 


I uttered a startled cry and jumped back. 

I swung around, ready to run to the attic steps—and I saw Dan laughing. 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily. “What’s going on here?” 

I turned back to see Dad climb to his feet behind Rocky’s chair. He carried 
Rocky in one arm. Dad’s grin was as wide as a dummy’s! 

“Gotcha!” he cried in Rocky’s voice. 

I turned angrily on my brother. “Did you know Dad was back there? Did 
you know Dad was here the whole time?” 

Dan nodded. “Of course.” 

“You two are both dummies!” I cried. I flung my red hair back with both 
hands and let out an exasperated sigh. “That was so stupid!” 

“You fell for it,” Dan shot back, grinning at Dad. 

“Who’s the dummy here?” Dad made Rocky say. “Hey—who’s pulling 
your string? I’m not a dummy—knock on wood!” 

Dan laughed, but I just shook my head. 

Dad refused to give up. “Hey—come over here!” he made Rocky say. 
“Scratch my back. I think I’ve got termites!” 

I gave in and laughed. I’d heard that joke a million times. But I knew Dad 
wouldn’t stop trying until I laughed. 

He’s a really good ventriloquist. You can never see his lips move. But his 
jokes are totally lame. 

I guess that’s why he had to give up the act and open a camera store. I don’t 
know for sure. It all happened before I was born. 

Dad set Rocky back on his chair. The dummy sneered up at us. Such a bad- 
news dummy. Why couldn’t he smile like the others? 

Dad pushed his eyeglasses up on his nose. “Come over here,” he said. “I 
want to show you something.” 

He put one hand on my shoulder and one hand on Dan’s shoulder and led us 
to the other end of the big attic room. This is where Dad has his workshop—his 
worktable and all his tools and supplies for fixing up the dummies. 

Dad reached under the worktable and pulled up a large brown-paper 
shopping bag. I could tell by the smile on his face what he had in the bag. But I 



didn’t say anything to min his surprise. 

Slowly, carefully, Dad reached into the shopping bag. His smile grew wider 
as he lifted out a dummy. “Hey, guys—check this out!” Dad exclaimed. 

The dummy had been folded up inside the bag. Dad set it down flat on the 
worktable and carefully unfolded the arms and legs. He looked like a surgeon 
starting an operation. 

“I found this one in a trash can,” he told us. “Do you believe someone just 
threw it away?” 

He tilted the dummy up so we could see it. I followed Dan up to the 
worktable to get a better look. 

“The head was split in two,” Dad said, placing one hand at the back of the 
dummy’s neck. “But it took two seconds to repair it. Just a little glue.” 

I leaned close to check out Dad’s new treasure. It had wavy brown hair 
painted on top of its head. The face was kind of strange. Kind of intense. 

The eyes were bright blue. They shimmered. Sort of like real eyes. The 
dummy had bright red painted lips, curved up into a smile. 

An ugly smile, I thought. Kind of gross and nasty. 

His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the other 
lip. 

The dummy wore a gray double-breasted suit over a white shirt collar. The 
collar was stapled to his neck. 

He didn’t have a shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 
Big black leather shoes—very scuffed up—dangled from his skinny gray pants 
legs. 

“Can you believe someone just tossed him into the trash?” Dad repeated. 
“Isn’t he great?” 

“Yeah. Great,” I murmured. I didn’t like the new dummy at all. I didn’t like 
his face, the way his blue eyes gleamed, the crooked smile. 

Dan must have felt the same way. “He’s kind of tough-looking,” he said. He 
picked up one of the dummy’s wooden hands. It had deep scratches all over it. 
The knuckles appeared cut and bruised. As if the dummy had been in a fight. 

“Not as tough-looking as Rocky over there,” Dad replied. “But he does 
have a strange smile.” He picked at the small chip in the dummy’s lip. “I can fill 
that in with some liquid wood filler. Then I’ll give the whole face a fresh paint 
job.” 

“What’s the dummy’s name?” I asked. 



Dad shrugged. “Beats me. Maybe we’ll call him Smiley.” 

“Smiley?” I made a disgusted face. 

Dad started to reply. But the phone rang downstairs. One ring. Two. Three. 

“I guess your mom is still at that school meeting,” Dad said. He ran to the 
stairs. “I’d better answer it. Don’t touch Smiley till I get back.” He vanished 
down the stairs. 

I picked up the dummy’s head carefully in both hands. “Dad did a great 
gluing job,” I said. 

“He should do your head next!” Dan shot back. 

Typical. 

“I don’t think Smiley is a good name for him,” Dan said, slapping the 
dummy’s hands together. 

“How about Dan Junior?” I suggested. “Or Dan the Third?” 

He ignored me. “How many dummies does Dad have now?” He turned 
back toward the others across the attic and quickly counted them. 

I counted faster. “This new one makes thirteen,” I said. 

Dan’s eyes went wide. “Whoa. That’s an unlucky number.” 

“Well, if we count you, it’s fourteen!” I said. 

Gotcha, Danny Boy! 

Dan stuck out his tongue at me. He set the dummy’s hands down on its 
chest. “Hey—what’s that?” He reached into the pocket of the gray suit jacket and 
pulled out a folded-up slip of paper. 

“Maybe that has the dummy’s name on it,” I said. I grabbed the paper out of 
Dan’s hands and raised it to my face. I unfolded it and started to read. 

“Well?” Dan tried to grab it back. But I swung out of his reach. “What’s the 
name?” 

“It doesn’t say,” I told him. “There are just these weird words. Foreign, I 
guess.” 

I moved my lips silently as I struggled to read them. Then I read the words 
out loud: “Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Dan’s mouth dropped open. “Huh? What’s that supposed to mean?” he 
cried. 

He grabbed the paper from my hand. “I think you read it upside down!” 

“No way!” I protested. 

I glanced down at the dummy. 

The glassy blue eyes stared up at me. 



Then the right eye slowly closed. The dummy winked at me. 

And then his left hand shot straight up—and slapped me in the face. 



3 


“Hey—!” I shouted. I jerked back as pain shot through my jaw. 

“What’s your problem?” Dan demanded, glancing up from the slip of paper. 

“Didn’t you see?” I shrieked. “He—he slapped me!” I rubbed my cheek. 

Dan rolled his eyes. “Yeah. For sure.” 

“No—really!” I cried. “First he winked at me. Then he slapped me.” 

“Tell me another one,” Dan groaned. “You’re such a jerk, Trina. Just 
because you fall for Dad’s jokes doesn’t mean I’m going to fall for yours.” 

“But I’m telling the truth!” I insisted. 

I glanced up to see Dad poke his head up at the top of the stairs. “What’s 
going on, guys?” 

Dan folded up the slip of paper and tucked it back into the dummy’s jacket 
pocket. “Nothing much,” he told Dad. 

“Dad—the new dummy!” I cried, still rubbing my aching jaw. “He slapped 

me!” 

Dad laughed. “Sorry, Trina. You’ll have to do better than that. You can’t kid 
a kidder.” 

That’s one of Dad’s favorite expressions: “You can’t kid a kidder.” 

“But, Dad—” I stopped. I could see he wasn’t going to believe me. I wasn’t 
even sure I believed it myself. 

I glanced down at the dummy. He stared blankly up at the ceiling. Totally 
lifeless. 

“I have news, guys,” Dad said, sitting the new dummy up. “That was my 
brother—your uncle Cal—on the phone. He’s coming for a short visit while 
Aunt Susan’s away on business. And he’s bringing your cousin Zane with him. 
It’s Zane’s spring vacation from school, too.” 

Dan and I both groaned. Dan stuck his finger in his mouth and pretended to 
puke. 

Zane isn’t our favorite cousin. 

He’s our only cousin. 

He’s twelve, but you’d think he was five or six. He’s pretty nerdy. His nose 
mns a lot. And he’s kind of a wimp. 

Kind of a major wimp. 



“Hey, stop groaning,” Dad scolded. “Zane is your only cousin. He’s 
family.” 

Dan and I groaned again. We couldn’t help it. 

“He isn’t a bad kid,” Dad continued, narrowing his eyes at us behind his 
glasses. That meant he was being serious. “You two have to promise me 
something.” 

“What kind of promise?” I asked. 

“You have to promise me that you’ll be nicer to Zane this time.” 

“We were nice to him last time,” Dan insisted. “We talked to him, didn’t 

we?” 

“You scared him to death last time,” Dad said, frowning. “You made him 
believe that this old house is haunted. And you scared him so badly, he ran 
outside and refused to come back in.” 

“Dad, it was all a joke,” I protested. 

“Yeah. It was a scream!” Dan agreed. He poked me in the side with his 
elbow. “A scream. Get it?” 

“Not funny,” Dad said unhappily. “Not funny at all. Listen, guys—Zane 
can’t help it if he’s a little timid. He’ll outgrow it. You just have to be nice to 
him.” 

Dan snickered. “Zane is afraid of your dummies, Dad. Can you believe it?” 
“Then don’t drag him up here and scare the life out of him,” Dad ordered. 
“How about if we just play one or two little jokes on him?” Dan asked. 

“No tricks,” Dad replied firmly. “None.” 

Dan and I exchanged glances. 

“Promise me,” Dad insisted. “I mean it. Right now. Both of you. Promise 
me there will be no tricks. Promise me you won’t try to scare your cousin.” 

“Okay. I promise,” I said. I raised my right hand as if I were swearing an 

oath. 

“I promise, too,” Dan said softly. 

I checked to see if his fingers were crossed. They weren’t. 

Dan and I had both made a solemn promise. We both promised not to terrify 
our cousin. And we meant it. 

But it was a promise we couldn’t keep. 

Before the week was over, our cousin Zane would be terrified. 

And so would we. 



4 


I was playing the piano when Zane arrived. The piano is tucked away in a small 
room in the back of the house. It’s a small black upright piano, kind of beat-up 
and scratched. Dad bought it from my old music teacher who moved to 
Cleveland. 

Two of the pedals don’t work. And the piano really needs to be tuned. But I 
love to play it—especially when I’m stressed out or excited. It always helps to 
calm me down. 

I’m pretty good at it. Even Dan agrees. Most of the time he pushes me off 
the piano bench so he can play “Chopsticks”. But sometimes he stands beside 
me and listens. I’ve been practicing some nice Haydn pieces and some of the 
easy Chopin etudes. 

Anyway, I was in the back of the house banging away on the piano when 
Zane and Uncle Cal arrived. I guess I was a little nervous about seeing Zane 
again. 

Dan and I were really mean to him during his last visit. Like Dad said, Zane 
has always been scared of this old house. And we did everything we could to 
make him even more scared. 

We walked around in the attic every night, howling softly like ghosts, 
making the floor creak. We crept into his bedroom closet in the middle of the 
night and made him think his clothes were dancing. We rigged a pair of Mom’s 
panty hose so they cast a ghostly shadow of legs onto his bedroom floor. 

Poor Zane. I think Dan and I went a little too far. After a few days, he 
jumped at every sound. And his eyes kept darting from side to side like a 
frightened lizard’s. 

I heard him tell Uncle Cal that he never wanted to come back here. 

Dan and I laughed about that. But it wasn’t very nice. 

So I was a little nervous about seeing Zane again. I was playing the piano 
so loudly, I didn’t hear the doorbell. Dan had to come running in and tell me 
Uncle Cal and Zane had arrived. 

I jumped up from the piano bench. “How does Zane look?” I asked my 
brother. 

“Big,” Dan replied. “He grew. A lot. And he let his hair grow long.” 



Zane was always a pretty big guy. That’s why Dan and I thought his being a 
total wimp was so funny. 

He’s big and beefy. Not tall. He’s built kind of like a bulldog. A big blond 
bulldog. 

I guess he’s actually good-looking. He has round blue eyes, wavy blond 
hair, and a nice smile. He looks as if he works out or plays sports. He really 
doesn’t look like the wimp type at all. 

That’s why it’s such a riot to see him quivering in fear. Or wailing like a 
baby. Running to his mom or dad in terror. 

I followed Dan through the back hall. “Did Zane say anything to you?” I 
asked. 

“Just hi,” Dan replied. 

“A friendly ‘hi’ or an unfriendly ‘hi’?” I demanded. 

Dan didn’t have time to answer. We had reached the front hall. 

“Hey—!” Uncle Cal greeted me, stretching out his arms for a hug. Uncle 
Cal looks a lot like a chipmunk. He’s very small. He has a round face, a twitchy 
little nose, and two teeth that poke out from his upper lip. 

“You’re getting so tall!” he exclaimed as I hugged him. “You’ve grown a 
lot, Trina!” 

Why do grown-ups always have to comment on how tall kids are getting? 
Can’t they think of anything else to say? 

I saw Dad lugging their two heavy suitcases up the stairs. 

“I didn’t know if you’d be hungry or not,” Mom told Uncle Cal. “So I made 
a bunch of sandwiches.” 

I turned to say hi to Zane. And a flash of white light made me cry out in 
surprise. 

“Don’t move. One more,” I heard Zane say. 

I blinked rapidly, trying to clear the light from my eyes. When I finally 
focused, I saw that Zane had a camera up to his face. 

He clicked it. Another bright flash of light. 

“That’s good,” he said. “You looked really surprised. I only like to take 
candid shots.” 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal said, grinning proudly. 

“I’m blind!” I cried, rubbing my eyes. 

“I needed extra flash because this house is so dark,” Zane said. He lowered 
his head to the camera and fiddled with his lens. 



Dad came shuffling down the stairs. Zane turned and snapped his picture. 

“Zane is really into photography,” Uncle Cal repeated to my father. “I told 
him maybe you’ve got an old camera or two at the shop that he could have.” 

“Uh... maybe,” Dad replied. 

Uncle Cal makes a lot more money than Dad. But whenever he visits, he 
always tries to get Dad to give him stuff. 

“Nice camera,” Dad told Zane. “What kind of photos do you like to take?” 

“Candid shots,” Zane replied, pushing back his blond hair. “And I take a lot 
of still lifes.” He stepped into the hall and flashed a close-up of the banister. 

Dan leaned close and whispered in my ear, “He’s still a pain. Let’s give him 
a really good scare.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “No scares this time. We promised Dad— 
remember?” 

“I’ve set up a darkroom in the basement,” Dad told Zane. “Sometimes I 
bring developing work home from the store. You can use the darkroom this 
week, if you want to.” 

“Great!” Zane replied. 

“I told Zane maybe you have some sheets of developing paper you can 
spare,” Uncle Cal said to Dad. 

Zane raised his camera and flashed another picture. Then he turned to Dan. 
“Are you still into video games?” he asked. 

“Yeah,” Dan replied. “Mostly sports games. I have the new NBA Jams. And 
I’m saving my allowance to get the new thirty-two-bit system. You still play?” 

Zane shook his head. “Not since I got my camera. I don’t really have time 
for games anymore.” 

“How about some sandwiches, everyone?” Mom asked, moving toward the 
dining room. 

“I think I’d like to unpack first,” Uncle Cal told her. “Zane, you should 
unpack, too.” 

We all split up. Dan and Dad disappeared somewhere. Uncle Cal and Zane 
went up to their rooms to unpack—our big old house has a lot of extra 
bedrooms. 

I was heading into the kitchen to help Mom with the sandwiches when I 
heard Zane scream. 

A shrill scream from upstairs. 

A scream of horror. 



5 


Mom gasped and dropped the sandwich tray she was carrying. 

I spun around and went running to the front hall. 

Dad was already halfway up the stairs. “What’s wrong?” he called. “Zane— 
what’s the matter?” 

When I reached the second floor, I saw Dan step out of his room. Zane 
stood in the hallway. Someone lay stretched across the floor at his feet. 

Even from halfway down the hall, I could see that Zane was trembling. 

I hurried over to him. 

Who was sprawled on the floor like that, legs and arms all twisted? 

“Zane—what happened? What happened?” Dad and Uncle Cal both 
shouted. 

Zane stood there shaking all over. The camera seemed to tremble, too, 
swinging on its strap over his chest. 

I glanced down at the body on the floor. 

A ventriloquist’s dummy. 

Rocky. 

Rocky sneered up at the ceiling. His red-and-white striped shirt had rolled 
up halfway, revealing his wooden body. One leg was bent under him. Both arms 
were stretched out over the floor. 

“That d-dummy—” Zane stammered, pointing down at Rocky. “It—it fell 
on me when I opened the bedroom door.” 

“Huh? It what?” Uncle Cal cried. 

“It dropped down on me,” Zane repeated. “When I pushed the door. I didn’t 
mean to scream. It just scared me, that’s all. It was so heavy. And it fell near my 
head.” 

I turned and saw Dad glaring angrily at Dan. 

Dan raised both hands in protest. “Hey—don’t look at me!” he cried. 

“Dan, you made a promise,” Dad said sharply. 

“I didn’t do it!” Dan cried. “It had to be Trina!” 

“Hey—no way!” I protested. “No way! I didn’t do it!” 

Dad narrowed his eyes at me. “I suppose the dummy climbed up on top of 



the door by himself!” he said, rolling his eyes. 

“It was just a joke,” Uncle Cal chimed in. “You’re okay—right, Zane?” 

“Yeah. Sure.” Zane’s cheeks were red. I could see he was embarrassed by 
all the fuss. “I just wasn’t expecting something to fall on me. You know.” He 
stared at the floor. 

“Let’s finish unpacking,” Uncle Cal suggested. “I’m starting to get hungry.” 
He turned to Dad. “Do you have any extra pillows? There’s only one on my bed. 
And I like to sleep with a lot of pillows.” 

“I’ll see if we have any more,” Dad replied. He frowned at me. “You and 
Dan—take Rocky up to the attic. And no more little jokes. You promised— 
remember?” 

I picked Rocky up carefully and slung him over my shoulder. “Get the attic 
door for me,” I instructed Dan. 

We made our way down the hall. “What is your problem, Mouse?” I 
whispered to my brother. 

“Don’t call me Mouse,” he replied through gritted teeth. “You know I hate 
it.” 

“Well, I hate broken promises,” I told him. “You can’t wait one minute to 
start scaring Zane? You’re going to get us in major trouble.” 

“Me?” Dan put on his innocent act. “I didn’t hide the dummy up there. You 
did—and you know it!” 

“Did not!” I whispered angrily. 

“Hey, guys, can I come with you?” I turned to see Zane right behind us. I 
hadn’t realized he’d followed us. 

“You want to come up to the Dummy Museum?” I asked, unable to hide my 
surprise. Last visit, Zane had been afraid of the dummies. 

“Yeah. I want to take some pictures,” he replied. He raised his camera in 
both hands. 

“Cool,” Dan said. “That’s a cool idea.” I could see that he was trying to be 
friendly to Zane. 

I didn’t want to be left out. “It’s neat that you’re into photography,” I told 
Zane. 

“Yeah. I know,” he replied. 

Dan led the way up the attic stairs. Halfway up, I turned back. I saw Zane 
lingering at the bottom. 

“Are you coming up or not?” I called down. My voice echoed in the 



narrow, dark stairwell. 

I caught a look of fear on Zane’s face. He was trying to be brave, I realized. 
Trying not to be afraid the way he was last time. 

“Coming,” he called up. I saw him take a deep breath. Then he came 
mnning up the stairs. 

He stayed close to Dan and me as we crossed the attic. The eyes peered out 
at us darkly from around the big room. 

I clicked on the light. The dummies all came into view. Propped on chairs 
and the old couch, leaning against the wall, they grinned at us. 

I carried Rocky over to his folding chair. I slid him off my shoulder and set 
him down. I crossed his arms in his lap and straightened his striped shirt. The 
mean-looking dummy sneered up at me. 

“Uncle Danny has a few new guys,” Zane said from across the room. He 
stood close to Dan in front of the couch. He held the camera in his hands, but he 
didn’t take any pictures. “Where does he find them?” 

“He found the newest one in a trash can,” I replied, pointing to the mean¬ 
looking dummy. 

Dan picked up Miss Lucy and held it up to Zane. “Hiya, Zane! Take my 
picture!” Dan made Miss Lucy say in a high, shrill voice. 

Zane obediently raised the camera to his eye. “Say cheese,” he told Miss 
Lucy. 

“Cheese,” Dan said in Miss Lucy’s high voice. 

Zane flashed a picture. 

“Give me a big wet kiss!” Dan made Miss Lucy say. He shoved the 
dummy’s face close to Zane’s. 

Zane backed away. “Yuck.” 

“Put the dummy down,” I told my brother. “We’d better get back 
downstairs. They’re all probably waiting for us.” 

“Okay, okay,” Dan grumbled. He turned to set Miss Lucy down. Zane 
wandered down the row of dummies, studying them. 

I bent down and straightened Wilbur’s bow tie. The old dummy was 
starting to look really ragged. 

I was still working on the bow tie when I heard a hard slap. 

And I heard Zane’s startled cry of pain. 

“Owwww!” 



6 


I spun around and saw Zane rubbing his jaw. 

“Hey—that dummy slapped me!” he cried angrily. 

He pointed to a red-haired dummy on the arm of the couch. 

“I-I don’t believe it!” Zane exclaimed. “It swung its arm up, and it—it 
slapped me!” 

Dan stood behind the couch. I saw a smile spread over his face. Then he 
burst out laughing. “Get serious,” he told Zane. “That’s impossible.” 

“You did it!” Zane accused my brother, still rubbing his jaw. “You moved 
the dummy!” 

“No way!” Dan backed away till he bumped the wall. “How could I? I was 
behind the couch the whole time.” 

I stepped quickly up to the couch. “Which dummy was it?” I demanded. 

Zane pointed to a dummy with red hair and bright red freckles painted all 
over his grinning face. “That guy.” 

“Arnie,” I reported. “One of Dad’s first dummies.” 

“I don’t care what his name is,” Zane snapped. “He slapped me!” 

“But that’s dumb,” I insisted. “It’s just a ventriloquist’s dummy, Zane. Here. 
Look.” 

I picked Arnie up. The old dummy was heavier than I remembered. I started 
to hand him to Zane. But my cousin backed away. 

“Something weird is going on here,” Zane said, keeping his eyes on the 
dummy. “I’m going to tell Uncle Danny.” 

“No. Don’t tell Dad,” I pleaded. “Give us a break, Zane. It’ll get us in big 
trouble.” 

“Yeah. Don’t tell,” Dan chimed in. “The dummy probably just slipped or 
something. You know. It fell over.” 

“It reached up,” Zane insisted. “I saw it swing its arm and—” 

He was interrupted by Mom’s voice from downstairs. “Hurry up, kids. Get 
down here. We’re all waiting for you.” 

“Coming!” I shouted. I dropped Arnie back onto the arm of the couch. He 
fell into the dummy next to him. I left him like that and followed Dan and Zane 
to the stairs. 



I held Dan back and let Zane go down by himself. “What are you trying to 
prove?” I angrily asked my brother. “That wasn’t funny.” 

“Trina, I didn’t do it. I swear!” Dan claimed, raising his right hand. “I 
swear!” 

“So what are you saying?” I demanded. “That the dummy really reached up 
and slapped him?” 

Dan twisted his face. He shrugged. “I don’t know. I just know that I didn’t 
do it. I didn’t swing that dummy’s arm.” 

“Don’t be stupid,” I replied. “Of course you did.” I shoved my brother 
toward the stairs. 

“Hey—give me a break,” he muttered. 

“You’re a total liar,” I told him. “You think you can scare Zane—and me. 
But it isn’t worth it, Dan. We promised Dad, remember? Remember?” 

He ignored me and started down the stairs. 

I felt really angry. I knew that Dan had perched the dummy on top of the 
bedroom door so that it would fall on Zane. And I knew that he had swung the 
dummy’s arm to slap Zane. 

I wondered how far Dan would go to frighten our cousin. 

I knew I had to stop him. If Dan kept this up, he’d get us both grounded for 
life. Or worse. 

But what could I do? 

I was still thinking about it in bed later that night. I couldn’t get to sleep. I 
lay there, staring up at the ceiling, thinking about Dan and what a liar he was. 

Dummies are made of wood and cloth, I told myself. They don’t swing their 
arms and slap people. 

And they don’t get up and walk around the house and climb up onto doors 
on their own. They don’t walk on their own.... 

They don’t... 

I finally started to drift off to sleep when I heard light footsteps on my 
bedroom carpet. 

And then a hoarse whisper close to my ear: 

“Trina... Trina...” 



7 


“Trina... Trina...” 

The hoarse whisper—so near my ear—made me shoot straight up in bed. 

I leaped to my feet. Pulled the covers with me. Lurched forward. 

And nearly knocked Zane onto his back. 

“Zane?” 

He stumbled backwards. “Sorry!” he whispered. “I thought you were 
awake.” 

“Zane!” I repeated. My heart thudded in my chest. “What are you doing in 
here?” 

“Sorry,” he whispered, backing up some more. He stopped a few inches in 
front of my dresser. “I didn’t mean to scare you. I just—” 

I held my hand over my heart. I could feel it start to slow back down to 
normal. “Sorry I jumped out at you like that,” I told him. “I was half asleep, I 
guess. And when you whispered my name...” 

I clicked on the bed-table lamp. I rubbed my eyes and squinted at Zane. 

He was wearing baggy blue pajamas. One pajama leg had rolled up nearly 
to his knee. His blond hair had fallen over his face. He had such a frightened, 
little-boy expression on his face. He looked about six years old! 

“I tried to wake up Dad,” he whispered. “But he’s such a sound sleeper. I 
kept knocking on his bedroom door and calling to him. But he didn’t hear me. So 
I came in here.” 

“What’s your problem?” I asked, stretching my arms over my head. 

“I-I heard voices,” he stammered, glancing to the open bedroom door. 

“Excuse me? Voices?” I pushed my hair back. Straightened my long 
nightshirt. Studied him. 

He nodded. “I heard voices. Upstairs. I mean, I think they were upstairs. 
Funny voices. Talking very fast.” 

I squinted at him. “You heard voices in the attic ? ” 

He nodded again. “Yeah. I’m pretty sure.” 

“I’m pretty sure you were dreaming.” I sighed. I shook my head. 

“No. I was wide awake. Really.” He picked up a little stuffed bear from my 
dresser. He squeezed it between his hands. 



“I never sleep very well in new places,” he told me. “I never sleep very well 
in this house!” He let out an unhappy laugh. “I was wide awake.” 

“There’s no one in the attic,” I said, yawning. I tilted my ear to the ceiling. 
“Listen,” I instructed. “Silent up there. No voices.” 

We both listened to the silence for a while. 

Then Zane set down the stuffed bear. “Do you think I could have a bowl of 
cereal?” he asked. 

“Huh?” I gaped at him. 

“A bowl of cereal always helps calm me down,” he said. An embarrassed 
smile crossed his face. “Just a habit from when I was a kid.” 

I squinted at my clock radio. It was a little after midnight. “You want a 
bowl of cereal now?” 

He nodded. “Is that okay?” he asked shyly. 

Poor guy, I thought. He’s really freaked out. 

“Sure,” I said. “I’ll come down to the kitchen with you. Show you where 
everything is.” 

I found my flip-flops and slipped my feet into them. I keep them under my 
bed. I don’t like walking barefoot on the floorboards in the hall. There are a lot 
of nails that poke up from the floor. 

Mom and Dad keep saying they’re going to buy carpet. But money is tight. 
I don’t think carpet is tops on their list. 

Zane appeared a little calmer. I smiled at him and led the way into the hall. 

He’s not such a bad guy, I thought. He’s a little wimpy—but so what? I 
decided to have a serious talk with Dan first thing in the morning. I planned to 
make Dan promise he wouldn’t pull any more scares on Zane. 

The long hall was so dark, Zane and I both held onto the wall as we made 
our way to the stairs. Mom and Dad used to keep a little night-light at the end of 
the hall. But the bulb burned out, and they never replaced it. 

Holding onto the banister, we made our way slowly down the steps. Pale 
light from outside cast long blue shadows over the living room. In the dim light, 
our old furniture rose up like ghosts around the room. 

“This house always creeps me out,” Zane whispered, staying close by my 
side as we crossed through the front room. 

“I’ve lived here all my life, and sometimes I’m scared of it, too,” I 
confessed. “Old houses make so many strange sounds. Sometimes I think I hear 
the house groaning and moaning.” 



“I really did hear voices,” Zane whispered. 

We crept through the shadows to the kitchen. My flip-flops slapped on the 
linoleum. Silvery moonlight washed through the curtains over the kitchen 
window. 

I started to fumble on the wall for the light switch. 

But I stopped when I saw the dark figure slumped at the kitchen table. 

Zane saw him, too. I heard Zane gasp. He jerked back into the doorway. 
“Dad? Are you still up?” I called. “Why are you sitting in the dark?” 

My hand found the light switch. I clicked on the kitchen light. 

And Zane and I both let out a scream. 



8 


I recognized the red-and-white striped shirt. I didn’t even have to see the face. 

Rocky leaned over the table, his wooden head propped in his hands. 

Zane and I crept closer to the table. I moved to the other side. The dummy 
sneered at me. His glassy eyes were cold and cruel. 

Such a nasty expression. 

“How did he get down here?” Zane asked. He stared hard at the dummy, as 
if expecting the dummy to answer. 

“Only one way,” I murmured. “He sure didn’t walk.” 

Zane turned to me. “You mean Dan?” 

I sighed. “Of course. Who else? Mister Dumb Jokes.” 

“But how did your brother know we’d be coming down to the kitchen 
tonight?” Zane asked. 

“Let’s go ask him,” I replied. 

I knew Dan was awake. Probably sitting on the edge of his bed, waiting 
eagerly to hear us scream from the kitchen. Giggling to himself. So pleased with 
himself. 

So pleased that he broke his promise to Dad. And gave Zane and me a little 
scare. 

I balled both hands into tight fists. I could feel the anger rising in my chest. 

When I get really furious like that, I usually go to the back room and pound 
the piano. I pound out a Sousa march or a hard, fast rock song. I pound the keys 
till I start to calm down. 

Tonight, I decided, I would pound my brother instead. 

“Come on,” I urged Zane. “Upstairs.” 

I took one last glance at Rocky, slouched over the kitchen table. The 
dummy stared blankly back at me. 

I really hate that dummy, I thought. I’m going to ask Dad to put him away 
in a closet or a trunk. 

I forced myself to turn away from the sneering, wooden face. Then I put 
both hands on Zane’s shoulders and guided him back to the stairs. 

“I’m going to tell Dan that we’re both fed up with his dumb jokes,” I 
whispered to my cousin. “Enough is enough. We’ll make him promise to stop 



leaving that dummy everywhere we go.” 

Zane didn’t reply. In the dim light, I could see the grim expression on his 

face. 

I wondered what he was thinking about. Was he remembering his last visit 
to our house? Was he remembering how Dan and I terrified him then? 

Maybe he doesn’t trust me, either, I told myself. 

We climbed the stairs and crept down the dark hallway to my brother’s 
room. 

The door was half open. I pushed it open the rest of the way and stepped 
inside. Zane kept close behind me. 

I expected Dan to be sitting up, waiting for us. I expected to see him 
grinning, enjoying his little joke. 

Silvery moonlight flooded in through his double windows. From the 
doorway, I could see him clearly. Lying on his side in bed. Covers up to his chin. 
Eyes tightly closed. 

Was he faking? Was he really awake? 

“Dan,” I whispered. “Da-an.” 

He didn’t move. His eyes didn’t open. 

“Dan—I’m coming to tickle you!” I whispered. He could never keep a 
straight face when I threatened him. Dan is very ticklish. 

But he didn’t move. 

Zane and I crept closer. Up to the bed. We both stood over my brother, 
staring hard at him, studying him in the silvery light. 

He was breathing softly, in a steady rhythm. His mouth was open a little. 
He made short whistling sounds. Mouse sounds. With his pointy chin and 
upturned nose, he really did look like a little mouse. 

I leaned over him. “Da-an, get ready to be tickled!” I whispered. 

I leaned back, expecting him to leap out at me, to shout “Boo!” or 
something. 

But he continued sleeping, whistling softly with each breath. 

I turned to Zane, who hung back in the center of the room. “He’s really 
asleep,” I reported. 

“Let’s go back to our rooms,” Zane replied in a soft whisper. He yawned. 

I followed him to the bedroom door. “What about your cereal?” I asked. 

“Forget it. I’m too sleepy now.” 

We were nearly to the door when I heard someone move in the hall. 



“Ohhh.” I let out a low moan as a face appeared in the doorway. 
Rocky’s face. 

He had followed us upstairs! 



9 


I grabbed Zane’s arm. We both shouted cries of surprise. 

The dummy moved quickly into the room. 

I cut my cry short as I saw that he wasn’t walking on his own. He was being 
carried. 

Dad had the dummy by the back of the neck. 

“Hey—what’s going on?” Dan called sleepily from behind us. He raised his 
head from the pillow and squinted at us. “Huh? What’s everybody doing in my 
room?” 

“That’s what I’d like to know,” Dad said sharply. He gazed suspiciously 
from Zane to me. 

“You—you woke me up,” Dan murmured. He cleared his throat. Then he 
propped himself up on one elbow. “Why are you carrying that dummy, Dad?” 

“Perhaps one of you would like to answer that question,” Dad growled. He 
had pulled a robe over his pajamas. His hair was matted to his forehead. 

He wasn’t wearing his glasses, so he squinted at us. 

“What’s going on? I don’t understand,” Dan said sleepily. He rubbed his 

eyes. 

Was he putting on an act? I wondered. His innocent-little-boy act? 

“I heard noises downstairs,” Dad said, shifting Rocky to his other hand. “I 
went down to see what was going on. I found this dummy sitting at the kitchen 
table.” 

“I didn’t put him there!” Dan cried, suddenly wide awake. “Really. I 
didn’t!” 

“Neither did Zane or me!” I chimed in. 

Dad turned to me. He sighed. “I’m really sleepy. I don’t like these jokes in 
the middle of the night.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried. 

Dad squinted hard at me. He really couldn’t see at all without his glasses. 
“Do I have to punish you and your brother?” he demanded. “Do I have to ground 
you? Or keep you from going away to camp this summer?” 

“No!” Dan and I both cried at once. Dan and I were both going to summer 
camp for the first time this year. It’s all we’ve talked about since Christmas. 



“Dad, I was asleep. Really,” Dan insisted. 

“No more stories,” Dad replied wearily. “The next time one of my dummies 
is somewhere he shouldn’t be, you’re both in major trouble.” 

“But, Dad—” I started. 

“One last chance,” Dad said. “I mean it. If I see Rocky out of the attic 
again, you’ve both had it!” He waved Zane and me to the door. “Get to your 
rooms. Now. Not another word.” 

“Do you believe me or not?” Dan demanded. 

“I don’t believe that Rocky has been moving around the house on his own,” 
Dad replied. “Now lie down and get back to sleep, Dan. I’m giving you one last 
chance. Don’t blow it.” 

Dad followed Zane and me into the hall. “See you in the morning,” he 
murmured. He made his way to the attic stairs to take Rocky back up to the 
Dummy Museum. I heard him muttering to himself all the way up the stairs. 

I said good night to Zane and headed to my room. I felt sleepy and upset 
and worried and confused—all at once. 

I knew that Dan had to be the one who kept springing Rocky on Zane. But 
why was he doing it? And would he quit now—before Dad grounded us or 
totally ruined our summer? 

I fell asleep, still asking myself question after question. 

The next morning, I woke up early. I pulled on jeans and a sweatshirt and 
hurried downstairs for breakfast. 

And there sat Rocky at the kitchen table. 



10 


I peered around the kitchen. No one else around. 

How lucky that I was the first one downstairs! 

I grabbed Rocky up by the back of the neck. Then I tucked him under one 
arm and dragged him up to the attic as fast as I could. 

When I returned to the kitchen a few moments later, Mom had already 
started breakfast. 

Whew! A close call. 

“Trina—you’re up early,” Mom said, filling the coffee maker with water. 
“Are you okay?” 

I glanced at the table. I had the sick feeling that Rocky would be sitting 
there sneering at me. 

But of course he was upstairs in the attic. I had just carried him up there. 

The table stood empty. 

“I’m fine,” I told her. “Just fine.” 

It was definitely Be Kind to Zane Day. After breakfast, Dad hurried off to the 
camera store. A short while later, Mom and Uncle Cal left for the mall to do 
some shopping. 

It was a bright morning. Yellow sunlight streamed in through the windows. 
The sky stretched clear and cloudless. 

Zane brought down his camera. He decided it was a perfect day to take 
some photographs. 

Dan and I expected him to go outside. But our cousin wanted to stay 
indoors and shoot. 

“I’m very interested in moldings,” he told us. 

We followed him around the house. Dan and I had made a solemn vow to 
be nice to Zane and not to scare him. 

After breakfast, when Zane was upstairs getting his camera, I grabbed my 
brother. I pinned him against the wall. “No tricks,” I told him. 

Dan tried to wriggle away. But I’m stronger than he is. I kept him pinned 
against the wall. “Raise your right hand and swear,” I instructed him. 

“Okay, okay.” He gave in easily. He raised his right hand, and he repeated 



the vow I recited. “No tricks against Zane. No making fun of Zane. No dummies 
— anywhere! ” 

I let him go as Zane returned with his camera. “You have some awesome 
moldings,” Zane said, gazing up at the living room ceiling. 

“Really?” I replied, trying to sound interested. 

What could be interesting about a molding? 

Zane tilted up his camera. He focused for what seemed like hours. Then he 
clicked a photo of the molding above the living room curtains. 

“Do you have a ladder?” he asked Dan. “Td really like to get a closer shot. 
I’m afraid my zoom lens will distort it.” 

And so Dan hurried off to the basement to get Zane a ladder. 

I was proud of my brother. He didn’t complain about having to go get the 
ladder. And he’d lasted a whole ten minutes without cracking any molding jokes 
or making fun of Zane. 

Which wasn’t easy. 

I mean, what kind of a nerd thinks it’s cool to take photos of ceilings and 
walls? 

Meanwhile, we had no school, and it was the sunniest, warmest, most 
beautiful day of March outside. Almost like spring. And Dan and I were stuck 
holding the ladder for Zane so he could use his macro lens and get a really tight 
molding shot. 

“Awesome!” Zane declared, snapping a few more. “Awesome!” 

He climbed down the ladder. He adjusted the lens. Fiddled with some other 
dials on the camera. 

“Want to go outside or something?” I suggested. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. “I’d like to get a few more banister shots,” he 
announced. “See the way the sunlight is pouring through the wooden bars? It 
makes a really interesting pattern on the wall.” 

I started to say something rude. But Dan caught my eye. He shook a finger 
at me. A warning. 

I bit my lip and didn’t say anything. 

This is sooooo boring, I thought. But at least we’re keeping out of trouble. 

We stood beside Zane as he photographed the banister from all angles. 
After about the tenth shot, his camera began to hum and whir. 

“End of the roll,” he announced. His eyes lit up. “Know what would be 
really cool? To go down into the basement to the darkroom and develop these 



right now.” 

“Cool,” I replied. I tried to sound sincere. Dan and I were both trying so 
hard to be nice to this kid! 

“Uncle Danny said I could use his darkroom downstairs,” Zane said, 
watching the camera as it rewound the film roll. “That would be awesome.” 

“Awesome,” I repeated. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. The most beautiful day of the century —and 
we were heading down to a dark closet in the basement. 

“I’ve never watched pictures get developed,” Dan told our cousin. “Can 
you show me how to do it?” 

“It’s pretty easy,” Zane replied, following us down the basement stairs. 
“Once you get the timing down.” 

We made our way through the laundry room, past the furnace, to the 
darkroom against the far wall. We slipped inside, and I clicked on the special red 
light. 

“Close the door tightly,” Zane instructed. “We can’t let in any light at all.” 

I double-checked the darkroom door. Then Zane set to work. He arranged 
the developing pans. He poured bottles of chemicals into the pans. He unspooled 
the film roll and began to develop. 

I’d watched Dad do it a hundred times before. It really was kind of 
interesting. And it was cool when the image began to appear and then darken on 
the developing paper. 

Dan and I stood close to Zane, watching him work. 

“I think I got some very good angles on the living room moldings,” Zane 
said. He dipped the large sheet of paper in one pan. Then he pulled it up, let it 
drip for a few seconds, and lowered it into the pan beside it. 

A grin spread over his face. “Let’s take a look.” 

He leaned over the table. Raised the sheet of paper. Held it up to the red 

light. 

His grin faded quickly. “Hey—who shot this?” he demanded angrily. 

Dan and I moved closer to see the photo. 

“Who shot this?” Zane repeated. He furiously picked up another sheet from 
the developing pan. Another one. Another one. 

“How did these get on the roll?” he cried. He shoved them all toward Dan 
and me. 

Photos of Rocky. 



Close-up portraits. 

Photo after photo of the sneering dummy. 

“Who shot them? Who?” Zane demanded angrily, shoving the wet photos in 
our faces. 

“I didn’t!” Dan declared, pulling back. 

“I didn’t either!” I protested. 

But then, who did? I asked myself, staring hard at the ugly, sneering face on 
each sheet. 

Who did? 



11 


“What’s going on up here, guys?” 

The dummies stared back at me blankly. None of them replied. 

“What’s the story?” I demanded. My eyes moved from one dummy to the 
next. “Come on, guys. Speak up or I’ll come back here with a buzz saw and give 
you all haircuts!” 

Silence. 

I paced back and forth in front of them, gazing at them sternly, my arms 
crossed in front of my chest. 

It was late in the afternoon. The sun had begun to lower itself behind the 
trees. Orange light washed in through the dusty attic windows. 

I had crept up to the attic to search for clues. Something weird was going 
on. 

How did all those photos of Rocky get onto Zane’s roll of film? Who took 
those photos? 

The same person who kept carrying Rocky downstairs and sitting him 
where he would frighten Zane. 

“It was Dan—right, guys?” I asked the wide-eyed dummies. “Dan came up 
here—right?” 

I searched the floor. The couch. Under all the chairs. 

I didn’t find a single clue. 

Now I was questioning the dummies. But of course they weren’t being very 
helpful. 

Stop wasting time and get back downstairs, I told myself. 

I turned and started to the stairs—when I heard soft laughter. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled cry and spun around. 

Another quiet laugh. A snicker. 

And then a hoarse voice: “Is your hair red? Or are you starting to rust? ,, 

“Excuse me?” I cried, raising a hand to my mouth. My eyes swept quickly 
from dummy to dummy. 

Who said that? 

“Hey, Trina... you’re pretty. Pretty ugly!” That was followed by another 



soft snicker. Evil laughter. 

“I like your perfume. What is it... flea and tick spray?” 

My eyes stopped on the new dummy, the one Dad called Smiley. He sat 
straight up in the center of the couch. The voice seemed to be coming from him. 
“Pinch me. I’m having a nightmare. Or is that really your face?” 

I froze. A cold shiver ran down my back. 

The hoarse voice did come from the new dummy! 

He stared blankly at me. His mouth hung open in a stiff, unpleasant grin. 

But the voice came from Smiley. The rude insults came from Smiley. 

But that’s impossible! I told myself. 

Impossible! 

Ventriloquist’s dummies can’t talk without a ventriloquist. 

“Th-this is crazy!” I stammered out loud. 

And then the dummy started to move. 



12 


I let out a scream. 

Dan popped up from behind the couch. 

The dummy toppled onto its side. 

“You-you-you—!” I sputtered, pointing furiously at my brother. 

My heart was pounding. I felt cold all over. “That’s not funny! You—you 
scared me to death!” I shrieked. 

To my surprise, Dan didn’t laugh. His eyes were narrowed. His mouth hung 
open. “Who was making those jokes?” he demanded. His eyes darted from 
dummy to dummy. 

“Give me a break!” I shot back. “Are you going to tell me it wasn’t you?” 

He scratched his short brown hair. “I didn’t say a word.” 

“Dan, you’re the biggest liar!” I cried. “How long have you been up here? 
What are you doing here? You were spying on me—right?” 

He shook his head and stepped out from behind the couch. “What are you 
doing up here, Trina?” he asked. “Did you come up to get Rocky? To take Rocky 
downstairs again and try to scare Zane?” 

I let out an angry growl and shoved Dan with all my might. 

He stumbled backwards and fell onto the couch. He cried out as he landed 
on top of the new dummy. He and the dummy appeared to wrestle for a moment 
as Dan struggled to climb to his feet. 

I stepped up close to the couch and blocked his way. As he tried to get up, I 
pushed him back down. 

“You know I’m not the one who’s been moving Rocky around,” I shouted. 
“We all know you’ve been doing it, Dan. And you’re going to get the two of us 
in real trouble with Dad.” 

“You’re wrong!” Dan declared angrily. His little mouse face turned bright 
red. “Wrong! Wrong! Wrong!” 

He burst up from the couch. The dummy bounced on the cushion. Its head 
turned. It appeared to grin up at me. 

I turned to my brother. “If you weren’t planning more trouble, what were 
you doing up here?” 

“Waiting,” he replied. 



“Excuse me? Waiting for whom?” I demanded, crossing my arms over my 
chest. 

“Just waiting,” he insisted. “Don’t you get it, Trina?” 

I kicked at a ball of dust on the floor. It stuck to the toe of my sneaker. “Get 
it? Get what?” 

“Don’t you see what’s going on?” Dan demanded. “Haven’t you caught on 

yet?” 

I bent down and pulled the dust ball off my sneaker. Now it stuck to my 
fingers. “What is in your little mouse brain?” I asked. I rolled my eyes. “This 
should be good.” 

My brother stepped up beside me. He lowered his voice to a whisper. “Zane 
is doing it all,” he said. 

I laughed. I wasn’t sure I’d heard him. 

“No. Really.” He grabbed my arm. “I know I’m right, Trina. Zane is doing 
everything. Zane is moving the dummy, bringing it downstairs, then pretending 
to be scared. Zane made it slap him. Zane carried it to the kitchen table both of 
those times.” 

I shoved Dan’s hand off my arm. Then I spread my hand over his forehead 
and pretended to check his temperature. “You are totally losing it,” I told him. 
“Go lie down. I’ll tell Mom you’re running a high fever.” 

“Listen to me!” Dan screeched. “I’m serious! I’m right. I know I’m right!” 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why would Zane do that, Dan? Why would he scare 
himself?” 

“To pay us back for last time,” Dan replied. “Don’t you get it? Zane is 
trying to get us in trouble.” 

I dropped down onto the couch beside Smiley. I thought hard about what 
my brother was saying. “You mean Zane wants Dad to think that you and I are 
using the dummies to scare Zane.” 

“Yes!” Dan cried. “But Zane is doing it all. He’s scaring himself. And 
making it look as if we’re doing it—to get us in big trouble.” 

I fiddled with the dummy’s hand as I thought about it some more. “Zane 
scare himself? I don’t think so,” I replied finally. “What gave you this idea? 
What proof do you have?” 

Dan dropped down on the couch arm. “First of all,” he started, “you didn’t 
carry Rocky downstairs all those times, did you?” 

I shook my head. “No way.” 



“Well, neither did I,” Dan declared. “So who does that leave? Rocky isn’t 
walking around by himself—right?” 

“Of course not. But—” 

“It was the camera that gave it away,” Dan said. “The photos Zane 
developed of Rocky were the biggest clue.” 

I let the dummy hand fall to the couch. “What do you mean?” I asked. I 
really wasn’t following my brother’s thinking at all. 

“That camera is never out of Zane’s sight,” Dan replied. “Most of the time, 
he keeps it around his neck. So who else could have snapped all those photos of 
Rocky?” 

I swallowed hard. “You mean that Zane—?” 

Dan nodded. “Zane was the only one who could have taken those pictures 
of Rocky. He sneaked up to the attic. He snapped them. Then he acted scared 
and angry when he developed them.” 

“But it was all an act?” I asked. 

“For sure,” Dan replied. “It’s all been an act. To scare us. And to get us in 
trouble with Dad. Zane is trying to pay us back for how we scared him last 
time.” 

I still had my doubts. “It isn’t like Zane,” I argued. “He’s so wimpy, so 
quiet and shy. He’s not the kind of boy who plays tricks on people.” 

“He’s had months to plan it!” Dan exclaimed. “Months to plan his revenge. 
We can prove it, Trina. We can hide up here and wait for him. That’s why I was 
up here. Hiding behind the couch.” 

“To catch him in the act?” 

Dan nodded. He whispered even though we were alone. “After everyone 
goes to bed tonight, let’s sneak up here and wait. Wait and see if Zane comes.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “It’s worth a try... I guess.” 

Was Dan right? 

Would we catch Zane in the act? 

I couldn’t wait for everyone to go to sleep. I was dying to find out. 



13 


Gusts of wind rattled the attic windowpanes. Heavy clouds covered the moon. 

We crept up the attic stairs into the darkness. Up a step. Then stop. Up a 
step. Then stop. Trying to be silent. 

The old house moaned and groaned beneath us. 

The attic stretched blacker than the stairway. 

I reached for the light switch. But Dan slapped my hand away. “Are you 
crazy?” he whispered. “It has to be dark. Totally dark. Or else Zane will know 
that someone is up here.” 

“I know that,” I whispered sleepily. “I just wanted to take one look at the 
dummies. You know. Make sure they’re all here.” 

“They’re all here,” Dan replied impatiently. “Just keep moving. We’ll hide 
behind the couch.” 

We crept on tiptoe over the attic floorboards. I couldn’t see a thing. The 
heavy clouds kept any light from washing in through the windows. 

Finally, my eyes adjusted to the darkness. I could see the arms of the couch. 
I saw dummy heads. Dummy shoulders. Shadows against shadows. 

“Dan—where are you?” I whispered. 

“Back here. Hurry.” His whisper came from behind the couch. 

I could feel the dummy eyes on me as I made my way around the couch. I 
thought I heard a soft snicker. The evil laughter again. 

But that had to be my imagination. 

I trailed my hand over the couch arm. Felt a wooden dummy hand resting 
on the arm. The dummy hand felt surprisingly warm. 

Humanly warm. 

Don’t start imagining things, Trina, I scolded myself. 

That dummy hand is warm because it’s hot up in this attic. 

The wind rattled the glass. Strong gusts roared against the roof, so low over 
our heads. 

I heard a loud groan. A soft chuckle. A strange whistling sound. 

Ignoring all the attic noises, I ducked down on the floor beside my brother. 
“Well? Here we are,” I whispered. “Now what?” 



“Sssshhhh.” In the darkness, I could see him raise a finger to his lips. “Now 
we wait. And listen.” 

We both turned and rested our backs against the back of the couch. I raised 
my knees and wrapped my arms around them. 

“He isn’t coming,” I whispered. “This is a waste of time.” 

“Ssshhh. Just wait, Trina,” Dan scolded. “Give him time.” 

I yawned. I felt so sleepy. The heat of the attic was making me even 
sleepier. 

I shut my eyes and thought about Zane. 

At dinner, he couldn’t wait to pass around the photographs of Rocky. “I 
don’t know who took these shots,” Zane complained to my dad. “But they 
wasted half a roll of film.” 

Dad glared angrily at Dan and me. But he didn’t make a fuss. “Can we talk 
about it after dinner?” he suggested quietly. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Zane told Dad in a trembling voice. “So many weird 
things have been happening. It’s like the dummies have lives of their own.” He 
shook his head. “Wow. I hope I don’t have nightmares tonight.” 

“Let’s not talk about the dummies now,” Mom chimed in. “Zane, tell us 
about your school. Who is your teacher this year? What are you studying?” 

“Could I have a second helping of potatoes?” Uncle Cal interrupted. He 
reached for the bowl. “They’re so good. I may have to make a pig of myself.” 

Dad took another quick glance at the close-up snapshots of Rocky. He 
flashed Dan and me another angry scowl. Then he set the photos down on the 
floor. 

After dinner, Dan and I were careful to keep as far away from Dad as we 
could. No way we wanted to hear another lecture about how we were terrifying 
our poor cousin. And how we’d be punished if we didn’t stop it at once. 

Now it was a little before midnight. And we were huddled in the dark attic. 
Listening to the swirling wind and the moans and groans of the house. Backs 
pressed against the couch. Waiting... 

I kept my eyes closed. Thinking hard. Thinking about Zane. About Rocky. 

Dan and I aren’t alone up here, I thought drowsily. There are thirteen 
wooden dummies up here with us. Thirteen pairs of eyes staring into the heavy 
darkness. Thirteen frozen grins. Except for Rocky’s sneer, of course. 

Empty, lifeless bodies... 

Heavy, wooden heads and hands... 



Thinking about the dummies, the dummies all around, I guess I drifted off 
to sleep. 

Did I dream about the dummies? 

Maybe I did. 

I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened by footsteps. Soft, shuffling footsteps across the attic floor. 
And I knew the dummies had come alive. 



14 


I jerked my head up, listening hard. 

My hands were still wrapped around my knees. Both hands had fallen 
asleep. They tingled. The back of my neck ached. My mouth felt dry and sour. 

I uttered a silent gasp as I heard the shuffling, scraping footsteps move 
closer. 

Not dummies walking around, I realized. 

A single figure. One. One person. Moving slowly, carefully toward the 
couch. 

Why did I think I heard dummies moving? It must have been a picture left 
over from my dream. 

I shook my hands, trying to make them stop tingling. 

I was wide awake now. Totally alert. 

The footsteps scraped closer. 

Could it be Dan? Where was Dan? 

Had he climbed up while I slept? Was he making his way back to the 
couch? 

No. 

Squinting into the darkness, I saw Dan beside me. 

He had climbed to his knees. He saw me move. He waved his hand and 
signaled for me to be silent. 

Dan gripped the back of the couch with both hands. Then he leaned forward 
and peered out into the room. 

I crawled to the other end of the couch. Then, keeping low, I poked my 
head out and squinted into the deep shadows. All grays and blacks. 

The wind howled around the house. Across the big attic room, the 
windowpanes rattled and shook. 

I wanted to jump out. To scream and jump out. And flash on the light. 

But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm. He must have read my thoughts. He raised 
a finger to his lips. 

We both waited. Frozen there behind the couch. Crouching low. Listening 
to each footstep. Each creak of the floorboards. 



The dark figure stopped in front of the folding chair next to the couch. He 
stood inches from Dan and me. If I wanted to, I could reach out and grab his leg. 

I struggled to see his face. But it was hidden by the couch. And I didn’t dare 
raise myself up higher. 

I heard the clonk of wood against wood. Two dummy hands hitting each 
other. 

I heard the rustle of heavy cloth. The thud of leather shoes bumping each 
other. 

The intruder had picked up a dummy off the chair. 

Squinting into the deep blackness, I could see him swing the dummy over 
his shoulder. I could see the dummy arms swaying, swaying at his back. 

The dark figure turned away quickly. And began walking to the attic stairs. 

I crept out from behind the couch. Moving on tiptoe, I began to follow the 
intruder. 

Pressed against the wall, tiptoeing as silently as I could, I moved across the 
room. I held my breath. I could hear Dan close behind me. 

I reached the light switch just as the intruder made it to the stairs. 

My hand fumbled against the wall as I reached. 

Reached... reached for the light switch with a trembling hand. 

Yes! 

I flicked on the light. And Dan and I both shrieked at the same time. 



15 


“Zane!” 

My brother and I both screamed his name. 

Zane’s eyes bulged. His mouth opened in a high, frightened wail. 

I saw his knees bend. I think he nearly crumpled to the floor. 

He uttered several squeaks. Then his mouth hung open. I could see he was 
gasping for breath. 

“Zane—we caught you!” I managed to choke out. 

He had Rocky draped over his shoulder. 

“What—what—?” Zane struggled to speak, but no words came out. He 
sputtered and started to choke. The sneering dummy bounced on his shoulder. 

“Zane—we figured it out,” Dan told him. “Your little tricks aren’t going to 
work.” 

Our cousin was still sputtering and coughing. 

“We know it’s been you all along,” Dan told him. 

He stepped over and slapped Zane hard on the back a few times. 

After a few seconds, Zane stopped sputtering. 

Dan picked Rocky up off Zane’s shoulder and started to carry him back to 
his chair. 

“How-how-how did you know?” Zane stammered. 

“We just figured it out,” I told him. “What’s the big idea, anyway?” 

Zane shrugged. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “You know. Just having 
some fun.” 

I glared at him. “Some fun?” I cried angrily. “You tried to get us in huge 
trouble. You—you could have ruined our whole summer!” 

Zane shrugged again. “It was kind of my turn. You know?” 

“Well, we’re even now,” Dan chimed in. 

“Right,” I agreed quickly. “We’re all even now—right, Zane?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” A grin spread slowly over his face. “I had you 
guys going, didn’t I? With that stupid dummy popping up everywhere you 
looked.” 

Dan and I didn’t grin back. 



“You fooled us,” I murmured. 

“You fooled everyone,” my brother added. 

Zane grinned. A gleeful grin. I could see how pleased he was with himself. 
“I guess Dan and I deserved it,” I confessed. 

“Guess you did,” Zane shot back. Would he ever stop grinning? 

“So now that we’re even, do we have a truce?” I demanded. “No more 
joking around with the dummies? No more trying to scare each other or get 
anyone in trouble?” 

Zane bit his lower lip. He thought about it a long, long time. “Okay. Truce,” 
he said finally. 

We all shook hands solemnly. Then we slapped each other high fives. Then 
the three of us started laughing. I’m not sure why. The laughter just burst out of 
us. 

Crazy giggling. 

I guess because it was so late and we were so sleepy. And we were so glad 
we could be friends now. We didn’t have to play tricks on each other anymore. 

As we made our way down the stairs, I felt really happy. 

I thought all the scary stuff with the dummies was over. 

I had no way of knowing that it was just beginning. 



16 


The next morning, Dan, Zane, and I went for a long bike ride. The strong winds 
had faded away during the night. A soft breeze, warm and fresh-smelling, 
followed us as we pedaled along the path. 

The trees were still winter bare. The ground glistened with a silvery 
morning frost. But the sweet, warm air told me that spring was on its way. 

We hiked slowly, following a dirt path that curved into the woods. The sun, 
still low in the sky, warmed our faces. I stopped to unzip my jacket. And pointed 
to a patch of green daffodil leaves just beginning to poke up from the ground. 

“Only three more months of school!” Dan cried. He raised both fists in the 
air and let out a cheer. 

“We’re going to camp this summer for the first time,” I told Zane. “Up in 
Massachusetts.” 

“For eight weeks!” Dan added happily. 

Zane brushed back his blond hair. He leaned over the handlebars of my 
dad’s bike and began pedaling harder. “I don’t know what I’m doing this 
summer,” he said. “Probably just hanging out.” 

“What do you want to do this summer?” I asked him. 

He grinned at me. “Just hang out.” 

We all laughed. I was in a great mood and so were the guys. 

Dan kept pulling wheelies, leaning way back and raising his front tire off 
the ground. Zane tried to do it—and crashed into a tree. 

He went sailing to the ground, and the bike fell on top of him. I expected 
him to whine and complain. That’s his usual style. But he picked himself up, 
muttering, “Smooth move, Zane.” 

“I want to see that one again!” Dan joked. 

Zane laughed. “You try it!” 

He brushed the dirt off his jeans and climbed back onto the bike. We 
pedaled on down the path, joking and laughing. 

I think we were in such great moods because of the truce. We could finally 
relax and not worry about who was trying to terrify who. 

The dirt path ended at a small, round pond. The pond gleamed in the 
sunlight, still half-frozen from the long winter. 



Zane climbed off his bike and rested it on the tall grass. Then he stepped up 
to the edge of the pond to take photos. 

“Look at the weeds poking up from the melting ice!” he exclaimed, clicking 
away. “Awesome. Awesome!” He knelt down low and snapped a bunch of weed 
photos. 

Dan and I exchanged glances. I couldn’t see what was so special about the 
weeds. But I guess that’s why I’m not a photographer. 

As Zane stood up, a tiny brown-and-black chipmunk scampered along the 
edge of the pond. Zane swung his camera and clicked off a couple of shots. 

“Hey! I think I got him!” he declared happily. 

“Great!” I cried. Everything seemed great this morning. 

We hung out at the pond for a while. We took a short walk through the 
woods. Then we started to get hungry for lunch. So we rode back to the house. 

We were about to return the bikes to the garage when Zane spotted the old 
well at the back of our yard. “Cool!” he cried, his blue eyes lighting up. “Let’s 
check it out!” 

Holding his camera in one hand, he hopped off his bike and went running 
across the grass to the well. 

It’s a round, stone well with green moss covering the smooth gray stones. It 
used to have a pointed red roof over it. But the roof blew off during a bad storm, 
and Dad hauled it away. 

When we were little, Dan and I used to scare each other by pretending that 
monsters and trolls lived down inside it. But we hadn’t paid much attention to 
the old well in years. Dad kept saying he was going to tear it down and cover it 
up. But he never got around to it. 

Zane clicked a bunch of photos. “Is there still water down there?” he asked. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

Dan grabbed Zane around the waist. “We could toss you down and see if 
you make a splash!” he declared. 

Zane wrestled himself out of my brother’s grasp. “I’ve got a better idea.” 
He picked up a stone and dropped it down the well. 

After a long wait, we heard a splash far down below. 

“Cool!” Zane exclaimed. He took several more pictures until he had 
finished the roll. 

Then we made our way inside the house for lunch. We hurried upstairs to 
clean up. 



Zane stopped at the doorway to his room. 

I saw his eyes bulge and his mouth drop open. I saw his face go white. 
Dan and I ran up next to him. 

We stared into the bedroom—and cried out in horror. 



17 


“The r-room—it’s been trashed /” Dan stammered. 

The three of us huddled in the doorway, staring into the bedroom. Staring at 
an unbelievable mess. 

At first I thought maybe Zane had left the windows open all night, and the 
strong winds had blown everything around. 

But that didn’t make any sense. 

All of the clothes had been pulled out of the closet and tossed over the floor. 
The dresser drawers had all been pulled out and dumped over the carpet. 

The bookshelves had been emptied. Books littered the floor, the bed—they 
were tossed everywhere. One bed table was turned on its side. The other stood 
upside down on top of the bed. A lamp lay on the floor in front of the closet. Its 
shade was ripped and broken. 

“Look—!” Zane pointed into the center of the room. 

Sitting on a tangled hill of clothes was Rocky. The dummy sat straight up, 
his legs crossed casually in front of him. He sneered at us as if daring us to enter. 

“I-I really don’t believe this!” I cried, tugging at the sides of my hair. 

“What don’t you believe?” 

Mom’s voice made me jump. 

I turned to see her coming out of her bedroom. She tucked her blue sweater 
into her jeans as she walked toward us. 

“Mom—!” I cried. “Something terrible has happened!” 

Her smile faded. “What on earth—?” she started. 

I stepped aside so she could see into Zane’s room. 

“Oh, no!” Mom cried out and raised both hands to her cheeks. She 
swallowed hard. “Did someone break in?” Her voice sounded tiny and 
frightened. 

I peered quickly into my room across the hall. “No. I don’t think so,” I 
reported. “This is the only room that’s messed up.” 

“But—but—” Mom sputtered. Then her eyes stopped on Rocky on top of 
the pile of clothes. “What is he doing down here?” Mom demanded. 

“We don’t know,” I told her. 

“But who did this?” Mom cried, still pressing her hands against her cheeks. 



“We didn’t!” Dan declared. 

“We’ve been outside all morning,” Zane added breathlessly. “It wasn’t 
Trina, or Dan, or me. We weren’t home. We were riding bikes.” 

“But—someone had to do this!” Mom declared. “Someone deliberately tore 
this room apart.” 

But who was it? I wondered. My eyes darted around the mess, landing on 
the sneering dummy. 

Who was it? 



18 


We all pitched in and helped get the room back together. It took the rest of the 
afternoon. 

The lamp in front of the closet was broken. Everything else just had to be 
picked up and put back where it belonged. 

We worked in silence. None of us knew what to say. 

At first, Mom wanted to call the police. But there was no sign that someone 
had broken into the house. All the other rooms were perfectly okay. 

Dad returned home from the camera shop while we were still cleaning up. 
He, of course, was furious. “What do I have to do? Bolt the attic door?” he 
shouted at Dan and me. 

He grabbed up Rocky and slung the dummy over his shoulder. “This isn’t a 
joke anymore,” Dad said, narrowing his eyes at both of us. “This isn’t funny. 
This is serious.” 

“But we didn’t do it!” I protested for the hundredth time. 

“Well, the dummy didn’t do it,” Dad shot back. “That’s one thing I know 
for sure.” 

I don’t know anything for sure, I thought. I stared at Rocky’s sneering face 
as Dad started down the hall to the attic stairs. Then I bent down to pick up the 
broken lamp from the floor. 

That night I dreamed once again about ventriloquist’s dummies. 

I saw them dancing. A dozen of them. All of Dad’s dummies from upstairs. 

I saw them dancing in Zane’s room. Dancing over the tangled piles of 
clothes and books. Dancing over the bed. Over the toppled bed table. 

I saw Rocky dancing with Miss Lucy. I saw Wilbur doing a frantic, crazy 
dance on top of the dresser. And I saw Smiley, the new dummy, clapping his 
wooden hands, bobbing his head, grinning, grinning from the middle of the room 
as the other dummies danced around him. 

They waved their big hands over their heads. Their skinny legs twisted and 

bent. 

They danced in silence. No music. No sound at all. 

And as their bodies twisted and swayed, their faces remained frozen. They 



grinned at one another with blank, unblinking eyes. Grinned their frightening, 
red-lipped grins. 

Bobbed and bent, tilted and swayed, grinning, grinning, grinning the whole 
time in the eerie silence. 

And then the grins faded as I pulled myself out of the dream. 

I opened my eyes. Slowly woke up. 

Felt the heavy hands on my neck. 

Stared up into Rocky’s ugly face. 

Rocky on top of me. The dummy on top of my blanket. Over me. 

Reaching. Reaching his heavy wooden hands for my throat! 



19 


I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 

My hands shot out. I grabbed the dummy’s hands. 

I thrashed my legs. Kicked off the blanket. Kicked at the dummy. 

The big eyes stared at me as if startled. 

I grabbed his head. Shoved him down. 

I sat up, my entire body trembling. Then I grabbed the dummy’s waist. 

And flung him to the floor. 

The ceiling light flashed on. Mom and Dad burst into my room together. 

“What’s happening?” 

“Trina—what’s wrong?” 

They both stopped short when they saw the dummy sprawled on the floor 
beside my bed. 

“He—he—” I gasped, pointing down at Rocky. I struggled to catch my 
breath. “Rocky—he jumped on me. He tried to choke me. I-I woke up and—” 

Dad let out a loud growl and tore at his hair. “This has got to stop!” he 
bellowed. 

Mom dropped down beside me on the bed and wrapped me in a hug. I 
couldn’t stop my shoulders from trembling. 

“It was so scary!” I choked out. “I woke up—and there he was!” 

“This is out of control!” Dad screamed, shaking his fist in the air. “Out of 
control!” 

Mom calmed me down. Then she and I both had to calm Dad down. 

Finally, after everyone was calm, they turned out the light and made their 
way out of the room. They closed the door. I heard Dad carrying Rocky back up 
to the attic. 

Maybe Dad should get a lock for the attic door, I thought. 

I shut my eyes and tried not to think about Rocky, or Zane, or the dummies 
—or anything at all. 

After a while, I must have drifted back to sleep. 

I don’t know how much time passed. 

I was awakened by a knock on the door. Two sharp knocks and then two 



more. 

I sat straight up with a gasp. 

I knew that Rocky had come back. 



20 


The bedroom door creaked open slowly. 

I took a deep breath and held it, staring through the dark. 

“Trina—?” a voice whispered. “Trina—are you awake?” 

As the door opened, a rectangle of gray light spilled into the room from the 
hallway. Dan poked his head in, then took a few steps across the floor. 

“Trina? It’s me.” 

I let out my breath in a long whoosh. “Dan—what do you want?” My voice 
was hoarse from sleep. 

“I heard everything,” Dan said, stepping up beside the bed. He pulled down 
one pajama sleeve. Then he raised his eyes to me. “Zane put Rocky on your bed. 
Zane did it!” Dan whispered. 

“Huh? Why do you say that? We all have a truce—remember? Zane agreed 
the tricks were all over.” 

“Right,” Dan whispered. “And now Zane thinks he can really scare us. 
Because we don’t suspect him any longer. Zane hasn’t given up, Trina. I’m sure 
of it.” 

I bit my lower lip. I tried to think about what Dan was saying. But I was so 
sleepy! 

Dan leaned close and whispered excitedly. “This morning before we went 
biking, Zane went up to his room—remember? He said he forgot his camera. 
So... he had time to mess up his room. Before he left the house.” 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I murmured. 

“And tonight he brought Rocky down and set him up on your bed. I’m sure 
of it,” Dan insisted. “I’m sure it’s Zane. We have to hide up in the attic again. 
Tomorrow night. We’ll catch Zane again. I know we will.” 

“Hide up there again? No way!” I cried. “It’s hot up there. And too creepy. 
And I’m staying as far away from those dummies as I can.” 

My brother sighed. “I know I’m right,” he whispered. 

“I don’t know what I know,” I replied. “I don’t know anything about 
anything.” I slid under the covers, pulled the blanket over my head, and tried to 
get back to sleep. 



The next night, Mom and Dad had a dinner party in honor of Zane and Uncle 
Cal. They invited the Birches and the Canfields from down the street, and 
Cousin Robin and her husband Fred. 

Fred is a great guy. Everyone calls him Froggy because he can puff out his 
cheeks like a frog. Froggy is short and very round and really looks like a frog. 

He always makes me laugh. He knows a million great jokes. Robin is 
always trying to get him to shut up. But he never does. 

Mom and Dad don’t have many dinner parties. So they had to work all day 
to get the dining room ready. To set the table. And to cook the dinner. 

Mom made a leg of lamb. Dad cooked up his specialty—Caribbean-style 
scalloped potatoes. Very spicy. 

Mom bought flowers for the table. She and Dad brought out all the fancy 
plates and glasses that we usually see only on holidays. 

The dining room really looked awesome as we all sat down to dinner. Dan, 
Zane, and I were down at the far end of the table. Froggy sat at our end. I guess, 
because he’s just a big kid. 

Froggy told me a moron joke. Someone asks a moron: “Can you stand on 
your head?” And the moron says, “No, I can’t. It’s up too high.” 

I started to laugh when I saw Zane jump up from the table. “Where are you 
going?” I called after him. 

Zane turned back at the dining room doorway. “To get my camera,” he 
replied. “I want to take some pictures of the table before it gets all messed up.” 

He disappeared upstairs. 

A few seconds later, we all heard him scream. 

Chairs scraped the floor as everyone jumped up. We all went running up the 
stairs. 

I reached Zane’s room first. From the doorway, I saw him standing in the 
center of the room. 

I saw the sick look on Zane’s face. 

And then I saw the camera in his hand. 

Or what was left of the camera. 

It looked as if it had been run over by a truck. The film door had been 
twisted off and lay on the floor. The lens was smashed. The whole camera body 
was bent and broken. 

Zane turned the camera over in his hands, gazing down at it sadly, shaking 



his head. 

I raised my eyes to the bed. And saw Rocky sitting on the bedspread. A roll 
of gray film unspooled across his lap. 

Dad burst into the room. All of our other guests pushed in after him. 

“What happened?” someone asked. 

“Is that Zane’s camera?” 

“What’s going on?” 

“That’s what happens when you try to take my picture!” Froggy joked. 

No one laughed. It wasn’t funny. 

Dad’s face turned dark red as he took the camera from Zane’s hand. Dad 
examined it carefully. His expression remained grim. 

“This isn’t mischief anymore,” he murmured. I could barely hear him over 
all the other voices in the room. Everyone had begun talking at once. 

“This cannot be allowed,” Dad said solemnly. He raised his eyes to Dan, 
then me. He stared at us both for the longest time without saying anything. 

Zane let out a long sigh. I turned and saw that he was about to cry. 

“Zane—” I started. 

But he uttered an angry shout. Then he pushed past Froggy and Mr. and 
Mrs. Birch. And went running from the room. 

“Someone here has done a very sick thing,” Dad said sadly. He raised the 
camera to his face, running a finger over the broken lens. “This is a very 
expensive camera. It was Zane’s most prized possession.” 

All of our guests became very quiet. 

Dad kept his eyes on Dan and me. He started to say something else. 

But then we all heard the deafening crash from downstairs. 



21 


“What is going on here?” Dad cried. He tossed the broken camera onto the bed 
and darted from the room. 

The others went hurrying after him. All talking at once. I heard their shoes 
pounding down the stairs. 

I turned to Dan. “Still think Zane is doing these things?” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” 

“No way,” I told him. “No way Zane is going to smash his own camera. He 
loved his camera. No way he would smash it just to get you and me in trouble.” 

Dan raised troubled eyes to me. “Then I don’t get it,” he said in a tiny 
voice. I could see the fear on his face. 

I heard startled shouts and cries of alarm from downstairs. “Let’s check out 
the next disaster,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

We reached the bedroom door at the same time and squeezed through 
together. Then I led the way along the hall and down the stairs. 

I fought back my own fear as we approached the dining room. 

Something very strange was going on in this house, I knew. Dad was right 
when he said it was no joke. 

Tearing Zane’s room apart wasn’t a joke. It was evil. 

Wrecking Zane’s camera was evil, too. 

Thinking about Rocky gave me a chill. The dummy was always there. 
Whenever something evil happened, there sat Rocky. 

Trina, don’t be crazy! I scolded myself. Don’t start thinking that a wooden 
ventriloquist’s dummy can be evil. 

That’s crazy thinking. That’s really messed up. 

But what could I think? 

My throat tightened. My mouth suddenly felt very dry. 

I took a deep breath and led the way into the dining room. 

I saw Dad in the kitchen doorway. He had his arm around Mom’s shoulders. 
Mom had her head buried against Dad’s shirtsleeve. 

Was she crying? 

Yes. 



The guests all stood against the wall, shaking their heads, their expressions 
grim and confused. They muttered quietly, staring at the disaster. 

The disaster. The terrible disaster. 

The dining room table. 

I saw the overturned platters first. Dad’s scalloped potatoes smeared over 
the tablecloth. Clumps of potatoes stuck to the wall and the front of the china 
hutch. 

The salad poured over the floor and the chairs. The bread ripped into small 
chunks, the chunks tossed over the table. The flowers ripped off their stems. The 
vase on its side, water pouring over the tablecloth, puddling on the floor. 

The glasses all turned over. A bottle of red wine tipped over, a dark red 
stain spreading over the tablecloth. 

I heard Mom’s sobs. I heard the sounds of Dad’s muttered attempts to calm 
her down. I saw the other guests shaking their heads, their faces so upset, so 
concerned, so puzzled. 

And then Dan grabbed my shoulder and pointed me toward the head of the 
table. And I saw two dummies sitting there on dining room chairs. 

Wilbur and the new dummy. Wilbur and Smiley. 

They sat at the table, grinning at each other, wine glasses in their hands. As 
if celebrating. As if toasting each other. 



22 


That night, Dan and I hid behind the couch in the attic once again. The attic 
stretched dark and silent. So dark, I could barely see my brother sitting beside 
me. 

We were both in pajamas. The air was hot and dry. But my hands and my 
bare feet felt cold and clammy. 

We talked softly, our legs stretched out on the floor, resting against the back 
of the couch. As we talked, we waited—and listened. Listened to every sound. 

It was nearly midnight, but I didn’t feel sleepy. I felt alert. Ready for 
anything. 

Ready to catch Zane in the act once again. 

This time, I brought my little flash camera with me. When Zane crept up 
here to carry one of the dummies downstairs, I’d snap his photo. Then I’d have 
proof to show Mom and Dad. 

Yes, I finally decided that Dan was right. Zane had to be the one who was 
destroying our house. 

Destroying our house and trying to scare everyone into thinking the 
dummies had come to life. 

“But why?” I whispered to Dan. “Did we scare Zane so badly the last time 
he was here? So badly that he’ll do anything to pay us back?” 

“He’s sick,” Dan muttered. “That’s the only answer. He’s totally messed 

up.” 

“So messed up that he wrecked his own camera,” I murmured, shaking my 
head. 

“So messed up that he ran downstairs and trashed the dining room,” Dan 
added. 

The dining room. That’s what convinced me that Zane was guilty. 

All of us were upstairs in Zane’s room, examining his broken camera. 

Zane was the only other person downstairs. 

Zane was the only person in the house who could have trashed the dining 
room and wrecked the dinner. 

Of course he acted horrified and shocked. Of course he acted as if he didn’t 
have a clue about what had happened. 



What a sad, sad night. 

The dinner guests didn’t know what to say to Mom and Dad. It was such a 
frightening mystery. No one had an answer. 

The guests helped clean up the mess. The food was ruined. It couldn’t be 
eaten. No one felt like eating, anyway. 

Everyone left as soon as the dining room was cleaned and cleared. 

As the last guest left, I turned to Dan. “Uh-oh,” I whispered. “Family 
Conference Time. We’re in for a major lecture now.” 

But I was wrong. Mom hurried up to her room. And Dad said he was too 
disgusted to talk to anyone. 

Uncle Cal asked if Dad would like him to take the car and pick up some 
fried chicken or hamburgers or something. 

Dad just scowled at him and stomped away. He carried Smiley and Wilbur 
up to the attic. I heard him slam the attic door. Then he disappeared into the 
bedroom to help comfort Mom. 

Zane turned to his dad. “I-I can’t believe my good camera is smashed,” he 
whimpered. 

Uncle Cal placed a hand on Zane’s shoulder. “I’ll bet your uncle Danny has 
a new camera at his shop that he’ll want to give you.” 

“But I liked my old camera!” Zane wailed. 

And that’s when I decided he was guilty. He’s a phony, I decided. He’s 
carrying on like this—putting on a show for Dan and me. 

But I wasn’t going to fall for it. No way. 

I made sure I had film in my little camera. Then I grabbed Dan and we 
crept up to the attic to wait. To wait in the darkness and catch Zane. 

To end the disasters in our house once and for all. 

We didn’t have to wait long. 

After about half an hour, I heard the tap of soft footsteps on the attic floor. 

I sucked in my breath. My whole body tensed, and I nearly dropped the 
camera. 

Beside me, Dan raised himself to his knees. 

My heart pounding, I crept to the edge of the couch. 

Tap tap. Shuffling footsteps on the bare floorboards. 

I saw a dark figure bend down and lift a dummy off a chair. 

“It’s Zane,” I whispered to Dan. “I knew it!” 

In the heavy darkness, I could see him carrying the dummy to the stairs. 



I stood up. My legs trembled. But I moved quickly. 

I raised the camera. Stepped in front of the couch. 

Pushed the shutter button. 

The room flashed in an explosion of white light. 

I clicked off another one. 

Another bright white flash. 

And in the flash, I saw Rocky dangling over Zane’s shoulder. 

No. 

Not Zane! 

Not Zane. Not Zane. 

In the flash of light, I saw Rocky dangling over another dummy’s shoulder! 
Smiley! The new dummy. 

The new dummy was shuffling toward the stairs, carrying Rocky away. 



23 


The dummy turned. 

My hand fumbled for the light switch. I clicked on the light. 

I stood frozen in front of the couch. Too startled to move. 

“Smiley—stop!” I screamed. 

The dummy’s grin faded. The eyes narrowed at me. “I’m not Smiley,” he 
croaked. He had a hoarse, raspy voice. “My name is Slappy.” 

He turned back to the stairs. 

“Stop him!” I cried to my brother. 

We both made a dive for the dummy. 

Slappy spun around. He pulled Rocky off his shoulder—and heaved him at 

Dan. 

I grabbed Slappy around the waist and tackled him to the floor. 

He swung both hands hard. One of them slammed into my forehead. 

“Unh.” I let out a groan as the pain shot through me. 

My hands slid off the dummy’s slender waist. Slappy jumped nimbly to his 
feet, his grin wide and leering. 

He was enjoying this! 

He kicked me in the side with the toe of his big leather shoe. 

My head still throbbing, I rolled out of the way. And turned back in time to 
see Dan grab the dummy from behind. 

Dan drove his head into the dummy’s back. They both dropped hard to the 
floor. 

“Let go of me, slave!” Slappy demanded in his ugly, hoarse voice. “You are 
my slave now! Let go of me! I order you!” 

I pulled myself to my knees as Dan and Slappy wrestled over the floor. 

“He’s so... strong!” Dan called out to me. 

Slappy rolled on top of him. Started to pound him with his wooden fists. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders and tugged with all my strength. Slappy 
swung his arms, thrashing at my brother. 

I pulled hard, trying to tug him off Dan’s stomach. 

“Let go! Let go!” the dummy shrieked. “Let go, slave!” 



“Get off him!” I cried. 

We were making such a racket, I didn’t hear the attic door open downstairs. 
And I didn’t hear the footsteps running up the stairs. 

A face appeared. And then a large body. 

“Dad!” I cried breathlessly. “Dad—look!” 

“What on earth—!” Dad exclaimed. 

“Dad—it’s alive! The dummy is alive!” I shrieked. 

“Huh?” Squinting through his glasses, Dad lowered his gaze to the dummy 
on the floor. 

The dummy sprawled lifelessly on its back beside Dan. One arm was 
twisted beneath its back. Both legs were bent in two. 

The mouth hung open in its painted grin. The eyes stared blankly at the 
ceiling. 

“It is alive!” Dan insisted. “It really is!” 

Dad stared down at the still, silent dummy. 

“The dummy picked up Rocky!” Dan declared in a high, excited voice. “He 
said his name was Slappy. He picked up Rocky. He was carrying him 
downstairs.” 

Dad tsk-tsked and shook his head. “Give it up, Dan,” he murmured angrily. 
“Just stop it right now.” He raised his eyes to Dan, then to me. “I knew you two 
were the troublemakers.” 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“I’m not an idiot,” Dad snapped, scowling at me. “You can’t expect me to 
believe a dumb story about a dummy coming to life and carrying another 
dummy around. Have you both lost your minds entirely?” 

“It’s true,” Dan insisted. 

We both gazed down at Slappy. He sure didn’t look alive. For a moment, I 
had the frightening feeling that I’d dreamed the whole scene. 

But then I remembered something. “I have proof!” I cried. “Dad, I can 
prove to you that Dan and I aren’t lying.” 

Dad rubbed the back of his neck. “I’m so tired,” he moaned. “It’s been such 
a long, horrible day. Please. Give me a break, Trina.” 

“But I took some pictures!” I told him. “I have pictures of Slappy carrying 
Rocky!” 

“Trina, I’m warning you—” Dad started. 

But I spun away, searching for my camera. Where was it? Where? 



It took me a few seconds to spot it on the floor against the wall back by the 
couch. I hurried across the room to grab it. 

And stopped halfway. 

The back of the camera—it had sprung open. The film was exposed. The 
pictures were ruined. 

The camera must have flown out of my hand when I tried to tackle Slappy, I 
realized. I picked it up and examined it sadly. 

No pictures. No proof. 

I turned back to find Dad scowling at me. “No more wasting my time, 
Trina. You two are grounded until further notice. I’m so disgusted with both of 
you. Your mother and I will think of other punishments after your cousin 
leaves.” 

Then Dad waved a hand at Slappy and Rocky. “Put them away. Right now. 
And stay out of the attic. Stay away from my dummies. That’s all I have to say 
to you. Good night.” 

Dad turned away sharply and stomped down the stairs. 

I glanced at Dan and shrugged. I didn’t know what to say. 

My heart was pounding. I was so angry. So upset. So hurt. My chest felt 
about to explode. 

I bent down to pick up Slappy. 

The dummy winked at me. 

His ugly grin grew wider. And then he puckered his red lips and made 
disgusting, wet kissing sounds. 



24 


“Don’t touch me, slave,” Slappy growled. 

I gasped and jumped back. I still couldn’t believe this was happening. I 
wrapped my arms around myself to stop my body from trembling. 

“You—you really are alive?” Dan asked softly. 

“You bet your soft head lam!” the dummy roared. 

“What do you want?” I cried. “Why are you doing this to us? Why are you 
getting us in all this trouble?” 

The ugly grin spread over his face. “If you treat me nice, slaves, maybe I 
won’t get you in any more trouble. Maybe you’ll get lucky.” He tapped his head 
and added, “Knock on wood.” 

“We’re not your slaves!” I insisted. 

He tossed back his head and let out a dry laugh. “Who’s the dummy here?” 
he cried. “You or me?” 

“You carried Rocky downstairs all those times?” Dan asked. I could see that 
my brother was having a hard time believing this, too. 

“You don’t think that bag of kindling can move on his own, do you?” 
Slappy sneered. “I had some fun with that ugly guy. I put him at the scene of the 
crimes to throw you off the track. To keep you slaves guessing.” 

“And you smashed Zane’s camera and ruined the dinner party?” I 
demanded. 

He narrowed his eyes to evil slits. “I’ll do much worse if you slaves don’t 
obey me.” 

I could feel the anger rising through my body. “You—you’re going to ruin 
everything!” I screamed at him. “You’re going to ruin our lives! You’re going to 
keep us from going to camp this summer!” 

Slappy snickered. “You won’t be going to camp. You’ll be staying home to 
take good care of me!” 

And then I exploded. 

“Nooooo!” I uttered a long wail of protest. 

I grabbed his head in both hands. I started to tug. 

I remembered his head had been split in two when Dad found him. I 
planned to pull his head apart—to split it in two again! 



He kicked his legs frantically and thrashed his arms. 

His heavy shoes kicked at my legs. 

But I held on tight. Pulling. Pulling. Struggling to pull his head apart. 

“Let me try! Let me try!” Dan called. 

I let out a sigh and dropped the dummy to the floor. “It’s no use,” I told 
Dan. “Dad did too good a job. It’s glued tight.” 

Slappy scrambled to his feet. He shook his head. “Thanks for the head 
massage, slave! Now rub my back!” He laughed, an ugly dry laugh that sounded 
more like a cough. 

Dan stared at the dummy in wide-eyed horror. “Trina—what are we going 
to do?” he cried, his voice just above a whisper. 

“How about a game of Kick the Dummy Down the Stairs?” Slappy 
suggested, leering at us. “We’ll take turns being the dummy. You can go first!” 

“We—we have to do something!” Dan stammered. “He’s a monster! He’s 
evil! We have to get rid of him!” 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 

And then I had an idea. 



25 


Slappy must have read my thoughts. He turned and started to run. 

But I dove fast—and wrapped my hands around his skinny legs. 

He let out a harsh, angry cry as I began twisting his legs around each other, 
struggling to tie them in a knot. 

He swung an arm. The wooden hand caught me on the ear. 

But I held on. 

“Dan—grab his arms! Hurry!” 

My brother moved quickly. Slappy tried to bat him away. But Dan ducked 
low. And when he came up, he grabbed Slappy’s wrists and held on. 

“Let me go, slaves!” the dummy rasped. “Let me go now. You’ll be sorry! 
You’ll pay!” 

I saw the fear on Dan’s face. 

Slappy swung a hand free. He tried to swipe at Dan’s throat. 

But Dan reached out and grabbed onto the loose arm again. 

I felt eyes on me. I glanced up to see the other dummies around the room. 
They appeared to watch us struggle. A silent, still audience. 

I pulled a red kerchief off a dummy’s neck. And I stuffed it into Slappy’s 
mouth to keep him quiet. 

“Downstairs! Hurry!” I instructed my brother. 

The dummy twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. 

But I had his legs tied around each other. And Dan kept a tight grip on his 
arms. 

We began making our way to the attic stairs. “Where are we taking him?” 
Dan demanded. 

“Outside,” I replied. The dummy bucked and squirmed. I nearly dropped 

him. 

“In our pajamas?” Dan asked. 

I nodded and began backing down the stairs. Slappy struggled hard to get 
free. I nearly lost my balance and toppled over backwards. 

“We’re not going far,” I groaned. 

Somehow we made it all the way downstairs. I had to let go with one hand 



to open the front door. Slappy bucked his knees, trying to untangle his legs. 

I pushed the door open. Grabbed the legs again. 

Dan and I carried the squirming dummy outside. 

A cold, clear night. A light, silvery frost over the grass. A half moon high 
over the trees. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a moan as my bare feet touched the frozen grass. 

“It’s c-cold!” Dan stammered. “I can’t hold on much longer.” 

I saw him shiver. The front lawn suddenly darkened as clouds rolled over 
the moon. My legs trembled. The damp cold seeped through my thin pajamas. 

“Where are we taking him?” Dan whispered. 

“Around to the back.” 

Slappy kicked hard. But I held on tightly. 

Something scampered past my bare feet. I heard scurrying footsteps over 
the frosty ground. 

A rabbit? A raccoon? 

I didn’t stop to see. Gripping Slappy’s ankles with both hands, I backed up. 
Backed along the side of the house. 

“My feet are numb!” Dan complained. 

“Almost there,” I replied. 

Slappy uttered hoarse cries beneath the kerchief that gagged his mouth. His 
round eyes rolled wildly. Again, he tried to kick free. 

Dan and I hauled him to the back of the yard. By the time we got to the old 
well, my feet were frozen numb, too. And my whole body shook from the cold. 

“What are we going to do?” Dan asked in a tiny voice. 

The clouds rolled away. Shadows pulled back. The silvery moonlight lit up 
the old stone well. 

“We’re going to toss him down the well,” I groaned. 

Dan stared at me, surprised. 

“He’s evil,” I explained. “We have no choice.” 

Dan nodded. 

We lifted Slappy onto the smooth stones at the top of the well. He bucked 
and kicked. He tried to scream through his gag. 

I saw Dan shiver again. 

“It’s a wooden dummy,” I told him. “It isn’t a person. It’s an evil wooden 
dummy.” 

We both shoved hard at the same time. 



The dummy slid off the stone wall and dropped into the well. 

Dan and I both waited until we heard the splash from far below. 

Then we ran side by side back to the house. 

He’s gone! I thought gratefully. Joyfully. The evil thing is gone for good. 

I slept really well that night. And I didn’t dream about dummies. 

The next morning, Dan and I met in the hall. We both were smiling. We felt 
so good. 

I was actually singing as I followed Dan down the stairs for breakfast. 

Dad greeted us at the kitchen door with an angry frown. “What is he doing 
down here?” Dad demanded. 

He pointed into the kitchen. 

Pointed at the breakfast table. 

Pointed to Slappy, sitting at the breakfast table, grinning his ugly painted 
grin, his eyes wide and innocent. 



26 


Dan’s mouth dropped open. 

I let out a sharp cry. 

“Don’t act stunned. Just get him out of here,” Dad said angrily. “And why is 
he all wet? Did you have him out in the rain?” 

I glanced out the kitchen window. Lightning flashed through a dark gray 
sky. Sheets of rain pounded the glass. Thunder rumbled overhead. 

“Not a very nice morning,” Uncle Cal said, stepping up behind Dan and me. 

“I’ve got coffee ready,” Dad told him. 

“I see your friend here beat us down to breakfast,” Uncle Cal said, 
motioning to Slappy. 

The dummy’s grin seemed to grow wider. 

“Get him out of here, Trina,” Dad repeated sharply. “Anyone want pancakes 
this morning?” He moved to the cabinet and started searching for a frying pan. 

“Make a few extra for me. I’m starving,” Uncle Cal said. “I’ll go see if 
Zane is up.” He turned and hurried out of the kitchen. 

Dad leaned into the cabinet, banging pots and pans, searching for the one he 
always used for pancakes. 

“Dad, I have to tell you something,” I said softly. I couldn’t hold it in any 
longer. I had to tell Dad the truth. I had to tell him the whole story. 

“Dad, Slappy is evil,” I told him. “He’s alive, and he’s evil. Dan and I threw 
him down the well last night. We had to get rid of him. But now—he’s back. You 
have to help us, Dad. We have to get rid of him—now.” 

I took a deep breath and let it out. It felt so good to get the story off my 
chest. 

Dad pulled his head from the cabinet and turned to me. “Did you say 
something, Trina? I was making such a racket, I couldn’t hear you.” 

“Dad, I-I—” I stammered. 

“Get that dummy out of here—now!” Dad shouted. He stuck his head back 
into the cabinet. “How can a whole frying pan disappear into thin air?” 

I let out a disappointed sigh. A loud burst of thunder made me jump. 

I motioned with my head for Dan to help me. We lifted Slappy off the chair. 
I held him around the waist, as far away from me as possible. 



His gray suit was sopping wet. Water dripped off his black leather shoes. 

We were halfway up the attic stairs when Slappy blinked and let out a soft 
chuckle. “Nice try, slaves,” he rasped. “But give up. I’m never going away. 
Never!” 



27 


What a dreary morning. 

Rain pounded the windows. Lightning crackled through the charcoal-gray 
sky. Thunder boomed so close it rocked the house. 

I felt as if the storm were inside my head. As if the heavy, heavy storm 
clouds were weighing me down. As if the thunder erupted inside my brain, 
drowning out my thoughts. 

Dan and I slumped on the couch in the den, watching the storm through the 
Venetian blinds over the big window. We were trying to come up with an idea, a 
way to get rid of Slappy. 

The room was chilly. Damp, cold air leaked through the old window. I 
mbbed the sleeves of my sweater, trying to warm myself. 

We were alone in the house. Mom, Dad, Uncle Cal, and Zane had gone into 
town. 

“I tried to tell Dad,” I said. “You heard me, Dan. I tried to tell him about 
Slappy. But he didn’t hear me.” 

“Dad wouldn’t believe you anyway, Trina,” Dan replied glumly. He sighed. 
“Who would believe it?” 

“How can a wooden dummy come to life?” I asked, shaking my head. 
“How?” 

And then I remembered. 

And then I had an idea. 

I jumped up from the couch. I tugged my brother by the arm. “Come on.” 

He pulled back. “Where?” 

“To the attic. I think I know how to put Slappy to sleep—for good.” 

I stopped at the attic door and held Dan back. “Be very quiet,” I instructed 
him. “Maybe Slappy is asleep. If he’s asleep, my plan will go a whole lot better.” 

Thunder roared as I opened the door. I led the way up the stairs, moving 
slowly, carefully, one step at a time. I could hear the rain pounding down on the 
roof. And I could see the flicker of lightning on the low ceiling. 

I stopped as I reached the top of the stairs and turned toward the dummy 
collection. A flash of lightning through the window cast the shadows of their 
heads on the wall. As the lightning flickered, the shadows all seemed to be 



moving. 

Dan stepped up behind me. “Here we are. Now what?” he whispered. 

I raised a finger to my lips and began to tiptoe across the floor. Thunder 
boomed. It sounded so much louder up here under the roof! 

When Dan and I dragged Slappy up here this morning, we had tossed him 
down on the floor. We were too freaked and frightened to spend the time 
propping him up on his chair. We just wanted to dump him and get away from 
the attic. 

I saw Slappy in the flickering white lightning. Lying on his back in the 
center of the floor. The other dummies sat around him, grinning their silent grins. 

I took a step closer. And then another. Moving as silently as I could. 

I peered down at the evil dummy. His arms were at his sides. His legs were 
twisted around each other. 

And his eyes were closed. 

Yes! 

His eyes were closed. He was asleep. 

I took another few steps toward Slappy. But I felt Dan’s hand on my arm, 
tugging me back. “Trina—what are you going to do?” he whispered. 

My eyes darted to Slappy. Still asleep. Thunder roared all around. It 
sounded as if we were standing in the middle of it. 

“Remember those weird words I read?” I whispered to my brother, keeping 
my eyes on the evil dummy. “Remember those weird words on that slip of 
paper?” 

Dan thought for a moment. Then he nodded. 

“Well, maybe it was those words that brought him to life,” I whispered. 
“Maybe it’s some kind of secret chant.” 

Dan shrugged. “Maybe.” He didn’t sound too hopeful. 

“I saw you tuck that slip of paper back into Slappy’s jacket pocket,” I told 
my brother. “I’m going to take it out and read the words again. Maybe the same 
words that bring him to life will also put him back to sleep.” 

Of course it was a crazy idea. 

But a dummy coming to life was crazy, too. And a dummy trying to turn 
you into his slave was crazy. 

It was all crazy. So maybe my idea was just crazy enough to work. 

“Good luck,” my brother whispered, his eyes on the sleeping dummy on the 


floor. 



I made my way over to Slappy. 

I knelt down on my knees beside him. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then slowly, slowly, I began to reach my 
hand down to his jacket pocket. 

I knew the slip of paper was inside that pocket. Could I pull it out without 
waking up Slappy? 

I lowered my hand. Lowered it. 

My fingers touched the top of the jacket pocket. 

Still holding my breath, I began to slip two fingers inside. 

“Gotcha!” Slappy shrieked as his hands shot up. He grabbed both of my 
wrists and began to squeeze. 



28 


I was so stunned, I nearly fell on top of him. 

As I struggled to keep my balance, his wooden hands dug into my wrists. 
They tightened around me, cutting into my skin. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. I struggled to pull my arms away. But he was 
too strong. Too strong. 

The hard fingers dug into my wrists. They squeezed harder, harder—until 
they cut off all circulation. 

“Let go of me! Let go!” My cry came out a shrill wail. 

“I give the orders, ssssslave!” Slappy hissed. “You will obey me. Obey me 
forever! Or you will pay!” 

“Let go! Let me go!” I shrieked. I tugged. I struggled to my feet. I jerked 
my arms up and down. 

But Slappy didn’t loosen his hold. 

His whole body bounced in the air. Hit the floor. Bounced back up as I 
pulled. 

But his hands gripped even harder. 

I couldn’t free myself. And the pain—the intense pain—shot down my 
arms. Down my sides. Down my whole body. 

“Pick me up, sssslave!” the dummy hissed. “Pick me up and put me on my 
chair.” 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re breaking my wrists! Let go!” 

The dummy uttered a cold laugh in reply. 

The pain shot through my body. My legs wobbled. I dropped back to my 
knees. 

I turned in time to see Dan dive toward us. 

I thought he was going to grab the dummy’s hand and try to set me free. 

Instead, Dan grabbed for the jacket pocket. 

Slappy let go of my wrists. But not in time. 

Dan pulled the slip of paper from the pocket. 

Slappy swiped at Dan’s hand, trying to grab the paper away. 

But Dan swung around. He unfolded the paper and raised it to his face. And 



then he shouted out the mysterious words that were written there 
“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano. ” 

Would it work? 

Would it put Slappy back to sleep? 



29 


I rubbed my aching wrists and stared down at the grinning dummy. 

He gazed back at me. And then winked. 

His laughter roared over the thunder, over the hard, steady drumming of 
rain on the roof. 

“You cannot defeat me that way, slave!” Slappy cried gleefully. 

I took a step back. A chill ran down my back, making my whole body 
shudder. 

My plan hadn’t worked. 

My only plan. My last, desperate plan. A total failure. 

I caught the disappointment on Dan’s face. The slip of paper fell from his 
fingers and floated to the floor. 

“You will pay for this!” Slappy threatened. “You will pay for your foolish 
attempt to defeat me.” 

He pushed his hands against the floor and started to climb to his feet. 

I backed up. 

And saw the other dummies move. 

All of them. They were sliding off their chairs. Lowering themselves from 
the couch. 

They stretched their skinny arms. Flexed their big, wooden hands. 

Their heads bobbed, their knees bent as they started to shuffle toward us. 

They had all come to life! Twelve dummies, brought to life by those strange 
words Dan had cried out. 

Twelve dummies staggering toward Dan and me. 

We were trapped between them. Trapped in the circle as they shuffled, 
dragging their heavy shoes. Their eyes wide. Locked on Dan and me. 

As they staggered and shuffled. Moving stiffly, grinning, grinning so coldly. 

Closing in on Dan and me. 



30 


Wilbur limped toward us, his big, chipped hands stretched out, ready to grab us. 
Lucy’s big blue eyes gleamed coldly as she staggered toward us. Arnie let out a 
high-pitched giggle as he pulled himself closer. 

Closer. 

Dan and I spun around. But we had nowhere to turn. Nowhere to escape. 

The dummies’ big shoes scraped heavily over the wooden floorboards. 
Their knees bent with each step. They looked as if they would tumble to the 
floor. 

But they kept coming. Lurching forward. Bodies bending. Heads bobbing. 

Alive. Wooden creatures. Alive! 

Dan raised his hands over his face as if to shield himself. 

I took a step back. But the dummies behind me were closing in, too. 

I took a long, deep breath and held it. 

Then I waited. 

Waited for their wooden hands to grab us. 

I uttered a loud gasp as Wilbur and Arnie staggered right past me. 

The dummies all brushed past Dan and me. 

As if we weren’t there. 

I stared in shock as they circled Slappy. I saw Rocky grab Slappy by the 
collar. I saw Lucy grab Slappy’s shoes. 

Then the circle of dummies moved in closer. Tighter. 

I couldn’t see what they were doing to Slappy. But I saw their skinny arms 
jerking and tugging. I saw them all struggling together. 

Wrestling with him. 

Were they pulling him apart? 

I couldn’t see. But I heard Slappy’s scream of terror. 

Dan and I clung to each other, watching the strange sight. It looked like a 
football huddle. A huddle of dummies. 

The dummies grunted and groaned, muttering in low tones as they worked 
over Slappy. 

We couldn’t see Slappy in the middle. 



We heard only one scream. 

We didn’t hear him scream again. 
And then I heard the attic door open. 
Footsteps on the stairs! 

Someone was coming up. 



31 


I poked Dan and turned him to the stairs. 

We both cried out as Zane climbed up to the attic and squinted across the 
long room at us. 

Did he see the struggling dummies? Did he see that they were all alive? 

I turned back—in time to see the dummies all collapse in a heap. 

“Whoa!” I cried, my heart pounding. I blinked several times. I didn’t 
believe what I saw. 

The twelve dummies lay lifeless on the floor, arms and legs in a wild tangle. 
Mouths open. Eyes gazing up blankly at the low ceiling. 

Slappy lay sprawled in the middle. His head tilted to one side. I saw the 
blank stare in his eyes. Saw the open-mouthed, wooden grin. 

He was completely lifeless now. As lifeless as all the others. 

Had the other dummies somehow destroyed his evil? 

Would Slappy remain a lifeless block of wood forever? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. Zane came hurrying across the attic, an 
angry scowl on his face. His eyes were on the pile of dummies. 

“Caught you!” Zane cried to Dan and me. “Caught you both! Planning your 
next trick! I knew you two were the ones! I’m telling Uncle Danny what you’re 
doing!” 



32 


Of course no one believed Dan and me. 

Of course everyone believed Zane. 

We were in the worst trouble of our lives. Dan and I were grounded forever. 
We probably won’t be allowed to leave the house until we are in our forties! 

The next day, Zane and Uncle Cal were at the front door, saying good-bye. 
It’s a terrible thing to say—but Dan and I were not sad to see Zane go. 

“I hope I never have to come back here,” he whispered to me in the hall. 
Then he put on a big, phony smile for Mom and Dad. 

“Zane, what kind of camera would you like?” Dad asked, putting a hand on 
Zane’s shoulder. “You have a birthday coming up. I’d like to send you a new 
camera for your birthday.” 

Zane shrugged his big shoulders. “Thanks,” he told my Dad. “But I’m 
really not into photography anymore.” 

Mom and Dad raised their eyebrows in surprise. 

“Well, what would you like for your birthday, Zane?” Mom asked. “Is there 
something else you’re interested in?” 

Zane shyly lowered his eyes to the floor. “Well... I’d kind of like to try 
being a ventriloquist—like you, Uncle Danny.” 

Dad beamed happily. 

That creep Zane had said just the right thing. 

“Maybe you have a spare dummy you can lend Zane,” Uncle Cal suggested. 

Dad rubbed his chin. “Well... maybe I do.” He turned to me. “Trina, mn up 
to the attic. And pick out a good dummy for Zane to take home. Not one of the 
old ones. But a nice one that Zane can enjoy.” 

“No problem, Dad,” I replied eagerly. I hurried up to the attic. I hoped they 
didn’t see the enormous grin on my face. 

Can you guess which dummy I picked out for Zane? 

I know it’s horribly mean. But I really had no choice—did I? 

“Here’s a good one, Zane,” I said a few seconds later. I placed the grinning 
dummy in Zane’s arms. “His name is Slappy. I think you two will be very happy 
together.” 

I hope Zane has fun learning to be a ventriloquist. 



But I have the feeling he may have a few problems. Because as Zane 
carried Slappy into the car, I saw the dummy wink at me. 




BAD HARE DAY 


Goosebumps - 41 
R.L. Stine 


1 


“Pick a card, any card.” I spread out the deck of cards in front of Sue Mailer, 
facedown. She giggled and picked one. 

“Don’t show it to me,” I warned her. She glanced at the card, keeping it 
hidden from me. 

A small crowd of kids gathered on the school steps to watch. School was 
out for the day. Sue showed them her card. 

I love doing magic tricks—especially in front of an audience. My dream is 
to be a great magician like my idol, Amaz-O. 

I’ve been playing around with stage names. My real name is Tim Swanson 
—but that’s way too boring for a professional magician. I’ve been thinking of 
calling myself Swanz-O. My best friend, Foz, thinks Swanz-0 sounds like a 
laundry detergent. 

“Now, Sue,” I said in a louder voice, so everybody could hear me. “Put the 
card back in the deck.” 

Sue slipped the card in with the others. I shuffled the deck and tapped it 
three times. “I will now make your card rise to the top of the deck,” I announced. 

Tap, tap, tap. I picked up the top card and showed it to Sue. “Was this your 
card?” I asked her. 

Her eyebrows shot up in amazement. “The three of clubs!” she cried. “That 
was my card!” 

“How’d you do that?” Jesse Brown asked. 

“Magicians never reveal their secrets,” I said, bowing. “And now, for my 
next trick—” 

“I know how he did it.” My little sister, Ginny, suddenly popped up in the 
crowd. The sound of her scratchy voice made my hair stand on end. She loves to 
spoil my magic shows. 

But a true magician doesn’t let anything throw him. I grinned my biggest, 
fakest grin at the little brat. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, my lovely assistant, Ginny!” 

“I’m not your assistant, freak-face,” Ginny snarled. “You won’t catch me 
doing nerdy magic tricks. I’m into karate. Hi-ya!” She demonstrated her karate 
chop. 



Some of the kids laughed. I pretended to laugh, too. “Ha, ha. Isn’t she a 
riot?” 

Everybody says Ginny looks like an angel. She has long, wavy blond hair, 
rosy cheeks, big blue eyes. People always ooh and aah over her. 

No one ever oohs and aahs over me. I’ve got curly light-brown hair and 
hazel eyes. I’m twelve, which Mom says isn’t a “cute age”. 

My nose is long and curves up at the end like a hot dog. Ginny likes to flick 
the end of my nose with her finger and say, “Boi-oi-oing.” 

Her nose is small and perfect, of course. 

I tried to continue my show, Ginny or no Ginny. I slipped the deck of cards 
into my pocket and yanked out my magic scarf. “Now, be amazed as I—” 

Ginny reached into my pocket and snatched out the cards. “Look, 
everybody!” she cried, showing them the cards. “All the cards are the three of 
clubs!” 

Ginny started passing the cards around so everyone could see. 

“Hey! Give those back!” I protested. I grabbed the cards away. It was true. 
Every single card in the deck was the three of clubs. But no one was supposed to 
know that. 

“You’re a phony,” Sue mumbled. 

“No—wait!” I cried. “Watch this!” 

I whipped out my magic rings—two large silver hoops hooked together. 
The kids quieted down a little. 

“These silver rings are locked together,” I declared. “They’re completely 
solid—linked together forever!” I tugged on them to show that they wouldn’t 
come apart. 

Then I handed them to Jesse. “Try to pull the rings apart,” I told him. He 
pulled hard. He pulled lightly. He pulled hard again. He jangled them around. 
The rings stayed hooked together. 

I took them back. “The rings will never come apart,” I said. “Unless I say 
the magic words.” I waved one hand over the rings. “Hocus pocus!” I gently 
pulled the rings apart. A couple of kids clapped. 

“You’re not going to fall for that old trick, are you?” Ginny mocked. “You 
want to know how he does it?” She grabbed the rings away and began to 
demonstrate. “They’re trick rings—” 

“I will now make my lovely assistant disappear!” I cried, shoving Ginny 
aside. “Beat it!” 



“Stop pushing me!” she shouted. “Hi-ya!” 

She karate-kicked me in the stomach. 

“Oof!” I doubled over. Everybody laughed and clapped. 

“That’s a great trick!” Sue said. 

I clutched my stomach. Some trick. 

Stupid Ginny and her karate kicks. Why did Mom have to take her to that 
martial-arts school? My life has been miserable ever since. She’s only ten, and 
she fights way better than I do. I’ve got the bruises to show it. 

“Kick him again!” somebody yelled. 

Ginny crouched, ready to attack. 

“Try it, and I’ll tell Mom where that dent in the refrigerator door came 
from,” I warned her. 

She backed off. She knew Mom would kill her for karate-chopping the 
fridge just because we were out of ice cream. 

“She’s not going to kick him,” Jesse said. “Show’s over.” 

The kids drifted away. 

“Wait!” I cried. “Come back!” 

“See you tomorrow, Tim,” Sue said. Everybody began to head for home. 

“Thanks for wrecking everything, Ginny,” I snapped. 

She flicked my nose. “Boi-oi-oing.” 

“Stop it!” I swatted her away. “You’re definitely going to get it. I’m telling 
Mom about the fridge for sure.” 

“Go ahead,” she taunted. “But if you do, I’ll give you the freezer chop.” 
She waved her arms through the air, making those weird karate noises. “Wah 
wah wee — ah! Right to the neck. You’ll never walk again!” 

She trotted away. “See you at home, Swanz-O!” 

This is what I have to deal with every day of my life. A little sister who 
could kill me if she wanted to. What can I do? I’m helpless against her. 

That’s one reason I want to be a magician. Maybe Ginny can karate-chop 
my arms off—but not if I make her disappear first! 

I sighed and buttoned up my denim jacket. It was almost four o’clock and 
getting chilly. The wind had picked up, too. When is it going to get warm? I 
wondered. It’s the end of March—it’s supposed to be spring already. 

The school door burst open. “I’m outta here!” Foz shouted. 

Foz’s real name is Foster Martin. But he doesn’t look like a Foster. He’s a 
Foz. He’s chubby, with a brown buzz cut. His shirt is always untucked. 



“Where 5 ve you been?” I asked him. 

“Mrs. Pratt made me stay after school,” he replied, making a disgusted face. 

“Why?” I asked. 

“No reason,” Foz said. 

Foz has to stay after school almost every day. He always says it’s for no 
reason. 

I picked up my magic kit and started down the school steps. Foz followed. 
We left the school grounds and walked toward town. 

“What were you doing at school so late?” he asked. 

“I was trying out a few magic tricks. Ginny told everybody how they work. 
It was a disaster.” 

“You need better tricks,” Foz said. “Lots of kids have the same magic kit as 
yours.” 

“You’re right,” I agreed, rattling my kit. “This is amateur stuff. I’m ready 
for some real magic tricks. Professional ones.” 

“Like a hat you can pull a rabbit out of.” 

“Or that spinning box Amaz-0 has,” I added. 

Amaz-0 was my hero—the greatest magician ever. “Did you see him on 
TV last week? His assistant stepped into a big black box. Amaz-0 spun it around 
three times, and she disappeared!” 

“He’s doing a show at Midnight Mansion,” Foz said. Midnight Mansion is a 
club in town where magicians perform every night. 

“I know. I wish I could go. But the tickets cost twenty-five dollars.” 

We turned onto Bank Street and headed toward the center of town. It wasn’t 
on the way home, but Foz knew what I was doing. Malik’s Magic Shoppe was 
on Bank Street. I stopped in there at least once a week, just to drool over the cool 
tricks they had. 

“Malik’s has a bunch of new tricks,” I told Foz. “Designed by Amaz-0 
himself.” 

“I’ll bet they’re expensive,” Foz said. 

“They are.” I reached into my pocket to see how much money I had. Five 
bucks. 

“That’ll buy you a squirting flower,” Foz said. “Maybe.” 

I stuffed the bill back into my pocket. “You’ve got to see this stuff, anyway. 
There’s a table—you put a plate or something on it—it can be anything you 
want. The plate will rise up over the table and float!” 



“How does it work?” Foz asked. 

“I don’t know. Mr. Malik wouldn’t tell me. He said you have to buy the 
trick to find out.” 

“How much does it cost?” 

“Five hundred dollars.” 

Foz rolled his eyes. “I guess you’ll have to stick with card tricks.” 

“I guess.” I sighed. 

A little bell rang as we opened the door to Malik’s. I breathed in the musty 
smell of the shop. It was jam-packed with old tricks, new tricks, magic books, 
and costumes. There were even cages in the back for rabbits and doves. Mr. 
Malik sold everything. 

I called out, “Hi, Mr. Malik.” He stood behind the cash register. He was a 
short, bald old man with a fat stomach. 

I waited for Mr. Malik to say, “What’s new, Magoo?” in his gravelly voice. 
That’s how he greets all his regular customers. 

I called out, “Hi!” again, but he didn’t answer. He just stood there and 
grunted. 

“Mr. Malik?” Foz and I crept closer to the counter. 

“Unh!” Mr. Malik grunted. He stumbled forward. 

Something was sticking out of his stomach. A sword! 

“Mr. Malik?” I asked. “Are you okay?” 

He clutched the handle of the sword and moaned in pain. 

Someone had stabbed him! 

“Help me!” he groaned. “Please—help!” 

Foz and I froze in fear. I let out a gasp—but I was too frightened to move. 
Foz’s whole body trembled. 

Mr. Malik uttered another groan. Then his expression changed. He pulled 
out the sword—and he tossed it to me. 

“Hey!” I cried. “It’s a fake!” 

Mr. Malik laughed. He rubbed his round stomach, which hadn’t been 
stabbed at all. “What’s new, Magoo?” he chuckled. “Get a load of that trick 
sword. Just got it in today.” 

I tested the sword against my own stomach. It had a sliding blade. I pushed 
the blade into the handle, then let go. It popped out again. Very cool. 

Foz fingered the blade. “Think of the tricks you could play on Ginny with a 
sword like this! ” 



“Like it, Tim?” Mr. Malik asked. “Only twenty bucks.” 

I shook my head. “We’re just looking, Mr. Malik.” 

He hung the sword on the wall behind him. “All right. Take your time and 
look around. But would it kill you to actually buy something once in a while?” 

Mr. Malik always said that, too. 

I wandered to the back of the shop. I checked out a rack of magician’s 
jackets. I pulled a sparkly blue tuxedo jacket off the rack and tried it on. It had a 
trick sleeve for hiding things. 

I stared at myself in the mirror. I pretended to announce myself. “The 
Amazing Swanz-O!” 

Foz shook his head in disgust. “That name is so lame.” 

“Yeah, you’re right.” I thought of another name. “How about ‘Swanson the 
Magnificent’?” 

“It’s okay,” Foz said. “A little boring, but okay.” 

He tried on a top hat and added, “You need something cooler, like ‘Tim the 
Destroyer’.” 

“That sounds like a wrestler,” I commented. 

“At least it’s not wimpy,” Foz retorted. “Like Swanz-O.” 

“Hey, boys.” Mr. Malik shuffled toward us. He held out two tickets. 

“Take these, if you want them,” he said. “Two free passes to Amaz-O’s 
magic show tomorrow night.” 

“Wow!” I cried. I took a ticket and read it. 

Admit One 
An Evening of Magic 
with the Great Amaz-0 
March 23 
10 P.M. 

Midnight Mansion 

“Thanks Mr. Malik! I can’t believe we’ll get to see Amaz-0 in person!” I 
gushed. “Tomorrow night!” 

“Tomorrow night?” Foz frowned at his ticket. “I can’t go. My aunt and 
uncle are coming over. It’s my mother’s birthday.” 

“So? This is a once-in-a-lifetime chance! Your mother has a birthday every 
year.” 



Foz stuffed the ticket into my palm, shaking his head. “I know my mom— 
and she won’t see it that way. Anyway, tomorrow night is a school night.” 

I’d forgotten about that. I hoped my mom would let me go. Ten o’clock was 
pretty late to go out on a school night. 

She has to let me go, I decided. She just has to. What kind of horrible 
mother would keep her son from seeing his hero in person? Only a really mean, 
monstery mother. 

My mother is a grump, but she’s not a monster. 

I took off the blue jacket and hung it back up on the rack. A large wooden 
box caught my eye. It was the size of a coffin, brightly painted with red and 
yellow stars. I lifted the lid. 

The box was empty, lined with blue velvet on the inside. “What’s the box 
do, Mr. Malik?” I asked. 

“That’s for sawing people in half,” Mr. Malik replied. 

I examined the inside of the box, trying to figure out how it worked. I found 
no secret compartments or panels or anything. 

“How does it work?” I asked Mr. Malik. 

“You going to buy it?” he demanded. 

“Well—how much does it cost?” 

“Two-fifty.” 

“Two dollars and fifty cents? I can afford that.” 

Mr. Malik waved me away and started toward the stockroom at the back of 
the shop. “Two dollars and fifty cents,” he muttered. “In your dreams.” 

“He meant two hundred and fifty dollars, Brainz-O,” Foz said. 

I tried to cover myself. “I knew that. I was joking.” 

Foz fiddled with a cool-looking trick in the corner. I moved closer to see. 

“It’s a guillotine,” Foz said. “For chopping off heads.” 

The guillotine had a place for the victim to rest his head at the bottom—and 
a razor-sharp blade at the top. 

Mr. Malik emerged from the back room. “I’m closing up soon, boys,” he 
called. 

“I just want to see how this works,” Foz said. He twisted a lever on the 
guillotine. 

“Foz—no!” I cried. 

The blade slid down the guillotine. 

And landed with a horrifying thunk. 



“My hand!” Foz shrieked. “My hand!” 



2 


Mr. Malik gasped. “I’ll call an ambulance! Nine-one-one!” He grabbed the 
phone. 

The guillotine blade had sliced right through Foz’s hand. He screamed in 

pain. 

“Oh!” Foz moaned. “I cut off my hand!” he wailed. “I’ll never write again!” 

I started laughing. 

“Why are you laughing?” Mr. Malik demanded. “This is an emergency!” 

“No, it’s not.” Foz held up his hands to show that he was fine. “Got a paper 
towel? I need to wipe off this fake blood.” 

“Fake?” Mr. Malik stammered. “Fake blood?” 

“We got you back for that sword trick,” I told him. 

Mr. Malik clutched his sweaty forehead in his hands. “I’m so stupid! I 
know that’s a trick guillotine. Why did I fall for such a dumb joke?” 

“Hey,” Foz protested. “It was a lot funnier than your sword-in-the-stomach 
joke.” 

Mr. Malik wiped his brow and smiled. “All right, boys. Enough tricks. It’s 
five o’clock. Get out of here.” He shoved us toward the door. 

“Thanks for the tickets, Mr. Malik,” I called. “See you next week.” 

“Sure. Next week, when I’ll have a new shipment of magic tricks you won’t 
buy.” 

The bell on the door jangled as we left the shop. Foz and I walked down 
Bank Street toward home. 

“Sure you won’t go to Midnight Mansion tomorrow night?” I asked him. 

“I can’t. Your mom will never let you go, either.” 

“I’ll find a way,” I insisted. “You’ll see.” 

We paused in front of Foz’s house. “Come over to my house after school 
tomorrow,” I said. “I’m giving another magic show. Only this time Ginny won’t 
wreck it.” 

“I’ll be there,” Foz promised. 

“And bring your sister’s rabbit,” I added. 

Foz shuffled his feet uncomfortably. “Clare is not going to like that...” he 



began. 

“Please, Foz,” I begged. “I’m going to finish building my rabbit table 
tonight. The rabbit trick is going to be so amazing—” 

“I’ll try to bring the rabbit,” Foz said. “But if anything happens to it, Clare 
will kill me.” 

“Nothing will happen to it—I promise.” 

I waved good-bye to Foz and went home. “The Great Swanzini is here!” I 
announced as I burst into the kitchen. 

“You mean the Great Jerk,” Ginny mumbled. She sat at the kitchen table, 
folding napkins. She reached up and flicked at my nose. “Boi-oi-oing.” 

“Get off me.” I slapped her hand away. 

Mom set a plate of chicken on the table. “Go wash up, Tim,” she ordered. 
“And tell your father supper is ready.” 

“Look, Mom.” I held up a quarter. Then, with a flick of my wrist, I slipped 
it up my sleeve. “I made the quarter disappear!” 

I showed her my two empty hands. 

“Very nice. I see two hands that haven’t been washed yet,” Mom said 
impatiently. 

“I saw the quarter go up your sleeve,” Ginny sneered. 

“No one appreciates me around here,” I complained. “Someday I’m going 
to be the greatest magician in the world. And my own family doesn’t care!” 

Mom strode to the kitchen door. “Bill!” she called upstairs to my dad. 
“Supper!” 

I made my way out of the kitchen to wash my hands. My parents didn’t take 
my magic act seriously. They thought it was just a hobby. 

But Ginny’s karate lessons were the most important thing in the world, of 
course. Mom always said, “Girls need to know how to defend themselves.” Now 
I needed to defend myself against my own sister! 

I returned to the kitchen and sat down. Mom plunked a piece of chicken 
down beside the rice on my plate. Dad and Ginny were already eating. 

“I had a terrible day at work today,” Mom grumbled, ripping into her 
chicken. She’s a high school guidance counselor. “First Michael Lamb 
threatened to beat up another boy. His teacher yelled at him, and he threatened to 
beat her up, too. She sent him to my office. When I tried to talk to him, he said 
he’d beat me up. So I called his mother in—and she tried to beat me up. I had to 
call the police!” 



“That’s a piece of cake next to my day,” Dad complained. Dad sells cars. 
“Some guy came in and said he wanted to test-drive the new minivan. I handed 
him the keys, and he took off. He never came back. He stole the car!” 

I sighed and shoveled rice into my mouth. Dinner is like this every night. 
Both of my parents hate their jobs. 

“I had a really tough day, too,” Ginny put in. “Michael Franklin teased me. 
So I had to karate-kick him in the leg!” 

I smirked. “Poor you.” 

Mom’s forehead wrinkled—her concerned look. “You didn’t hurt yourself, 
did you, Ginny?” 

“No,” Ginny replied. “But I could have.” 

“What about me?” I protested. “I’m the one who got kicked in the stomach. 
And it hurt a lot!” 

“You seem to be fine now,” Dad chimed in. 

I gave up. I knew that arguing would get me nowhere. Mom and Dad 
always take Ginny’s side. 

“Is there any dessert?” Ginny demanded. 

“Ice cream,” Mom answered. 

“I’ll clear the table,” I offered, hoping it would put Mom in a better mood. I 
needed both Mom and Dad to be in a good mood. 

Because I was about to ask the big question. 

Would they let me go to Midnight Mansion tomorrow night? 

Would they? 



3 


I stood up, collecting dirty plates. “Guess what? Amaz-0 is doing his act at 
Midnight Mansion tomorrow night. Mr. Malik gave me two free passes.” I held 
my breath, waiting for their answer. 

“Excellent!” Ginny cried. “That means I can go too!” 

“I’m not taking you,” I told her. “I’ll ask Mark or Jesse or somebody. 
Anybody but you.” I dropped the plates in the sink. They crashed but didn’t 
break. 

“Careful, Tim,” Mom warned. 

Ginny slithered over to the sink and tried to hug me. “Please, Tim. I’m your 
sister. Your only sister in the whole world. I’d do anything for you. You have to 
take me with you!” 

“Neither one of you is going,” Dad said quietly. “It’s a school night.” 

“But Dad, it’s free!” I protested. “Just this once. Amaz-0 is my hero. I’ll 
never get another chance to see him in person!” 

“What time does the show start?” Mom asked. 

“Ten o’clock,” I told her. 

She shook her head. “Absolutely not. You’re not going out at ten o’clock on 
a school night. Especially not to a nightclub. You’re much too young.” She 
furiously spooned ice cream into a bowl. 

“Mom—please!” I begged. “I’m twelve. I can handle it.” 

“You heard your mother,” Dad said. “You’ll have other chances to see 
Amaz-O, Tim. Don’t worry.” 

Mom offered me a bowl of ice cream. “I don’t want it,” I grumbled. I 
stormed out of the kitchen. As I left, I heard Ginny say, “Good. Now I’ll get two 
bowls of ice cream.” 

Stupid Ginny, I thought. Stupid Mom and stupid Dad. My one chance to see 
my idol, the great Amaz-0—and they won’t let me go. 

I wandered into the garage. In the corner stood a new trick I was building— 
the rabbit table. It was a square table that came up to my waist. The top had a 
hole in it that led to a secret compartment under the table. 

I planned to hide a rabbit in the compartment and cover the hole with my 
magic top hat. When I pressed a pedal at the foot of the table, the bottom of the 



secret compartment would rise up. Then I’d lift my hat—and there would be the 
rabbit! 

The table was almost finished. I turned it upside down and hammered on 
the bottom of the secret compartment. 

This trick is going to knock everybody out tomorrow afternoon, I thought. 
I’ll be almost as amazing as Amaz-O! 

I was so busy hammering I didn’t hear the garage door open. Two baby blue 
high-tops suddenly appeared in front of me. I didn’t have to look up. I knew 
Ginny’s smelly sneakers when I saw them. 

“Go away,” I commanded. 

She never listens to me. “You going to do the rabbit trick tomorrow?” she 
asked. 

“Uh-huh. Now go away.” 

“Where are you going to get the rabbit?” 

I set down my hammer. “I’m going to turn you into a rabbit.” 

“Ha ha.” She flipped her wavy blond hair. “You know what this table would 
be perfect for?” she asked. “Karate-chopping. I’ll bet I could chop it in half with 
one hand.” 

“Try it and I’ll—” 

“You’ll what?” she taunted. 

What could I do to her? Not much. “I’ll turn you into a rabbit for real,” I 
threatened. 

“Oh, yeah? How are you going to do that?” 

“It’s easy,” I replied. “Mr. Malik showed me how. Tonight, while you’re 
sleeping, I’m going to sneak into your room and turn you into a rabbit.” 

“Give me a break,” Ginny said. “That is so dumb.” 

“Maybe. Maybe not. I guess we’ll find out tonight.” I picked up my 
hammer again. “I hope you like carrots,” I told her. 

“You’re crazy,” she said. She hurried out of the garage. 

Well, I thought. At least that got rid of her for a while. 

I set the table on its legs again. All I had to do was paint it, and it would be 
ready. 

Wouldn’t it be great? I thought as I opened a can of blue paint. Wouldn’t it 
be great if I really could turn Ginny into a rabbit? 

But that was impossible. Wasn’t it? 



4 


“We want the rabbit trick! We want the rabbit trick!” 

Ginny sat in the grass in our backyard. Six or seven other kids sat around. I 
was in the middle of my magic act. Ginny was stirring up trouble. 

She knew I didn’t have a rabbit for the trick. I was still waiting for Foz to 
show up. 

Where is he? I wondered. He’s ruining my show! 

The other kids joined in Ginny’s chant. “The rabbit trick! The rabbit trick!” 

I tried to stall them. “The amazing, incredible rabbit trick is coming up,” I 
promised. “But first—wouldn’t you like to see me pull a quarter out of Ginny’s 
ear again?” 

“No!” the kids yelled. “Boo!” 

“Karate fight!” Sue called. “We want a karate fight. Ginny versus Tim!” 

Things were getting ugly. 

At last I glimpsed Foz at the side of the house. He waved at me frantically. 

“Intermission!” I announced. “I’ll be back in two minutes. And then—I’ll 
pull a rabbit out of my hat!” 

I hurried over to Foz. A big cardboard box sat at his feet. 

“What took you so long?” I demanded. 

“I’m sorry,” Foz said. “I almost had to rip the rabbit out of Clare’s hands.” 

I opened the box. Clare’s big white rabbit lifted its nose and sniffed at me. I 
grabbed it and stuffed it under my jacket. 

“Be careful!” Foz warned. “If anything happens to it, my sister will chop 
me into rabbit food!” 

“The rabbit will be fine,” I told him. “What could happen to it?” 

I sneaked the rabbit to the table. With my back to the audience, I stuffed it 
into the secret compartment and plopped my hat on top. 

Then I turned to face the kids. None of them had seen the rabbit. Perfect. 

“Ladies and gentlemen!” I called. “Thanks for being so patient. Here is the 
moment you’ve all been waiting for—” 

“Karate fight!” Ginny called. 

“Even better than a karate fight!” I said. “I, the Great Timothini, will now 



pull a rabbit out of my hat!” 

Ginny snorted. “The Great Timothini?” 

I pointed at her. “You, in the front row. Quiet!” 

“You be quiet!” Ginny shot back. 

“Get on with it!” Jesse called. 

“Okay. I need complete silence now. I must concentrate.” 

To my surprise, the kids actually quieted down. Even Ginny. Everyone 
stared up at me, waiting. 

I lifted my hat off the table. “As you can see, my hat is empty. It’s an 
ordinary, everyday top hat. Sue, will you please examine the hat?” 

I passed the hat to Sue. She turned it over. “It looks like a regular hat to 
me,” she declared. 

I set the hat on the table, covering the secret compartment. “Thank you, 
Sue. Now—watch carefully.” 

I waved my arms over the hat. “Abracadabra, abracadeer, rabbit, rabbit, 
rabbit— appear! ” 

I stepped on the pedal to make the rabbit rise up. Then I lifted the hat with a 
flourish. 

Nothing there. The hat stood empty. 

I checked the secret compartment. No rabbit there, either. 

My heart pounded. How could this be? 

“The rabbit!” I cried. “It’s gone!” 



5 


What have I done? I thought in horror. 

My trick must have worked better than I thought! 

I glanced up and saw Ginny pointing across the backyard. “There it goes!” 
she cried. “There’s the rabbit!” 

I whirled around. Clare’s white rabbit was hopping away. 

How could that happen? I wondered. I glanced into the secret compartment 
again. 

I’d left one side of the secret compartment open. How could I have been so 
stupid? 

“Tim—you promised!” Foz screamed. “Grab it!” 

I chased after the rabbit. Foz huffed behind me. The rabbit had already 
hopped halfway across our next-door neighbors’ backyard. I glanced back. 
Ginny and the other kids were yelling and running after us. 

The rabbit stopped behind a bush. I sped up—and pounced. 

“Got him!” I cried. But the rabbit slipped out of my hands and bounded 
away. 

“He’s headed for the stream!” Ginny shouted. 

A muddy stream ran behind all the backyards on our block. The rabbit 
disappeared behind the trees that hid the stream. 

Whooping like crazy, Ginny led the kids after the rabbit. 

“Stop!” I yelled. “You’re scaring it away!” 

But none of them listened to me. There was nothing to do but keep chasing. 

“Don’t let the rabbit hop into the water!” Foz screamed. “He’ll drown!” 

“He won’t drown,” I told Foz. “That stream is only about two inches deep.” 

“Just catch the rabbit!” Foz ordered. He was in a total panic. Maybe his 
sister really would chop him into rabbit food. 

The rabbit hopped through the mud and across the stream into the Darbys’ 
yard. I shoved the other kids aside. I splashed through the stream. 

The rabbit stopped. Its ears twitched. 

I motioned to the others to keep still. I squatted down and crept toward the 
rabbit. 



I saw why it had stopped. The Darbys’ cat, Boo Boo, crouched low in the 
grass, waiting to pounce. 

The rabbit was trapped between us. I crawled closer. Closer. I was almost 
there.... 

“Watch out for the cat!” Foz shrieked. 

With a yowl, the cat leaped. The rabbit bounced about a foot in the air. I 
missed him. 

Everybody raced after him again. I threw Foz a dirty look. 

“You’re ruining everything!” I shouted. 

“You’re the one who lost him in the first place!” Foz yelled back. 

“Hey!” Sue called. “Look at Ginny!” 

Ginny had raced to the head of the pack. The rabbit paused, then started 
mnning again. Ginny took a flying leap. “Yaw, hee ha how!” she screeched in 
her weirdo karate voice. 

She landed on her feet in front of the rabbit. It tried to change course. Too 

late. 

“Hiii—ya!” Ginny swooped down and grabbed the rabbit. She held him 
over her head like a trophy. 

“I got him!” she cried. “I got him!” 

“Yay, Ginny!” Everyone crowded around her, slapping her on the back. 

“Don’t let him go!” Foz cried. He hurried over to Ginny and snatched the 
rabbit away. 

We all started back to my yard. “Awesome trick, Tim.” Jesse patted me on 
the back. “You almost made the rabbit really disappear!” 

Everybody laughed. “You should change your stage name, Timothini,” Sue 
chimed in. “How about ‘The Great Goofballini’?” 

“Or ‘Mess-Up the Magnificent’!” Jesse suggested. 

I sighed and shut my eyes. Another magic show—another disaster. 

“I can’t believe you almost lost my sister’s rabbit,” Foz grumbled. 

“I’m sorry, Foz. I’ll be more careful next time.” 

He clutched the rabbit tightly to his chest. “Next time, get your own rabbit.” 

He hurried to the side of the house and stuffed the rabbit into the box. 

“Anybody want to come over to my house?” Jesse called. He lived next 
door. “I’ve got a great trick to show you—the disappearing dog. I let go of his 
leash, and he runs away!” 

Laughing, the other kids drifted over to Jesse’s house. Foz took the rabbit 



home to his sister. 

“You going over to Jesse’s?” Ginny asked. 

I shook my head. “I’m going inside for a snack.” 

“Maybe you should do your magic act inside from now on,” Ginny said. 
“Then your tricks won’t be able to escape from you!” She giggled. 

“Very funny,” I mumbled. “You won’t be laughing so hard when I turn you 
into a rabbit. I don’t think rabbits know how to laugh.” 

“Ooh. I’m scared.” She rolled her eyes. 

“You’d better be.” I leaned close to her and whispered. “Tonight’s the night. 
Tonight, while you’re sleeping, I’ll turn you into a rabbit. And if you try to run 
away, the Darbys’ cat will get you.” 

She rolled her eyes again. Then she reached up to tweak my nose. “Boi-oi- 
oing.” 

She trotted off to Jesse’s house. 

I definitely need better magic tricks, I thought as I dragged myself into the 
house. Better equipment, too. So I can do really cool tricks. Tricks that actually 
work. 

I thought of all the stuff Mr. Malik sold in his shop. If I could have just one 
of those tricks, I could do a great act. I’ve got to get one somehow. 

But how? 

That night everybody went to bed early. Mom and Dad were exhausted and 
crabby after another bad day at work. 

“Today was the worst day ever!” Mom grumbled. “I’m so exhausted. 
Everybody to bed!” 

Ginny and I knew better than to protest. We didn’t want to stay up, anyway, 
with Mom and Dad grouching around all evening. 

I lay in bed with the lights off, trying to sleep. Amaz-O’s show is tonight, I 
thought miserably. He’s performing tonight, only a few miles away from my 
house. I have free passes. And I can’t go. It’s not fair! 

How am I ever going to be a great magician if I never see any magic 
shows? Amaz-0 is the greatest of the great—and I have to miss my one chance 
to see him! 

Or do I? A wicked thought popped into my head. Why should I miss the 
show? 

I’ve got the tickets. I can ride to Midnight Mansion on my bike. I could 



sneak out of the house for a couple of hours—and Mom and Dad would never 
have to know. 

I rolled over in bed and peered at my alarm clock. The dial glowed in the 
dark. Nine-forty. 

The show would start in twenty minutes, I knew. I could still make it if I 
left right now. 

I couldn’t stand to think about it any longer. I had to go. 

I slid out of bed, hoping my mattress wouldn’t creak. I tiptoed across the 
room to my dresser. I silently pulled on a pair of jeans and a shirt. 

Sneakers in hand, I carefully opened my bedroom door. The house was 
dark. I heard Dad snoring in my parents’ room down the hall. 

I crept toward the stairs. Am I really doing this? I thought, suddenly 
nervous. Am I really sneaking out in the middle of the night to go to Midnight 
Mansion? 



6 


Yes—I’m really doing it, I thought. I’ll do anything to see Amaz-O. It’s totally 
worth the risk. 

What’s the worst that could happen? 

Mom and Dad could find out. Then what? Maybe they’d ground me. But I 
will have seen the great Amaz-0 in person. And while I’m grounded, I can try to 
learn some of Amaz-O’s tricks. 

Anyway, I won’t get caught. I won’t. 

I paused at the top of the stairs. The stairs in my house are the creakiest 
stairs in the universe. 

Once when I was little, I tried to sneak downstairs on Christmas Eve to see 
what Santa had left me. I barely touched the top step with my foot 
— CRRREEEEAAAK! Mom burst out of her room before I even had a chance to 
try the second step. 

It’s not going to happen this time, I told myself. I’ll take each step very 
slowly. I’ll lean on the banister to keep them from creaking. No one will wake 
up. No one will hear me. 

I put both my hands on the banister and rested my weight on it. Then I set 
my right foot carefully—the toe, then the heel—on the top step. 

Crick. Just a tiny little sound. I’m sure no one heard it, I thought. 

I shifted my hands down the banister and took another step. This one made 
no creak at all. 

So far, so good. 

I took the third step. Creak. Not a rip-roaring loud creak, but louder than the 
first. I froze. 

I listened for the sound of someone stirring in the house. 

Silence. All clear. 

If Amaz-0 only knew what I’m going through to see him, I thought. I must 
be his biggest fan on the face of the earth. 

I made it all the way down the stairs with only one more creak. I breathed a 
sigh of relief. 

I’m safe now, I thought. I’ll wait until I get outside to put my shoes on. 
Then I’ll grab my bike and go. 



I tiptoed across the cold hallway floor. I reached for the handle of the front 
door. Twisted it. 

Almost there. 

Almost. 

Then a shrill voice demanded, “Tim—where do you think you’re going?” 



7 


I spun around. Ginny! 

She was dressed in jeans and a sweater, all ready to go out. She bounded 
down the stairs. 

“Ssshhhhhhhh! You’ll wake up Mom and Dad!” 

I grabbed her by the arm and yanked her out the front door. 

“What are you doing up?” I demanded. 

“I was waiting for you to come into my room and turn me into a rabbit,” 
she replied. “Or pretend to, anyway.” 

“I’m not going to do that tonight,” I said. “Go back to bed.” 

“What are you doing up? Where are you going?” 

I sat on the front steps and pulled on my sneakers. “Out to the garage,” I 
lied. “To practice a new trick.” 

“You are not. I know where you’re going. To Midnight Mansion!” 

I grabbed her by the shoulders. “Okay. You’re right. I’m going to Midnight 
Mansion. Don’t tell Mom and Dad—promise?” 

“I want to go!” she insisted. “Let me go with you.” 

“No. Go back to bed—and don’t tell. Or you’ll be sorry.” 

“You have to take me!” she declared. “If you don’t, I’ll run upstairs and tell 
Mom and Dad right now. Then you’ll never get to see Amaz-O.” 

“You wouldn’t.” 

“I would.” 

I knew she would. 

“All right,” I agreed. “You can come. But you have to be good and do 
everything I tell you to do.” 

“Maybe I will—and maybe I won’t.” 

I sighed. I had to take her, no matter how bratty she was. If I did, she’d 
never tell—because then she’d be in as much trouble as me. 

“Let’s go,” I whispered. 

We sneaked into the garage and got our bikes. Then we pedaled off into the 
night. 

It felt strange riding down Bank Street late at night. The shops were all 



closed and dark. Hardly any traffic on the street. 

Oh, no. A police car up ahead—cruising toward us down Bank Street. If he 
spotted us, he’d stop us for sure. And then he’d take us home. And then we’d 
really be in trouble. 

I searched desperately for a place to hide. The police couldn’t miss us— 
Bank Street was lined with streetlights. 

“Ginny!” I called. “Quick—out of the light!” I swerved into the dark 
doorway of a dress shop. Ginny followed. We leaped off our bikes and pressed 
ourselves into the shadows. 

The police car glided past. I held my breath as the headlights brushed across 
us. The car stopped. 

“He saw us!” Ginny whispered. “Run!” 

I grabbed her arm to stop her. “Wait.” I peeked out into the street. 

The police car was idling, but the driver stayed inside. 

“It’s a red light,” I told Ginny. A few seconds later the light turned green, 
and the police car rolled away. 

“We’re safe now,” I said. We hopped back onto our bikes and rode off. 

Midnight Mansion loomed huge and dark at the edge of town. People said 
that a crazy old woman had lived alone in the mansion for forty years. She was 
rich, but so stingy she wore ragged old clothes and ate nothing but peanut butter, 
right out of the jar. 

When people tried to visit her, she screamed, “Go away!” and threw rocks 
at them. She had about fifty cats. When she died, a businessman bought the 
mansion and turned it into a nightclub. 

I braked in front of the old house and stared at it. Midnight Mansion. 

It looked like a spooky old castle made of sooty black stone. Three stories 
tall, with two towers shooting up into the night sky. Vines crept across the roof. 
A floodlight threw creepy shadows over the house. 

I’d seen the mansion a million times before. But late at night it looked 
bigger and darker than usual. I thought I saw bats fluttering around the two 
towers. 

“No wonder the old lady went crazy,” Ginny whispered. “Living in a 
spooky place like that.” 

“Do you think she kept prisoners in those towers?” I wondered. 

“I think she had a torture chamber in the basement,” Ginny said. 

We walked our bikes up to the entrance. People hurried inside to see Amaz- 



O’s magic show. Three men in long black capes breezed past us. A woman with 
long black hair, black lipstick, and pointy black fingernails smiled at me. 

“Where did all these weird people come from?” Ginny asked. 

I shrugged. “Let’s go in. The show is about to start.” 

We locked our bikes and ran up the long stone steps. We entered a big hall 
lit by a crystal chandelier. We crossed the hall to a doorway covered by a heavy 
red curtain. 

A tall, thin man in a black tuxedo guarded the curtain. He reached out a 
long, bony finger to stop us. 

He had no hair, a pencil neck, and dark, hollow eye sockets. “He looks like 
a skeleton,” Ginny whispered to me. 

I pulled the two tickets out of my back pocket and handed them to him. 

“Very good,” he croaked in a low voice. “But where are your parents? I 
can’t seat children without their parents.” 

My parents? Think fast, Swanz-O, I told myself. “Um—my parents. Yes. 
Well, my parents, you see...” I had a feeling he didn’t want to hear that my 
parents were home sleeping. 

“They’re outside, parking the car,” I lied. “They’ll be here in a minute. 
They told us to come in and get a table.” 

The man’s hollow black eyes seemed to burn a hole in my brain. Would he 
buy it? 

“I don’t like it. But all right.” He led us through the red curtain. The 
houselights went down just as we walked in. He showed us to a table right next 
to the stage. 

“Excellent!” I said to Ginny as we sat down. “The best seats in the whole 
place!” 

“This is so exciting!” she exclaimed. “I can’t believe we’re in a real, grown¬ 
up nightclub. By ourselves!” 

The eerie-looking host stood by the red curtain, watching us. “We may not 
be here long,” I warned her. “That skeleton guy’s got his eye on us. When he 
realizes we’re not here with our parents—” 

“Shh! The show’s starting.” 

A voice came over a loudspeaker. “Ladies and gentlemen! Midnight 
Mansion is proud to present the most famous magician in America. The 
fabulous, the incredible, the mind-boggling Amaz-O!” 

A drum roll, and then horns bleating “Ta da!” The audience clapped and 



cheered. The curtain rose. 

I gasped when I saw the stage. It was filled with wonderful equipment—a 
tall, shiny black box with a door in the front, a platform suspended from the 
ceiling, a glittering box with holes in it for a head, arms, and legs to stick out of. 
And a big white rabbit sitting beside a vase of blue flowers on a table covered 
with a red scarf. 

The rabbit wasn’t tied up or caged or anything. “I wonder how he keeps that 
rabbit from running away,” Ginny whispered. “That’s a trick you need to learn.” 

“You’re so funny, Ginny,” I said, rolling my eyes. “My sides are splitting 
with laughter.” 

“You have no sense of humor,” Ginny jeered. “That’s your problem.” 

“No. You’re my problem,” I snapped. 

Amaz-0 strode onstage. He was tall and slim, and his top hat made him 
seem even taller. He had long black hair and wore a black cape lined with red 
satin over a black tuxedo. 

He tossed the cape over his shoulders and bowed. 

I can’t believe I’m seeing Amaz-0 in person! I thought, my heart pounding 
with excitement. And so close—I could almost touch him! 

Maybe I’ll even see how some of his tricks are done, I thought. Maybe, 
sitting so close, I’ll catch some of his secrets! 

Without saying a word, Amaz-0 scanned the audience. He trained his eyes 
on me. 

My whole body shook. He’s staring right at me! I gasped. 

Amaz-0 took a step forward and leaned toward me. 

What’s he doing? I thought. Is he going to talk to me? 

Amaz-0 leaned closer. His face was right next to mine! I cowered in my 

seat. 

He scowled and whispered in a deep, menacing voice, “Disappear! 
Disappear!” 



8 


I shrank back. 

“Disappear!” he growled again. 

“Excuse me?” I gasped. I stared up at him. On TV he seemed friendly. But 
in person he was definitely frightening. 

“Disappear!” he whispered. “I’m going to make you disappear at the end of 
the show. I will ask for volunteers—and I will choose you.” 

He didn’t want me to disappear for real. He wanted me to be part of his act! 
I couldn’t believe it! 

I’ll find out how he does his famous disappearing trick! I thought. Maybe 
I’ll get to meet him after the show. Maybe he’ll even tell me some of his secrets! 

Ginny leaned across the table. “He’s going to make you disappear forever!” 
she teased. “What will I tell Mom and Dad?” 

I paid no attention to her. Nothing Ginny did or said could bother me now. 

This was too cool! Just seeing Amaz-0 was exciting enough. But he chose 
me to be in his show! 

Maybe he could tell that I’m a magician, too, I thought. 

Amaz-0 began his act. “Good evening, ladies and gentlemen,” he crooned. 
“Tonight you will see some amazing feats. You will see me do things you always 
thought were impossible. Are these feats real—or are they illusions? It’s up to 
you to decide.” 

He waved his hands, and a wand appeared out of thin air. The audience 
clapped. 

Then Amaz-0 began to fidget with his hat, as if it felt uncomfortable on his 
head. “Something is wrong with my hat,” he said. “It feels strange—almost as 
if...” 

He lifted the hat off his head and peered into it. He showed us the inside of 
it. It looked perfectly normal. There was nothing inside it. 

He placed it back on his head. “It’s funny,” he chuckled. “I thought for a 
minute there might be something inside my hat. I thought I felt—oh, I don’t 
know—a flock of birds fluttering around in there.” 

The hat jiggled. Amaz-0 appeared annoyed. “There it goes again!” 

He whipped the hat off his head and stared into it. On top of his head sat a 



large white feather. People in the audience giggled. 

“What’s so funny?” Amaz-0 asked. He felt the top of his head and found 
the feather. “Where did that come from?” he gasped, acting amazed. Everyone 
laughed. 

“Well, I’ll try not to let this bother me,” he went on, replacing his hat. 
“Back to the show. For my first trick—” 

The hat began to shake again—slightly at first, then harder. It practically 
jumped off his head. The audience cracked up. Amaz-0 pretended to be 
horrified. 

He yanked the hat off his head—and out flew a whole flock of doves! They 
swooped over the audience and flew up to the rafters. 

“I knew something was going on in there!” Amaz-0 joked. Loud laughter 
and clapping. 

He’s the greatest, I thought, clapping along. How did he get all those birds 
inside his hat? 

I glanced at the rabbit on stage. It sat calmly on the table, staring at Amaz- 
O. It almost seemed to be watching the act. 

I can’t wait to see his rabbit trick, I thought. Will he make the rabbit 
disappear? Or pull off some kind of twist? 

“For my next trick I need a needle and thread,” Amaz-0 announced. He 
produced a packet of needles and a long, thick thread from one of his pockets. 
He picked out a needle and squinted, trying to push the thread through the eye. 

“I always have trouble threading a needle,” he said. He licked the end of the 
thread and tried again. He couldn’t get the thread to go through. 

He threw up his hands in frustration. “It’s impossible!” he cried. “How do 
tailors do it?” 

The audience chuckled. I waited to see what would come next. I knew all 
this needle-and-thread business was a buildup to something incredible. 

“So much for the hard way to thread a needle,” Amaz-0 said. “I’ll show 
you a better way.” 

He snatched up the packet of needles. There must have been at least twenty 
needles stuck into a piece of cardboard. He popped the whole thing into his 
mouth. Then he dangled the long string over his mouth like a piece of spaghetti. 

He slowly drew the string into his mouth, chewing. It looked as if he were 
eating a piece of spaghetti—with a packet of needles in his mouth, too. 

“Don’t you think that hurts?” Ginny whispered. “Chewing up all those 



needles?” 

I barely nodded. I watched Amaz-O, spellbound. 

Amaz-0 nearly swallowed the whole string. About an inch of string stuck 
out between his lips. The audience waited, hushed. 

He paused. Then he opened his mouth and tugged at the string. Slowly, 
slowly, he pulled it out of his mouth. 

One by one the needles appeared—dangling from the string! Somehow he 
had threaded twenty needles with his tongue! 

The audience gasped, then applauded. The needles flashed as Amaz-0 held 
up the string. 

“Threading needles the easy way!” he cried as he took another bow. 

I’ve got to find out how he did that, I thought. Maybe I’ll ask him after the 
show. 

“How’s the show going?” Amaz-0 asked the audience. We all cheered. “I 
wonder how much time we have left?” He strode across the stage to the table 
where the rabbit and the blue flowers sat on top of the red scarf. 

With a flick of his wrist, he yanked the scarf out from under the rabbit. 

The rabbit didn’t move. Neither did the vase of flowers. The table was now 

bare. 

The rabbit blinked calmly. Amaz-0 waved the scarf over his left hand. He 
let it drop—and a big red alarm clock appeared in his hand! 

He glanced at the clock. “I suppose we have time for a few more tricks.” He 
covered the clock with the scarf—and the clock disappeared. 

A loud ringing suddenly erupted from the other side of the stage. I turned 
toward it. 

The red alarm clock—floating in midair! It seemed to have flown across the 
stage by itself. 

Amaz-0 crossed the stage, grabbed the clock, and shut off the alarm. 

“My clock is a little fast,” he joked. “It’s not time for the show to end. Not 

yet.” 

I hope not, I thought. This is the greatest magic act I’ve ever seen in my 

life! 

The rest of the show was fantastic, too. Amaz-0 escaped from a locked 
safe. He walked through a brick wall. He tapped his hat with his magic wand— 
and in a puff of smoke his tuxedo changed from black to yellow! 

“And now for my big finale,” Amaz-0 announced. “I am going to make a 



member of the audience disappear. Are there any volunteers?” 

He gazed out over the audience. No one said a word. Ginny kicked me 
under the table. 

“Ow!” I whispered, rubbing my skin. “What did you do that for?” 

“He asked for volunteers, you moron,” she said. “That means you.” 

I’d been so caught up in the show, I almost forgot. I stood up. “I’d like to 
volunteer.” 

Amaz-0 smiled. “Excellent, young man. Please step up on stage.” 

My stomach suddenly jolted with terror. I stumbled up to the stage. 

Here I go, I thought nervously. Amaz-0 is going to make me disappear. 

I hope nothing goes wrong. 



9 


Amaz-0 towered over me on stage. This is unbelievable, I thought. I’m on stage 
with the great Amaz-O. I’m about to be part of one of his famous tricks. 

He’s going to make me disappear! 

I clutched my stomach, wondering, Why do I feel so scared? 

“Thanks for volunteering, young man,” Amaz-0 said to me. “You must be 
very brave. Are your parents here tonight?” 

My parents? Uh-oh. “Um—they’re here. Sure they’re here,” I stammered. 
“But—uh—they had to make a phone call.” 

Amaz-0 frowned. “A phone call? In the middle of my show?” 

“Well—it was an emergency,” I explained. 

“Never mind. I’m glad they’ve stepped away. If they knew what was about 
to happen to you, they might try to stop me.” 

“Stop you?” My heart skittered nervously. But I heard the audience 
laughing. 

Don’t let him scare you, I told myself. This is just part of the act. He’s 
joking. 

I faked a laugh. “What—um—exactly—is about to happen to me?” 

“I’m going to make you disappear,” Amaz-0 replied. “You will be 
transported into another dimension. I will try my best to bring you back, of 
course—but it doesn’t always work.” 

“It doesn’t?” I gulped. 

He patted me on the back. “Don’t worry. I’ve done this hundreds of times. 
I’ve only missed once or twice.” 

The audience chuckled. They figured he was kidding. I hoped they were 
right. 

“Is that your sister sitting at the front table?” Amaz-0 asked. 

I nodded. 

“Better wave good-bye to her, just in case,” he warned me. 

Ginny smiled and waved at me. 

She can’t wait for me to disappear! I thought bitterly. She hopes I’ll never 
come back. 



“Go on,” Amaz-0 urged. “Wave to her.” 

I smiled weakly and waved at Ginny. The audience laughed. Then Amaz-0 
led me to a tall black box in the center of the stage. He threw open the door. It 
looked like a closet inside. 

“Step inside here if you would, please,” he said. 

I stepped inside the box. Amaz-0 shut the door firmly. 

It was pitch-black inside that box. I stood still, waiting for something to 
happen. I could hear Amaz-0 talking to the audience. 

“Ladies and gentlemen, this box is my own invention—the Fifth Dimension 
Spin-o-Rama.” I heard him slap his hand against the side of the box. 

“Here’s how it works: my brave volunteer steps inside the box. I lock him 
in. I spin the box ten times —very fast. 

“A magical force inside the box will send the boy into another dimension. 
He will disappear! 

“I must ask for absolute silence while I do this trick. I need complete 
concentration.” 

For several seconds I heard nothing. 

Then the box began to spin. “Whoa!” I cried. My body slammed against the 
back of the box. 

It whirled around faster than any ride in an amusement park. I shut my eyes. 
I felt so dizzy. 

I hope I don’t puke, I thought. That would spoil everything. 

The box kept spinning, spinning. How will the trick work? I wondered. 
How will I disappear? 

What if he really sends me into another dimension? 

But that’s just talk, I told myself. Magician talk—to entertain the audience. 

Isn’t it? 



10 


The box spun faster and faster. I clutched my stomach. I saw stars dancing 
before my eyes. 

When is it going to stop? I thought. I’m really going to be sick. 

Then, suddenly, the bottom of the box dropped out from under me. 

“Help!” I cried as I fell down, down, down. 

“Whoa!” 

I slid down a long wooden chute and landed— thunk !—on some kind of 
mattress. 

I lay on my back in a daze. I heard water dripping somewhere. A dim 
yellow light flickered from a bare bulb on the ceiling. 

I sat up, gazing around me. The room was nearly empty, dark and damp, 
with a cement floor. I spotted a furnace in the corner. 

I’m in the basement of Midnight Mansion, I realized. 

I stood up and examined the chute. So that’s how the trick works, I thought. 
Amaz-0 sets up his spinning box over a trap door in the floor of the stage. The 
bottom of the box drops out, and the volunteer slides down the chute and out of 
sight. When Amaz-0 opens the door of the box— presto !—the volunteer has 
disappeared. It’s so simple. 

But how do I get back upstairs? I wondered. How will Amaz-0 make me 
reappear? 

Muffled applause drifted down from overhead. I could hear Amaz-O’s 
voice, faintly. “Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I must be going 
now. I’ve got to disappear into the fifth dimension and find that boy! Good 
night!” 

The audience laughed. Then I heard music, an explosion, and loud 
clapping. 

Amaz-0 must have made himself disappear, I thought. He’ll probably come 
sliding down this chute any minute. 

I waited. 

No one came sliding down the chute. 

I waited a few more minutes. 

Nothing. 



He must have disappeared some other way, I figured. 

He’ll show up soon, I thought. He’ll come and let me out of here. And then 
I’ll ask him how he does that trick with the alarm clock. Maybe he’ll even give 
me his autograph! 

A few minutes later I heard chairs scraping across the floor upstairs and a 
stampede of footsteps. The show was over. The audience was leaving. 

Is somebody going to let me out of here? I wondered. I was getting a little 
nervous. I sat down on the mattress to wait. 

What’s taking Amaz-0 so long? 

Maybe he wants to wait until everyone is gone, so no one will figure out 
how he did the trick. That must be it. 

I waited a little longer. I heard a rustling, scuttling noise. A rat! I thought, 
jumping up off the mattress. I stared at the floor, watching for the rat. 

The noise stopped. 

Maybe it wasn’t a rat, I thought, trying to calm myself. My muscles were all 
tense. Maybe it was only a mouse. Or a cockroach. Or my imagination. 

The drip, drip, drip of the water somewhere in the basement was starting to 
drive me crazy. Drip, drip, drip. Like some kind of water torture. 

Where is Amaz-O? When is he going to let me out of here? 

I listened for signs of life upstairs. Nothing. Everything was silent up there 

now. 

Okay, I said to myself. Everyone is gone. You can let me out now, Amaz-O. 

I listened hard. I didn’t hear anyone in the building. 

What if Amaz-O is gone, too? I thought, panicking. What if he forgot about 
me and left me here? 

I’ve got to find a way out myself, I decided. 

I crept across the cement floor, keeping an eye out for rats. 

It sure is dark down here, I thought. 

I drifted toward the dripping sound and found myself in a room with a big 
laundry sink. I crossed the laundry room. On the other side I found a steep flight 
of steps leading to a door at the top. 

Aha, I thought, feeling better now. A way out. 

I climbed the rickety stairs. I reached for the doorknob and pushed. 

The door didn’t open. I turned the knob again and pulled. 

Nothing. 

The door was locked! 



I rattled the door as hard as I could. I pounded on it with my fists. 
“Let me out of here!” I cried. “Can anyone hear me? 

“Let me out of here!” 



11 


“Hey!” I shouted. I rattled the door. “Somebody! Get me out of here!” 

How could Amaz-0 do this? I thought angrily. How could he forget all 
about me like this? 

He wouldn’t lock me in the basement on purpose—would he? 

No, I told myself. Why would he want to do that? 

It’s all just a big mistake. 

I shook the door again. It loosened a little. I pushed on it, and it opened a 
crack. 

The door was bolted from the outside with a metal hook. But the hook 
wasn’t secure. 

I’ll bet I can break the door open, I realized. 

I backed partway down the stairs. Then I ran to the top and threw myself 
against the door. 

“Ow!” I grunted. The door loosened a little more. But it didn’t open. And 
now my shoulder ached. 

Then I thought the unthinkable. I couldn’t believe I was thinking this—but I 
sure wished Ginny were with me. 

She could’ve karate-kicked through that door in about five seconds. I know, 
because she’s kicked her way into my bedroom lots of times. 

Where is Ginny, anyway? I thought. She must be outside in the parking lot, 
waiting for me. 

I had to try again. I rammed my shoulder against the door as hard as I 
could. 

Bang! The hook broke, and the door flew open. 

Excellent, I thought, rubbing my shoulder. I’m out of that horrible basement 
at last. 

But where am I now? 

A long, dark corridor. 

“Hello?” I called. No answer. “Hello?” 

Where is everybody? I wondered. Shouldn’t there be stagehands bustling 
around or something? 



I tiptoed down the hall. The place appeared deserted. 

How could they have left me down in the basement like that? I thought 
angrily. How could they leave me here alone—and just go home? 

At the end of the hall I saw a sliver of light. It came from under a door. 

Someone’s still here, I realized. Maybe it’s Amaz-O! 

I crept down the hall. The door had a star on it. It must be Amaz-O’s 
dressing room! I thought. This is fantastic! I’m alone in Midnight Mansion with 
the great Amaz-O! We’ll probably stay up all night talking about magic. If I 
could get him to show me a few of his secrets... 

I felt so excited and nervous my hands shook. I almost forgot about being 
left in the basement. 

That was just a mistake, I thought. A stagehand forgot to come get me. 
Amaz-O must have thought I was all right. He’ll probably be really glad to see 
me. 

I stared at the star on the door. What should I do? I wondered. Should I 
knock? Should I call out his name? 

I’ll knock, I decided. I stepped to the door. Thunk! I tripped over something 
propped against the wall. A large black case with PROPERTY OF AMAZ-O 
written on the side. 

Wow, I thought, running my fingers along the gold letters. This must be 
Amaz-O’s magic kit! I’m touching it with my own hands! 

I turned back to the door. I was about to meet my idol, my all-time hero. It 
was the biggest moment of my life. 

I reached for the door. My hand trembled. I knocked lightly. 

I waited. 

Maybe he didn’t hear me, I thought. I knocked again, harder this time. 

Nothing. 

“Hello?” I called softly, peeking into the room. Amaz-O’s big white rabbit 
perched on the couch. 

Amaz-O sat on a chair across from the rabbit. I could see his legs. 

“Hello?” I called again. “It’s me. From the disappearing act. Can I come 

in?” 

I paused at the door. Amaz-O didn’t answer me. Suddenly the door 
slammed shut in my face! 

“Hey!” I cried in surprise. 

A voice growled at me from the other side. “Beat it!” 



“But—I’m your biggest fan! I’d just like to shake hands—” 
“Beat it!” the voice snarled again. “Beat it, punk!” 



12 


Punk? Punk? 

Did the great Amaz-0 call me a punk? 

I couldn’t believe it. I stood staring at the star on the door in shock. 

How could Amaz-0 talk to me this way? After I volunteered for his 
disappearing trick—and he left me locked in the basement! 

What’s his problem, anyway? 

For a few seconds I couldn’t move. I couldn’t think. My hero had called me 
a punk. The greatest magician in the world—and he turned out to be a big fat 
jerk! 

Okay, so he wasn’t fat. But he was the biggest jerk I’d ever met in my 
whole life. 

I hung my head and turned away from the door to leave. Then I saw it again 
—the big black case. 

Amaz-O’s magic kit. 

Without thinking, I grabbed the case and ran. 

It was heavy and awkward, but I lugged it down the hall as quickly and 
quietly as I could. 

Why am I doing this? I wondered as I burst into the stage area. 

I’m still not sure why I did it. I’d gone through so much trouble to get to the 
show—sneaking out of the house to meet Amaz-O. And then he was so mean to 
me. Maybe I wanted to get back at him. 

It doesn’t matter why I did it. I did it. I stole Amaz-O’s magic tricks. 

In the back of my mind, I knew I was headed for trouble. 

I paused near the stage. Was Amaz-0 following me? I listened. 

Not a sound. No one coming. I swallowed hard and started running again. 

I passed under the chandelier in the lobby and burst through the front door. 
I hope Amaz-0 was the last person in the club, I thought. I hope there aren’t any 
guards lurking around. 

I didn’t have time to check. I dragged the case across the gravel parking lot 
toward my bike. 

Almost there, I told myself, panting. The parking lot was empty now. The 
floodlights that lit up the mansion were off. The old house lay hidden in 



darkness. 

It must be really late, I thought. I’d better hurry home. 

My bike stood where I’d left it, leaning against a rail. 

I was reaching for the handlebars when a voice called “Stop 
I froze. 

I knew I was caught. 



13 


I heard heavy footsteps crunch toward me across the gravel parking lot. 

Here they come, I thought. They’ve caught me red-handed with Amaz-O’s 
bag. They’ll probably arrest me. 

“Where were you?” the voice called. 

Ginny! I’d completely forgotten about her. Oops. 

“Why are you leaving without me?” she demanded. 

“Wh-why?” I stammered. What could I say? I didn’t want to admit I’d 
forgotten all about her. “I-I wasn’t leaving without you. I was looking for you. 
Where have you been?” 

“Looking for you, Tim,” she snapped. “What happened to you? You 
disappeared—and you never came back!” 

“It’s a long story,” I said. 

She leaned forward to read the lettering on Amaz-O’s black case. 
“'Property of Amaz-O.’ Where did you get that?” 

“He gave it to me,” I lied. “Wasn’t that nice of him?” 

She reached out to open the clasp that held the case shut. “Cool. What’s 
inside?” 

I stopped her hand. “I’ll show it to you when we get home. It’s filled with 
tricks. Amaz-0 said I could keep it. He was grateful to me for being such a good 
sport in the disappearing act.” 

Ginny looked puzzled. “If Amaz-0 gave you that case,” she began, “why 
are those guards running this way?” 

I glanced toward the mansion. Two guards charged across the parking lot, 
waving flashlights. Uh-oh. 

I grabbed the case. “Let’s get out of here!” I cried. “Quick—get on your 
bike. Let’s ride!” 

“I can’t!” Ginny cried. 

“Huh? Why not?” 

“My bike is gone!” 



14 


I jumped on my bike. “Too bad!” I cried. “See you at home!” 

“Tim!” Ginny wailed. “You can’t leave me here!” 

I would have left her there if I could. She can take care of herself. But I 
knew Mom and Dad would kill me. 

Besides, when the guards caught her, she’d tell on me. I’d still get in 
trouble. 

I sat on my bike, watching the guards run right for us. Then I spotted her 
bike on the edge of the parking lot. “It’s over there!” I told her. “Hurry!” 

She raced to her bike. I balanced the case on top of my handlebars. It wasn’t 

easy. 

“Stop!” a guard yelled. Ginny and I sped out of the parking lot and down 
the dark street. 

“Hey—stop!” the guards shouted. The beams of their flashlights blinded me 
for a second. I pedaled as hard as I could. Ginny darted ahead of me. 

I clutched the black case with one hand and steered with the other. The case 
slowed me down. The guards were gaining on us. At the first corner I zoomed 
left. Ginny followed. 

I glanced back. The guards had stopped running. One of them bent over, 
panting. 

“They’ll never catch us now!” Ginny shouted. We hiked home as fast as we 
could. The streets were empty and really dark. The lights were out in most of the 
houses. 

It’s after midnight, I realized. Please let Mom and Dad be asleep. If they 
catch us, they’ll ground us till we’re thirty-five! I’d almost rather be arrested. 

But then, if I got arrested, Mom and Dad would still ground me. 

We braked at our street and walked our bikes into the driveway. 

“Sshhh,” Ginny whispered. 

“Sshhh yourself,” I whispered back. 

We parked the bikes in the garage. It was hard to see without the lights on. 
On the way into the house, Ginny tripped over the lawn mower. 

“Ow!” she yelped. 

“Quiet!” I snapped. 



We both froze. Did Mom and Dad hear us? 

Silence. “I think it’s okay,” I whispered. 

“That hurt,” Ginny whined. 

“Ssshhhh!” 

We sneaked into the house. “Til hide the case in my room,” I whispered. 

“I want to look at it now,” Ginny protested. 

I shook my head. “It’s mine.” 

“No, it’s not. You have to share it with me.” 

“Amaz-0 gave it to me,” I insisted, even though it wasn’t exactly true. 

“I’m going to tell Mom and Dad,” Ginny threatened. “I’ll tell them you 
woke me up and forced me to go with you to Midnight Mansion.” 

“You little brat!” I cried angrily. Stupid Ginny. “Okay, I’ll share it with 
you.” 

“Promise?” 

“If you promise not to tell Mom and Dad.” 

“I promise. But you can’t keep the case in your room. It’s both of ours 
now.” 

I sighed. “All right. I’ll hide it in the attic. Okay?” 

She nodded. 

“But we won’t touch it until Saturday,” I said. “On Saturday, we’ll have 
plenty of time to try everything out and do it right. Deal?” 

“Deal. On Saturday we’ll both open the case, at the same time, together. ” 

“Right. Now go to bed. I’ll sneak it up to the attic.” 

We tried to be careful going up the creaky stairs. It took us about ten 
minutes. At the top I paused to listen for sounds from Mom and Dad’s room. 

“Everything is okay,” Ginny whispered. “Dad is snoring.” 

She crept into her room and shut the door. I tiptoed up to the attic, lugging 
the black case. 

I shut the attic door and switched on the light. Where can I hide this? I 
wondered, gazing around at all the junk. I stepped over piles of old magazines. 
In one corner sat my old toy chest. 

Perfect, I thought, opening the chest. I pulled out a toy school bus and a 
couple of trucks to make room for the case. 

What’s in here, anyway? I wondered as I hefted Amaz-O’s case. I held 
Amaz-O’s magic kit in my hands. How could I go to sleep without seeing what’s 
in it? How could I wait two whole days until Saturday? 



Maybe I’ll take a little peek inside, I thought. Just a quick one. Then I’ll go 
to bed. 

I set the case on the floor. My hands trembled as I fumbled with the clasp. 
Here goes, I thought, tugging open the clasp. I pulled the case open— 

And it blew up in my face! 



15 


I fell over backwards. I lay sprawled on the floor, covering my eyes. 

What happened? 

Am I dead? 

I opened my eyes. I squeezed my arms. I grabbed my chest. 

I’m okay, I realized. 

I sat up. The case sat on the floor. No signs of an explosion. 

Carefully I crawled over to the case. I could have sworn it had blown up. 
But I didn’t see anything that would blow up. 

Then, taped to the inside of the top flap, I saw a little metal disk. I tapped it. 
It made a muffled roar. 

I examined the metal disk. It was an electronic chip. It made an explosion 
sound effect when I shook it or tapped it. 

Just one of Amaz-O’s tricks. 

What else is in here? I wondered. 

I pulled out all kinds of cool stuff. A pair of trick handcuffs. A pocket watch 
for hypnotizing people. Three different decks of trick cards. A rope. And a long 
chain of silk scarves tied together. 

I wonder how all this stuff works, I thought. I’ll have to fool around with it 
on Saturday and figure it out. 

I found a small black sack that held three oval shells and a little red ball. 
The shell game, I realized. One of my favorite tricks. You hide the ball under one 
of the shells and shift them around. The audience has to guess which shell the 
ball is under. 

They always guess wrong, because the ball isn’t under any of the shells. 
The magician secretly palms the ball while he’s shifting the shells around. 

Gets ’em every time. 

I reached into the case again. My hand brushed against something silky. I 
pulled it out. It was a black tuxedo jacket. 

“Wow!” I gasped. “Amaz-O’s own jacket!” 

I had to try it on. I pulled it over my shoulders. It was too big. The 
shoulders drooped halfway down my arms, and the sleeves covered my hands. 

But it felt great. I ran my hands over the satin lapels. 



I stood up and walked around in it. A real magician’s jacket. I wonder what 
he’s got in the pockets? 

I stuck my hands in the pockets. But suddenly I felt something wiggle. 
Along the back of the jacket, near my neck. 

I shook my shoulders. The wiggling stopped. 

But then I felt it again. Something came sliding down the sleeve! 

I shook my arm. What is it? I thought. Is it alive? 

The thing crawled along my arm. “Yuck!” I sputtered. “Get off me!” I 
squirmed inside the coat, trying to shake the thing off. 

I had to get the jacket off—right away! I struggled to get my arms out of the 
sleeves. 

Then something poked its head out. Out of the sleeve, near my hand. 

A snake. 

Alive snake. 



16 


I clamped my mouth shut to keep from screaming. The snake felt warm and 
creepy against my arm. I shook my arm hard. The snake clung to me! 

I gritted my teeth and shook my arm again. And again. I brushed at my 
sleeve with my free hand. 

It wasn’t working! 

I shook my arm once more, as hard as I could. The snake uncoiled and 
slithered out of the sleeve. It dropped to the floor. 

It hissed and curved around the toy chest. I watched it with a shiver. 

Then I felt it again—that slippery, wriggling feeling. Something hissed near 
my ear and squirmed across my shoulder. 

“Ohhh!” I moaned. Another snake! I slapped at it. “Get off me!” 

As I tried to brush the snake away, another one slithered down my sleeve. 
Something slimy wriggled across my stomach and down my back. A snake 
popped out of an inner pocket and plopped to the floor. It started to coil around 
my leg. 

The jacket is crammed with snakes! I realized with horror. 

I thrashed my arms, frantically trying to tear off the jacket. A snake slid 
down the front of my shirt. 

I thrashed harder, shaking my arms and legs. Now I was covered with 
snakes! My whole body! 

I wanted to scream—but I couldn’t wake Mom and Dad. A snake curled up 
my neck and around my head. I squirmed, desperately trying to get out of the 
jacket. 

“Help!” I moaned. “Ohhhh—help!” 



17 


Snakes everywhere! 

One slithered over my head. With a trembling hand, I grabbed at it and 
heaved it away. 

Gasping in terror, I struggled out of the jacket. I tossed it on the floor. 
Snakes wriggled over it. Snakes wriggled over my feet. I hopped up and down. 
Then I hopped onto a chair. A snake coiled up the leg of the chair. It crept closer. 
“Go away!” I whispered. “Leave me alone!” 

The snake hissed. I jumped off the chair. 

Squish! My stomach turned. Did I step on a snake? I was afraid to look. 

I lifted my foot and glanced down. I hadn’t stepped on a snake. It was one 
of Ginny’s old dolls. 

A snake slid over the doll’s face and around its neck. Another snake 
slithered over my shoe. 

There’s no escape! I realized. I’ve got no choice—I have to wake up Mom 
and Dad. What else can I do? 

I hopped around the squirming, hissing snakes. 

I’ll get into trouble, I thought. But at least I’ll be out of this snake pit! 

A snake darted toward me—then suddenly froze. The room fell silent. No 
more hissing. 

All around me the snakes stopped moving. They lay stiff on the floor. Their 
cold eyes stared. 

What happened? Were they dead? 

I glanced around, afraid to move. The floor was littered with dead snakes. 

How could they all die at once? I wondered. It’s so weird! 

I stood there, not moving a muscle. My eyes darted around the room. 

I slowly reached out my leg and tapped one of the snakes with my foot. It 
jiggled a little. 

I took a deep breath. Should I touch it? 

I got up the courage to bend close to the snake. I stuck out a finger and 
poked at it. Nothing happened. My heart pounded. I picked up the snake. 

It lay limp in my hand. It didn’t seem real. 



I twisted the body. It was rubber! I examined the eyes. They were made of 
glass. 

They’re mechanical snakes, I realized. 

I turned the snake over. I found a tiny wind-up key hidden under a rubber 

flap. 

Amaz-O’s jacket was rigged with wind-up snakes. 

I began to breathe again. Everything is okay, I told myself. I don’t have to 
wake up Mom and Dad. I’m not going to get into trouble. I’m not going to be 
eaten alive by snakes. 

When will I learn? I scolded myself. All of these things are just tricks. None 
of them is real. Amaz-0 is a magician. 

I gathered up the snakes and stuffed them back inside the jacket. Then I 
jammed the jacket into Amaz-O’s magic kit. I took one last look inside the bag. 

This is amazing, I thought. I’ve got some of Amaz-O’s best tricks—right 
here in my own house! 

I forced myself to close the kit. I’d better stop fooling around with this 
stuff, I thought—before anything else happens! 

I’ll check it all out on Saturday. In daylight, when I have plenty of time to 
see how it all works. 

Then I’ll give the kit back to Amaz-O. On Monday. 

I knew I had to return the kit. It had been wrong to take it. And crazy. 

If only Amaz-0 hadn’t been so mean to me! He used me in his act—and 
then he locked me in the basement! He told me to get lost. He called me a punk! 

I started to get angry all over again. Amaz-0 doesn’t deserve to get his 
magic kit back, I thought. 

But deep down I knew I had to return it. I wanted to do the right thing. I’d 
check out the tricks, then give them back. 

Of course, I didn’t know then how dangerous the kit was. I didn’t know the 
trouble it would cause. 

If I had known, I would have returned the case that night! 



18 


“Another day of work,” Mom sighed at the breakfast table the next morning. 
“I’m absolutely dreading it. Those students just drive me crazy.” 

Dad grabbed a doughnut and gazed out the window. “It’s raining,” he said 
unhappily. “I probably won’t sell a single car today.” 

Ginny and I exchanged glances. Mom and Dad had no idea we had sneaked 
out the night before. 

I slumped into a chair and ate my cereal. I was sleepy. I’m not used to 
staying up so late. 

“You look tired, Tim,” Mom said, sitting across from me. She glanced at 
Ginny. “So do you, honey.” 

“Didn’t you two get any sleep?” Dad asked. 

“Sure we did,” I replied. 

Ginny grinned. “Not that much sleep. Tim and I have a secret!” 

The little brat! I kicked her under the table. 

“Ow!” she cried. “Tim kicked me!” 

“Don’t kick your sister,” Dad scolded. “I have to leave.” He picked up his 
briefcase and kissed Mom good-bye. “Off to another day of torture. See you 
tonight, kids.” 

Dad left. Mom started clearing away the breakfast dishes. “Did you say 
something about a secret?” she asked. 

“No!” I insisted. “Ginny didn’t say anything about a secret. She said, 'Tim 
and I want a wee pet.’” 

Mom shot me a weird look. “A what? A wee pet?” 

“Yeah,” I said. “You know, a little pet. A nice little kitten or something. 
Ginny’s learning about Scotland in school now. She’s picked up some Scottish 
words, right, Ginny? She’s been running around calling everything ‘wee’.” 

“I have not,” Ginny protested. “I’ve never called anything ‘wee’ in my life! 
And I’m not learning about Scotland in school!” 

“Yes, you are, ” I insisted. 

“What in the world are you two talking about?” Mom carried the pile of 
cereal bowls to the sink. 

“We did a bad thing, Mom,” Ginny blurted out. “Ow!” I kicked her again, 



but that didn’t stop her. 

“We sneaked out last night, Mom. We rode our bikes to Midnight Mansion 
to see the magic show. We didn’t get back until after midnight. I’m sorry, Mom. 
Please don’t get angry. Tim made me do it. I didn’t want to.” 

I covered my face with my hands. Why does Ginny have to be such a big 
mouth? 

I’m doomed, I thought. Doomed! 



19 


“What did you say, Ginny?” Mom asked, wiping her hands on a towel. “I was 
running water in the sink, and I couldn’t hear you.” 

I let out a long breath. I couldn’t believe my luck. I glared at Ginny and 
kicked her again—really hard this time. 

“Nothing, Mom,” Ginny murmured. “I didn’t say anything.” 

“You two better get ready for school,” Mom said. 

I pushed my chair away from the table and dragged Ginny out of hers. 
“We’ll be ready in a minute, Mom,” I said. 

“What is your problem?” I whispered to Ginny in the hall. “You could’ve 
gotten us in big trouble!” 

“You would get in trouble. Not me,” Ginny replied. “You’re the big brother. 
You made me go.” 

“I didn’t make you do anything. And anyway, you promised not to tell!” 

“You promised not to peek into Amaz-O’s kit until Saturday,” Ginny 
reminded me. “But I sneaked up to the attic this morning—and I know you 
looked! You opened that bag! You even played with some of the stuff!” 

“Me? I did not!” I lied. 

“Yes, you did. One of the sleeves of a jacket was sticking out of the kit. 
And I found a scarf on the floor. You big fat liar!” 

“So what? You’ll still get to see the stuff on Saturday.” 

“You promised,” Ginny repeated. She flicked my nose. “Boi-oi-oing.” 

I stormed into my room. There’s no arguing with Ginny. She does whatever 
she wants—promise or no promise. 

She’s always getting me into trouble, I thought angrily. She drives me 
crazy! I wish there were some way I could pay her back. Some way to pay her 
back for everything. 

Little did I realize I would soon find it. 



20 


“Are you sure you kids don’t want to go to the antiques show with us?” Dad 
asked. “You might see some neat old junk there.” 

“We’re sure,” I insisted. Saturday morning had arrived, and all I could think 
about was Amaz-O’s magic kit. I couldn’t wait to get my hands on it. 

I wished my parents would hurry up and leave. 

“All right,” Mom said, kissing Ginny and then me. “There’s tuna salad in 
the fridge for lunch. We won’t be back until dinnertime.” 

“Be good,” Dad added. 

“I'll be good,” Ginny declared. “I don’t know about Tim. ” 

I tried to shove her, but she dodged me. “I’ll be good,” I promised. “I’m 
always good.” 

Mom rolled her eyes. “Just don’t fight too much,” she said. “’Bye.” 

Ah. At last. As soon as they were gone, I raced to the phone and dialed 
Foz’s number. 

“The coast is clear,” I told him. “Come on over.” 

I’d told Foz all about the show at Midnight Mansion and Amaz-O’s magic 
kit. He begged me to let him see the cool tricks in Amaz-O’s bag. 

As soon as Foz arrived, we all trooped up to the attic. Ginny made a beeline 
for the magic kit. I blocked her. 

“Heee-ya!” She leaped into a pre-karate chop stance. “Out of my way!” 

“Ginny—wait!” I pleaded. “There’s a lot of weird stuff in that bag. Let me 
show it to you my way.” 

“Okay.” She relaxed. “But don’t forget you’re supposed to share it with 

me.” 

I pulled up two chairs. “You guys sit here,” I said to Ginny and Foz. “And 
get ready for the greatest magic show in the history of the world!” 

I reached into the toy chest and pulled out Amaz-O’s magic kit. I held it up 
in front of Foz and Ginny. “First,” I began in my magician voice, “gaze deeply 
into the magic trove.” 

I held the bag near their faces. They stared at it. I yanked it open. 

Kaboom! It made the exploding sound, just as it did the first time I opened 
it. 



Ginny and Foz fell off their chairs! 

“What happened?” Foz moaned, clutching his head. “That thing blew up in 
my face!” 

I cracked up. “It’s only a sound effect,” I explained. 

“Not funny,” Ginny complained. 

“You should have seen your faces,” I said gleefully. I reached into the black 
sack that held the three shells and the red ball. I set the shells in a row on a small 
table. 

“Watch closely,” I said. I held up the red ball. “See this ball? I’ll place it 
under one of these shells.” I pretended to tuck the ball under the middle shell. 
But secretly I palmed the ball and flicked it up my sleeve. 

I began moving the shells over the table, shifting their places. 

“Keep your eyes on the middle shell,” I instmcted. Then I stopped moving 
the shells. 

“Which shell is the ball under?” I asked. 

“That one,” Ginny said, pointing to the shell on the right. 

“Are you sure?” I prompted. “Foz, where do you think the ball is?” 

“The same one as Ginny,” he said. “I watched it the whole time.” 

“If you say so,” I said. I was sure the ball wasn’t under that shell—it wasn’t 
under any of them. I felt the ball rubbing against my wrist. 

I lifted the shell—and gasped. There was a ball under there. A red ball, just 
like the one I’d palmed. 

“I was right!” Ginny crowed. “That’s a stupid trick.” 

“But this is impossible!” I cried. I let the first ball fall out of my sleeve. I 
had palmed it. 

“This is very strange,” I muttered. “Let me try again.” 

I dropped the first ball on the floor. I picked up the second ball and 
pretended to slip it under a different shell. I palmed the ball and tucked it up my 
sleeve again. 

“Here we go,” I said, shifting the shells all over the table. I slid the shells 
around a little longer, then stopped. 

“The ball is under the first shell,” Foz said. 

“Yes, the first shell,” Ginny agreed. 

“This time you’re wrong!” I cried. I lifted the first shell. Another red ball! 

Ginny sneered. “You’re a real ace, Tim.” 

“Wait a second,” I said. I lifted up the other two shells. All three of them 



had red balls under them! 

“This isn’t working at all,” I grumbled. I set the shells down, then lifted 
them again. More balls! There were now three balls under each shell! 

“This isn’t the shell game I know.” I was mystified. “This must be some 
other trick.” 

“It’s way better than your dumb trick,” Ginny said. “Those balls are coming 
out of nowhere!” 

The shells began to dance as balls bubbled out of them like popcorn. Ten 
balls. Twenty balls. 

Little red balls covered the table and bounced to the floor. 

“They’re still coming!” Foz cried in amazement. “We’re going to be up to 
our necks in red balls!” 

“How do I stop this thing?” I wondered. 

Can I stop it? 



21 


I snatched up the shells and tossed them into their black sack. Then I grabbed all 
the red balls I could and stuffed them in, too. 

“Help me, you guys!” I pleaded. 

Ginny and Foz fell to their knees, gathering up red balls. We shoved them 
all into the sack. I pulled the string that closed it and dropped it into the magic 
kit. 

The black sack kept bubbling. Red balls started bursting out of it. 

“Stop that!” I yelled. I reached into the magic case and pulled out the first 
thing I touched. Then I snapped the case shut. 

“I don’t really get that trick,” Ginny complained. 

“Here’s another trick,” I said. “This one will be better.” In my hand I held a 
flattened top hat. “Let’s see what this does.” 

I punched the top hat open and placed it on my head. 

“It’s just a hat,” Foz said, fidgeting. “It’s kind of hot up here. Can we go 
down to the kitchen and get something to eat?” 

“You guys don’t get it,” I said. “This is Amaz-O’s magic case! Okay, so I 
don’t know how anything works yet. Once we figure it out, we could put on the 
best magic show ever! I could become a famous magician!” 

“And I could be a famous magician’s sister.” Ginny yawned. “Big deal.” 

“That hat looks way cool on you,” Foz said. “Now can we get something to 

eat?” 

“I’m hungry, too,” Ginny added. 

“Wait!” I cried. I felt something move under the hat. I whipped it off. 

“A white dove!” Foz cried. 

“That’s a good trick,” Ginny admitted. 

I shook the dove off my head. “How do you get it back in the hat?” I asked. 
Before I had a chance to try, another dove popped out of the hat. 

I set the second dove on the floor. “There’s another one!” Foz shouted. 

A third dove flew out of the hat and settled on top of an old lamp. Out 
popped a fourth, and a fifth... 

Foz started laughing. “These tricks are totally out of control!” 



“This is no joke, Foz!” I snapped. 

“We’re going to be in major trouble,” Ginny warned. “We’ve got to find a 
way to get rid of these birds!” 

The attic was quickly filling up with flapping, fluttering doves—and they 
kept coming. I knew we had to get rid of them—but how? 

“Maybe there’s something in here that will help.” I ripped open the magic 
case. Kaboom! It made that stupid exploding sound again. Dozens of little red 
balls flew into my face. 

“I’m really getting sick of this,” I muttered. 

I brushed away piles of balls. I pulled out a long black stick with a white 
tip. A magic wand! 

“Maybe this will help!” I cried. I hoped it would. The attic was a total mess 
—white doves and red balls everywhere. 

“This is the answer,” I declared. “Amaz-0 probably uses this wand to make 
the magic stop.” 

“I hope you’re right,” Ginny said. “If that doesn’t work, you and I are going 
to have to run away from home.” 

“It’ll work,” I insisted. “It’s got to.” 

I waved the wand in the air. “Stop!” I shouted. “Everything stop!” 



22 


Did it work? 

No. 

More doves flew out of the hat. More red balls bubbled out of the black 

sack. 

“That magic wand is the only thing in there that doesn’t work!” Foz joked. 

“Be quiet!” I snapped. “I’ve got to think!” 

“Yikes!” Ginny screamed. “A snake!” 

She pointed at the magic case. A snake slithered out of it. Then a second, a 

third. 

The mechanical snakes had come back to life! 

Hissing snakes soon covered the floor, wriggling over the bouncing red 
balls. Dove feathers fell from the ceiling. The attic was so crowded I could 
hardly see across the room. 

Ginny yelped as a snake began to crawl up her leg. “Let’s get out of here!” 
she cried. 

She yanked open the attic door. She and Foz hurried downstairs. I grabbed 
the magic case and followed them. A snake slithered after me. 

“Get back in there!” I yelled. I picked up the snake and threw it into the 
attic room. I shut the door. I pushed on it to make sure it was closed. Then I ran 
downstairs and out to the backyard. 

A gust of March wind slapped my face. Ginny’s long hair flew out behind 
her. 

“Snakes—ick!” she squealed. “Tim—what are we going to do? When Mom 
and Dad see the attic, we’re dead meat!” 

Foz stared at the magic case. “What did you bring that out for? It’s 
dangerous!” 

“It’s okay if we stay outside,” I told him. “So what if a bunch of birds 
comes out? They’ll fly away.” 

I wasn’t as sure about that as I sounded. But I couldn’t give Amaz-O’s case 
back without seeing everything in it first. I just couldn’t. 

“Hurry up, Tim,” Ginny whined. “I’m starving. It’s lunchtime!” 

“Wait. Wait.” I opened the magic case. Ka-boom! It didn’t sound so loud 



outside—especially with the wind blowing as hard as it was. 

I held the magic wand poised between my fingers. What does this thing do? 
I wondered. 

I waved it around, trying out new magician names. “The Great Incredible- 
O. Mister Terrifico—that’s not bad. Get out of there, Ginny!” She was 
rummaging through the magic kit. 

“You promised we’d share it, remember?” she snapped. Then her face 
brightened. “Hey! Great!” 

She pulled a carrot out of Amaz-O’s bag. “Just what I needed—something 
to eat.” 

“Put that back!” I ordered. 

“It’s still fresh,” she said. “Yum!” 

She opened her mouth, ready to bite the carrot. 

“Ginny—no!” I cried. “Maybe you shouldn’t eat that. Maybe—” 

Ginny never listens to me. 

She crunched down on the carrot. 

A flash of white light blinded me for a moment. 

When my eyes focused, I saw the most amazing thing I’d ever seen in my 


life! 



23 


The carrot dropped to the grass. Ginny’s nose twitched. Then she began to 
shrink. 

As she shrank, her hair turned from blond to white. Her nose turned pink. 
White fur and whiskers sprouted from her face. She grew smaller, furrier, 
whiter.... 

“I don’t believe it!” Foz gasped. “Your sister—she’s a rabbit!” 

Ginny sat on the grass, twitching her little pink nose. She stared at me with 
her rabbity eyes. She waved her little paws and made angry, rabbity noises. 

“Man, she is steamed! ” Foz cried. 

I was stunned. “I wished it,” I murmured. “And now it’s come true.” 

“What are you talking about?” Foz demanded. He grabbed me by the 
shoulders. “Get it together, Tim. We’ve got to do something! What’s going to 
happen when your parents get home?” 

“I told Ginny I’d turn her into a rabbit,” I explained, still dazed. “To get 
back at her for ruining all my magic shows. And now she is a rabbit!” 

Ginny the rabbit rose on her hind legs, gesturing angrily at me. Then she 
bounced up and thumped my shin with one of her big rabbit feet. 

“Ow!” I cried. “That hurts as much as one of her karate kicks!” 

“Look in the kit, Tim,” Foz urged me. “There’s got to be some way to 
change her back.” 

“You’re right. There’s got to be!” My eyes fell on the carrot in the grass. 
“The carrot,” I said. “When Ginny bit it, she turned into a rabbit. But maybe if a 
rabbit bites it, it turns into a girl!” 

Foz shook his head. “Huh?” 

I snatched up the carrot. “We’ve got to try it. There’s nothing to lose, right? 
She’s already a rabbit. What else could happen to her?” 

I shoved the end of the carrot toward Ginny’s mouth. “Come on, Ginny. 
Take another bite.” 

She stared at the carrot suspiciously. She clamped her mouth shut and 
turned her face away. 

“You little brat!” I shouted. “You want me to get in trouble, don’t you! You 
want to stay a rabbit just to get me in trouble!” 



Foz grabbed the carrot out of my hand. “Calm down, Tim. You’re scaring 

her!” 

Ginny’s long rabbit ears perked up—she heard something. I heard it, too. A 
car coming. Pulling into the driveway! 

“Hurry, Ginny!” I cried. “I think Mom and Dad are home. Take a bite of the 
carrot. It’ll turn you back into a girl. I know it will!” 

Ginny eyed me suspiciously. She sniffed the carrot with her twitchy pink 

nose. 

“Hurry!” I shouted again. 

She opened her mouth and took a nibble of carrot. 

Foz and I watched her in a panic. “Please let it work,” I prayed. “Please let 
it work!” 



24 


Ginny’s rabbit nose twitched. Her ears stood straight up. Then they flopped 
down. 

Nothing happened. She was still a rabbit. 

“Mom and Dad!” I cried. “They’re here! Foz—stay with Ginny. If Mom 
and Dad ask, say she’s your sister’s rabbit!” 

I ran to the driveway. A car was backing out—not Mom and Dad. Just 
somebody turning around in our driveway. 

Whew. Close one. 

The wind gusted as I ran back to Foz and Ginny. Foz was on his knees, 
digging through the magic kit. Ginny hopped up and down impatiently. 

The magic wand lay in the grass. Maybe this will work now, I hoped, 
picking it up. I’ve got to change her back! 

I waved the wand over Ginny. “Turn my sister back into a girl!” I cried. 

Nothing. 

“Maybe you need to say the spell in a rhyme,” Foz suggested. “Magicians 
always do that.” 

“Okay.” I waved the wand again. “Let me think.... Magic wand, winds that 
whirl, turn Ginny back into a girl!” 

The wand began to shake. “Something’s happening!” I shouted. 

The white tip of the wand broke open. Out popped a white silk 
handkerchief. 

“Wow!” Foz gasped. A blue one flew out, then a red one, then a yellow one. 
The wind blew them away before I could catch them. 

I turned back to Ginny. Still a rabbit. 

“It didn’t work,” I said unhappily. I tossed the wand into the grass. “It only 
makes stupid handkerchiefs.” 

I crossed over to the magic case. Ginny leaped at me, trying to bite my leg. 

“Watch out!” I warned her. “I’m trying to help you!” 

She twitched her nose in disgust. 

Foz moved aside as I dove into the magic kit. I dumped everything out. A 
slip of paper tumbled out of a pocket in the case. 



I snatched it up. At the top of the paper I saw the word INSTRUCTIONS. 

“Look!” I cried. “Instructions!” I patted Ginny between the ears. “HI have 
you back to normal in a second.” 

I raised the paper to read what it said. “'Instructions. To use the magic top 
hat...’ No. That’s not what I need right now....” 

“Hurry, Tim!” Foz said. 

I scanned the paper, searching for anything about rabbits. “Here’s 
something!” I announced. “‘The magic carrot...’” 

Just then a strong gust of wind blasted across the yard. The paper flew out 
of my hands. 

“No!” I shouted, grasping for the paper. “I need that!” I watched helplessly 
as it flew out of my reach—high up into the sky. 



25 


“Get that paper!” I screamed. The wind blew it across the yard. I darted after it. 

Foz zoomed ahead of me, yelling, “I’ve got it! I’ve got it!” The paper 
floated within his reach. He dove for it. 

Whoosh! Another strong gust of wind. The paper fluttered away. Foz fell 
flat on his face. 

I ran past him, following the paper. It blew across my neighbor’s yard. 

“Get it!” Foz shouted, racing after me. “It’s headed for the woods!” 

The wind died for a minute. The paper settled on the grass. 

I pounced on it. But the wind picked up before I landed. The paper blew 
away again. 

“Rats! ” I cried. 

“There it goes!” Foz shouted. The paper drifted toward the stream. 

The paper floated above the stream, then landed in the water. Foz zipped 
across the yard to grab it. 

“Don’t let it get wet!” I screamed. 

Too late. The paper was soaked. 

“I’ve got it!” Foz shouted. He leaned over the stream and snatched at the 
paper. But the current carried it away. 

Foz and I chased it down the stream, panting. But we couldn’t run as fast as 
the current. 

“It’s getting away,” I huffed. A few seconds later we lost sight of it. 

Foz and I collapsed on the ground. 

“That’s it,” I groaned. “We’ll never get it back now. So how do I turn Ginny 
back into a girl?” 

Foz heaved himself to his feet and pulled me up by the hand. “Don’t panic, 
Tim. Panicking isn’t going to help.” 

Great advice. 

We hurried back to Ginny. I hoped maybe she’d magically turned back into 
a girl while we were gone. No such luck. 

Ginny knew we hadn’t found the instructions. She bounced around the yard, 
squealing angry rabbit squeals. 



Foz rubbed his short hair as he watched her. “Boy, she’s really stressed,” he 

said. 

I fell to my knees to talk to her. “Don’t worry, Ginny,” I soothed. “I’ve got 
an idea. I’m going to take you to Amaz-0 right now. He’ll turn you back into a 
girl. I’m sure he will.” 

With one of her long rabbit ears, Ginny flicked my nose. She couldn’t say 
“Boi-oi-oing.” She didn’t have to. I knew what she meant. 

“Let’s pick this stuff up,” I said to Foz. We began to gather all the tricks off 
the grass and pile them into Amaz-O’s magic case. “Amaz-0 won’t want to help 
us if I don’t give him back his magic kit.” 

Foz took my bike, balancing the magic kit on the handlebars. I picked up 
Ginny. “Come on, little rabbit sister,” I cooed. She let me pull her up by the back 
—then nipped me on the wrist! 

“Ow!” I dropped her. “Do you want me to help you or not?” 

She hopped up and down angrily. I knew what she was thinking. If I didn’t 
change her back into a girl, I’d be in as much trouble as she was. I had no 
choice. 

I reached for her again. “Don’t bite me this time,” I warned her. “Or I’ll put 
a muzzle over that little snout of yours.” 

She squirmed in my arms but didn’t bite. I set her in the basket on her bike. 

“To Midnight Mansion,” I told Foz. We set off, pedaling hard against the 
strong wind. 

I rode through town in a daze. Ginny’s long white ears waved in my face. 

Amaz-O’s words rang in my ears. “Beat it, punk!” he’d said. I wondered if 
he’d really help me. 

He’s got to, I told myself. He’ll be glad to get his magic kit back. 

I’ll make him help, I decided. I won’t give him the kit until he turns Ginny 
back into a girl. 

We pulled into the parking lot in front of Midnight Mansion. The old castle 
looked just as scary in the daytime as it did at night. There were no floodlights 
casting shadows on the stone towers. But the gray, vine-covered walls gave the 
place a spooky, abandoned feeling. 

I skidded to a stop in front of the mansion. Foz carried the magic kit. I 
grabbed Ginny out of the bike basket. 

“Behave,” I warned her as we climbed the front steps to the mansion. 
“Remember, I’m trying to help you. Don’t go biting me or anything.” 



She twitched her nose at me. She lifted her little rabbit lips and bared her 
tiny rabbit teeth. 

“Go ahead—bite me,” I whispered. “See how you like spending the rest of 
your life as a rabbit. You don’t even like lettuce!” 

She closed her mouth and twitched her nose again. It doesn’t matter 
whether she’s a girl or a rabbit, I thought. Either way she’s a pain in the neck. 

We stopped at the top of the steps. 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “I don’t believe it!” 

The sign on the front door read SORRY, WE’RE CLOSED. 



26 


“No!” I cried. I banged my forehead against the door. 

Foz said, “This place gives me the creeps. It looks like Count Dracula’s 
castle.” He shivered. “Let’s get out of here.” 

He set the magic case down. “Amaz-O’s magic kit is so heavy. Do you 
think we can leave it by the door?” 

I glared at him. “No, we can’t leave it by the door. And we’re not going 
home. Not yet.” 

I squeezed Ginny in my arms, thinking. “Okay, so the place is closed. But 
Amaz-0 could be in there, rehearsing or something. Right?” 

“He could be, I guess,” Foz said. “But chances are—” 

“We’ve got to take that chance,” I insisted. I tried the front door. Locked. 
Of course. 

“There must be another way in,” I said. “A back door or something.” I 
dashed down the steps and around the side of the club. 

“Bring the case, Foz!” I ordered. 

He followed me, lugging the kit. I kept my eyes peeled for guards. 

At the back of the mansion we found a door. I tried it. It opened easily! 

We crept inside. We found ourselves in the club’s kitchen. It was long, 
narrow, and shiny clean. The lights were off, but we could see by the light from a 
window at one end. 

Foz paused in front of a huge, stainless steel refrigerator. “I’ll bet they’ve 
got some great food in here,” he whispered. “Lemon meringue pie or 
something.” 

I tugged at his arm. “This is no time for a snack!” I snapped. “Come on!” 

We left the kitchen and entered a long, dark hallway. I recognized that hall. 
It was the same hallway I’d walked down after my escape from the basement— 
the first time Amaz-0 let me down. 

“There’d better not be a second time,” I muttered under my breath. 

We tiptoed down the dark hall. Up ahead I saw the door to Amaz-O’s 
dressing room. It was half-open. A dim light spilled out into the hallway. 

Yes! I thought to myself. That’s a good sign. 

With Ginny in my arms, I crept up to the door. Please, please let him be in 



there, I prayed. Please be here, Amaz-O. Please help us. 
I stopped in front of the door. I took a deep breath. 
“Mr. Amaz-O? Are you here?” 



27 


No reply. 

I tried again. “Mr. Amaz-O? Hello?” 

“He’s not here,” Foz said. “Let’s go.” 

“Shhh!” I pushed the door open and crept into the dressing room. One small 
lamp cast a dim pool of light on the dressing table. The great Amaz-0 sat on the 
couch, his left side facing the door. He was staring at the wall. He didn’t seem to 
notice us. 

“Mr. Amaz-O?” I said politely. “It’s me again. The kid you made disappear 
in your magic show.” 

I thought Amaz-O would turn his head to face us now, but he didn’t. He 
didn’t do anything. He just sat there. 

Man, I thought. He really hates kids. Or he hates his fans. Or he hates all 
people. Or something. 

When I become a great magician, I vowed, I won’t be like Amaz-O. I won’t 
let my fame go to my head. I’ll be nice to people. This is ridiculous. 

I didn’t care what Amaz-O’s problem was. I needed his help—badly. And I 
wouldn’t give up until I got it. 

I stepped farther into the dressing room. “Mr. Amaz-O, I’m sorry to bother 
you. But I really need your help. It’s important.” 

Amaz-O didn’t move. He stared at the wall. Silent. 

“Do you think he’s asleep?” Foz whispered. 

I shrugged. I took another breath and crept closer to the couch. 

“I know you told me to beat it,” I said. “I wouldn’t bother you if it wasn’t a 
matter of life and death—I swear.” 

Still no response. I turned back to Foz, who cowered in the doorway. He 
looked as if he were ready to run for it. I waved him into the room. 

Foz stepped in. He set the magic kit on the floor, shaking. 

I stared at Amaz-O. He ignored me. Who does he think he is? I thought 
angrily. He can’t treat me this way! I’m not leaving until he helps me turn Ginny 
back into a girl. 

I steeled myself and approached the magician. He didn’t look at me. I 
tapped him on the shoulder. 



He toppled over onto his side. Thunk! 

Foz gasped. “Is he—? Is he—?” 

I peered at the body on the couch. “He isn’t alive!” I cried. “Amaz-0 isn’t 
alive!” 

“Oh, no!” Foz was wringing his hands in terror. “Oh, no! He’s dead! He’s 
dead! Help!” 

“He’s not dead,” I said. “He’s a dummy! 

“Amaz-0 is nothing but a big wooden puppet!” 



28 


How could it be possible? I stared at the puppet on the couch. I couldn’t resist 
touching its cheek—then pinching it—just to be sure. 

Oh, wow! 

It was true. Amaz-0 was made of wood. 

Foz sputtered, “But—I saw him on TV. He looked totally real.” 

“And I saw him live,” I said. “On stage. I stood right next to him, and he 
made me disappear!” 

How can this be? I wondered. How can the greatest magician in the world 
be a puppet? 

“This can’t be the guy you saw,” Foz insisted, poking at the dummy. “This 
is probably just a dummy he keeps around for fun. The real Amaz-0 has got to 
be around here somewhere.” 

Rabbit Ginny squirmed angrily in my arms. “Calm down,” I ordered, trying 
to pet her. 

She growled. I’ve never heard of a rabbit growling before. Only a Ginny- 
rabbit would growl. 

Amaz-O, my idol, I thought bitterly. What a fake he turned out to be. Not 
only was he a jerk to me—he’s not even a real person! He’s a puppet! 

“What are we going to do?” Foz asked. 

I shook my head. I had no idea. “Now I’ll never get Ginny changed back 
into a girl,” I said. “Mom and Dad are going to murder me.” 

“Why don’t you tell them she ran away?” Foz suggested. “They’ll never 
believe you turned her into a rabbit, anyway.” 

“Why would she run away?” I demanded. “She was their little darling. She 
could do no wrong. I’m the one who should run away.” 

Foz lifted the Amaz-0 puppet’s head, studying it. “I wonder how this thing 
works....” he said. 

Alow voice suddenly growled, “Hey, punk—I told you to beat it!” 

I froze. “Did you say something, Foz?” I asked. 

He shook his head, eyes wide. He’d heard the voice, too. 

“So beat it! Get out of here!” the voice growled. 

I glanced around the room. I didn’t see anyone. 



“Did the puppet talk?” I asked Foz. 

“I—I don’t think so,” he stammered. “The voice came from the other side 
of the room.” 

“The puppet didn’t talk, dummy,” the voice grumbled. I turned to find it. I 
gazed across the room. Amaz-O’s white rabbit sat on a chair in front of the 
dressing table. 

“I told you to get lost. Now get lost!” the rabbit growled. 

“Tim—did—did you see that?” Foz stammered. “I think that rabbit talked.” 

“Of course I talked, stupid,” the rabbit snarled. 

“You talked?” I echoed in amazement. 

“I guess that thing on the couch isn’t the only dummy in this room,” the 
rabbit snapped. “I can do lots of things. I’m a magician.” 

Foz and I stared at the rabbit, stunned. Even Ginny stopped squirming in 
my arms. 

“You’re not a magician,” Foz said. “You’re a rabbit.” 

The rabbit’s ears twisted. “Duh. You guys are really quick. You know that?” 

“You don’t have to be so mean,” I protested. 

“You don’t have to be so stupid,” the rabbit replied. “I may look like a 
rabbit. But so does your little sister. Am I right?” 

“He’s got a point,” Foz admitted. 

“I am the great Amaz-O,” the rabbit announced. “In person. That dummy 
on the couch is a puppet I had built to look like me—the old me.” 

My jaw fell open. “You’re Amaz-O? What happened to you?” 

The rabbit sighed. “It’s a long story. Let’s just say I had a rival—a real 
powerful one. A sorcerer, actually.” 

Foz gasped. “A sorcerer? Do they really exist?” 

“I’m telling you about one, aren’t I?” the rabbit shouted. 

“Yes, but—” 

“So be quiet and listen to the story,” Amaz-O, the rabbit, grumbled. “If 
you’d stop talking you might learn something.” 

Amaz-O sure was a grouch. 

“Anyway, long story short,” Amaz-O went on. “This sorcerer guy—Frank 

“A sorcerer named Frank?” I cut in. I didn’t mean to interrupt. It just 
slipped out. 

The rabbit glared at me. “Yes, a sorcerer named Frank. You got a problem 



with that?” 

I shook my head. 

“Can I finish talking now? You got any more stupid questions?” 

Foz and I both shook our heads. 

“This guy’s named Foz—” Amaz-0 gestured toward Foz “—and you want 
to make fun of a guy named Frank.” 

“I’m sorry,” I said. “I didn’t mean to make fun of Frank.” 

“He’s a very powerful guy,” Amaz-0 said. “I’m proof of that.” 

The rabbit hopped out of the chair, crossed the dressing room, and sat on 
the couch next to the dummy. 

“Here’s what happened,” he began. “I was at the height of my fame. I was 
the most brilliant magician in the world. I made appearances on all the top TV 
shows. I had millions of fans. Dopey little kids like you looked up to me.” 

“Hey!” I protested. “Stop calling us dopey.” 

Amaz-0 ignored me. He continued, “My tricks were the most amazing 
anyone had ever seen. And Frank was jealous. He was a sorcerer, working alone 
in a basement. He could cast amazing spells—but he was kind of ugly, with a 
high-pitched voice. People didn’t take him seriously. 

“He wanted to be famous like me, but he wasn’t. So he turned me into a 
rabbit. Very funny, right? Ha ha. Turn the magician into a rabbit. Yuk, yuk, yuk.” 

Foz and I exchanged baffled glances. Amaz-0 was turning out to be a little 
weird. 

“I’m not powerful enough to reverse Frank’s spell,” Amaz-0 went on. “I’m 
a magician, not a sorcerer. But I refused to let him stop me. So I built that 
mechanical dummy over there. I made him look just like me. And I kept on 
doing my shows, just as before.” 

“So you control the puppet?” Foz asked. “You make it look as if he’s the 
magician, performing all the tricks?” 

“I just said that, didn’t I?” Amaz-0 snapped. “Are you hard-of-hearing, 
kid?” 

“You’re really mde, you know that, Amaz-O?” I said. I was getting sick of 
his put-downs. “You’re the rudest person—or rabbit, or whatever—I ever met in 
my life!” 

Amaz-O’s long ears drooped. “Hey—I’m sorry,” he said. “Being a rabbit 
gets on my nerves. But also, I can’t let people get too close—you know? I don’t 
want anyone to find out my secret. It could ruin me.” 



Ginny squirmed in my arms again. I’d nearly forgotten all about her. I 
realized I’d better hurry up and ask Amaz-0 to help me change her back. 

“We’re in terrible trouble, Amaz-O,” I said, holding Ginny toward him. 
“This is my sister, Ginny. She ate some of the carrot that was in your magic kit 

55 

“So you confess, do you? You stole my magic kit!” 

“I—I only borrowed it,” I stammered. “I brought it back—see? I’m sorry.” 
“I’ll bet you are,” Amaz-0 snapped. 

“Can you help us, Amaz-O?” I pleaded. “Please, can you help me turn 
Ginny back into a girl?” 

Amaz-0 studied Ginny with his beady rabbit eyes. I held my breath waiting 
for his answer. 

He settled deeper into the couch and shook his head. “Sorry,” he said. 
“There’s nothing I can do for her.” 



29 


“Noooo!” I moaned, sinking into a chair. “You were my last chance. I’m 
doomed!” 

“You didn’t let me finish,” Amaz-0 said. “There’s nothing I can do for her 
—because the magic will wear off by itself.” 

“Yo! All right!” Foz exclaimed happily. He shot both fists into the air. 

“But when?” I asked. “My parents are coming home soon.” 

“How many bites of the carrot did she eat?” Amaz-0 asked. 

“Two,” I replied. 

“How long ago?” 

“About an hour ago,” I answered. 

“Okay,” Amaz-0 said. “She should turn back into a girl in half an hour. Do 
you feel better now?” 

I nodded and sighed with relief. That was a close one, I thought. But 
everything is going to be okay. 

“Hey—” Foz said, jumping up. “We’d better hurry up and take Ginny home 
—before she turns back into a girl. We don’t have enough bikes to go around!” 

I pushed Ginny into his arms. “Take her home, Foz,” I said. “I’ll be there in 
a few minutes.” I wanted to talk to Amaz-0 a little longer. 

Clutching Ginny in his arms, Foz hurried out of the dressing room. “Don’t 
stay too long,” he called over his shoulder. “I don’t want to be alone with Ginny 
when she turns back into a girl. I have a feeling she’s going to be in the mood to 
karate-chop somebody!” 

In reply, Ginny beat her hind legs against his chest. 

“I’m right behind you,” I promised. Foz disappeared down the dark 
hallway. 

“Listen, Amaz-O,” I said. “I’m really sorry I stole your magic bag. I know 
it was a terrible thing to do.” 

“Shove this stupid dummy aside and sit down on the couch,” Amaz-0 said. 
I moved the dummy and sat down next to Amaz-O. 

“You really love magic, don’t you?” he said. 

My heart started pounding. This was the heart-to-heart magician talk I’d 
been hoping to have with Amaz-0 all along! 



“It’s my dream to be a magician,” I told him. “A great magician like you. 
I’d do anything. Anything!” 

“Well, you were great in the show the other night,” Amaz-0 said. “You 
disappeared very well, kid.” 

“Thanks.” 

Amaz-0 sat quietly for a moment. He seemed to be thinking. 

“Say, kid—” he said at last. “How would you like to join the act? I’m 
getting really tired of working with that big wooden dummy over there.” 

“Me?” Now my heart was really racing. “You want me to join the act?” I 
got so excited I jumped off the couch. Then I quickly sat down again. “Do you 
mean it, Amaz-O? Do you think I could?” 

Amaz-0 hopped over to the dressing room door. He kicked it shut. 

“Why don’t we give you a try....” 



30 


And that’s how I joined Amaz-O’s act. I was so excited about being a magician, 
I said yes without even thinking about it. I guess I should’ve asked a few 
questions first. 

Don’t get me wrong. I love being on stage in front of clapping, cheering 
audiences. 

But I don’t like hiding inside the black top hat. And I hate it when the 
Amaz-0 dummy pulls me up too hard by the ears. That really hurts. 

I also hate it when they forget to clean my cage. Sometimes they forget 
about it for days! 

I guess I made a little mistake. See, when Amaz-0 said he was tired of 
working with the big dummy, I thought he wanted me to take the dummy’s 
place. 

I didn’t realize he wanted to retire—and have me take his place! 

I’m not complaining. Amaz-0 gives me plenty of juicy lettuce and all the 
carrots I can eat. I even have a stage name of my own now. At last. It may not be 
my first choice, but it’s still a professional name—“Fluffy.” 

The best part is, I’m on stage every night in a real magic act! My dream— 
my all-time dream! 

How many kids—er—I mean, rabbits—can say their all-time dream came 
true at age twelve? 

I’m really lucky—don’t you agree? 






Search

 UPLOADbrett_devan_wieler BRETT_DEVAN_WIELER
 
BOOKS
 
VIDEO
 
AUDIO
 
SOFTWARE
 
IMAGES
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
ABOUT BLOG PROJECTS HELP DONATE  CONTACT JOBS VOLUNTEER PEOPLE
Full text of "Goosebumps [All Books]"
See other formats




EGG MONSTERS 
FROM MARS 


Goosebumps - 42 
R.L. Stine 





1 


My sister, Brandy, asked for an egg hunt for her tenth birthday party. And 
Brandy always gets what she wants. 

She flashes her smile, the one that makes the dimples pop up in her cheeks. 
And she puts on her little baby face. Opens her green eyes wide and tugs at her 
curly red hair. “Please? Please? Can I have an egg hunt at my party?” 

No way Mom and Dad can ever say no to her. 

If Brandy asked for a red, white, and blue ostrich for her birthday, Dad 
would be out in the garage right now, painting an ostrich. 

Brandy is good at getting her way. Real good. I’m her older brother, Dana 
Johnson. And I admit it. Even I have trouble saying no to Brandy. 

I’m not little and cute like my sister. I have straight black hair that falls over 
my forehead. And I wear glasses. And I’m a little chubby. “Dana, don’t look so 
serious.” That’s what Mom is always telling me. 

“Dana has an old soul,” Grandma Evelyn always says. 

I don’t really know what that means. I guess she means I’m more serious 
than most twelve-year-olds. 

Maybe that’s true. I’m not really serious all the time. I’m just curious about 
a lot of things. I’m very interested in science. I like studying bugs and plants and 
animals. I have an ant farm in my room. And two tarantulas. 

And I have my own microscope. Last night I studied a toenail under the 
microscope. It was a lot more interesting than you might think. 

I want to be a research scientist when I’m older. I’ll have my own lab, and 
I’ll study anything I want to. 

Dad is a kind of chemist. He works for a perfume company. He mixes 
things together to make new smells. He calls them fragrances. 

Before Mom met Dad, she worked in a lab. She did things with white rats. 

So both of my parents are happy that I’m into science. They encourage me. 
But that doesn’t mean they give me whatever I ask for. 

If I asked Dad for a red, white, and blue ostrich for my birthday, do you 
know what he’d say? He’d say, “Go play with your sister’s!” 

Anyway, Brandy asked for an egg hunt for her birthday. Her birthday is a 
week before Easter, so it wasn’t a crazy idea. 



We have a very large backyard. It stretches all the way back to a small, 
trickling creek. 

The yard is filled with bushes and trees and flower beds. And there’s a big 
old doghouse, even though we don’t have a dog. 

Lots of good egg-hiding places. 

So Brandy got her egg hunt. She invited her entire class. 

You may not think that egg hunts are exciting. 

But Brandy’s was. 

Brandy’s birthday came on a warm and sunny day. Only a few small cumulus 
clouds high in the sky. (I study clouds.) 

Mom hurried out to the backyard after breakfast, lugging a big bucket of 
eggs. “I’ll help you hide them,” I told her. 

“That wouldn’t be fair, Dana,” Mom replied. “You’re going to be in the egg 
hunt too—remember?” 

I almost forgot. Brandy usually doesn’t want me hanging around when her 
friends come over. But today she said that I could be in the egg hunt. And so 
could my best friend, Anne Gravel. 

Anne lives in the house next door. My mom is best friends with Anne’s 
mom. Mrs. Gravel agreed to let Mom hide eggs all over their backyard too. So 
it’s only fair that Anne gets to join in. 

Anne is tall and skinny, and has long red-brown hair. She’s nearly a head 
taller than me. So everyone thinks she’s older. But she’s twelve too. 

Anne is very funny. She’s always cracking jokes. She makes fun of me 
because I’m so serious. But I don’t mind. I know she’s only joking. 

That afternoon Anne and I stood on the driveway and watched the kids 
from Brandy’s class arrive at the party. Brandy handed each one of them a little 
straw basket. 

They were really excited when Brandy told them about the egg hunt. And 
the girls got even more excited when Brandy told them the grand prize—one of 
those expensive American Girl dolls. 

Of course the boys started to grumble. Brandy should have had a prize a 
boy might like. Some of the boys started using their baskets as Frisbees. And 
others began wrestling in the grass. 

“I was a lot more sophisticated when I was ten,” I muttered to Anne. 

“When you were ten, you liked Ninja Turtles,” Anne replied, rolling her 



eyes. 

“I did not!” I protested. 

“Yes, you did,” Anne insisted. “You wore a Ninja Turtle T-shirt to school 
every day.” 

I kicked some gravel across the driveway. “Just because I wore the shirt 
doesn’t mean I liked them,” I replied. 

Anne flung back her long hair. She sneered at me. I hate it when Anne 
sneers at me. “You had Ninja Turtle cups and plates at your tenth birthday party, 
Dana. And a Ninja Turtle tablecloth. And we played some kind of Ninja Turtle 
Pizza Pie-throwing game.” 

“But that doesn’t mean I liked them!” I declared. 

Three more girls from Brandy’s class came running across the lawn. I 
recognized them. They were the girls I call the Hair Sisters. They’re not sisters. 
But they spend all their time in Brandy’s room after school doing each other’s 
hair. 

Dad moved slowly across the grass toward them. He had his camcorder up 
to his face. The three Hair Sisters waved to the camera and yelled, “Happy 
Birthday, Brandy!” 

Dad tapes all our birthdays and vacations and big events. He keeps the tapes 
on a shelf in the den. We never watch them. 

The sun beamed down. The grass smelled sweet and fresh. The spring 
leaves on the trees were just starting to unfurl. 

“Okay—everyone follow me to the back!” Brandy ordered. 

The kids lined up in twos and threes, carrying their baskets. Anne and I 
followed behind them. Dad walked backwards, busily taping everything. 

Brandy led the way to the backyard. Mom was waiting there. “The eggs are 
hidden everywhere,” Mom announced, sweeping her hand in the air. 
“Everywhere you can imagine.” 

“Okay, everyone!” Brandy cried. “At the count of three, the egg hunt 
begins! One —” 

Anne leaned down and whispered in my ear. “Bet you five dollars I collect 
more eggs than you.” 

I smiled. Anne always knows how to make things more interesting. 

“Two—” 

“You’ve got a bet!” I told her. 

“Three!” Brandy called. 



The kids all cheered. The hunt for hidden eggs was on. 

They all began hurrying through the backyard, bending down to pick up 
eggs. Some of them moved on hands and knees through the grass. Some worked 
in groups. Some searched through the yard on their own. 

I turned and saw Anne stooping down, moving quickly along the side of the 
garage. She already had three eggs in her basket. 

I can’t let her win! I told myself. I sprang into action. 

I ran past a cluster of girls around the old doghouse. And I kept moving. 

I wanted to find an area of my own. A place where I could grab up a bunch 
of eggs without having to compete with the others. 

I jogged across the tall grass, making my way to the back. I was all alone, 
nearly to the creek, when I started my search. 

I spotted an egg hidden behind a small rock. I had to move fast. I wanted to 
win the bet. 

I bent down, picked it up, and quickly dropped it into my basket. 

Then I knelt down, set my basket on the ground, and started to search for 
more eggs. 

But I jumped up when I heard a scream. 



2 


“Aaaaaiiiiii!” 

The scream rang through the air. 

I turned back toward the house. One of the Hair Sisters was waving her 
hand wildly, calling to the other girls. I grabbed up my basket and ran toward 
her. 

“They’re not hard-boiled!” I heard her cry as I came closer. And I saw the 
drippy yellow yolk running down the front of her white T-shirt. 

“Mom didn’t have time to hard-boil them,” Brandy announced. “Or to paint 
them. I know it’s weird. But there just wasn’t time.” 

I raised my eyes to the house. Mom and Dad had both disappeared inside. 

“Be careful,” Brandy warned her party guests. “If you crack them—” 

She didn’t finish her sentence. I heard a wet splat. 

Then laughter. 

A boy had tossed an egg against the side of the doghouse. 

“Cool!” one of the girls exclaimed. 

Anne’s big sheepdog, Stubby, came running out of the doghouse. I don’t 
know why he likes to sleep in there. He’s almost as big as the house. 

But I didn’t have time to think about Stubby. 

Splat. 

Another egg exploded, this time against the garage wall. 

More laughter. Brandy’s friends thought it was really hilarious. 

“Egg fight! Egg fight!” two boys started to chant. 

I ducked as an egg went sailing over my head. It landed with a craaack on 
the driveway. 

Eggs were flying everywhere now. I stood there and gaped in amazement. 

I heard a shrill shriek. I spun around to see that two of the Hair Sisters had 
mnny yellow egg oozing in their hair. They were shouting and tugging at their 
hair and trying to pull the yellow gunk off with both hands. 

Splat! Another egg hit the garage. 

Craaack! Eggs bounced over the driveway. 

I ducked down and searched for Anne. She probably went home, I figured. 




Anne enjoys a good laugh. But she’s twelve, much too sophisticated for a 
babyish egg fight. 

Well, when I’m wrong, I’m wrong. 

“Think fast, Dana!” Anne screamed from behind me. I threw myself to the 
ground just in time. She heaved two eggs at once. They both whirred over my 
head and dropped onto the grass with a sickening crack. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I heard Brandy shrieking desperately. “It’s my birthday! 
Stop it! It’s my birthday!” 

Thunk! Somebody hit Brandy in the chest with an egg. 

Wild laughter rang out. Sticky yellow puddles covered the back lawn. 

I raised my eyes to Anne. She was grinning back at me, about to let me 
have it again. 

Time for action. I reached into my basket and pulled out the one and only 
egg I had picked up. 

I raised it high above my head. Started to throw—but stopped. 

The egg. 

I lowered it and stared at it. 

Stared hard at it. 

Something was wrong with the egg. 

Something was terribly wrong. 



3 


The egg was too big. Bigger than a normal egg. About the size of a softball. 

I held it carefully, studying it. The color wasn’t right either. It wasn’t egg- 
colored. That creamy off-white. And it wasn’t brown. 

The egg was pale green. I raised it to the sunlight to make sure I was seeing 
correctly. 

Yes. Green. 

And what were those thick cracks up and down the shell? 

I ran my pointer finger over the dark, jagged lines. 

No. Not cracks. Some kind of veins. Blue-and-purple veins crisscrossing 
the green eggshell. 

“Weird!” I muttered out loud. 

Brandy’s friends were shouting and shrieking. Eggs were flying all around 
me. An egg splattered over my sneakers. The yellow yolk oozed over my laces. 

But I didn’t care. 

I rolled the strange egg over and over slowly between my hands. I brought 
it close to my face and squinted hard at the blue-and-purple veins. 

“Ooh.” I let out a low cry when I felt it pulsing. 

The veins throbbed. I could feel a steady beat. 

Thud. Thud. Thud. 

“Oh wow. It’s alivel” I cried. 

What had I found? It was totally weird. I couldn’t wait to get it to my 
worktable and examine it. 

But first I had to show it to Anne. 

“Anne! Hey—Anne!” I called and started jogging toward her, holding the 
egg high in both hands. 

I was staring at the egg. So I didn’t see Stubby, her big sheepdog, run in 
front of me. 

“Whooooa!” 

I let out a cry as I fell over the dog. 

And landed with a sickening crunch on top of my egg. 



4 


I jumped up quickly. Stubby started to lick my face. That dog has the worst 
breath! 

I shoved him away and bent down to examine my egg. 

“Hey!” I cried out in amazement. The egg wasn’t broken. I picked it up 
carefully and rolled it in my hands. 

Not a crack. 

What a tough shell! I thought. My chest had landed on top of the egg. 
Pushed it into the ground. But the shell hadn’t broken. 

I wrapped my hands around the big egg as if soothing it. 

I could feel the blue-and-purple veins pulsing. 

Is something inside getting ready to hatch? I wondered. What kind of bird 
was inside it? Not a chicken, I knew. This was definitely not a hen’s egg. Splat! 
Another egg smacked the side of the garage. 

Kids were wrestling in the runny puddles of yolk on the grass. I turned in 
time to see a boy crack an egg over another boy’s head. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” 

Brandy was screaming at the top of her lungs, trying to stop the egg fight 
before every single egg was smashed. I turned and saw Mom and Dad running 
across the yard. 

“Hey, Anne—!” I called. I climbed to my feet, holding the weird egg 
carefully. Anne was frantically tossing eggs at three girls. The girls were 
bombarding her. Three to one—but Anne wasn’t retreating. 

“Anne—check this out!” I called, hurrying over to her. “You won’t believe 
this egg!” 

I stepped up beside her and held the egg out to her. 

“No! Wait—!” I cried. 

Too late. 

Anne grabbed my egg and heaved it at the three girls. 



5 


“No—stop!” I wailed. 

As I stared in horror, one of the three girls caught the egg in midair—and 
tossed it back. 

I dove for it, making a headfirst slide. And grabbed the egg in one hand 
before it hit the gravel. 

Was it broken? 

No. 

This shell must be made of steel! I told myself. I pulled myself to my feet, 
gripping the egg carefully. To my surprise, it felt hot. Burning hot. 

“Whoa!” I nearly dropped it. 

Throb. Throb. Throb. 

It pulsed rapidly. I could feel the veins beating against my fingers. 

I wanted to show the egg to Mom and Dad. But they were busy breaking up 
the egg fight. 

Dad’s face was bright red. He was shouting at Brandy and pointing to the 
yellow stains up and down the side of the garage. 

Mom was trying to calm down two girls who were crying. They had egg 
yolk stuck to their hair and all over their clothes. They even had it stuck to their 
eyebrows. I guess that’s why they were crying. 

Behind them Stubby was having a feast. He was running around in circles, 
lapping up egg after egg from the grass, his bushy tail wagging like crazy. 

What a party! 

I decided to take my weird egg inside. I wanted to study it later. Maybe I’d 
break off a tiny piece of shell and look at it under the microscope. Then I’d make 
a tiny hole in the shell and try to see inside. 

Throb. Throb. 

The veins pounded against my hand. The egg still felt hot. 

It might be a turtle egg, I decided. I walked carefully to the house, cradling 
it in both hands. 

One morning last fall, Anne found a big box turtle on the curb in front of 
her house. She carried it into her backyard and called me over. She knew I’d 
want to study it. 



It was a pretty big turtle. About the size of a lunch box. Anne and I 
wondered how it got to her curb. 

Up in my room I had a book about turtles. I knew the book would help me 
identify it. I had hurried home to get the book. But Mom wouldn’t let me go 
back out. I had to stay inside and have lunch. 

When I got back to Anne’s backyard, the turtle had vanished. I guess it 
wandered away. 

Turtles can be pretty fast when they want to be. 

As I carried my treasure into the house, I thought it might be a turtle egg. 
But why was it so hot? And why did it have those yucky veins all over it? 

Eggs don’t have veins—do they? 

I hid the egg in my dresser drawer. I surrounded it with my balled-up socks 
to protect it. Then I closed the drawer slowly, carefully, and returned to the 
backyard. 

Brandy’s guests were all leaving as I stepped outside. They were covered in 
sticky eggs. They didn’t look too happy. 

Brandy didn’t look too happy, either. Dad was busy shouting at her, angrily 
waving his arms, pointing to the gloppy egg stains all over the lawn. 

“Why did you let this happen?” he screamed at her. “Why didn’t you stop 

it?” 

“I tried!” Brandy wailed. “I tried to stop it!” 

“We’ll have to have the garage painted,” Mom murmured, shaking her 
head. “How will we ever mow the lawn?” 

“This was the worst party I ever had!” Brandy cried. She bent down and 
pulled chunks of eggshell from her sneaker laces. Then she glared up at Mom. 
“It’s all your fault!” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped. “My fault?” 

“You didn’t hard-boil the eggs,” Brandy accused. “So it’s all your fault.” 
Mom started to protest—but bit her lip instead. 

Brandy stood up and tossed the bits of eggshell to the ground. She flashed 
Mom her best dimpled smile. “Next year for my birthday, can we have a Make 
Your Own Ice-Cream Sundae party?” 

That evening I wanted to study my weird green egg. But we had to go visit 
Grandma Evelyn and Grandpa Harry and take them out to dinner. They always 
make a big fuss about Brandy’s birthday. 



First, Brandy had to open her presents. Grandma Evelyn bought her a pair 
of pink fuzzy slippers that Brandy will never wear. She’ll probably give them to 
Stubby as chew toys. 

Brandy opened the biggest box next. She pulled out a pair of pink-and- 
white pajamas. Brandy made a big fuss about them and said she really needed 
pajamas. She did a pretty good acting job. 

But how excited can you get over pajamas? 

Her last present was a twenty-five-dollar gift certificate to the CD store at 
the mall. Nice present. “I’ll go with you to make sure you don’t pick out 
anything lame,” I offered. 

Brandy pretended she didn’t hear me. 

She gave our grandparents big hugs. Brandy is a big hugger. Then we all 
went out for dinner at the new Italian restaurant on the corner. 

What did we talk about at dinner? Brandy’s wild birthday party. When we 
told Grandma and Grandpa about the egg fight, they laughed and laughed. 

It wasn’t so funny in the afternoon. But a few hours later at dinner, we all 
had to admit it was pretty funny. Even Dad managed a smile or two. 

I kept thinking about the egg in my dresser drawer. When we got back 
home, would I find a baby turtle on my socks? 

Dinner stretched on and on. Grandpa Harry told all of his funny golfing 
stories. He tells them every time we visit. We always laugh anyway. 

We didn’t return home till really late. Brandy fell asleep in the car. And I 
could barely keep my eyes open. 

I slunk up to my room and changed into pajamas. Then, with a loud yawn, I 
turned off the light. I knew I’d fall asleep the moment my head hit the pillow. 

I fluffed my pillow the way I liked it. Then I slid into bed and pulled the 
quilt up to my chin. 

I started to settle my head on the pillow when I heard the sound. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

Steady like a heartbeat. Only louder. 

Much louder. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 

So loud, I could hear the dresser drawers rattling. 

I sat straight up. Wide awake now. I stared through the darkness to my 
dresser. 

THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. 



I turned and lowered my feet to the floor. 

Should I open the dresser drawer? 

I sat in the darkness, trembling with excitement. With fear. 
Listening to the steady thud. 

Should I open the drawer and check it out? 

Or should I run as far away as I could? 



6 


Thump, thump, THUMP. 

I had to see what was happening in my dresser drawer. 

Had the egg hatched? Was the turtle bumping up against the sides of the 
drawer, trying to climb out? 

Was it a turtle? 

Or was it something weird? 

Suddenly I felt very afraid of it. 

I took a deep breath and rose to my feet. My legs felt rubbery and weak as I 
made my way across the room. My mouth was suddenly as dry as cotton. 

Thump, THUMP, thump. 

I clicked on the light. Blinked several times, struggling to force my eyes to 
focus. 

The steady thuds grew louder as I approached the dresser. 

Heartbeats, I told myself. 

Heartbeats of the creature inside the egg. 

I grabbed the drawer handles with both hands. Took another deep breath. 

Dana, this is your last chance to run away, I warned myself. 

This is your last chance to leave the drawer safely closed. 

Thump, thump, thump, thump, thump. 

I tugged open the drawer and peered inside. 

I stared in, amazed that nothing had changed. The egg sat exactly where I 
had left it. The blue-and-purple veins along the shell pulsed as before. 

Feeling a little calmer, I picked it up. 

“Ouch!” 

I nearly dropped it. The shell was burning hot. 

I cupped it in my hands and blew on it. “This is so totally weird,” I 
murmured to myself. 

Mom and Dad have to see it, I decided. Right now. Maybe they can tell me 
what it is. 

They were still awake. I could hear them talking in their room down the 


hall. 



I carried the egg carefully, cradling it in both hands. I had to knock on their 
door with my elbow. “It’s me,” I said. 

“Dana, what is it?” Dad demanded grumpily. “It’s been a long day. We’re 
all very tired.” 

I pushed open their door a crack. “I have an egg I want to show you,” I 
started. 

“No eggs!” they both cried at once. 

“Haven’t we seen enough eggs for one day?” Mom griped. 

“It’s a very strange egg,” I insisted. “I can’t identify it. I think—” 

“Good night, Dana,” Dad interrupted. 

“Please don’t ever mention eggs again,” Mom added. “Promise?” 

“Well, I...” I stared down at the pulsing green egg in my hand. “It’ll only 
take a second. If you’ll just—” 

“Dana!” Dad yelled. “Why don’t you go sit on it and hatch it?” 

“Clark—don’t talk to Dana that way!” Mom scolded. 

“He’s twelve years old. He can take a joke,” Dad protested. 

They started arguing about how Dad should talk to me. 

I muttered good night and started back to my room. 

I mean, I can take a hint. 

Thump. Thump. The egg pulsed in my hand. 

I had a sudden impulse to crack it open and see what was inside. But of 
course I would never do that. 

I stopped outside Brandy’s room. I was desperate to show my weird 
treasure to somebody. I knocked on her door. 

No answer. 

I knocked again, a little harder. Brandy is a very heavy sleeper. 

Still no answer. 

I started to knock a third time—and the door flew open. Brandy greeted me 
with an open-mouthed yawn. “What’s wrong? Why’d you wake me?” 

“I want to show you this egg,” I told her. 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “You’re serious? After what happened at my 
party? After the worst birthday party in the history of America, you really want 
to show me an egg?” 

I held it up. “Yeah. Here it is.” 

She slammed the door in my face. 

“You mean you don’t want to see it?” I called in. 



No reply. 

Once again, I could take a hint. I carried the egg back to my room and set it 
down carefully in the dresser drawer. Then I closed the drawer and climbed back 
into bed. 

Thump. Thump. Thump. 

I fell asleep to the steady throbbing. 

The next morning, I woke up just in time to watch the egg hatch. 



7 


A loud cracking sound woke me up. 

Blinking, I pulled myself up on one elbow. Still half-asleep, I thought I 
heard Brandy cracking her knuckles. 

That’s one of Brandy’s secret talents. She never does it when adults are 
around. But when we’re alone, she can crack out entire symphonies on her 
knuckles. 

Another loud crack snapped me alert. 

The dresser. The noises were coming from my dresser. 

I heard a long rip, like Velcro ripping open. Then more cracks. Like 
cracking bones. 

And I knew it had to be the egg. 

My heart started to pound. I leaped up. Grabbed my glasses and slapped 
them onto my face. My legs got tangled in the bedsheet, and I nearly went 
sprawling over the floor. 

I hurtled across the room. The egg was hatching—and I had to be there in 
time to watch. 

I grabbed the drawer handles and eagerly pulled the drawer open. I was so 
eager, I nearly pulled the drawer out of the dresser! 

Catching my balance, I gripped the dresser top with both hands and stared 
down at the egg. 

Craaaaack. 

The blue-and-purple veins throbbed. A long, jagged crack split across the 
green shell. 

Unh unh. 

I heard a low grunt from inside the egg. The grunt of a creature working 
hard to push out. 

Unnnnnh. 

What a struggle! 

It doesn’t sound like a turtle, I told myself. Is it some kind of exotic bird? 
Like a parrot? Or a flamingo maybe? 

How would a flamingo egg get in my backyard? 

How would any weird egg get in my backyard? 



Unnnh unnnnh. 

Craaaaack. 

The sounds were really gross. 

I rubbed my eyes and squinted down at the egg. It was bouncing and 
bobbing in the drawer now. Each grunt made the egg move. 

The veins throbbed. Another crack split along the front of the shell. And 
thick yellow goo poured out into the drawer, seeping onto my socks. 

“Yuck!” I cried. 

The egg shook. Another crack. More of the thick liquid oozed down the egg 
and onto my socks. 

The egg bobbed and bounced. I heard more hard grunting. Unnnnh. 
Unnnnh. The egg trembled with each grunt. 

Yellow slime oozed as the cracks in the shell grew wider. The veins pulsed. 
The egg shook. 

And then a large triangle of shell broke off. It fell into the drawer. 

I leaned closer to stare into the hole in the egg. I couldn’t really see what 
was inside. I could see only wet yellow blobby stuff. 

Unnh unnnnnh. 

Another grunt—and the eggshell crackled and fell apart. Yellow liquid 
spilled into the drawer, soaking my socks. 

I held my breath as a weird creature pushed itself out of the breaking shell. 
A yellow, lumpy thing. 

A baby chicken? 

No way. 

I couldn’t see a head. Or wings. Or feet. 

I gripped the dresser top and stared down at it. The strange animal pushed 
away the last section of shell. This was amazing! 

It rolled wetly over my socks. 

A blob. A sticky, shiny yellow blob. 

It looked like a pile of very runny scrambled eggs. 

Except it had tiny green veins crisscrossing all over it. 

My chest felt about to explode. I finally remembered to breathe. I let out my 
breath in a long whoosh. My heart was thudding. 

The yellow blob throbbed. It made sick, wet sucking sounds. 

It turned slowly. And I saw round black eyes near its top. 

No head. No face. Just two tiny black eyes on top of the lumpy yellow 



body. 

“You’re not a chicken,” I murmured out loud. My voice came out in a 
choked whisper. “You’re definitely not a chicken.” 

But what was it? 

“Hey—Mom! Dad!” I shouted. 

They had to see this creature. They had to see the scientific discovery of the 
century! 

“Mom! Dad! Hurry!” 

No response. 

The lumpy creature stared up at me. Throbbing. Its tiny green veins pulsing. 
Its eggy body bouncing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 

Silence. 

I stared into my drawer. 

What should I do? 



8 


I had to show it to Mom and Dad. I carefully closed the dresser drawer so it 
couldn’t bounce out and escape. Then I went running downstairs, shouting at the 
top of my voice. 

My pajama pants were twisted, and I nearly fell down the stairs. “Mom! 
Dad! Where are you?” 

The house was silent. The vacuum cleaner had been pulled out of the closet. 
But no one was around to use it. 

I burst into the kitchen. Were they still having breakfast? 

“Mom? Dad? Brandy?” 

No one there. 

Sunlight streamed in through the kitchen window. The breakfast dishes— 
three cereal bowls and two coffee cups—were stacked beside the sink. 

Where did they go? I wondered, my heart pounding. How could they leave 
when I had the most amazing thing in the history of the known universe to show 
them? 

I turned to leave the kitchen when I saw the note on the refrigerator. It was 
written in blue ink in Mom’s handwriting. I snatched it off the magnet and read 
it: 

“Dad and I took Brandy to her piano lesson. Make yourself some cereal. 
Love, M.” 

Cereal? 

Cereal ? 

How could I think about cereal at a time like this? 

What should I do now? 

I leaned my forehead against the cool refrigerator, struggling to think. I 
couldn’t leave the throbbing egg blob locked up in the dresser drawer all 
morning. Maybe it needed fresh air. Maybe it needed exercise. Maybe it needed 
food. 

Food? I swallowed hard. What would it eat? What could it eat? It was just a 
lump of scrambled eggs with eyes. 

I’ve got to take it out of there, I decided. I’ve got to show it to someone. 

I thought instantly of Anne. 



“Yes!” I exclaimed to myself. I’ll take it next door and show it to Anne. She 
has a dog. She’s really good with pets and animals. Maybe she’ll have some idea 
of what I should do with it. 

I hurried back upstairs and pulled on the jeans and T-shirt I had tossed on 
the floor the night before. Then I made my way to the dresser and slid open the 
drawer. 

“Yuck!” 

The egg blob sat in its own yellow slime. Its whole body throbbed. The 
tiny, round eyes stared up at me. 

“I’m taking you to Anne’s,” I told it. “Maybe the two of us can figure out 
what you are.” 

Only one problem. 

How do I take it there? 

I rubbed my chin, staring down at it. Do I carry it on a plate? No. It might 
tumble off. 

A bowl? 

No. Ajar? 

No. It couldn’t breathe. 

A box. 

Yes. I’ll put it in a box, I decided. I opened my closet, dropped to my hands 
and knees, and shuffled through all the junk piled on the floor. 

That’s how I clean my room. I toss everything into the closet and shut the 
door. I have the cleanest room in the house. No problem. 

The only problem is finding things in my closet. If I’m searching for 
something to wear, sometimes it takes a few days. 

Today I got lucky. I found what I was looking for right away. It was a shoe 
box. The box my new sneakers came in. 

I picked up the shoe box from the clutter and climbed to my feet. Then I 
kicked a bunch of stuff back into the closet so I could get the door closed. 

“Okay!” I cried happily. I returned to the throbbing egg glob. “I’m carrying 
you to Anne’s in this box. Ready?” 

I didn’t expect it to answer. And it didn’t. 

I pulled off the shoe box lid and set it on the dresser top. Then I lowered the 
box to the drawer. 

“Now what?” I asked myself out loud. 

How do I get it in the box? Do I just pick it up? 



Pick it up in my hand? 

I held the box in my left hand and started to reach into the drawer with my 
right. But then I jerked my hand away. 

Will it bite me? I wondered. 

How can it? It doesn’t have a mouth. 

Will it sting me? Will it hurt me somehow? 

My throat tightened. My hand started to tremble. It was so gross—so wet 
and eggy. 

Pick it up, Dana, I told myself. Stop being such a wimp. You’re a scientist 
—remember? You have to be bold. You have to be daring. 

That’s true, I knew. Scientists can’t back away from something just because 
it’s yucky and gross. 

I took a deep breath. 

I counted to three. 

Then I reached for it. 



9 


As my hand moved toward it, the creature began to tremble. It shook like a glob 
of yellow Jell-O. 

I pulled back once again. 

I can’t do it, I decided. I can’t pick it up barehanded. It might be too 
dangerous. 

I watched it shake and throb. Wet bubbles formed on its eggy skin. 

Is it scared of me? I wondered. Or is it trying to warn me away? 

I had to find something to pick it up. I turned and glanced around the room. 
My eyes landed on my baseball glove tucked on the top shelf of my bookcase. 

Maybe I could pick up the egg creature in the glove and drop it into the 
shoe box. I was halfway across the room when I decided I didn’t want to get my 
glove all wet and gloppy. 

I need to shovel it into the box, I thought. 

A little shovel would make the job easy. I walked back to the dresser. The 
egg creature was still shaking like crazy. I closed the drawer. Maybe the darkness 
will calm it down, I thought. 

I made my way down to the basement. Mom and Dad keep all their 
gardening supplies down there. I found a small metal trowel and carried it back 
up to my room. 

When I pulled open the drawer, the eggy blob was still shaking. “Don’t 
worry, fella,” I told it. “I’m a scientist. I’ll be real gentle.” 

I don’t think it understood English. As I lowered the trowel into the drawer, 
the green veins on the throbbing body began to pulse. 

The creature started bobbing up and down. The little black eyes bulged up 
at me. I had the feeling the little guy was about to explode or something. 

“Easy. Easy,” I whispered. 

I lowered the trowel carefully beside it. Then I slowly, slowly slid it under 
the throbbing creature. 

“There. Gotcha,” I said softly. 

It wiggled and shook on the blade of the trowel. I began to lift it carefully 
from the drawer. 

The shoe box sat on the top of the dresser. I had the trowel in my right 



hand. I reached for the shoe box with my left. 

Up, up. Slowly. Very slowly, I raised the egg creature toward the box. 
Up. Up. 

Almost to the box. 

And the creature growled at me! 

A low, gruff growl—like an angry dog. 

“Ohhh!” I uttered a startled cry—and the trowel dropped from my hand. 
“Yaaiii!” I let out another cry as it clanged across the floor—and the 
creature plopped wetly onto my sneaker. 

“No!” 

Without thinking, I bent down and grabbed it up in my hand. 

I’m holding it! I realized, my heart pounding. 

I’m holding it. 

What’s going to happen to me? 



10 


Nothing happened. 

No shock jolted my body. No rash spread instantly over my skin. My hand 
didn’t fall off. 

The creature felt warm and soft, like runny scrambled eggs. 

I realized I was squeezing it tightly. Too tightly? I loosened my grip. 

And lowered it into the shoe box. And fastened the lid over the top. 

I set the shoe box down on the dresser top and examined my hand. It felt 
wet and sticky. But the skin hadn’t turned yellow or peeled off or anything. 

I could hear the creature pulsing inside the box. 

“Don’t growl like that again,” I told it. “You scared me.” 

I grabbed some tissues and wiped off my hand. I kept my eyes on the box. 
The creature was bouncing around in there. 

What kind of animal is it? I wondered. 

I wished Mom and Dad were home. I really, really wanted to show it to 
them. 

I glanced at the clock radio on my bedside table. Only nine o’clock. Anne 
might still be sleeping. Sometimes she slept until noon on Saturdays. I’m not 
really sure why. She said it made the day go faster. Anne is a pretty weird girl. 

I lifted the box with both hands. The egg creature felt surprisingly heavy. I 
made sure the lid was on tight. Then I carried it down the stairs and out the back 
door. 

It was a sunny, warm day. A soft breeze made the fresh spring leaves 
tremble on the trees. Two houses down Mr. Simpson was already mowing his 
back lawn. Near the garage two robins were having a tug-of-war over a fat 
brown earthworm. 

I carried the box to Anne’s back door. The door was open. I peered through 
the screen. 

“Hi, Dana. Come in,” Anne’s mother called from in front of the sink. 

Balancing the box against my chest, I pulled open the screen door and 
stepped into the kitchen. Anne sat at the breakfast table. She wore a big blue T- 
shirt over black bike shorts. Her red-brown hair was tied behind her head in a 
long ponytail. 



Three guesses what she was eating for breakfast. 

You got it. Scrambled eggs. 

“Yo, Dana!” she greeted me. “What’s up?” 

“Well—” 

Mrs. Gravel moved to the stove. “Dana, have you had breakfast? Can I 
make you some scrambled eggs?” 

My stomach did a flip-flop. I swallowed hard. “No. I don’t think so.” 

“Nice fresh eggs,” Mrs. Gravel insisted. “I could make them fried if you 
don’t like scrambled.” 

“No thanks,” I replied weakly. 

I felt the eggy blob bounce inside the box. 

“I might need some more,” Anne told her mom, shoveling in a big glob. 
“These eggs are great, Mom.” 

Mrs. Gravel cracked an egg on the side of the skillet. “Maybe I’ll make one 
for myself,” she said. 

All this egg talk was making me sick. 

Anne finished her orange juice. “Hey—what’s in the box? New sneakers?” 

“Uh... no,” I replied. “Check this out, Anne. You won’t believe what I 
found.” 

I was so eager to show it to her! Holding the box in front of me with both 
hands, I started across the kitchen. 

And tripped over Stubby. 

Again! 

That big dumb sheepdog always got underfoot. 

“Whooooaaa!” I let out a cry as I fell over the dog—and watched the shoe 
box fly into the air. 

I landed on top of Stubby. Got a mouthful of fur. 

Struggled frantically to my feet. 

And saw the egg creature sail out of the box and drop onto Anne’s breakfast 
plate. 

Anne’s mouth dropped open. Her face twisted in disgust. “Oh, yuck!” she 
wailed. “Rotten eggs! Gross! Rotten eggs!” 

“No—it’s alive!” I protested. 

But I don’t think anyone heard me. Stubby jumped up on me as I started to 
explain, and nearly knocked me down again. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Mrs. Gravel scolded. “You know better than that.” 



“Get this away!” Anne demanded, shoving her plate across the table. 

Her mom examined the plate, then glared at me. “Dana, what’s wrong with 
you? This isn’t funny. You ruined perfectly good scrambled eggs.” 

“You spoiled my breakfast!” Anne cried angrily. 

“No, wait—” I protested. 

But I wasn’t fast enough. 

Mrs. Gravel grabbed up the plate. She carried it to the sink, clicked on the 
garbage disposal—and started to empty the egg creature into the roaring drain. 



11 


“Nooooo!” 

I let out a shriek—and dove for the sink. 

I made a wild grab and pulled the creature from the drain. 

No. I pulled a handful of scrambled eggs from the drain! 

The egg creature rolled around the sink and started to slide toward the 
gurgling drain. I tossed the scrambled eggs down and grabbed the creature as it 
started to drop toward the grinding blades. 

The lumpy yellow blob felt hot in my hands. I could feel the veins 
throbbing. The whole creature pulsed rapidly, like a racing heart. 

I raised it up to my face and examined it. Still in one piece. “I saved your 
life!” I told it. “Whew! What a close one!” 

I balanced it carefully in my palm. It shuddered and throbbed. Wet bubbles 
rolled down its lumpy sides. The black eyes stared up at me. 

“What is that thing?” Anne demanded, getting up from the breakfast table. 
She straightened her long ponytail. “Is it a puppet? Did you make it out of an old 
sock or something?” 

Before I could answer, Mrs. Gravel gave me a gentle push toward the 
kitchen door. “Get it out of here, Dana,” she ordered. “It’s disgusting.” She 
pointed down. “Look. It’s dripping some kind of eggy goo all over my kitchen 
floor.” 

“I—I found it out back,” I started. “I don’t really know what it is, but—” 

“Out,” Anne’s mom insisted. She held open the screen door for me. “Out. I 
mean it. I don’t want to have to wash the whole floor.” 

I didn’t have a choice. I carried the egg creature out into the backyard. It 
seemed a little calmer. At least it wasn’t trembling and pulsing so hard. 

Anne followed me to the driveway. The bright sun made the egg creature 
gleam. My hands felt slimy and wet. I didn’t want to squeeze it too tightly. But I 
also didn’t want to let it fall. 

“Is it a puppet?” Anne demanded. She bent down to see it better. “Yuck. It’s 
alive?” 

I nodded. “I don’t know what it is. But it’s definitely alive. I found it 
yesterday. At Brandy’s party.” 



Anne continued to study the yellow blob. “You found it? Where?” 

“I found an egg back by the creek,” I told her. “A very weird-looking egg. I 
took it home, and it hatched this morning. And this is what came out.” 

“But what is it?” Anne asked. She gingerly poked its side with a pointer 
finger. “Oh, yuck. It’s wet and mushy.” 

“It’s not a chicken,” I replied. 

“Duhhh,” Anne said, rolling her eyes. “Did you figure that out all by 
yourself?” 

“I thought it might be a turtle egg,” I said, ignoring her sarcasm. 

She squinted harder at it. “Do you think it’s a turtle without its shell? Do 
turtles hatch without their shells?” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of mistake,” Anne suggested. “A freak of nature. 
You know. Like you!” She laughed. 

Anne has a great sense of humor. 

She poked the egg creature again. The creature let out a soft wheeze of air. 
“Maybe you discovered a new species,” Anne suggested. “A whole new kind of 
animal that’s never been seen before.” 

“Maybe,” I replied. That was an exciting idea. 

“They’ll name it after you,” Anne teased. “They’ll call it the Dodo!” She 
laughed again. 

“You’re not being very helpful,” I said sharply. 

And then I had an idea. 

“Know what I’m going to do with it?” I said, cupping it carefully between 
my hands. “I’m going to take it to that little science lab.” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “What science lab?” 

“You know that little lab,” I replied impatiently. “The one on Denver Street. 
Just three blocks from here.” 

“I don’t hang out at weird little science labs,” Anne said. 

“Well, I don’t, either,” I told her. “But I’ve passed by that lab a million 
times, riding my bike to school. I’m going to take this thing there. Someone will 
tell me what it is.” 

“I’m not going with you,” Anne said, crossing her skinny arms in front of 
her chest. “I have better things to do.” 

“I didn’t invite you,” I sneered. 

She sneered back at me. 



I think she was jealous that I found the mysterious creature and she didn’t. 

“Please get me the shoe box,” I said. “I left it in your kitchen. I’m going to 
ride my bike over to that lab right now.” 

Anne went inside and came back with the shoe box. “It’s all sticky inside,” 
she said, making a disgusted face. “Whatever that thing is, it sure sweats a lot.” 

“Maybe your face scared it!” I declared. My turn to laugh. I’m usually the 
serious one. I don’t get off too many jokes. But that was a pretty good one. 

Anne ignored it. She watched as I lowered the creature into the box. Then 
she raised her eyes to me. “You sure that isn’t some kind of wind-up toy? This 
thing is all a big joke—isn’t it, Dana?” 

I shook my head. “No way. It’s no joke. I’ll stop by later and tell you what 
the scientists at the lab say about it.” 

I fit the lid on the shoe box. Then I hurried to the garage to get my bike. 

I couldn’t wait to get to the science lab. 

As it turned out, I should have stayed as far away from that place as 
possible. 

But how could I know what was waiting for me there? 



12 


“Look out!” 

Anne’s stupid sheepdog ran in front of my bike just as I started down the 
driveway. 

I jammed on the hand brake. My bike squealed to a sharp stop—and the 
shoe box nearly toppled off the handlebars. 

“Stubby—you moron!” I shrieked. 

The dog loped off across the backyard, probably laughing to himself. I 
think Stubby gets a real thrill by tripping me up whenever he sees me. 

I waited for my heart to stop thudding in my chest. Then I steadied the shoe 
box on the handlebars. 

I started pedaling along the street, steering with one hand, keeping the other 
hand on top of the box. 

“The scientists at the lab have got to know what this thing is,” I told myself. 
“They’ve got to.” 

I usually speed down my street. But this morning I pedaled slowly. I 
stopped at each corner to make sure no cars were coming. 

I tried to steer away from bumps in the street. But my street has a lot of 
potholes. Each time I hit a bump, I could hear the egg creature bouncing inside 
the carton. 

Just don’t bounce out, I thought. 

I pictured it bouncing out of the box, dropping onto the street, and being run 
over by a car. 

I stopped to balance it better on the handlebars. Then I began pedaling 
slowly again. 

Some kids from school were starting up a softball game on the playground 
on the next block. They called to me. I think they wanted me to join the game. 

But I pretended I didn’t hear them. I didn’t have time for softball. I was on a 
scientific mission. I didn’t look back. I kept pedaling. 

As I turned the corner onto Denver, a city bus roared past. The whoosh of 
air from the bus nearly knocked me over. 

As I steadied the bike, I saw the lid push up from the shoe box. 

The egg creature was trying to escape! 



I grabbed the box and tried to push down the lid. I pedaled faster. The lab 
was only a block away. 

The creature pushed up against the lid. 

I pushed back. 

I didn’t want to crush it. But I didn’t want it to escape, either. 

I could feel it bouncing inside the box. Pushing up against the lid. 

I kept my hand on the lid, struggling to hold it down. 

A station wagon filled with kids rumbled past. One of the kids yelled 
something to me. I didn’t really hear him. I was concentrating as hard as I could 
on keeping the egg creature inside the box. 

I rolled through a stop sign. I didn’t even see it. Luckily no cars were 
approaching. 

The lab came into view on the next corner. It was a white shingled building. 
Very low. Only one story tall. But very long. With a row of small, square 
windows along the front. It looked like a very long train car. 

I bumped up the curb and rode my bike onto the grass. Then I grabbed the 
shoe box with both hands and hopped off. The bike fell to the ground, both 
wheels spinning. 

Gripping the box tightly in both hands, I ran across the front lawn, up to the 
white double doors in front. 

I found a doorbell on the wall to the right of the doors. I pushed it. Pushed it 
again. Kept my finger on it. 

When no one came to the door, I tried the knob. Pushed. Then pulled. 

No. The door was locked. 

I tried knocking. I pounded as hard as I could with my fist. 

Then I rang the bell again. 

Where was everyone? 

I was about to start pounding again when I saw the sign over the door. A 
small, hand-printed black-and-white sign that sent my heart sinking. It read: 

CLOSED SATURDAYS AND SUNDAYS. 



13 


I let out a long sigh and shoved the box under my arm. I was so disappointed. 
What was I going to do with this weird egg creature now? 

Shaking my head unhappily, I turned and started back to my bike. I was 
halfway across the grass when I heard the front door open. 

I turned to see an older man in a white lab coat. He had shiny white hair, 
parted in the middle and slicked down on the sides. His moustache was salt-and- 
pepper. He had pale blue eyes that peered out at me from his pale, wrinkly face. 

His smile made his eyes crinkle up at the sides. “Can I help you?” he asked. 

“Uh... yeah,” I stammered. I raised the shoe box in front of me and started 
back across the grass. I could feel the egg creature bouncing around in there. 

“Is that a sick bird?” the man asked, squinting at the box. “I’m afraid I can’t 
help you with that. This is a science lab. I’m not a vet.” 

“No. It’s not a bird,” I told him. I carried the box to the doorway. My heart 
was pounding. For some reason, I felt really nervous. 

I guess I was excited about talking to a real scientist. I respect and admire 
scientists so much. 

Also, I was excited about finally finding out what had hatched from that 
weird egg. And finding out what I should do with it. 

The man smiled at me again. He had a warm, friendly smile that made me 
feel a little calmer. “Well, if it isn’t a bird in there, what is it?” he asked softly. 

“I was hoping you could tell me!” I replied. I shoved the shoe box toward 
him, but he didn’t take it. 

“It’s something I found,” I continued. “I mean, I found an egg. In my 
backyard.” 

“An egg? What kind of egg, son?” 

“I don’t know,” I told him. “It was very big. And it had veins all over it. 
And it kind of breathed.” 

He stared at me. “An egg that breathed.” 

I nodded. “I put it in my dresser drawer. And then it hatched this morning. 
And—” 

“Come in, son,” the man said. “Come right in.” His expression changed. 
His eyes flashed. He suddenly looked very interested. 



He put a hand on my shoulder and guided me into the lab. I had to blink a 
few times and wait for my eyes to adjust to the dim light inside. 

The walls were all white. I saw a desk and chairs. A low table with some 
science magazines on it. This was a waiting room, I decided. It was all very 
clean and modern-looking. A lot of chrome and glass and white leather. 

The man had his eyes on the box in my hands. He rubbed his moustache 
with his fingers. “I’m Dr. Gray,” he announced. “I’m the managing lab scientist 
here.” 

I switched the box to my left hand so I could shake hands with him. “I want 
to be a scientist when I’m older,” I blurted out. I could feel my face turning red. 

“What’s your name, son?” Dr. Gray asked. 

“Oh. Uh. Dana Johnson. I live a few blocks away. On Melrose.” 

“It’s nice to meet you, Dana,” Dr. Gray said, straightening the front of his 
white lab coat. He moved to the front door. He closed it, locked it, and bolted it. 

That’s weird, I thought, feeling a shiver of fear. 

Why did he do that? 

Then I remembered that the lab was closed on weekends. He probably bolts 
the doors when the place is closed. 

“Follow me,” Dr. Gray said. He led the way down the narrow white 
hallway. I followed him into a small lab. I saw a long table cluttered with all 
kinds of test tubes, specimen jars, and electronic equipment. 

“Set the box down there,” he instructed, pointing to an empty spot on the 
table. 

I set the box down. He reached in front of me to remove the lid. “You found 
this in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “Back by the creek.” 

He carefully pulled the lid off the box. 

“Oh my goodness!” he murmured. 



14 


The egg creature stared up at us. It quivered and bubbled against the side of the 
box. The bottom of the box was puddled with a sticky yellow goo. 

“So you found one,” Dr. Gray murmured, tilting the box. The yellow blob 
slid to the other end. 

“Found one?” I replied. “You mean you know what it is?” 

“I thought I rounded them all up,” Dr. Gray replied, rubbing his moustache. 
He turned his pale blue eyes on me. “But I guess I missed one.” 

“What is it?” I demanded. “What kind of animal is it?” 

He shrugged. He tilted the box the other way, making the egg creature slide 
to the other end. Then he gently poked the eggy blob in the back. “This is a 
young one,” he said softly. 

“A young what?” I asked impatiently. 

“The eggs fell all over town,” Dr. Gray said, poking the egg creature. “Like 
a meteor shower. Only on this town.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “They fell from the sky?” I wanted desperately to 
understand. But so far, nothing made sense. 

Dr. Gray turned to me and put a hand on my shoulder. “We believe the eggs 
fell all the way from Mars, Dana. There was a big storm on Mars. Two years 
ago. It set off something like a meteor shower. The storm sent these eggs 
hurtling through space.” 

My mouth dropped open. I gazed down at the quivering yellow blob in the 
shoe box. “This—this is a Martian?” I stammered. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We think it came from Mars. We think the eggs flew 
through space for two years.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. My heart was racing. My hands were suddenly 
ice cold. 

Was I really staring at a creature from Mars? 

Had I actually touched a Martian? 

Then I had an even weirder thought: I found it. I picked it up from my 
backyard. 

Did that mean it belonged to me? 

Did I own a Martian? 



Dr. Gray bounced the creature —my creature—in the box. Its veins pulsed. 
Its black eyes stared back at us. “We don’t know how the eggs made it through 
the earth’s atmosphere,” the scientist continued. 

“You mean they should have burned up?” I asked. 

He nodded. “Most everything burns up when it hits our atmosphere. But the 
eggs seem to be very tough. So tough they weren’t destroyed.” 

The egg creature made a gurgling sound. It plopped wetly against the side 
of the shoe box. 

Dr. Gray chuckled. “This is a cute one.” 

“You have a lot of others?” I asked. 

“Let me show you something, Dana.” Holding the box in front of him, Dr. 
Gray led the way through a large metal door. The door clanged heavily behind 
us. 

A long, narrow hallway—the walls painted white—led past several small 
rooms. Dr. Gray’s lab coat made a starchy, scratchy sound as he walked. At the 
end of the hall, we stopped in front of a wide window. 

“In there,” Dr. Gray said softly. 

I stared into the window. 

Then I stared harder. 

Was he crazy? Was he playing some kind of joke on me? 

“I—I can’t see anything at all!” I cried. 



15 


“Hold on a second. I forgot something,” Dr. Gray said. He stepped over to the 
wall and flicked a light switch. 

A light above our heads in the hallway flashed on. And now I could see 
through the window. 

“Oh, wow!” I exclaimed as my eyes swept over the large room on the other 
side of the glass. I stared at a crowd of egg creatures! 

Dozens of them. 

Yellow, eggy blobs. All pulsing and quivering. Green veins throbbing. 

The egg creatures huddled on the white tile floor. They looked like big 
globs of cookie dough on a baking sheet. Dozens of tiny, round black eyes stared 
out at us. 

Unreal! 

As I stared at them in amazement, I kept thinking they were like stuffed 
animals. But they weren’t. They were alive. They breathed. They shook and 
bounced and bubbled. 

“Would you like to go in?” Dr. Gray asked. 

He didn’t wait for me to answer. He pulled out a small black control unit 
from his pocket. He pushed a button, and the door swung open. Then he opened 
the door wider and guided me inside. 

“Whoa!” I uttered a cry when I felt a blast of cold air. “It’s freezing in 
here!” I exclaimed. 

Dr. Gray smiled. “We keep it very cold. It seems to keep them more alert.” 

He held the shoe box in one hand. He motioned to the egg creatures with 
the other. “Once they hatch, the creatures don’t like heat. If the temperature goes 
too high, they melt,” he explained. 

He lowered the box to the floor. “We don’t want them to melt,” he said. “If 
they melt, we can’t study them.” 

Leaning over the box, he lifted my egg creature out gently. He placed it 
beside three or four other egg creatures. All of the yellow blobs began bouncing 
excitedly. 

Dr. Gray picked up the box and stood back up. He smiled down at the new 
arrival. “We don’t want you to melt, do we?” he told it. “We want you to be nice 



and alert. So we keep it as cold in here as we can.” 

I shivered and rubbed my arms. I had goose-bumps all over my skin. From 
the excitement? Or from the cold? 

I wished I had worn something warmer than a T-shirt! 

The egg creatures bobbed and bubbled. I couldn’t take my eyes off them. 
Real creatures from Mars! 

I watched them start to bounce toward us. They moved surprisingly fast. 
They kind of rolled, kind of inched their way forward. They left slimy, yellow 
trails behind them as they moved. 

I wanted to ask Dr. Gray a million questions. “Do they have brains?” I 
asked. “Are they smart? Can they communicate? Have you tried talking to them? 
Do they talk to each other? How can they breathe our air?” 

He chuckled. “You have a good scientific mind, Dana,” he said. “Let’s take 
one question at a time. Which would you like me to answer first?” 

“Well—” I started to reply. But I stopped when I realized what the egg 
creatures had done. 

While Dr. Gray and I talked, they had all moved quickly into a circle. 

And now they had the two of us surrounded. 

I spun around. 

The egg creatures had moved behind us. They blocked the door. And now 
they were closing in on us, bubbling and throbbing, leaving a trail of slime as 
they slid forward. 

What were they planning to do? 



16 


In a panic, I turned to Dr. Gray. To my shock, he was grinning. 

“They—they’ve trapped us!” I stammered. 

He shook his head. “Sometimes they move like that. But don’t be scared, 
Dana. They’re harmless.” 

“Harmless?” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tiny. “But—but—” 

“What can they do?” Dr. Gray asked, placing a comforting hand on my 
trembling shoulder. “They’re only blobs of egg. They can’t bite you—can they? 
They don’t appear to have mouths. They can’t grab you. Or punch you. Or kick 
you. They have no hands or legs.” 

The egg creatures moved their circle closer. I watched them, my throat still 
tight, my legs shaking. 

I knew that what Dr. Gray was telling me was true. 

But why were they doing this? 

Why did they form a circle? Why were they closing in on us? 

“Sometimes they form triangles,” Dr. Gray told me. “Sometimes rectangles 
or squares. It’s as if they’re trying out different shapes they’ve seen. Maybe this 
is a way they’re trying to communicate with us.” 

“Maybe,” I agreed softly. I wished the egg creatures would back up. They 
were little, wet blobs. But they were really giving me the creeps! 

I shivered again. My breath steamed up in front of me. 

It was so cold, my glasses started to fog! 

I stared down at the egg creature I had brought. It had joined the circle. It 
bobbed and bounced with all the others. 

Dr. Gray turned and started to the door. I turned with him. I wanted to get 
out of that freezer as fast as I could! 

“Thank you for bringing that one in,” Dr. Gray said. He shook his head. “I 
thought I had collected them all. What a surprise that I missed one.” He 
scratched his hair. “You say you found it in your backyard?” 

I nodded. “It was an egg. But then it hatched in my dresser drawer.” My 
teeth chattered. I was so cold! 

“Does that mean it’s mine?” I asked Dr. Gray. “I mean, does it belong to 


me?” 



His smile faded. “I’m not really sure. I don’t know what the law is about 
alien creatures from outer space.” He frowned. “Maybe there is no law.” 

I glanced down at the little blob. The green veins along its side were 
bulging. Its whole body was throbbing like crazy. 

Was it sorry to see me go? 

No way. That’s really dumb, I told myself. 

“I guess you’ll want to keep it for a while and study it,” I said to Dr. Gray. 

He nodded. “Yes. I’m doing every kind of test I can think of.” 

“But can I come back and visit it?” I asked. 

Dr. Gray narrowed his eyes at me. “Come back? Dana, what do you mean 
by come back? You’re not leaving.” 



17 


“Excuse me?” I choked out. I knew I hadn’t heard him correctly. 

My whole body shook in a wild shiver. I rubbed my bare arms, trying to 
warm them. 

“Did you say I’m not leaving?” I managed to ask. 

Dr. Gray locked his pale blue eyes on mine. “I’m afraid you can’t leave, 
Dana. You must stay here.” 

A frightened cry escaped my throat. He wasn’t serious! He couldn’t be 
serious. 

He can’t keep me here, I told myself. 

No way. He can’t keep me here against my will. That’s against the law. 

“But... why?” I demanded weakly. “Why can’t I go home?” 

“You can understand—can’t you?” Dr. Gray replied calmly. “We don’t want 
anyone to know about these space aliens. We don’t want anyone to know that 
we’ve been invaded by Martians.” 

He sighed. “You don’t want to throw the whole world into a panic—do you, 
Dana?” 

“I—I—I—” I tried to answer. But I was too frightened. Too startled. Too 

cold. 

I glared angrily at Dr. Gray. “You have to let me go,” I insisted in a 
trembling whisper. 

His expression softened. “Please don’t stare at me like that,” he said. “I’m 
not a bad guy. I don’t want to frighten you. And I don’t want to keep you in this 
lab against your will. But what choice do I have? I’m a scientist, Dana. I have to 
do my job.” 

I stared back at him, my whole body shaking. I didn’t know what to say. 
My eyes moved to the metal door. It was shut. But he hadn’t bolted it. 

I wondered if I could get to the door before he did. 

“I have to study you too,” Dr. Gray continued. He tucked his hands into the 
pockets of his lab coat. “It’s my job, Dana.” 

“Study me?” I squeaked. “Why?” 

He motioned to my egg creature. “You touched it—didn’t you? You 
handled it? You picked it up?” 



I shrugged. “Well, yeah. I picked it up. So what?” 

“Well, we don’t know what kind of dangerous germs it gave you,” he 
replied. “We don’t know what kind of germs or bacteria or strange diseases these 
things carried with them from Mars.” 

I swallowed hard. “Huh? Diseases?” 

He scratched his moustache. “I don’t want to scare you. You’re probably 
perfectly okay. You feel okay—right?” 

My teeth chattered. “Yeah. I guess. Just cold.” 

“Well, I have to keep you here and study you. You know. Watch you 
carefully. Make sure that touching the egg creature didn’t harm you or change 
you.” 

No way, I thought. 

I don’t care about strange germs from Mars. I don’t care about egg diseases. 
I don’t care about science. 

All I care about is getting out of here. Getting home to my family. 

You’re not keeping me here, Dr. Gray. You’re not studying me. 

Because I’m outta here! 

Dr. Gray was saying something. I guess he was still explaining why he 
planned to keep me prisoner in this freezing cold lab. 

But I didn’t listen to him. Instead, I took off. 

I ran toward the big metal door. 

The circle of egg creatures blocked my way. But I leaped over them easily. 
And kept running. 

Gasping for breath, shivering, I reached the door. 

I grabbed the handle. And glanced back. 

Was Dr. Gray chasing after me? 

No. He hadn’t moved. 

Good! I thought. I caught him by surprise. 

I’m gone! 

I turned the door handle. Pulled hard. 

The door didn’t open. 

I pulled harder. 

It didn’t budge. 

I tried pushing it. 

No go. 

Dr. Gray’s voice rang in my ears. “The door is controlled electronically,” he 



said calmly. “It’s locked. It cannot be opened unless you have the control unit.” 

I didn’t believe him. I tugged again. Then I pushed again. 

He was telling the truth. The door was electronically sealed. 

I gave up with a loud cry of protest. I spun around to face him. “How long 
do I have to stay here?” I demanded. 

He replied in a low, icy voice. “Probably for a very long time.” 



18 


“Step away from the door, Dana,” Dr. Gray ordered. “Try to calm down.” 

Calm down? 

“YouTl be okay,” the scientist said. “I take very good care of my 
specimens.” 

Specimens ? 

I didn’t want to calm down. And I didn’t want to be a specimen. 

“I’m a boy. Not a specimen,” I told him angrily. 

I don’t think he heard me. He lifted me out of the way. Then he clicked the 
small remote unit in his hand. The door opened just long enough for him to slide 
through. 

It made a loud click as it snapped shut behind him. 

Locked in. I was locked in this freezer with three dozen Martians. 

My heart pounded. I heard a shrill whistle in my ears. My temples throbbed 
with pain. My whole head felt ready to explode! 

I’d never been so angry in my life. 

I let out a cry of rage. 

The egg creatures all began to chatter. I spun around in surprise. They 
sounded a little like chimps. 

A roomful of chimps, chattering away. 

Only they weren’t chimps. They were monsters from Mars. And I was 
locked in, all alone with them. 

A specimen. 

“Noooo!” I let out another howl and ran to the long window. 

“You can’t leave me here!” I shrieked. I pounded on the glass with both 

fists. 

I wanted to cry. I wanted to scream until my throat was raw. I’d never felt 
so angry and so frightened all at once. 

“Let me out! Dr. Gray—let me out of here! You can’t keep me here!” I 
screamed. I banged on the window as hard as I could. 

I’ll pound till I break the glass, I told myself. 

I’ll break through. Then I’ll climb out and escape. 



I beat my fists frantically against the glass. “Let me out of here! You can’t 
do this!” 

The glass was thick and hard. No way I could break through. 

“Let me out! ” I uttered a final scream. 

When I turned back into the room, the egg creatures stopped chattering. 
They stared up at me with their black, button eyes. 

They didn’t quiver or bounce. They stood totally still. As if they had frozen. 

I’m going to freeze! I realized. I rubbed my bare arms. But it didn’t help 
warm me. My hands were ice cold. 

Icicles are going to form on me, I thought. I’m going to freeze to death in 
here. I’m going to turn into a human Popsicle. 

The egg creatures stood so still. Their eyes were all locked on me. As if 
they were studying me. As if they were trying to decide what to do about me. 

Suddenly my egg creature broke the silence. I recognized it by the blue 
veins down its front. It started to chatter loudly. 

The other egg creatures turned, as if listening to it. 

Was it talking to them? Was it communicating in some weird Martian 
chatter language? 

“I hope you’re telling them all how I saved your life!” I called to it. “I hope 
you’re telling them what a good guy I am. You almost went down the drain— 
remember?” 

Of course the egg creature couldn’t understand me. 

I don’t know why I was shouting at it like that. I guess I was totally losing 
it. Totally freaked. 

As the egg creature chattered on, I stared at the others. They all listened in 
silence. I started to count them. There were so many of them—and so few of me! 

Were they friendly? Did they like strangers? Did they like humans? 

How did they feel about being locked up in this freezing cold room? 

Did they feel anything at all? 

These were questions I didn’t really want to know the answers to. 

I just wanted to get out of there. 

I decided to try the window again. But before I could move, my egg 
creature stopped talking. 

And the others started to move. 

Silently, they huddled together. Pressed together into a wide yellow wedge. 

And rolling faster than I could imagine, they attacked. 



19 


“Hey—!” I uttered a startled cry and backed up. 

The wedge of egg creatures rolled forward. Their bodies slapped the floor 
wetly as they bounced toward me. 

I retreated until my back hit the window. 

Nowhere to run. 

“What do you want?” I screamed. My voice came out high and tight in 
panic. “What are you going to do?” 

I turned and banged on the window again, pounding with open hands. “Dr. 
Gray! Dr. Gray! Help me!” 

Did they plan to roll over me? To swallow me up? 

To my surprise, the egg creatures stopped a few inches in front of me. They 
twirled and bounced until they had formed a circle once again. 

Then, moving quickly and silently, they shifted back into a big yellow 
triangle. 

I stared down at them, shivering, my teeth chattering. 

They’re not attacking, I decided. 

But what are they doing? 

Why are they forming these shapes? Are they trying to talk to me? 

I took a deep breath, trying to calm my panic. 

You’re a scientist, Dana, I reminded myself. Act like a scientist. Not a 
frightened kid. Try to talk back to them. 

I thought hard for a few seconds. Then I raised my hands in front of me. 
And I formed a circle with my pointer fingers and thumbs. 

I held the circle up so the egg creatures could all see it. And waited to see if 
they did anything. 

The yellow blobs had formed a wide triangle that nearly filled the room. I 
saw their round black eyes go up to the circle I had formed. 

And then I watched them bounce and roll—into a circle! 

Were they copying me? 

I straightened my fingers and thumbs into a triangle. 

And the egg creatures formed a triangle. 



Yes! 

We’re communicating! I realized. We’re talking to each other! 

I suddenly felt really excited. I felt like some kind of pioneer. 

I’m the first person on earth to communicate with Martians! I told myself. 
These creatures are friendly, I decided. They’re not dangerous. 

I didn’t really know that for sure. But I was so excited that I had 
communicated with them, I didn’t want to think anything bad about them. 

Dr. Gray has no right to keep them prisoner here, I thought. 

And he has no right to lock me up with them. 

I didn’t believe his excuse for keeping me here. Not for a minute. 

Just because I touched one? Just because I handled one? 

Did he really expect me to believe that touching an egg creature could harm 

me? 

Did he really think it would rot my skin off or something? 

Did he really think that touching an egg creature would give me a weird 
disease or change me in some way? 

That was just stupid. 

I carried that little yellow blob in my hands—and I felt perfectly fine. 

These creatures are my friends, I told myself. Touching them isn’t going to 
harm me in any way. 

But I’m a scientist. At least, I want to be a scientist. So I have to be 
scientific, I realized. 

I decided to check myself out—just to make sure. 

I raised my hands and inspected them carefully, first one, then the other. 
They looked okay to me. No strange rashes. No skin peeling off. I still had four 
fingers and a thumb on each hand. 

I rubbed my arms. They were the same too. Perfectly okay. 

Might as well check myself out all over, I told myself. 

I reached down and grabbed my left leg. 

Soft and mushy! 

“Oh no!” I wailed. 

I squeezed my leg again. Soft and lumpy. 

I didn’t have to look. I knew what was happening. 

I was slowly turning into one of them. I was turning into a lump of 
scrambled eggs! 



20 


“No. Oh, please—no.” 

I squeezed my mushy ankle. I couldn’t bear to look down. I didn’t want to 
see what was happening to me. 

But I had to. 

Slowly, I lowered my gaze. 

And saw that I was squeezing one of the egg creatures. Not my leg. 

I let go instantly and raised my hand. A relieved laugh escaped my throat. 
“Oh wow!” 

How could I think that mushy blob was my leg? 

I watched the little Martian scurry back to its pals. 

I shook my head. Even though no one else was around, I felt like a total 

jerk. 

Just calm down, Dana, I scolded myself. 

But how could I? 

The air in the lab seemed to get colder. I couldn’t stop shivering. I clamped 
my jaws tightly. But I couldn’t stop my teeth from chattering. 

I squeezed my nose. Cold and numb. I rubbed my ears. They were numb 

too. 

This is no joke, I thought, my throat tightening. I’m going to get frostbite. 
I’m really going to freeze. 

I tried thinking warm thoughts. I thought about the beach in summer. I 
thought about a blazing fire in the fireplace in our den. 

It didn’t help. 

A hard shiver made my whole body twitch. 

I’ve got to do something to take my mind off the cold, I decided. 

The egg creatures had spread out over the room. I raised my hands again 
and formed a triangle. 

They stared up at it, but didn’t move. 

I curled my fingers into a circle. 

They ignored this one too. 

“I guess you guys got bored, huh?” I asked them. 



I tried to bend my fingers and thumbs into a rectangle. But it was too hard. 
Fingers and thumbs can’t really bend into a rectangle. 

Besides, the egg creatures weren’t paying much attention to me. 

I’m going to freeze, I told myself again. Freeze. Freeze. Freeze. The word 
repeated in my mind until it became an unhappy chant. 

I lowered myself to the floor and pressed into the corner. I curled up, trying 
to save body warmth. Or what was left of it. 

A sound on the other side of the window made me jump up. 

Someone was coming. Dr. Gray? To let me out? 

I turned eagerly to the door. I heard footsteps out in the hall. Then a clink of 
metal. 

A slot opened just above the floor to the left of the door. A food tray slid in. 
It plopped onto the floor. 

I hurried over to it. Macaroni and cheese and a small container of milk. 

“But I hate macaroni and cheese!” I screeched. 

No reply. 

“I hate it! I hate it! I hate it!” I wailed. 

I was starting to lose it again. But I didn’t care. 

I leaned over the tray and held my hands over the plate of macaroni. The 
steam warmed my hands. 

At least it’s hot, I thought. 

I sat down on the floor and lifted the tray to my lap. Then I gulped down the 
macaroni, just for the warmth. 

It tasted horrible. I hate that wet, clotted, cheesy taste. But it did warm me 
up a little. 

I didn’t open the milk. Too cold. 

Feeling a little better, I shoved the tray aside and climbed to my feet. I 
strode over to the window and started pounding the glass with my fists. 

“Dr. Gray—let me out!” I shouted. “Dr. Gray—I know you can hear me. 
Let me out! You can’t lock me in here and make me eat macaroni and cheese! 
Let me out!” 

I screamed until my voice was hoarse. I didn’t hear a reply. Not a sound 
from the other side of the glass. 

I turned away from the window in disgust. 

“I’ve got to find a way out of here,” I said out loud. “I’ve got to!” 

And then, I had an idea. 



21 


Sad to say, it was a bad idea. 

The kind of idea you think of when you’re freezing to death in a total panic. 

What was the idea? To call home and tell Mom and Dad to come get me. 

The only problem with that idea was that there were no phones in the room. 

I searched carefully. There were metal shelves up to the ceiling against the 
back wall. They contained only scientific books and files. There was a desk in 
one corner. The desktop was bare. 

Nothing else. 

Nothing else in the whole room. Except for the dozens of egg creatures and 
me. 

I needed another idea, an idea that didn’t call for a telephone. 

But I was stumped. I tried the door again. I thought Dr. Gray might have 
gotten careless and left it unlocked. 

No such luck. 

I checked out the slot where my food tray had been delivered. It was only a 
few inches tall. Way too narrow for me to slip through. 

I was trapped. A prisoner. A specimen. 

I dropped glumly down to the floor and rested my back against the wall. I 
pulled up my knees and wrapped my arms around them. I curled into a ball, 
trying to stay warm. 

How long did Dr. Gray plan to keep me here? 

Forever? 

I let out a miserable sigh. But then a thought helped to cheer me. I suddenly 
had a little hope. 

I remembered something I had forgotten. I had told Anne where I was 
going! 

This morning in her backyard, I had told Anne I was going to take the egg 
creature to the science lab. 

I’m going to be rescued! I realized. 

I leaped to my feet and shot both fists into the air. I opened my mouth in a 
happy cheer. “Yesssss!” 



I knew exactly what would happen. 

When I don’t show up for dinner, Mom or Dad will call Anne. Because 
that’s where I’m always hanging out when I should be home for dinner. 

Anne will tell them I went to the science lab on Denver. 

Mom will say, “He should be back by now.” 

Dad will say, “I’d better go get him.” 

And Dad will come and rescue me. 

Only a matter of time, I knew. Only a matter of a few hours, and Dad will 
be here to get me out of this freezer. 

I felt so much better. 

I lowered myself back to the floor and leaned against the wall to wait. The 
egg creatures all stared at me. Watched me in silence. Trying to figure me out, I 
guess. 

I didn’t realize that I fell asleep. I guess I was worn out from all the 
excitement—and the fear. 

I’m not sure how long I slept. 

Voices woke me up. Voices from out in the hall. 

I sat up, instantly alert. And I listened. 

And heard Dad’s voice. 

Yes! 

He was here. He was about to rescue me. 

Yes! 

I climbed to my feet. I stretched. I got ready to greet Dad. 

And then, from the front hall, I heard Dr. Gray say, “I’m sorry, Mr. Johnson. 
Your son never stopped here.” 



22 


“Are you sure?” I heard Dad ask. 

“Very sure,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m the only one here today. We’re closed. 
We had no visitors.” 

“He’s about this tall,” I heard Dad say. “He has dark hair, and he wears 
glasses.” 

“No. Sorry,” Dr. Gray insisted. 

“But he told his friend that he was coming here. He had something he 
wanted to show to a scientist. His bike is gone from the garage.” 

“Well, you can check outside for your son’s bike,” Dr. Gray told Dad. “But 
I don’t think you’ll find it.” 

He moved it! I realized. Dr. Gray moved my bike so no one would find it! 

I let out a shout of rage and ran to the window. “Dad—I’m in here!” I 
shouted. I cupped my hands around my mouth so my voice would be even 
louder. “Dad! Can you hear me? I’m in here! Dad?” 

I took a deep breath and listened. My heart was thudding so loudly, I could 
barely hear their voices from the front. 

Dad and Dr. Gray continued talking in low, calm voices. 

“Dad! Can’t you hear me?” I screamed. “It’s me, Dana! Come back here, 
Dad! I’m here! Come let me out!” 

My voice cracked. My throat ached from screaming so loud. 

“Dad— please! ” 

My chest heaving, I pressed my ear against the window and listened again. 

“Well, it’s very strange, Mr. Johnson,” Dr. Gray was saying. “The boy never 
came here. Would you like to look around the lab?” 

Yes, Dad! I pleaded silently. Say yes. 

Tell him that you’d like to look around the lab, Dad! Please! 

“No, thanks,” I heard Dad say. “I’d better keep searching. Thank you, Dr. 
Gray.” 

I heard Dad say good-bye. 

I heard the front door close. 

And I knew I was doomed. 



23 


“I don’t believe this,” I murmured out loud. “Dad was so close. So close!” 

I sank back to the floor. I felt as if my heart were sinking too. I wanted to 
keep dropping, down onto the floor, into the ground. Just keep sinking till I 
disappeared forever. 

My throat ached from screaming. Why couldn’t Dad hear me? I could hear 

him. 

And why did he believe Dr. Gray’s lies? Why didn’t Dad check out the lab 
for himself? 

He would see me through the window. And I would be rescued. 

Dr. Gray is evil, I realized. He pretends to be interested only in science. He 
pretended to be worried about my health, about my safety. He said that’s why he 
was keeping me here—to make sure I was safe. 

But he lied to my father. 

And he was lying to me. 

Crouched on the floor, I shivered as the frigid air seemed to seep right 
through my skin. I shut my eyes and lowered my head. 

I wanted to stay calm. I knew I had to stay calm to think clearly. But I 
couldn’t. The chills I felt running down my back weren’t just from the cold. 
They were also from terror. 

Voices in the front snapped me to attention. I held my breath and listened. 

Was that my dad? 

Or was I starting to hear things? 

“Maybe I will take a look around.” That’s what I thought I heard Dad say. 

Was I dreaming it? 

No. I heard Dr. Gray mumble something. Then I heard Dad say, 
“Sometimes Dana sneaks into places where he doesn’t belong. He’s so interested 
in science, he may have sneaked in through a back door, Dr. Gray.” 

“Yes!” I cried happily. Every time I lost all hope, I somehow got another 
chance. 

I jumped up and hurried to the window. I crossed my fingers and prayed 
Dad would walk to the back and see me. 

After a few seconds, I saw Dad and Dr. Gray at the far end of the long, 



white hall. Dr. Gray was leading him slowly, opening doors. They peered into 
each lab, then moved on. 

“Dad!” I called. “Can you hear me? I’m back here!” 

Even though I had my face pressed up to the window glass, he couldn’t hear 
me. 

I banged on the glass. Dad kept walking with Dr. Gray. He didn’t look up. 

I waited for them to come closer. My heart was banging against my chest 
now. My mouth was dry. I pressed up close to the window. 

In a few seconds, Dad would peer into the window and see me standing 

here. 

And then I would be out—and Dr. Gray would have some real explaining to 
do. 

With my hands and nose pressed against the glass, I watched them move 
forward. The hall was dark on this end. But I could see them clearly as they 
peeked into the labs at the other end. 

“Dad!” I shouted. “Dad—over here!” 

I knew he couldn’t hear me. But I had to shout anyway. 

The two men disappeared into a lab for a few seconds. Then they came out 
and stepped toward me. 

They were talking in low tones. I couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

Dad had his eyes on Dr. Gray. 

Turn this way, Dad, I silently urged. Please—look to the end of the hall 
Look in the window. 

Chatting softly, they disappeared through another door. 

What on earth are they talking about? I wondered. 

A few seconds later, they were back in the hall. Moving this way. 

Dad — please! Here I am! I pressed up eagerly against the glass. 

I pounded my fists on the window. 

Dad looked up. 

And stared into the window. 

He stared right at me. 

I’m rescued! I realized. 

I’m outta here! 

Dad stared at me for a few seconds. 

Then he turned back to Dr. Gray. “Thanks for showing me around,” he said. 
“Dana definitely isn’t here. Sorry I wasted your time.” 



24 


“Dad—I’m right here!” I shrieked. “You’re looking right at me!” 

Was I invisible? 

Why didn’t he see me? 

“Sorry I wasted your time, Dr. Gray,” I heard Dad say again. 

“Good luck in finding Dana,” Dr. Gray replied. “I’m sure he’ll turn up 
really soon. He’s probably at a friend’s house and forgot the time. You know 
how kids are.” 

“Nooooooo!” I let out a long wail. “Dad—come back! Dad!” 

As I stared in horror, Dad turned away and started back down the long hall. 
With another cry, I began to pound on the window glass with both fists. 
“Dad! Dad! Dad!” I chanted with each slam of my fist. 

Dad turned around. “What’s that noise?” he asked Dr. Gray. 

Dr. Gray turned too. 

I pounded the glass even harder. I pounded until my knuckles were raw and 
throbbing. “Dad! Dad! Dad!” I continued to chant. 

“What’s that pounding noise?” Dad demanded from halfway down the hall. 
“It’s the pipes,” Dr. Gray told him. “I’ve been having a lot of trouble with 
the pipes. The plumber is coming on Monday.” 

Dad nodded. 

He kept walking. I heard him say good-bye to the scientist. Then I heard the 
door close behind him. 

I knew that this time he wouldn’t come back. 

I didn’t move from the window. I stared through the glass down the long 

hall. 

A few seconds later, I saw Dr. Gray coming toward me. He had an angry 
scowl on his face. 

I’m his prisoner now, I thought glumly. 

What does he plan to do? 



25 


He stopped outside the window. He clicked on the hall light. 

In the bright light, I could see beads of sweat on his forehead. He frowned 
and stared in at me with those cold blue eyes. 

“Nice try, Dana,” he said sourly. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” I choked out. My legs were trembling. Not 
from the cold. I was really terrified now. 

“You almost got your father’s attention,” Dr. Gray replied. “That wouldn’t 
have been nice. That would have spoiled my plans.” 

I pressed both palms against the glass. I tried to force myself to stop 
trembling. 

“Why couldn’t Dad see me?” I demanded. 

Dr. Gray rubbed a hand over his side of the window. “It’s one-way glass,” 
he explained. “No one can see into the room from the hall—unless I turn on the 
bright hall light.” 

I let out a long sigh. “You mean—?” 

“Your father saw only blackness,” the scientist said with a pleased grin. “He 
thought he was staring into an empty room. Just the way you did—until I turned 
on the light.” 

“But why didn’t he hear me?” I demanded. “I was shouting my head off.” 

Dr. Gray shook his head. “A waste of time. The room you are in is totally 
soundproof. Not a sound escapes into the hall.” 

“But I can hear you!” I declared. “I could hear every word you and Dad 
said. And now you can hear me.” 

“There is a speaker system in the wall,” he explained. “I can turn it on and 
off with the same control unit that locks the door.” 

“So I could hear you, but you couldn’t hear me,” I murmured. 

“You’re a very smart boy,” he replied. His blue eyes flashed. “I know 
you’re smart enough not to try any more tricks in there.” 

“You have to let me out!” I screamed. “You can’t keep me here!” 

“Yes, I can,” he replied softly. “I can keep you here as long as I like, Dana.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. I was so frightened, I couldn’t speak. 

“It’s my duty to keep you in there,” Dr. Gray said calmly. He didn’t care 



that I was so scared and upset. He didn’t care about me at all, I realized. 

He must be crazy, I decided. 

Crazy and evil. 

“It’s my duty to keep you here,” he repeated. “I must make sure that the egg 
creatures haven’t harmed you. I must make sure that the egg creatures haven’t 
given you strange germs that you might pass on to others.” 

“Let me out!” I shrieked. I was too frightened and angry to argue with him 
now. Too angry and frightened to think clearly. “Let me out! Let me out!” I 
demanded, pounding on the glass with my aching fists. 

“Get some rest, Dana,” he instructed. “Don’t tire yourself out, son. I want to 
start doing tests on you in the morning. I have many, many tests to perform.” 

“But I’m f-freezing!” I stammered. “Let me out of here. At least let me stay 
somewhere warm. Please?” 

He ignored my plea. He clicked off the hall light and turned away. 

I watched him make his way down the long hall. He disappeared through a 
door in front. And closed the door hard behind him. 

I stood there, trembling, my heart pounding. 

I was cold—and very scared. 

I had no way of knowing things were about to get a lot scarier! 



26 


I was so desperate to get Dad’s attention, I nearly forgot about the egg creatures. 
Now I turned from the window to find them scattered around the room. 

They stood still as statues. They didn’t bounce or quiver. They all seemed to 
be staring at me. 

Dr. Gray had turned off all the lights except for a tiny, dim bulb in the 
ceiling. The little egg blobs appeared pale and gray in the dim light. 

I felt a chill at the back of my neck. 

Was it safe to go to sleep in the same room with them? 

I suddenly felt exhausted. So tired that all my muscles ached. My head 
spun. 

I needed sleep. 

I knew I had to rest so I could be alert and sharp tomorrow. Alert and sharp 
so I could find a way to escape. 

But if I fell asleep, what would the egg creatures do? 

Would they leave me alone? Would they sleep too? 

Or would they try to harm me in some way? 

Were they good? Were they evil? 

Were they intelligent at all? 

I had no way of knowing. 

I only knew I couldn’t stay awake much longer. 

I dropped down to the floor and curled up in the corner. I tried to stay warm 
by tucking myself into a ball. 

But it didn’t help. The cold swept over me. My nose was frozen. My ears 
were numb. My glasses were frozen to my face. 

Even wrapped up tightly, I couldn’t stop shaking. 

I’m going to freeze to death, I realized. 

When Dr. Gray comes back tomorrow morning, he’ll find me on the floor. 
A solid lump of ice. 

I gazed at the egg creatures. They stared back at me in the dim light. 

Silence. 

Such heavy silence in the room that I wanted to scream. 



“Aren’t you cold?” I cried out to them. My voice came out hoarse, weak 
from all the screaming I had done. “Aren’t you freezing to death too?” I asked 
them. “How can you guys stand it?” 

Of course they didn’t reply. 

“Dana, you’re totally losing it,” I scolded myself out loud. 

I was trying to talk to a bunch of egg lumps from another planet! Did I 
really expect them to answer me? 

They stared back in silence. None of them quivered. None of them moved. 
Their little dark eyes glowed in the dim light from the ceiling. 

Maybe they’re asleep, I thought. 

Maybe they sleep with their eyes open. That’s why they’re not moving. 
That’s why they’ve stopped bouncing. They’re sound asleep. 

That made me feel a little better. 

I tucked myself into a tighter ball, and I tried to fall asleep too. If only I 
could stop shivering. 

I closed my eyes and silently repeated the word, “sleep, sleep, sleep” in my 
mind. 

It didn’t help. 

And when I opened my eyes, I saw the egg creatures start to move. 

I was wrong. They weren’t asleep. 

They were wide awake. And they were all moving together. All moving at 
once. 

Coming to get me. 



27 


“Ohhh.” A low moan escaped from my throat. 

I was already shaking all over from the cold. But now my entire body 
shuddered from fear. 

The egg creatures moved with surprising speed. 

They were bunching together in the center of the room. Pressing into each 
other, making wet smacking sounds. 

I tried to climb to my feet. But my legs didn’t work. 

My knees bent like rubber, and I landed back on the floor. I pressed back 
into the corner—and watched them move. 

They slapped up against each other. Loud, wet slaps. 

And as they pushed together, they rolled forward. Rolled toward me. 

“What are you doing?” I cried in a high, shrill voice. “What are you going 
to do to me?” 

They didn’t reply. 

The wet smacks echoed through the room as the eggy creatures threw 
themselves into each other. 

“Leave me alone!” I shrieked. Once again I tried to stand. I made it to my 
knees. But I was trembling too hard to balance on two feet. 

“Leave me alone—please! I’ll help you guys escape too!” I promised. 
“Really. I’ll help you escape—tomorrow. Just let me make it through the night.” 

They didn’t seem to understand. 

They didn’t seem to hear me! 

What are they doing? I asked myself, watching them creep forward. Why 
are they doing this? 

They had waited until I nearly fell asleep, I realized. 

That means they wanted to catch me off guard. They wanted to sneak up on 
me. 

Because they were about to do something I wasn’t going to like. Something 
I wasn’t going to like at all. 

I pressed my back against the wall. 

The egg creatures moved quickly now, pale in the gray light. 



Squinting hard at them, I realized to my horror that they had all stuck 
themselves together. 

They were no longer dozens of little egg creatures. 

Now they had joined together to form one enormous egg creature! 

I was staring at a big, quivering wall of egg! A wall so big it nearly covered 
the floor of the room. 

A wall that was rolling toward me. Rolling to get me. 

“Whoa! Please—whoa!” I choked out. 

I knew I should climb to my feet. I knew I should try to run. 

But where could I run? 

How could I escape from this huge, solid egg wall? 

I couldn’t. 

So I lay there and watched it come. Too frozen. Too frozen to move. 
“Ohhhh.” I moaned as the front of the wall of eggs rose up over my shoes. 

It was moving so fast now. Crawling somehow. 

Crawling over me. 

The egg wall swept over my shoes. Over the legs of my jeans. Over my 
waist. 

I lay there helpless as it swept over me. 

Too frozen. Too frozen. 

Helpless, as it poured over me. 

Trapping me beneath it. 

Smothering me. 



28 


I should have moved. 

I should have fought it. 

Too late. Too late now. 

The sticky, warm egg creatures—all glued together—rolled over me like a 
heavy carpet. 

I pushed up both arms. I raised my knees. I tried to squirm away. 

Too late. 

I tried to roll out from underneath. But the heavy, living carpet had me 
pinned on my back. Pinned to the floor. 

It rolled over my waist. And then quickly, over my chest. 

Was it going to sweep over my head? Was it going to smother me? 

I punched at it with both fists. 

But it was too late to push it away. Too late to do it any harm. 

Too late to stop it as it crept closer to my neck. So warm and heavy. 

I twisted my head from side to side. I tried to roll away. 

But it was no use. 

Too late. Too late to fight back. 

And now I lay there, trapped. And felt it creep up to my chin. 

Felt it throbbing. Pulsing. 

Dozens of eggy monsters all pressed together. Alive. A living sheet of egg 
creatures. Covering me. 

Covering me. 

I took a deep breath and held it as the heavy, warm carpet pressed itself 
against my chin. My arms and legs were pinned to the floor. I couldn’t squirm 
away. 

I couldn’t move. 

To my surprise, the egg carpet stopped under my chin. 

I let out a long whoosh of air. 

And waited. 

Had it really stopped? 

Yes. 



It didn’t crawl over my head. It rested heavily on top of me. Throbbing 
steadily, as if it had two dozen heartbeats. 

So warm. 

I felt so warm beneath it. Almost cozy. 

I let out a sigh. For the first time, I had stopped shivering. My hands and 
feet were no longer frozen. No chills ran down my back. 

Warm. I felt toasty and warm. 

A smile spread over my face. I could feel my fear fading away with the 

cold. 

The egg creatures weren’t trying to harm me, I realized. 

They wanted to help me. 

They pressed themselves together to form a blanket. A warm and cozy 
blanket. 

They worked together to keep me from freezing. 

They saved my life! 

With the warm, pulsing blanket on top of me, I suddenly felt calm. And 
sleepy. I drifted into a peaceful, dreamless sleep. 

Such a wonderful, soothing sleep. 

But it didn’t help get me ready for the horrors of the next morning. 



29 


I awoke a couple of times during the night. At first, I felt alarmed and frightened 
when I saw that I wasn’t home in bed. 

But the pulsing, warm egg blanket relaxed me. I shut my eyes and drifted 
back to sleep. 

Some time in the morning, I was aroused from a deep sleep by an angry 
voice. I felt hands grab my shoulders roughly. 

Someone was shaking me hard. Shaking me awake. 

I opened my eyes to find Dr. Gray bending over me in his white lab coat. 
His face was twisted in anger. He shook me hard, shouting furiously. 

“Dana—what have you done? What have you done to the egg monsters?” 

“Huh?” I was still half asleep. My eyes struggled to focus. My head bobbed 
loosely on my shoulders as the angry scientist shook me. 

“Let go!” I finally managed to choke out. 

“What have you done to them?” Dr. Gray demanded. “How did you turn 
them into a blanket?” 

“I—I didn’t!” I stammered. 

He uttered a furious growl. “You’ve ruined everything!” he shrieked. 

“Please—” I started, struggling to wake up. 

He let go of me and grabbed the egg blanket in both hands. “What have you 
done, Dana?” he repeated. “Why did you do this?” 

With another cry of rage, he ripped the blanket off me—and heaved it 
against the wall. 

The egg creatures made a soft splat as they hit the lab wall. I heard them 
utter tiny squeals of pain. The blanket folded limply to the floor. 

“You shouldn’t do that, Dr. Gray!” I screamed, finally finding my voice. I 
jumped to my feet. I could still feel the warmth of the egg blanket on my skin. 

“You hurt them!” I shrieked. 

I gazed down at the yellow blanket. It bubbled silently where it had been 
thrown. It didn’t move. 

“You let them touch you?” Dr. Gray demanded, twisting his face in disgust. 
“You let them cover you up?” 

“They saved my life!” I declared. “They pushed together to make a warm 



blanket—and they saved my life!” 

I glanced down again. The egg creatures remained stuck together. The 
blanket appeared to be seething now. Throbbing hard. As if excited. Or angry. 

“Are you crazy?” Dr. Gray cried, his face red with anger. “Are you crazy? 
You let these monsters rest on top of you? You touched them? You handled 
them? Are you trying to destroy my discovery? Are you trying to destroy my 
work?” 

He’s the crazy one, I realized. Dr. Gray isn’t making any sense. He isn’t 
making any sense at all. 

He moved quickly—and grabbed me again. Held me in a tight grip so I 
couldn’t escape. And pulled me to the door. 

“Let go of me! Where are you taking me?” I demanded. 

“I thought you could be trusted,” Dr. Gray replied in a menacing growl. 
“But I was wrong. I’m so sorry, Dana. So sorry. I had hoped to keep you alive. 
But I see now that is impossible.” 



30 


He dragged me to the door. He stopped and reached into the pocket of his lab 
coat. Reached for the control unit to open the door. 

I saw my chance. He had me by only one hand. 

With a hard burst of strength, I pulled away. 

He let out a cry. Reached both hands for me. 

Missed. 

I ran to the other side of the lab. I turned at the wall to face him. 

He had a strange smile on his face. “Dana, there’s nowhere to run,” he said 
softly. 

My eyes flashed around the room. I don’t know what I was searching for. I 
had seen it all. And I knew that he was telling the truth. 

Dr. Gray stood blocking the only door. The long window was too heavy and 
thick to break through. And it didn’t open. 

There were no other windows. No other doors. 

No ways to escape. 

“What are you going to do now, Dana?” Dr. Gray asked softly, the strange 
smile stuck on his face. His blue eyes locked coldly on mine. “Where are you 
going to go?” 

I opened my mouth to reply. But I had nothing to say. 

“I’ll tell you what’s going to happen,” Dr. Gray said softly, calmly. “You’re 
going to stay in here. In this cold, cold room. I’m going to leave you now and 
make sure you’re locked in.” 

His smile grew wider. “Then do you know what I’m going to do? Do you?” 

“What?” I choked out. 

“I’m going to make it colder in here. I’m going to make it colder than a 
freezer.” 

“No—!” I protested. 

His smile faded. “I trusted you, Dana. I trusted you. But you broke that 
trust. You let them touch you. You let them form this—this carpet! You ruined 
them, Dana! You ruined my egg monsters!” 

“I—I didn’t do anything!” I stammered. I balled my hands into fists. But I 
felt so helpless. Helpless and afraid. 



“You can’t freeze me in here!” I cried. “I didn’t do anything! You can’t 
leave me in here to freeze!” 

“Of course I can,” Dr. Gray replied coldly. “This is my lab. My own little 
world. I can do whatever I want.” 

He pulled the little black remote unit from his lab coat pocket. He pointed it 
at the door and pushed a button. 

The door swung open. 

He started to leave. “Good-bye, Dana,” he called. 



31 


“No—stop!” I called. 

Dr. Gray turned from the doorway. 

And as he turned, the blanket of egg creatures rose up. 

It stood straight up—and flung itself over him. It dropped on top of the 
scientist with a hard thud. 

“Hey—” He let out an angry cry. The cry was muffled by the heavy yellow 
blanket of egg creatures. 

The egg blanket covered him. I watched him struggle underneath it. And I 
listened to his muffled cries. 

He was squirming and twisting beneath the blanket. But he couldn’t toss it 
off. And he couldn’t slide out from under it. 

He crumpled to the floor, and the blanket crumpled with him. 

I watched it seething and bubbling on top of him. 

Then I didn’t wait another second. I took a deep breath—and I ran across 
the room. I darted past the egg blanket with Dr. Gray twisting and thrashing 
underneath it. 

Out the door. 

Down the long hall to the front of the lab. 

Yes! A few seconds later, I pushed open the front door and burst outside. 
Breathing hard, sucking in the sweet, fresh air. 

A beautiful morning. A red ball of a sun still rising over the spring-green 
trees. The sky clear and blue. 

I glanced around. I could see a paperboy on his bike halfway up the block. 
No one else on the street. 

I turned and ran around to the side of the building. The grass smelled so 
wonderful! The morning air so warm and fresh. I was so thrilled to be outside! 

I had to get home. 

I had a hunch—and the hunch was right. I spotted my bike, resting against 
the back wall of the lab, hidden by a large Dumpster. 

I leaped onto it and started to pedal. Riding a bike never felt as exciting, so 
thrilling! 

I was getting away, away from the horror of crazy Dr. Gray and his freezing 



lab. 


I pedaled faster. I rode without stopping. Without seeing! The world was a 
blur of green. 

I must have set a speed record for getting home. 

I roared up the driveway, the tires sending gravel flying on both sides. 

Then I jumped off my bike and let it topple to the grass. I dove for the 
kitchen door and burst into the kitchen. “Mom!” I cried. 

She jumped up from the breakfast table. I caught the worried expression on 
her face. It melted away as I ran into the room. 

“Dana!” she cried. “Where were you? We’ve all been so terrified. The 
police are looking for you and—and—” 

“I’m okay!” I told her. I gave her a quick hug. 

Dad ran in from the hallway. “Dana—you’re okay? Where were you all 
night? Your mother and I—” 

“Egg monsters!” I cried. “Egg monsters from Mars! Hurry!” I grabbed 
Dad’s hand and tugged. “Come on!” 

“Huh?” Dad spun around. He narrowed his eyes, studying me. “What did 
you say?” 

“No time to explain!” I gasped. “They’ve got Dr. Gray. He’s evil, Dad. He’s 
so evil!” 

“Who has what?” Mom demanded. 

“The egg creatures! From Mars! Hurry! There’s no time!” 

They didn’t move. I saw them exchange glances. 

Mom stepped forward and placed a hand on my forehead. “Do you have a 
fever, Dana? Are you sick?” 

“No!” I screamed. “Listen to me! Egg creatures from Mars! Follow me!” 

I know I wasn’t explaining myself too well. But I was frantic. 

“Dana—come lie down,” Mom instructed. “I’ll call Dr. Martin.” 

“No—please! I don’t need a doctor!” I protested. “Just follow me—okay? 
You’ve got to see them. You’ve got to see the egg creatures. You’ve got to 
hurry.” 

Mom and Dad exchanged worried glances again. 

“I’m not crazy!” I shrieked. “I want you to come with me to the science 

lab!” 

“Okay, okay,” Dad finally agreed. “You were in that lab last night?” 

“Yes,” I told him, shoving him to the kitchen door. “I called and called. But 



you couldn’t hear me.” 

“Oh, wow,” Dad murmured, shaking his head. “Wow.” 

The three of us climbed into the car. 

It took about three minutes to drive to the lab. Dad parked in front. I 
jumped out of the car before he stopped. 

The front door to the lab stood wide open, as I’d left it. 

I ran inside with Mom and Dad close behind me. 

“They’re egg creatures,” I told them breathlessly. “They dropped down 
from Mars. They captured Dr. Gray.” 

I led the way down the long hall. 

I pushed open the door to the freezing back room. 

Mom and Dad stepped in behind me. 

I gazed around the room—and gasped in amazement! 



32 


I saw Mom and Dad staring at me. They had worried expressions on their faces. 
“Where are the egg creatures?” Mom demanded softly. 

Dad rested a hand gently on my shoulder. “Where are they, Dana?” he 
asked in a whisper. 

“Uh... they’re gone,” I choked out. 

The lab stood empty. 

No Dr. Gray. No egg creatures. No one. 

Bare white walls. Nothing on the floor. 

Nothing. 

“Maybe they went back to Mars,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

“And Dr. Gray? What about Dr. Gray?” Dad asked. 

“Maybe they took Dr. Gray with them,” I replied. 

“Let’s go home,” Mom sighed. “Let’s get you into bed, Dana.” 

Dad guided me from the room, his hands on my shoulders. “I’ll call Dr. 
Martin,” he said softly. “I’m sure we can get him to come to the house this 
morning.” 

“I—I do feel a little strange,” I admitted. 

So they drove me home and tucked me into bed. 

The doctor came later that morning and examined me. He didn’t find 
anything wrong. But he said I should stay in bed and rest for a while. 

I knew that Mom and Dad didn’t believe my story. I felt bad about that. But 
I didn’t know how to convince them I was telling the truth. 

I did feel a little weird. 

Just tired, I guess. 

I dozed off and woke up and dozed off again. 

In the afternoon, I woke up to hear my sister Brandy talking to some friends 
outside my room. “Dana totally freaked out,” I heard Brandy say. “He says he 
was kidnapped by egg monsters from Mars.” 

I heard Brandy’s friends giggling. 

Oh great, I thought bitterly. Now everyone thinks I’m a nut case. 



I wanted to call Brandy into my room and tell her what really happened. I 
wanted to make her believe me. I wanted to make someone believe me. 

But how? 

I fell asleep again. 

I was awakened by a voice calling my name. I sat up in bed. The voice 
floated in from my open bedroom window. 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Anne was calling me 
from the driveway. “Dana—are you okay? Do you want to come over? I got a 
new CD-ROM version of Battle Chess. ” 

“Cool!” I called down to Anne. “I’ll be right over.” 

I pulled on a T-shirt and a pair of jeans. I was feeling pretty good. Rested. 
Like my old self. 

So happy that everything was back to normal. 

I hummed to myself as I brushed my hair. I stared at myself in the mirror. 

You had an amazing adventure, Dana, I told myself. Imagine—you spent a 
night with egg creatures from Mars! 

But now you’re okay, and your life is back to normal. 

I felt so happy, I gave Brandy a hug on my way down the stairs. She stared 
at me as if I truly were crazy! 

Humming loudly, I made my way out the kitchen door and started across 
the yard to Anne’s house. 

Everything looked so beautiful to me. The grass. The trees. The spring 
flowers. The sun setting behind the trees. 

What a day! What a beautiful, perfect, normal day! 

And then halfway across Anne’s lawn, I stopped. 

I crouched down on the grass—and I laid the biggest egg you ever saw! 





THE BEAST 
FROM THE EAST 


Goosebumps - 43 
R.L. Stine 



1 


When I was a really little girl, my mom would tuck me into bed at night. She 
would whisper, “Good night, Ginger. Good night. Don’t let the bedbugs bite.” 

I didn’t know what bedbugs were. I pictured fat red bugs with big eyes and 
spidery legs, crawling under the sheet. Just thinking about them made me itchy 
all over. 

After Mom kissed me on the forehead and left, Dad would step into my 
room and sing to me. Very softly. The same song every night. “The Teddy Bears’ 
Picnic.” 

I don’t know why he thought that song made a good lullaby. It was about 
going into the woods and finding hundreds and hundreds of bears. 

The song gave me the shivers. What were the bears eating at their picnic? 
Children? 

After Dad kissed me on the forehead and left the room, I’d be itching and 
shaking for hours. 

Then I’d have nightmares about bedbugs and bears. 

Until a few years ago, I was afraid to go into the woods. 

I’m twelve now, and I’m not scared any longer. 

At least, I wasn’t scared until our family camping trip this summer. That’s 
when I discovered that there are a lot scarier creatures than bears in the woods! 

But I guess I’d better begin at the beginning. 

The first thing I remember about our camping trip is Dad yelling at my 
brothers. I have two ten-year-old brothers—Pat and Nat. You guessed it. They’re 
twins. 

Lucky me—huh? 

Pat and Nat aren’t just twins. They’re identical twins. They look so much 
alike, they confuse each other ! 

They are both short and skinny. They both have round faces and big brown 
eyes. They both wear their brown hair parted in the middle and straight down the 
sides. They both wear baggy, faded jeans and black-and-red skater T-shirts with 
slogans no one can understand. 

There is only one way to tell Pat from Nat or Nat from Pat. You have to ask 
them who they are! 



I remember that our camping trip began on a beautiful, sunny day. The air 
smelled piney and fresh. Twigs and dead leaves crackled under our shoes as we 
followed a twisting path through the woods. 

Dad led the way. He carried the tent over his shoulder, and he had a bulging 
backpack on his back. Mom followed him. She was also loaded down with stuff 
we needed. 

The path led through a grassy clearing. The sun felt hot on my face. My 
backpack began to feel heavy. I wondered how much deeper into the woods 
Mom and Dad wanted to go. 

Pat and Nat followed behind us. Dad kept turning around to yell at them. 
We all had to yell at Pat and Nat. Otherwise, they never seemed to hear us. They 
only heard each other. 

Why was Dad yelling? 

Well, for one thing, Nat kept disappearing. Nat likes to climb trees. If he 
sees a good tree, he climbs it. I think he’s part chimpanzee. 

I tell him that as often as I can. Then he scratches his chest and makes 
chimp noises. He thinks he’s really funny. 

So there we were, hiking through the woods. And every time we turned 
around, Nat would be up a tree somewhere. It was slowing us down. So Dad had 
to yell at him. 

Then Dad had to yell at Pat because of his Game Boy. “I told you not to 
bring that thing!” Dad shouted. Dad is big and broad, kind of like a bear. And he 
has a booming voice. 

It doesn’t do him much good. Pat and Nat never listen to him. 

Pat walked along, eyes on his Game Boy, his fingers hammering the 
controls. 

“Why are we hiking in the woods?” Dad asked him. “You could be home in 
your room doing that. Put it away, Pat, and check out the scenery.” 

“I can’t, Dad,” Pat protested. “I can’t quit now. I’m on Level Six! I’ve never 
made it to Level Six before!” 

“There goes a chipmunk,” Mom chimed in, pointing. Mom is the wildlife 
guide. She points out everything that moves. 

Pat didn’t raise his eyes from his Game Boy. 

“Where’s Nat?” Dad demanded, his eyes searching the clearing. 

“Up here, Dad,” Nat called. I shielded my eyes with one hand and saw him 
on a high branch of a tall oak tree. 



“Get down from there!” Dad shouted. “That branch won’t hold you!” 

“Hey—I made it to Level Seven!” Pat declared, fingering frantically. 

“Look—two bunny rabbits!” Mom cried. “See them in the tall grass?” 

“Let’s keep walking,” I groaned. “It’s too hot here.” I wanted to get out of 
the clearing and back under the cool shade of the trees. 

“Ginger is the only sensible one,” Dad said, shaking his head. 

“Ginger is a freak!” Nat called, sliding down from the oak tree. 

We made our way through the woods. I don’t know how long we walked. It 
was so beautiful! So peaceful. Beams of sunlight poked through the high 
branches, making the ground sparkle. 

I found myself humming that song about the bears in the woods. I don’t 
know what made it pop into my head. Dad hadn’t sung it to me in years and 
years. 

We stopped for lunch by a clear, trickling stream. “This would make a nice 
camping spot,” Mom suggested. “We can set up the tent on the grass here by the 
shore.” 

Mom and Dad started to unpack the equipment and set up the tent. I helped 
them. Pat and Nat threw stones into the stream. Then they got into a wrestling 
match and tried to shove each other into the water. 

“Take them into the woods,” Dad instructed me. “Try to lose them—okay?” 

He was joking, of course. 

He had no way of knowing that Pat, Nat, and I would soon be lost for real 
—with little hope of ever returning. 



2 


“What do you want to do?” Nat demanded. He had picked up a thin tree branch 
to use as a walking stick. Pat kept slapping at it, trying to make Nat stumble. 

We had followed the stream for a while. I saw a million tiny, silver 
minnows swimming near the surface. Now we were making our own path 
through the tangle of trees, low shrubs, and rocks. 

“Hide-and-seek!” Pat declared. He slapped Nat. “You’re It!” 

Nat slapped him back. “You’re It.” 

“You’re It!” 

“You’re It!” 

“You’re It!” 

The slaps kept getting harder. 

“I’ll be It!” I cried. Anything to keep them from murdering each other. 
“Hurry. Go hide. But don’t go too far.” 

I leaned against a tree, shut my eyes, and started to count to one hundred. I 
could hear them scampering into the trees. 

After thirty, I counted by tens. I didn’t want to give them too big a head 
start. “Ready or not, here I come!” I called. 

I found Pat after only a few minutes. He had crouched behind a large white 
mound of sand. He thought he was hidden. But I spotted his brown hair poking 
up over the top of the sand. 

I tagged him easily. 

Nat was harder to find. He had climbed a tree, of course. He was way up at 
the top, completely hidden by thick clumps of green leaves. 

I never would have found him if he hadn’t spit on me. 

“Get down, creep!” I shouted angrily. I waved a fist up at him. “You’re 
disgusting! Get down—right now!” 

He giggled and peered down at me. “Did I hit you?” 

I didn’t answer. I waited for him to climb down to the ground. Then I 
mbbed a handful of dried leaves in his face until he was sputtering and choking. 

Just a typical Wald family hide-and-seek game. 

After that, we chased a squirrel through the woods. The poor thing kept 
glancing back at us as if he didn’t believe we were chasing after him. He finally 



got tired of the race and scurried up a tall pine tree. 

I glanced around. The trees in this part of the woods grew close together. 
Their leaves blocked most of the sunlight. The air felt cooler here. In their shade, 
it was nearly as dark as evening. 

“Let’s go back,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad might be getting worried.” 

The boys didn’t argue. “Which way?” Nat asked. 

I glanced around, making a complete circle with my eyes. “Uh... that way.” 
I pointed. I was guessing. But I felt ninety-nine percent sure. 

“Are you sure?” Pat asked. He eyed me suspiciously. I could see he was a 
little worried. Pat didn’t like the outdoors as much as Nat and me. 

“Sure I’m sure,” I told him. 

I led the way. They followed close behind. They had both picked up 
walking sticks. After we had walked a few minutes, they started fighting a duel 
with them. 

I ignored them. I had my own worries. I wasn’t sure we were walking in the 
right direction. In fact, I felt totally turned around. 

“Hey—there’s the stream!” I cried happily. 

I immediately felt better. We weren’t lost. I had picked the right direction. 

Now all we had to do was follow the stream back to the clearing where we 
had set up camp. 

I began to hum again. The boys tossed their sticks into the stream. We 
began to jog along the grassy shore. 

“Whoa!” I cried out when my left boot started to sink. I nearly fell into a 
deep mud patch. I pulled my hiking boot up. Soaked in wet, brown mud up over 
the ankle. 

Pat and Nat thought that was a riot. They laughed and slapped each other 
high fives. 

I growled at them, but I didn’t waste any words. They’re both hopeless. So 
totally immature. 

Now I couldn’t wait to get back to camp and clean the thick mud off my 
boot. We jogged along the shore, then cut through the skinny, white-trunked 
trees and into the clearing. 

“Mom! Dad!” I called, hurrying over the grass. “We’re back!” 

I stopped so short, both boys tumbled into me. 

My eyes searched the clearing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 



They were gone. 



3 


“They left us!” Pat exclaimed. He ran frantically around the clearing. “Mom! 
Dad!” 

“Earth to Pat,” Nat called. He waved his hand in front of Pat’s face. “We’re 
in the wrong place, you wimp.” 

“Nat is right,” I replied, glancing around. There were no footprints, no tent 
markers. We were in a different clearing. 

“I thought you knew the way, Ginger,” Pat complained. “Didn’t they teach 
you anything at that nature camp?” 

Nature camp! Last summer my parents forced me to spend two weeks at an 
“Explore the Great Outdoors” camp. I got poison ivy the first day. After that, I 
didn’t listen to anything the counselors said. 

Now I wished I had. 

“We should have left markers on the trees,” I said, “to find our way back.” 

“Now you think of it?” Nat groaned, rolling his eyes. He picked up a long, 
crooked stick and waved it in my face. 

“Give me that,” I ordered. 

Nat handed me the stick. Yellow sap oozed onto my palm. It smelled sour. 

“Gross!” I shouted. I tossed the stick away. I rubbed my hands on my jeans. 
But the yellow stain wouldn’t come off my palm. 

That’s weird, I thought. I wondered what the stuff was. I definitely didn’t 
like it on my skin. 

“Let’s follow the stream,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad can’t be too far.” 

I tried to sound calm. But I was totally twisted around. In fact, I had no idea 
where we were. 

We headed out of the clearing and back to the shore. The sun fell lower in 
the sky. It prickled the back of my neck. 

Pat and Nat tossed pebbles into the water. After a few minutes, they tossed 
them at each other. 

I ignored them. At least they weren’t throwing anything at me. 

As we walked along, the air became cooler. The path grew narrower. 

The water turned dark and murky. Silvery-blue fish snapped at the air. The 
skinny branches of the tall trees reached down toward us. 



A feeling of dread swept over me. Nat and Pat grew quiet. They actually 
stopped picking on each other. 

“I don’t remember any of these bushes near our campsite,” Pat said 
nervously. He pointed to a short, squat plant. Its strange blue leaves looked like 
open umbrellas stacked one on top of the other. “Are you sure we’re going the 
right way?” 

By now I was sure we weren’t headed in the right direction. I didn’t 
remember those strange bushes, either. 

Then we heard a noise on the other side of the shrubs. 

“Maybe that’s Mom and Dad!” Pat exclaimed. 

We pushed our way through the plants. And ran into another deserted 
clearing. 

I glanced around. This grassy field was enormous. Large enough for a 
hundred tents. 

My heart hammered against my chest. 

We stood on rust-colored grass. It stuck up over my ankle. A clump of 
gigantic purple cabbage plants grew to our right. 

“This place is cool!” Nat cried. “Everything is so big.” 

To me, the clearing wasn’t cool at all. It gave me the creeps. 

Strange trees surrounded us on all sides. Their branches shot out at right 
angles to the trunk. They resembled stairs going up and up and up. Up into the 
clouds. 

They were the tallest trees I’d ever seen. And perfect for climbing. 

Red moss clung to the branches. Yellow gourds hung from braided vines, 
swaying in the air. 

Where were we? This looked like a weird jungle—not the woods! Why 
were all the trees and plants so strange? 

A knot formed in the pit of my stomach. 

Where was our clearing? Where were Mom and Dad? 

Nat jogged over to a tree. “I’m climbing up,” he said. 

“No, you don’t,” I protested. I rushed over and pulled his arm from the 
branch. 

The red moss rubbed against my palm. My skin turned red where I touched 
it. Now I had a yellow-and-red design on my hand. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

Before I could show my hand to my brothers, the tree started to shake. 



“Whoa! Watch out!” I cried. 

A small furry animal jumped out of the branches and landed at my feet. I 
had never seen anything like it before. It was the size of a chipmunk, brown all 
over except for a white patch around one eye. 

It had a bushy tail and floppy ears like a bunny. And two big front teeth like 
a beaver. Its flat nose twitched. It stared at me with gray eyes, round with fear. I 
watched it scurry away. 

“What was that?” Pat asked. 

I shrugged. I wondered what other kinds of weird creatures lived in these 
woods. 

“I’m kind of scared,” Pat admitted, huddling close to me. 

I felt scared too. But I knew I was the big sister. So I told him everything 
was okay. 

Then I glanced down. “Nat! Pat!” I shouted. “Look!” 

My muddy boot stood inside a footprint three times the size of mine. No— 
even bigger. What kind of animal had a footprint that huge? 

A bear? A giant gorilla? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. 

The ground started to tremble. 

“Do you feel that?” I asked my brothers. 

“It’s Dad!” Pat shouted. 

It definitely was not Dad. He’s a big guy. But no way could he make the 
ground shake that way! 

I heard grumbles and growls from somewhere in the distance. And then a 
roar. Twigs and branches snapped loudly in the air. 

All three of us gasped as a tall beast stomped through the trees. It was huge. 
So tall that its head touched the middle branches. 

It had a narrow, pointy head over a long neck. Its eyes shone like bright 
green marbles. Shaggy blue fur covered every part of its body. Its long, furry tail 
thumped heavily on the ground. 

The weirdest creature I’d ever seen in my life! 

The beast entered the far side of the clearing. 

I sucked in my breath as it drew closer. Close enough for me to see its long 
snout. Its nostrils flared in and out as it sniffed the air. 

My brothers hung back, hiding behind me. We huddled together. Trembling. 

The beast opened its mouth. Two rows of sharp, yellow teeth rose up from 



purple gums. One long, jagged fang slid down over the creature’s chin. 

I crouched on my hands and knees. Pulled my brothers down with me. 

The beast spun around in circles. It sniffed the air and wiggled its hairy, 
pointed ears. Had it smelled us? Was it searching for us? 

I couldn’t think. I couldn’t move. 

The beast turned its ugly head. It stared at me. 

It saw me. 



4 


My eyes on the creature, I grabbed my brothers by their T-shirts. I dragged them 
behind some of the huge cabbage plants. 

The beast stayed on the other side of the clearing, sniffing the air. It 
stomped back and forth, sniffing hard. The ground seemed to shake each time 
one of its furry paws hit the ground. I could feel Nat and Pat shiver with fear. 

The beast turned away from us. 

Whew! I thought. It hasn’t seen us. I bit my bottom lip and held onto Pat 
and Nat. 

“Argggh,” the beast grunted. It dropped to all fours. It pressed its snout to 
the ground and crept along, making loud snuffling noises. 

I didn’t tell Pat or Nat what I was thinking. The beast hadn’t seen us—but 
there was no way we could keep it from smelling us. 

Its long tail swished back and forth. The tail banged against the trees. 
Gourds fell to the ground. 

The beast crawled into the center of the clearing. Closer. 

I dug my fingernails into my palm. 

Turn around, beast, I prayed. Go back into the woods. The blue creature 
stopped. It sniffed again. And then it turned. It began to creep in our direction. 

I swallowed. Hard. My mouth suddenly felt so dry. 

The creature’s tail pushed against one of the cabbage plants near us. The 
leaves rustled. 

“Get down!” I whispered, shoving my brothers. We stretched out flat on the 
ground. 

The beast stopped a few feet from our hiding place. 

Its tail brushed my arm. The fur felt rough and scratchy. 

I jerked my arm away. Could he feel me? Was I like a tiny animal to him? 
One he could pick up and squeeze the way my brothers teased our dog? 

The beast rose up on its hind legs and sniffed. It towered over the cabbage 
plant. It had to be at least eight feet tall! 

It picked at its fur with a clawed thumb—and placed whatever it found in 
his mouth. 

A pleased grin formed under its twitching snout. It peered around the 



clearing. 

Don’t look down, I prayed. Don’t see us. 

My body tensed. 

The creature growled and ran its long tongue over its fang. Then it tromped 
off into the trees. 

I let out a sigh of relief. 

“We’d better wait a few minutes,” I told my brothers. I counted to one 
hundred. Then I crawled out from behind the plant. No sign of the creature. 

But then I felt the earth shake. 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “Here it comes again!” 



5 


The beast’s enormous blue head bobbed up between the trees. How had it come 
back so fast? And from the other direction? 

We scrambled back to our hiding place behind the huge cabbage plant. 

“We have to get away from here,” I whispered. “If it keeps searching back 
and forth, it’s bound to find us.” 

“How do we get away?” Nat demanded. 

I picked up a gourd from the ground. “I’ll throw this gourd. The beast will 
turn its head to see what the noise is. Then we’ll run—in the other direction.” 

“But, what if it sees us? What if it chases us?” Nat asked. He didn’t seem 
happy about my plan. 

Nat and Pat exchanged nervous glances. 

“Yeah. What if it runs faster than us?” Pat demanded. 

“It won’t,” I said. I was bluffing. But my brothers didn’t know that. 

I peeked over the top of the cabbage. The creature stood closer than ever. It 
sniffed the air, its pink snout coiling like a snake. 

I glanced at the gourd in my hand, then brought my arm back, ready to 
throw. 

“Wait!” Pat whispered. “Look!” 

My arm froze where it was. Another beast had tromped into the clearing. 

And another. 

And another. 

I gulped. More blue beasts clomped into the clearing. 

No way could we make a run for it now. 

The enormous creatures tromped around the clearing. They growled and 
grunted to each other. 

One stopped and jabbered loudly in a deep and gravelly voice. The folds of 
hairless skin under its chin wobbled back and forth. 

“Look at them all!” Nat murmured. “There must be at least two dozen.” 

A small beast jogged into the clearing. Its fur shone a brighter blue than the 
rest. It stood only about three feet tall. 

Was it a child? A young beast? 



The tiny beast placed its short, pink snout on the ground and sniffed. Dirt 
and dried-up bits of leaves stuck to its snout. 

“It looks hungry,” Pat whispered. 

“Shhh!” I warned. 

The tiny beast glanced up eagerly. In our direction. 

It did look hungry. But for what? 

I held my breath. 

The small beast suddenly scooped a gourd off the ground. It shoved the 
whole thing into its mouth and crunched down. Yellow juice squirted between its 
lips and soaked down its shaggy blue fur. 

It eats fruit! I cheered silently. That was a good sign. Maybe they are 
vegetarians, I thought. Maybe they don’t eat meat. 

I knew that most wild animals ate only one type of food. Either meat, or 
else fruits and vegetables. 

Except for bears, I suddenly remembered. Bears will eat both. 

A large beast thudded over to the kid. It yanked the little creature to its feet 
and began jabbering angrily at it. It dragged the kid back toward the woods. 

The beast with the hairless folds of skin stepped into the center of the 
clearing. 

“Ghrughl” It snorted at the others. It waved a furry paw in a circle. It 
waved and grunted and jabbered. 

The other creatures nodded and grunted to one another. They seemed to 
understand each other. They seemed to be grunting some kind of language. 

The big beast gave a final grunt. The other creatures turned back toward the 
woods. They spread out and began to creep silently into the trees. I felt the earth 
trembling under the pounding of their feet. Twigs and leaves crackled and 
cracked. 

In a few seconds, they had vanished. The clearing stood empty. 

I let out another long sigh of relief. 

“What are they doing, anyway?” Pat asked. 

Nat wiped sweat off his forehead. “They act as if they’re searching for 
something,” he answered. “Hunting.” 

I swallowed hard. 

I knew what they were hunting for. 

They were hunting for us. 

And now there were so many of them. Spreading out in every direction. 



We don’t stand a chance, I realized. 
They’re going to catch us. 

And then what? 



6 


I stood up slowly. I turned in a full circle, checking everywhere for a sign of the 
hairy creatures. 

Their low grumbles and growls faded into the distance. The ground stopped 
shaking. 

A gust of cool wind blew through the clearing. It made the gourds in the 
trees knock against each other. An eerie melody whistled through the trees. 

I shuddered. 

“Let’s get out of here. Now!” Nat cried. 

“Wait!” I told him. I grabbed his arm and held him back. “Those beasts are 
too near. They’ll hear us or see us.” 

“Yeah, well, I’m not going to stick around. I’m going to run as hard as I 
can. I’m outta here!” 

“I’m with you.” Pat leaped to his feet. “But which way do we go?” he 
asked. 

“We can’t go anywhere now,” I argued. “We’re lost. We don’t know which 
way to go. So we have to stay right here. Mom and Dad will come find us. I 
know they will.” 

“And what if they don’t? What if they’re in trouble, too?” Nat asked. 

“Dad knows how to survive in the woods,” I said firmly. “And we don’t.” 

At least I didn’t. If only I had listened at that outdoors camp. 

“I do, too!” Pat whined. “I can take care of myself. Right Nat? Let’s get 
going!” 

Who was he kidding? Pat didn’t even like the woods. 

But he’s stubborn. When he gets an idea, no one can change his mind. And 
Nat always agrees with him. Twins! 

“Ginger—are you coming or not?” Pat demanded. 

“You’re crazy,” I told him. “We have to stay here. That’s the rule, 
remember?” 

Mom and Dad always told us, if we ever get lost, stay where we are. 

“But there are only two of Mom and Dad—and there’s three of us,” Pat 
argued. “So we should go find them.” 

“But they’re not the ones who are lost!” I cried. 



“I think we should go,” Pat repeated. “We have to get away from those ugly 
creatures!” 

“Okay,” I told them. “We’ll go. At least we’ll be together.” 

I still thought they were wrong. But I couldn’t let them go off without me. 
What if something horrible happened to them? 

Besides, I didn’t want to stay in these strange woods alone. 

As I turned to follow them, I glimpsed something move in the tall grass. 
“It’s... it’s... them!” Nat stammered. “They’re back!” 

I stared at the grass in horror. 

“Run!” Pat shrieked. He bolted across the clearing. 

A squirrel scurried out of the grass. 

“Pat, wait!” Nat yelled. 

“It’s only a squirrel!” I shouted. 

He didn’t hear us. 

Nat and I took off, chasing after Pat. 

“Pat! Hey—Pat!” 

I didn’t see the thick, twisted root that poked out of the ground. I tripped 
over it and hit the ground hard. I lay there stunned. 

Nat knelt down beside me. He grabbed my arm and helped me to my feet. 

I glanced up ahead. Pat had already vanished into the woods. I couldn’t see 
him anywhere. 

“We have to catch up to him,” I told Nat breathlessly. I straightened up, 
brushing dirt off my knees. 

The earth started to tremble again. 

“Oh, no!” Nat moaned. 

The creatures were back. 

I whirled around. Big blue beasts pushed back through the trees. I counted 
four behind us. Three on my left. Five to our right. 

I gave up counting. 

There were too many of them. 

The big one grunted and raised its furry paws high in the air. It pointed at 
us. The other creatures grunted and uttered cries of excitement. 

“They’ve caught us!” I groaned. 

“Ginger...” Nat whimpered. His eyes opened wide with terror. I clutched at 
his hand and held it tight. 

The beasts drew closer. And formed a circle around us. 



Nowhere to run now. 

“We’re trapped,” I whispered. 
The beasts began to growl. 



7 


Over the drone of their low growls, I heard the eerie melody whistling through 
the gourds again. 

Nat huddled close to me. “They’ve got us,” he whispered. “Do you think— 
do you think they got Pat?” 

I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t talk. 

I felt weak and helpless. Sweat ran down my face into my eyes. I wanted to 
wipe the sweat away, but I couldn’t lift my hand to do it. 

I was too scared to move. 

Then the beast with the flabby chin stepped forward. It stopped a few 
inches away from me. 

I slowly raised my eyes. I stared at its furry belly. Then its broad chest. I 
saw shiny, black insects crawling in its fur. 

I raised my eyes to its face. Its green eyes glared down at me. It opened its 
mouth. I stared helplessly at its long fang, chipped on the end. 

You don’t need a tooth like that for eating fruit ! I thought. 

The beast stretched to its full height. It raised a furry paw high above us. 
Ready to strike. 

Nat huddled closer to me. I could practically feel his heart beating through 
his T-shirt. Or maybe it was my own heart that was pounding. 

The creature growled and swung. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. 

I felt a slap on my shoulder—so hard it knocked me backwards. 

“You’re It!” the creature bellowed. 



8 


Huh? My mouth dropped open in astonishment. 

“You’re It,” the beast repeated. 

I gaped at Nat. His eyes bulged in surprise. 

“It... it talked!” Nat stammered to me. “In our language.” 

The creature scowled at Nat. “I talk in many languages,” he growled. “We 
have a universal language adaptor.” 

“Oh,” Nat said weakly. He and I exchanged stunned glances. 

The creature growled again and took a step closer to me. “Did you hear 
me?” he growled. “You’re It!” 

His marble eyes glared into mine. He tapped a paw impatiently on the 
ground. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

The creature grunted. “You’re the Beast from the East,” he said. 

“What are you talking about? I’m not a beast. I’m a girl!” I declared. 
“Ginger Wald.” 

“I am Fleg,” the beast replied, pounding himself on the chest. He waved a 
paw at the creature beside him, a beast with one eye missing. “This is Spork,” 
Fleg announced. Fleg pounded the other beast on the back. 

Spork grunted at Nat and me. I stared at his dark, empty eye socket. And I 
spotted a deep black scar on the side of Spork’s nose. 

An eye missing and a scar. The big creature had been in a pretty nasty fight. 
I hoped it wasn’t a fight with a human. Because if Spork was the winner, I would 
hate to see the loser! 

Nat gaped at Spork. 

“Uh, this is my brother Nat,” I said quickly. 

Spork growled in reply. 

“Have you seen our mom and dad?” I asked Fleg. “See, we’re all here 
camping, and we got separated. But we’re trying to get back together and go 
home. So, we’d better go—” 

“There are others?” Fleg glanced sharply around the clearing. “Where?” 

“That’s the problem,” Nat answered. “We can’t find them.” 



Fleg grunted. “If you can’t find them, they can’t play.” 

“Right. That’s the rule,” Spork agreed. He scratched at the insects that 
climbed around in his fur. 

“Now start moving,” Fleg demanded. “It’s getting late. And you’re It.” 

I stared at Nat. This was too weird. What did he mean —they can’t play ? 
And why did he keep saying I was It? Did they want to play tag or something? 

The circle of beasts began stomping their paws, shaking the forest ground. 
“Play... play...” they chanted. 

“Play what?” I demanded. “Is this really some kind of game?” 

Spork’s eye bulged and a big smile spread under his ugly, pink snout. “The 
best game,” he said. “But you are too slow to win.” 

Spork rubbed his paws together. He ran his tongue over the tops of his 
teeth. “You should run.” He grunted. 

“Yes, run,” Fleg ordered. “Before I count to trel.” 

“Hold on,” I protested. “What if we don’t want to play?” 

“Yeah—why should we?” Nat demanded. 

“You have to play,” Fleg replied. “Read that sign over there.” 

He pointed to a cardboard sign tacked to one of the gourd trees. The sign 
read: GAME IN SEASON. 

Fleg stared down at me. His eyes narrowed menacingly. His wet nose 
flared. 

He grinned. Not a friendly grin. 

“Game in season?” Nat read the sign in a trembling voice. 

“You have to tell us how to play,” I declared. “I mean, we can’t play a game 
without knowing what it is.” 

Spork growled deep in his throat and moved closer to me. So close I could 
smell his fur. What a sour stench! 

Fleg reached out a paw and held Spork back. 

“It’s a good game,” Fleg told us. “It’s very exciting.” 

“Uh... why is it so exciting?” I asked. 

His eyes narrowed. “It’s a game of survival !” he replied with a grin. 



9 


Survival? 

Oh, no! No way I wanted to play! 

“You have until the sun sinks behind the Gulla Willow,” Fleg declared. 
“What’s a Gulla Willow?” Nat asked. 

“And where is it?” I wanted to know. 

“At the edge of the woods,” Fleg replied. He waved a paw to the trees. 
“Which edge? Where? How will we know which tree?” I demanded. 

Fleg flashed Spork a grin. They both made weird choking sounds in their 
throats. 

I could tell they were laughing. All the other creatures started laughing, too. 
Such an ugly sound. More like gagging than laughing. 

“We can’t play the game unless we know more,” I shouted. 

The laughter stopped. 

Spork scratched the bugs on his chest. “It’s simple. If you’re It when the 
sun goes down, you lose,” he told me. 

The others grunted in agreement. 

“And what happens to the losers?” I asked in a trembling voice. 

“We nibble on them,” Fleg replied. 

“Excuse me?” I asked. “You nibble?” 

“Yes, we nibble on them. Until dinnertime. Then we eat them.” 



10 


The creatures around us exploded into more laughter. The sick gagging sound 
made me feel like puking. 

“It’s not funny!” Nat shrieked. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes at us. “It’s our favorite game.” 

“Well, I don’t like your game!” Nat cried. 

“We’re not going to play. We don’t want to,” I added. 

Spork’s eye lit up. “You mean you surrender? You give up?” He smacked 
his lips hungrily. 

“NO!” I shouted. Nat and I jumped back. “We’ll play. But by the rules. You 
have to tell us the rules. All of them.” 

A cloud rolled overhead. It cast a shadow over the clearing. I shivered. 

Were they going to attack us because we didn’t want to play? 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried suddenly. 

“Made in the Shade,” Fleg repeated. 

Huh? 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

The cloud slowly passed. 

“No time to explain,” Fleg said. He waved a paw at the other creatures. 
“Let’s go,” he insisted. “This time-out has been too long.” 

“This isn’t fair!” Nat protested. “Please. We need to know the rules.” 

“Okay,” Fleg said as he turned to go. “Gling—you must always attack from 
the east.” 

“The east,” I mumbled. I raised a hand to shade my eyes as I scanned the 
clearing. 

East. North. South. West. I pictured a map. East was to my right. West to 
my left. But which direction was east out here in the woods? Why hadn’t I 
listened at that outdoors camp? 

“Proo—the brown squares are Free Lunch squares,” Fleg continued. 

“You mean they’re for resting? They’re safe?” I asked. I liked that rule. 
Maybe we could find a brown square and stay there until sunset. 

Fleg snorted. 



“No. Free Lunch. It means anyone can eat you!” He glared down at me. 
“Rule Zee,” he announced. “You must be three feet tall to play.” 

I glanced at the beasts. They were at least ten feet tall! So much for Fleg’s 
rules. 

“Well, thanks for explaining,” I said, shaking my head. “But we really can’t 
play this game. We have to find our parents and—” 

“You must play,” Fleg growled. “You’re It. You’re the Beast from the East. 
Play—or surrender.” 

“The sun will be down soon,” Spork added, licking his fang. 

“You have until the sun goes down behind the Gulla Willow tree,” Fleg 
said. “Then, the Beast from the East is the loser.” 

Spork made a choking sound, his ugly laugh. “You will make a delicious 
loser. I’m thinking maybe a sweet-and-sour sauce. Or perhaps you’d go better 
with something a little more spicy.” 

The creatures all gagged and choked. They thought Spork was a riot. 

Fleg turned to the woods. He stopped. “Oh,” he added with an evil grin. 
“Good luck.” 

“Good luck,” Spork repeated. He poked a finger into his open eye socket 
and scratched inside it. Then he turned and lumbered after Fleg. 

The other creatures followed. The earth trembled under their heavy feet. In 
a few moments, the clearing stood empty again. 

I gaped at Nat. 

This wasn’t a game! These evil monsters searched the woods for lost kids. 
And then they— 

“What are we going to do?” Nat cried. “Maybe they already ate Pat. Maybe 
they found him on a brown Free Lunch square.” 

“And Mom and Dad, too,” I murmured. 

He let out a frightened gasp. 

“There has to be someplace safe!” I told him. “The way we use the porch at 
home when we play tag.” 

Nat swallowed nervously. “What’s safe here?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I admitted. 

“We can call time-out,” Nat suggested. “You’re always allowed a time-out 
in every game.” 

“This is different. This is for our lives,” I said softly. 

The leaves rustled in the trees above us. The wind made the gourds whistle. 



I heard a low growl. Then a creature laughed. That ugly gagging sound. 
Twigs crackled. Bushes swayed. I heard low grunts. 

“We’d better start playing,” Nat urged. “They sound hungry.” 



11 


“How can we play?” I cried. “There’s no way we can win. There are too many of 
them. And we don’t even know where that Gulla tree is.” 

“So what?” Nat demanded. “We don’t have a choice—do we?” 

The leaves in a tree branch over our heads rustled. The branch started 
thrashing around. 

Thud. 

I shrieked and leaped back. 

Something small and brown hit the ground at my feet. 

One of those small, brown animals we had seen earlier. It rubbed up against 
my leg, and made a gurgling sound. 

“At least these little guys aren’t mean,” Nat said. He reached down to pet it. 

The animal snapped at Nat’s hand, clamping four rows of tiny, sharp teeth. 

“Whooa!” Nat jerked his hand away and leaped back. The animal scurried 
into the underbrush. 

Nat swallowed hard. “Weird,” he murmured. “What kind of forest is this? 
How come there aren’t any normal animals?” 

“Shhh!” I placed my finger over my lips and scowled. “Listen.” 

“I don’t hear anything,” Nat complained. 

“Exactly,” I answered. 

The grunts and growls and choking laughter had vanished. The woods were 
quiet. Really quiet. 

“Now’s our chance!” I cried. “Let’s run for it.” I grabbed his hand. 

“Wait!” Nat cried. “Which way?” 

I squinted around the clearing. “Back to the stream,” I declared. “We’ll try 
to follow it back to Mom and Dad. Maybe we’ll hear their voices along the 
water.” 

“Okay,” Nat agreed. 

We raced across the clearing. We plunged into the woods and pushed 
through the thick line of trees. 

I peered ahead into the forest. “This way!” I shouted, pointing to my left. 

“Why?” Nat asked. 



“Because,” I said impatiently. “I see light through the trees up ahead. That 
means the woods thin out. There were fewer trees near the stream, remember?” 

I hurried on. Nat followed. We ran silently for a while. The trees did begin 
to thin out. Soon, scraggly bushes dotted the ground. 

“There!” I stopped. Nat nearly crashed into me. “Up ahead.” 

“The stream!” Nat exclaimed. He slapped me a high five. 

Excited now. we began to run. We reached the water at about the same time. 

“Now what?” Nat asked. 

“Let’s head left again,” I suggested. “The sun was in our eyes when we 
started. So now we want it on our backs.” 

Yes! I thought. We were definitely headed back the way we came. All we 
had to do now was follow the stream back to the right clearing. Back to our 
parents. 

“Stay low,” I told Nat. “Try not to make any noise, just in case.” In case the 
beasts were following us. “And keep an eye out for Pat,” I added. 

I had no idea if Pat was still in the woods or not. I hoped he had made it 
back to our camp. But he could be anywhere. Maybe hiding someplace nearby, 
alone and scared. 

Thinking about how scared Pat might be made me feel braver. We had to 
stay calm so we could help Pat. 

Nat and I crouched down. We scooted along the stream, pushing through 
the umbrella bushes that grew close to the water’s edge. 

I could still see the silvery-blue fish circling below the surface of the water. 

Gazing at the fish, I stumbled. I grabbed at a leaf on an umbrella bush to 
steady myself. The leaf shredded in my hand. Blue sap smeared over my fingers. 

Not again! Another color. Yellow. Red. And now blue. “Ginger! Come 
here!” 

Nat’s cry startled me. I rushed to his side. 

Nat pointed to the ground. 

I glanced down, afraid of what I would see. 

“A footprint,” I said, frowning. Then I let out a loud whoop. 

Nat’s boot rested inside the footprint perfectly. It was exactly the same size 
as his. 

“Pat!” we said together. 

“He has been here!” Nat cried joyfully. 

“Yes!” I shouted. Pat had found his way back to the stream. 



“Maybe he already made it back to camp,” Nat said excitedly. “We can 
follow his footprints.” 

We started out eagerly. With each step I pictured Mom and Dad and Pat’s 
smiling faces when Nat and I showed up at camp. 

Pat’s footprints marched along the stream for a while. Then they veered into 
the woods. 

We followed them through the trees and found ourselves on a narrow path. 
The trees grew closer together here. 

Overhead, the sun disappeared from view. 

The air grew damp and cold. 

I heard a familiar growl. 

Right behind us. 

The ground shook. 

“Beasts!” I screamed. “Run!” 

I pushed Nat forward. We sprinted down the path. It curved to the right and 
then back to the left. I had no idea which direction we were going now. 

Branches of trees whipped our faces. I struggled to shove them aside. The 
trees swayed and shook above our heads. Gourds hit the ground all around us. 

Something warm and wet tangled itself around my arm. I yanked free. 
Another wet thing grabbed me. 

Vines. 

Thick yellow vines. 

Some draped over the branches of the trees, dangling onto the forest floor. 
Others sprouted from the tree trunks. They wrapped around each other, weaving 
thick nets from tree to tree. 

Some vines stretched across the path. Nat and I had to jump and twist, 
leaping over the vines in our way. 

It was hard work. I could hear Nat breathing hard. 

My side ached. My breath came in short, sharp bursts. 

I longed to rest. But we couldn’t rest. The ground was shaking under our 
feet. The woods echoed with thunderous cries. 

The beasts were coming. And they were gaining on us. 

“Watch out!” Nat warned. 

I spotted a tangled web of vines strung across the path. 

Nat jumped the web. He cleared it. I gathered myself and leaped. I jumped 

high. 



But not high enough. 

Vines wrapped around my ankles. I fell to the ground. 

More thick yellow vines twisted around my legs. Frantically, I grabbed at 
them and tried to pull them off. 

The vines tugged back. 

Hard. 

“Nat!” I shrieked. “Help!” 

“I’m stuck!” he cried. His voice cracked. “Help me, Ginger!” 

I couldn’t help him. I couldn’t move. 

I glanced down at my legs. The vines were tugging tighter and tighter. 
Another vine inched around my waist. 

I gaped down at it. 

What were those shiny things? 

Eyes? 

“Eyes!” I cried out. 

Vines don’t have eyes! 

And then I realized what I was staring at. 

The vines weren’t vines. 

They were snakes. 



12 


I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried behind me. “These aren’t vines. They’re—snakes!” 
“Tell me something I don’t know!” I groaned. 

The snake around my waist uncoiled and slithered onto my right arm. It was 
covered with thick scales that felt rough against my bare skin. 

I took a deep breath. Then I wrapped my left hand around the snake’s body. 
It was warm. 

I yanked hard. Tried to pull it off. 

No way. 

The snake coiled tighter around my arm. Its hard, cold eyes stared up at me. 
Its tongue flicked in and out. 

I felt something brush against my thigh. I glanced down. 

Another snake climbed up my body. 

Sweat ran down my forehead. 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat wailed. “They’re climbing all over me.” 

“M-me, too!” I stammered. I glanced at my brother. His eyes bulged in 
terror. He twisted and squirmed, trying to free himself. 

The snake around my thigh pulled back its head. And stared at me with 
those piercing eyes. 

The snake around my arm wound tighter and tighter—until my fingers 
turned numb. It hissed. A long, slow hiss. As if it had all the time in the world. 
“They’re going to attack!” Nat cried in a strangled voice. 

I didn’t answer. I felt a wiry tongue flick against my neck. 

Cold. 

Their tongues were cold. 

And prickly. 

I squeezed my eyes shut and held my breath. 

Don’t bite. Please don’t bite, I prayed. 

A growl disturbed the bushes around us. 

“Grrouggghl” 

Fleg jumped out of the bushes. He stared at Nat and me, his mouth open. 



I gasped. 

I saw Fleg’s eyes bulge in surprise as he spotted the snakes. “Double Snake 
Eyes!” he called out. 

My entire body trembling, I gaped at him in horror. 

Double Snake Eyes? 

Was that good—or bad? 



13 


“Congratulations! Double Snake Eyes!” Fleg cried. He shook his head in 
wonder. “And you said you never played this game before!” 

The snakes tightened around me. 

I stared at him. “What are you talking about?” I choked out. 

“Twenty points—that’s what I’m talking about.” The Huge beast grunted. 
“I’d better play harder. Or you’re going to win!” 

“Who cares about winning!” I screamed. “I can’t breathe! Get these snakes 

off!” 

Fleg grinned. “Off!” he screamed with laughter. The folds of skin under his 
jaw flapped up and down. “That’s a good one.” 

“We mean it,” Nat pleaded. “Get them off us!” 

Fleg seemed confused. “Why?” He asked. “They might bite you.” 

“We know!” I screamed. “Help us—please!” 

The snakes flicked their tongues against my cheek. My stomach lurched. 

Fleg grinned. “If they bite you, you could be awarded a Triple Hisser,” he 
explained. “Worth sixty points.” 

Points for getting bitten. Some game! 

“Forget the points!” I shrieked. “Get—them—off. Now!” 

Fleg shrugged. “Okay.” 

He stepped up to me. Then he pushed a claw under the snake that was 
coiled around my arm. “You need claws to do this right,” he bragged. 

Fleg scratched his claw along the snake’s skin. 

I could feel the snake loosen its grip. 

“They’re ticklish,” Fleg explained. He yanked the snake away and tossed it 
into the woods. 

He tickled the other snake, then pulled it from around my leg. Then he 
turned to Nat and repeated the same motions, tickling the snakes and prying 
them loose. 

When Fleg was done, he leaped toward the edge of the woods. 

I struggled to my feet and rubbed my arms and legs. My whole body itched 
and tingled. I knew I’d see those snakes in my dreams! 



Fleg stuck his furry head out from behind a tree. 

“You could have tagged me,” he called. “Too bad!” 

He opened his mouth in a gagging laugh. Then he plunged into the woods 
and disappeared. 

My mouth dropped open. I stared after him in disbelief. 

“Tag!” Nat cried. “Now I get it. It’s just like tag. The rules are easy, 
Ginger.” He turned to face me. “Touch one of the beasts, and you won’t be It 
anymore. You won’t be the Beast from the East!” 

Nat took off, running after Fleg. 

“Wait, Nat!” I started after him. I stepped on something hard. I heard a 
crunch. 

Another crunch. I glanced down. 

“Nat! Stop!” I screamed. I spotted an orange rock at my feet. I picked it up 
and hurled it after Nat. “Hey—stop!” 

I glanced down at my hand. Orange. My fingers had turned orange where 
they had grasped the rock. 

The rock smacked into a tree trunk. Nat stopped. Whirled around. “What 
did you do that for?” he cried. 

“To stop you,” I answered. 

“Listen, Ginger,” Nat urged. “You have to tag one of the beasts. It’s the only 
way to win the game. To stay alive.” 

“I don’t think so,” I said as calmly as I could. 

Nat scowled. “What’s your problem? It’s just like tag.” 

“No,” I said. “This is not just like tag. Not the game that we used to play.” 

I pointed at the ground. 

Nat stepped closer. He gazed down to where I was pointing. 

He gasped. “What is that?” he asked. 



14 


“Bones,” I murmured. “A pile of animal bones.” 

Nat and I stared. The bones gleamed coldly in the sunlight. Picked clean. 

“Notice anything else?” I pointed to the ground beside the bones. 

“What?” Nat frowned. 

“It’s brown,” I said. “The grass under the bones. It’s a square brown patch.” 

Free Lunch. 

Nat swallowed hard. 

“A beast ate it,” he murmured. “Whatever it was.” 

I wrapped my arms around my chest. “This is not like tag, Nat,” I told him 
solemnly. I couldn’t take my eyes off the poor animal’s bones. “This game is 
deadly.” 

“Only if we lose,” Nat said. “Ginger, we just saw Fleg. He helped us.” 

“So?” I asked. 

“So, we’ll make him help us again.” 

“How can we do that?” 

Nat grinned. “Easy. We’ll trick him. Pretend to need help. Pretend you have 
another snake on you or something.” 

“Right,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Like I was really going to let Fleg near 
me again. 

Nat grabbed my arm. “It’ll work. You scream for help. Fleg gets close. You 
jump out and tag him. Easy.” Nat snapped his fingers. 

I shook my head. “Forget it. I’m going to find the stream again and get out 
of here.” 

“Why are you so stubborn?” Nat cried. 

“Because I’m It!” I screamed. “I’m the one they’re going to eat!” 

“I-I know we can win if we try,” Nat stammered. 

I took a few deep breaths and tried to get rid of the panic in my chest. 

“Okay,” I said finally. “Okay. Okay. I’ll try it. What should I do?” 



15 


Nat beamed at me. “First I’ll climb a tree,” he said. “I can spot the beasts’ hiding 
places from up there.” 

I gazed up at the tall, leafy trees around us. 

I thought about it. All we needed was to tag one beast. Any beast. 

“Do it,” I told Nat. “But don’t stay up there too long.” 

Nat searched the woods for the best tree. “That one,” he said finally. 

The tree was tall. Dozens of sturdy branches sprang from its sides. In the 
center of each branch was a big, strong knot. Tiny golden leaves covered the 
branches. The tree looked strong, strong enough to hold Nat. 

“This is a cinch,” he assured me. “As easy as climbing a ladder. I’ll be able 
to see everything from up there.” 

I waited near the base of the tree. 

Nat placed his foot on the lowest branch and hoisted himself up. 

He climbed slowly. Steadily. 

“See anything yet?” I called anxiously. 

“I see a weird nest,” he shouted down. “With big eggs.” 

“What about the beasts?” I yelled. “Do you see them?” 

“Not yet.” Nat climbed higher. A few seconds later, he disappeared from 

view. 

“Nat! Can you hear me?” I called. I cupped my hands around my mouth. 
“Nat! Where are you? Answer me!” 

I rushed around the tree, peering up through the branches. I spotted Nat 
near the very top. 

Nat was moving carefully. He let go of one branch and pulled himself onto 
the next highest branch. The top of the tree swayed dangerously. 

I caught my breath. 

Maybe this wasn’t such a good idea. 

Not if I had to climb up and rescue him. 

“Nat!” My throat hurt from shouting so loud. “Be careful!” 

The trunk swayed back and forth. Slowly at first. Then faster. 

Bits of loose bark broke off and fell in slow spirals toward the ground. 



The thick branches swished back and forth. Each branch started to bend in 
the middle. 

At the knots. 

I stared. The branches reminded me of something. Something familiar. 

Arms, I thought. The knots were like elbows. And the branches were like 
big arms, reaching... 

I blinked. Was I seeing things? 

The branches were reaching. 

They were reaching for Nat. 

“Nat!” I screamed. 

High above me, I saw him grasp onto a slender branch. 

“Nat!” I ran frantically around the base of the tree, pounding my fists on the 
trunk. “Nat! Come down!” I yelled. “The tree is alive!” 



16 


Nat peered down at me from the top of the tree. “What’s wrong?” he called 
down. 

“Come down!” I screamed. “The branches—” 

I was too late. 

The upper branches grabbed at Nat’s arms. Pinned them to his side. I saw 
him gasp in shock. 

Other branches lashed out, slapping at him. 

Slapping him. Whipping him. 

“Ginger!” Nat screamed. “Help me!” 

What could I do? 

I gazed up in horror as two lower branches reached up toward Nat. The top 
branches passed him down to the lower branches. 

The branches wrapped around him, hugging tight. 

This isn’t happening! I told myself. This can’t be happening! 

Nat’s feet dangled in the air. He kicked furiously at the tree. “Let me go! 
Let me gooooo!” 

More branches lashed out. Some held him tight. Others swiped at him, 
slapping at him. 

The branches passed Nat down. 

They were carrying him lower, down to the center of the tree. 

Where the branches were the thickest. 

Where the tree’s arms were strongest. 

Nat cried out. He kicked out again and again. The branches wrapped around 
his legs. 

No way to climb up to him. Every branch was thrashing wildly. Even the 
little thin ones that couldn’t reach Nat were clawing upwards. Straining to take a 
swipe at him. 

As I watched helplessly, the thickest branches pulled Nat into the center. 

He disappeared. 

“Help!” His muffled cry drifted down to me. “Ginger—it’s going to 
swallow me!” 



I had to do something. Had to pull him away somehow. Had to free him 
from the living tree. 

But how? 

We had gotten rid of the snakes. We had to get rid of the branches, too. If 
only... 

That’s it! 

I had a crazy idea. But maybe, just maybe it would work. 

If the tree is alive, maybe it has feelings, I thought. 

And if it has feelings, maybe it’s ticklish—just as the snakes were! 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat’s cries grew weaker. 

I knew I didn’t have much time. 

I leaped at the tree. A branch dipped down and slapped at me. 

I jumped back and scrambled around the trunk. I ducked as a thick branch 
swung at me. 

The tree was trying to keep me away while it swallowed up my brother. But 
I ducked beneath the slapping limbs and branches. 

Reached out. And began to tickle the rough bark. 

Tickled it with one hand. Then with both. 

Was that a shiver? Did the tree actually shiver? 

Or did I imagine it? 

Please! I silently begged. Please, please, let go of my brother. 

I tickled furiously with both hands. “Nat!” I called. “Nat! Can you hear 
me?” 

Silence. 

“Nat? Nat?” 

No answer. 



17 


I didn’t give up. I tickled harder. 

The trunk started to jiggle. 

Bunches of leaves shook free and floated down. They landed in my hair and 
covered my arms as I jabbed and scratched at the tree tmnk. 

I tickled harder. The branches shook and swayed. The trunk wriggled. 

Yes! I thought excitedly. It’s working! I think it is ticklish! 

I’ll make this tree collapse with laughter! 

I tickled harder. The trunk squirmed under my fingertips. 

I glanced up. Nat’s boots poked through the leaves. 

Then his legs. His arms. His face. 

The branches were shaking. Quivering and shaking. 

Nat swung free. He leaped from branch to branch. His tree-climbing skills 
were finally coming in handy! 

“Hurry!” I shouted up to him. “I can’t keep this up much longer. Jump!” 

Nat wriggled down the tree trunk. 

“Here goes!” Nat cried. He let go of the trunk and leaped into the air. 

He landed in a crouched position at my feet. “Whoa! Good job, Ginger!” 

I grabbed his hand and we hurtled away from the tree. 

Nat brushed twigs and leaves from his hair. “I saw some beasts!” 

I bit my lip. In all the excitement over the living tree, I had forgotten we 
were playing a deadly game. 

“I saw three of them,” Nat reported. “Fleg, Spork, and another one with a 
smashed tail. That way.” He pointed to the right. 

“What were they doing?” I asked. 

“They are all hiding behind a big, gray boulder. You can sneak up on them, 
easy.” 

“Right.” I rolled my eyes. “Piece of cake.” 

“You can do it.” Nat’s dark eyes locked on mine. “I know you can, Ginger.” 

Nat led the way. We crept slowly through the woods toward the boulder. 

The sky dimmed overhead and the air grew cooler. I knew that it was nearly 
evening. Soon the sun would disappear behind the Gulla Willow tree. 



I hoped I had enough time. 

“There’s the rock!” Nat whispered. 

I saw a small clearing in the trees. In the middle of the clearing a craggy, 
gray boulder rose up from the flat ground. 

It was big enough to hide a dozen beasts. 

My heartbeat quickened. 

“I’ll hide behind this cabbage plant,” Nat said. 

He ducked behind the plant. I followed. I wasn’t quite ready to face the 
beasts alone. 

I bent down and tightened my bootlace, trying to ignore the fluttering in my 
stomach. 

“Just sneak up on them,” Nat whispered. 

“Come with me,” I begged. 

Nat shook his head. “Too noisy if we both go,” he said. “It’s safer if you go 
alone.” 

I knew he was right. 

Besides, I told myself, it was pretty easy. The beasts behind the big rock 
had no idea I was coming. All I had to do was tag one of them. 

I felt a thrill of excitement. I could do it. 

And the game would be over. We’d be safe. 

I took a deep breath. “Ready or not, here I come,” I whispered. 

I crept toward the boulder. I glanced back. Nat poked his head from behind 
the cabbage and flashed me a thumbs-up sign. 

A few more steps and I’d be at the rock. I held my breath. 

The gray rock rose up in front of me. 

I reached out. My fingers were trembling with excitement. I leaped behind 
the rock. “Gotcha,” I cried. “You’re It!” 



18 


“Huh?” 

My hand swiped empty air. 

They were gone! 

No beasts. Only a pile of broken gourds scattered over the ground. 

I blinked in surprise. And scrambled to the front of the rock. 

No beasts. They had moved on. 

“Nat!” I called. “Nat!” 

My brother came jogging to the boulder. “What happened?” 

“Nothing happened. They’re gone,” I told him. “Now what?” 

“Hey,” Nat snapped. “It’s not my fault.” 

I stared at him, feeling totally disappointed. And afraid. 

A sharp gust of wind kicked up. I glanced at the sky. Shades of pink 
streaked overhead. The sun was setting. 

My chest tightened in despair. 

“It’s hopeless,” I muttered. 

Nat shook his head. “Do you know what we need?” he asked. 

“No. What?” I replied. 

“We need another plan.” 

I had to laugh. Nat was such a jerk! 

He leaned against the boulder and wrinkled his nose. “What kind of rock is 
this anyway?” he asked. 

“A creepy one,” I answered. 

Nat peered at the huge rock. “Something’s growing on it,” he said. 

“Well, don’t touch anything,” I warned. 

But telling Nat not to do something only makes him want to do it more. 

Nat stuck his finger into a hole in the boulder. 

The big rock trembled. 

A crack appeared at its top and spread quickly. 

Nat pulled his finger away. 

“What’s happening?” I yelled. 

A cloud of gray smoke shot up from inside the boulder. 



KERPLOOM! 

Nat and I ducked, clapping our hands over our ears. 

The explosion roared like a million firecrackers going off at once. 

More gray smoke billowed out of the boulder. 

I could barely see Nat. I started to cough. My eyes burned. 

The smoke filled the clearing around us and drifted above the treetops. A 
few seconds later, it faded away. 

And I saw Fleg standing in the clearing. 

Spork appeared behind him, scratching at his open eye socket. 

Another beast followed. And then another. They stared at Nat and me. 

“You touched the Penalty Rock!” Fleg cried. 

Nat took a step closer to me. “Huh?” 

Fleg nodded to the beast with the smashed tail. “Get him, Gleeb,” Fleg 
growled. 

Gleeb’s snout tensed. His eyes bulged. He reached out for Nat’s arm. 

“Wait! Stop,” I yelled. “Nat didn’t know it was a penalty.” 

“No fair! No fair!” Nat cried. 

The beasts ignored us. 

Gleeb scooped Nat up and lifted him high in the air. “Let’s go,” Gleeb 
gmnted. 

Gleeb balanced Nat on both paws. Then he pretended to drop him. 

Nat shrieked. 

Gleeb and the other beasts snorted their ugly laughter, clapping their hairy 
paws together. 

“Stop it!” I screamed. “Let him go!” 

“Yes, go,” the beasts echoed. They clapped their paws again. “Let’s go! 
Let’s go!” they chanted. 

I glared at Fleg. “Tell him to put my brother down.” 

“He touched the Penalty Rock,” Fleg explained. “He must have his 
penalty.” 

“But we didn’t know about it!” I protested. “We don’t know any of your 
dumb rules. That isn’t fair.” 

I tried to grab Nat’s dangling legs. 

“Let me see your hand,” Fleg demanded. He snatched at my arm and lifted 
my hand up to his eyes. He studied my palm. 

“Nubloff colors!” he exclaimed. He studied me. “That’s fifty points. You 



can’t trick me. You’ve played this game before. You already know the rules.” 

I stared at my hand. Yellow sap from the stick. Blue from the leaf of the 
umbrella plant. Orange from the rock. Nubloff colors? 

“But... but...” I stammered. “I didn’t get these colors on purpose. They just 
happened.” 

Fleg and Spork exchanged glances. 

“Come,” Fleg ordered, waving to Gleeb. 

Gleeb tossed Nat over his shoulder and followed Fleg to the woods. The 
others stomped after them. 

“Ginger!” Nat wailed as the beast carried him away. 

I ran after them, feeling totally helpless. 

“Stop! Where are you taking him?” I shrieked. “What are you going to do 
to him?” 



19 


I chased after them. Down a wide path lined with more giant rocks. 

More penalty boulders? 

I stayed in the center of the path, afraid to touch them. 

The beasts stopped at the entrance to a tunnel. It was carved into the side of 
the largest rock I had seen. They ducked their heads and hurried inside. 

I followed behind, my heart pounding. 

“Ginger!” Nat’s cry echoed off the tunnel walls. 

The beasts growled and grunted, jabbering in excitement. Some pounded 
their paws on the ceiling as they moved. 

Everything shook. The walls. The ceiling. The ground. 

“Nat!” I cried. I couldn’t hear my own voice over the noise. 

I followed the beasts out of the tunnel and into another large clearing. 

“What’s that?” I gasped. 

In the center of the clearing, a large wooden box hung from a tree. It looked 
like an enormous bird house. I saw a tiny door on one side. 

A sign above the door read: PENALTY CAGE. 

Gleeb raised Nat high in the air. He held him up for all the beasts to see and 
spun him around and around. 

Nat screamed. 

Spork and the other beasts stomped and clapped. 

“NO!” I shouted. “You can’t do this!” 

“He must go in the box,” Fleg declared. “He touched the Penalty Rock. It’s 
in the rules.” 

Gleeb tossed Nat inside the Penalty Cage. He slammed the door. Fleg 
dropped a large twig into the rough wooden latch to lock the door. 

Nat reached through the slats. “Ginger,” he cried. “Get me out of here.” The 
penalty box swung in the air. 

“Don’t worry, Nat,” I called. “I’ll get you out.” I shivered. He seemed so 
small and helpless. 

“You can’t keep him in there forever,” I told Fleg. “When does he get out?” 

“When we eat him,” Fleg replied softly. 



20 


“But I’m the Beast from the East!” I protested. “You said you would eat me.” I 
took a step closer to him. 

“Players in the Penalty Cage get eaten, too.” Fleg snorted in disgust. “Don’t 
pretend you forgot. Everyone knows that. It’s a basic rule.” 

“There must be another way to get him out,” I said, edging closer. 

“Only if he eats a Free Escape Tarantula,” Fleg explained. He scratched the 
flab under his chin. 

“Huh? He has to eat a tarantula?” I demanded, taking another step toward 
the beast. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes. “Don’t pretend you don’t know that,” he said, 
beginning to turn away. 

I hurled myself at Fleg’s hairy chest. 

I slapped him hard. 

“You’re It!” I screamed. I lifted both fists in triumph. “You’re It! I tagged 
you!” 

Fleg raised an eyebrow. “Sorry,” he said calmly. “I paused the game. It 
doesn’t count.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “You can’t! You can’t keep changing the rules!” 

“I didn’t. Rules are rules.” Fleg reached over me and checked the lock on 
Nat’s cage. It held fast. 

“Try again,” Spork grunted. “You can always try again.” 

The rest of the beasts nodded in agreement, grinning and snorting in 
excitement. They were enjoying themselves. They rumbled away from the 
clearing. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He pounded on the box. “Get me out of here!” 

I gazed at him in despair. No way could I reach him up there. 

He stared down at me through the slats. His brown hair fell into his eyes. 
“Do something,” he pleaded. 

“I’ll try again,” I said. 

It was the only thing to do. 

“Can you see them?” I called up to him. “Which way did they go?” 



Nat pointed. “I see a few beasts hiding over there.” 

“I’ll be back,” I promised. “After I tag one of them.” 

I tried to sound as if it was a sure thing. I wished I could believe my own 
words. 

“Hurry!” Nat called after me. 

A strong wind blew through the clearing, rocking the cage from side to side. 
Nat hunched down, hugging his knees. 

I gave him one last look and took off. 

Long shadows fell across the ground. I gazed at the sky. The orange was 
turning into deep pink. Almost sundown. 

I plunged into the darkening woods. 

All around me I could hear small animals skittering through the carpet of 
leaves on the forest floor. As if hurrying home before sunset. 

Home. Where they were safe. 

The wind howled loudly through the trees. I stumbled and almost fell over a 
rotted tree stump. 

The woods were closing in on me. Time was closing in on me. 

And then I saw a beast hiding behind an umbrella bush. His shoulders 
slumped forward. His head bobbed gently up and down. 

He was sound asleep. 

Here’s my chance, I thought. 

I moved slowly toward him. The beast shifted position. 

I stopped. Held my breath. 

He quieted down again. He must have moved in his sleep. 

This is it, I thought. My chance. In a second, he’ll be the Beast from the 

East. 

I rushed forward. 

And gasped. 

The earth dropped away. 

Nothing under me. 

Nothing but air. 

I fell quickly. Sank straight down. 

Down... down... down... 

Screaming all the way. 



21 


I hit solid ground. 

Hard. 

The air burst from my lungs. 

My shoulder jammed against a sharp rock. 

I cried out. Rubbed my arm. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I pulled myself up and stared around me. 

Too dark. I couldn’t see a thing. 

It’s over, I thought. The game is over. 

“Hey—is anyone up there?” I called. “Can anyone hear me?” 

I stopped and listened for an answer. Any answer. 

Silence. 

I forced myself to my feet. My shoulder ached. I rolled it back and forth a 
couple of times to keep it from getting stiff. 

I reached out and patted the walls around me. Solid dirt. I was in some sort 
of deep pit. The kind people dig to trap animals. 

Now I was the trapped animal. 

I ran my hands quickly over the walls. Maybe I could find something to 
hold onto. Some way to climb out. 

Yuck! What was that? 

My hand touched something cold sticking out of the side of the pit. 

I clenched my teeth and forced myself to touch it again. It stayed firm under 
my fingers. A root, I thought excitedly. 

It’s not alive. 

I ran my hand further up the wall. The roots were everywhere. As high up 
as I could feel. Perfect! 

I raised my foot and stepped onto the lowest root. It held. 

Footholds! I could climb out of the pit. 

My hands grabbed the highest root I could reach. I pulled myself up. I heard 
a crumbling of loose dirt. 

I pressed myself against the wall as more dirt sifted down the side of the pit, 
spraying my face. 



I squeezed my eyes shut. Waited for the dirt to stop falling. Then I found 
the next root and began climbing again. 

How much time did I have left? How much time before the sun went down? 
My shoulder ached. But I had a long way to go. I rested briefly against the 
wall. Then I continued climbing. 

Snap! 

The root shattered under my right foot. My leg dangled in the air. 

Snap! 

The root under my right hand popped loose. 

“Hey!” I cried out as I felt myself fall. 

I landed hard on the floor of the pit. I lay still for a moment, trying to catch 
my breath. 

I gazed up. A last bit of pink sky glowed over the mouth of the pit. 

In the fading light, I looked around. I saw the useless roots on the sides of 
the deep hole. I glanced down. 

Oh, no. 

There was just enough sunlight to see the ground beneath me. 

It was brown. 

And square. 

A Free Lunch square. 

I was trapped. Trapped on a Free Lunch square. The beasts could eat me— 
anytime they wanted. 

I froze in panic. And heard rumbling footsteps above me. 

I huddled in a corner of the pit. Pressed my back against the dirt. 

“This way!” I heard Fleg shout. “She’s down here!” 



22 


Fleg appeared in the opening above me. His flabby chin hung down. His eyes 
locked onto mine. 

“Found you!” he cried. 

Spork slid next to Fleg. He grinned down at me and drooled yellow drool. It 
splattered beside my boot. 

“Something down there smells delicious!” Spork cried. “I’m soooo 
hungry!” 

Gleeb shoved his furry face between Fleg’s and Spork’s. 

He smacked his lips. I heard his stomach growl. 

“Finally!” Spork grunted. “Pull her out! Let’s eat!” 

I covered my face with my hands. “Please. Don’t hurt me,” I cried. “I 
haven’t done anything to you.” 

Fleg shrugged. “You play the game. Sometimes you win. Sometimes you 
lose.” 

Spork and Gleeb reached down into the pit. Their big paws swiped at me. 

I pressed my back tighter against the wall. “Please,” I begged. “Please go 
away and leave me alone. You win, okay? You can have all my points.” 

“Points can’t be given away,” Fleg scolded. “You know that.” 

The others grunted in agreement. They reached down for me. 

My eyes searched the pit. 

I needed a weapon. 

The roots? 

I yanked a fat one out of the dirt. 

“Stay back!” I shouted, whipping the root at their paws. 

The beasts slapped each other on the back and laughed their ugly laugh. 
“You’ll be sorry,” I threatened. 

Who was I kidding? This stupid root couldn’t hurt them. And they knew it. 
I was the Beast from the East. I was dinner. 

Fleg leaned into the pit and snarled. His claws were only inches from my 

face. 


I ducked. 



His paw brushed against the back of my neck. I felt claws scratch my skin. 

I jerked away. The hair on my arms stood straight up. 

If only I could burrow into the earth like an animal, I thought. 

Fleg’s paw swiped the air in front of my face. 

“Stop ducking away,” he shouted. “You’re just making me hungrier.” 

“This isn’t fair!” I screamed. 

He turned to Spork and Gleeb. “I’m tired of this,” he complained. “Enough 
stalling.” 

His round eyes gleamed down hungrily at me. 

“Get her!” he bellowed. 

Spork leaned down and grabbed my arm. I felt his claws dig into my skin. 
He pulled me up and yanked me to my feet. 

It’s all over, I thought sadly. The game is over. 



23 


A cloud passed overhead, throwing the pit into deep shadow. 

Fleg howled. He slapped his broad forehead. “Made in the Shade!” he 
cried. 

Spork opened his paw and let go of my arm. 

I dropped to the ground. Fell to my knees. 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried. 

“Made in the Shade!” Gleeb echoed. 

I climbed to my feet. The angry voices of the beasts made my head throb. 

They stomped their feet loudly. 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

“You’re safe,” Spork replied, sneering in disgust. “This time.” 

Safe? I breathed a sigh of relief. 

“But... why?” I asked, amazed. 

“You’re Made in the Shade,” Fleg explained. 

“We can’t touch you. It’s a free pass. But you can only use it once.” 

Once was enough, I hoped. I didn’t plan to play this game forever. 

“We have to let you go this time,” Fleg growled. “But you’re still the Beast 
from the East.” 

“You still have to tag someone before sundown,” Spork agreed. 

Gleeb sighed. The three beasts turned to the woods. “We’ll go now,” Fleg 
announced. 

“Wait!” I scrambled to my feet. “How do I get out of here? How can I tag 
someone if I’m stuck in this pit?” 

Fleg rolled his eyes. He reached down and pressed one paw against a purple 
rock on the ground near the edge of the pit. 

The pit floor creaked and groaned. 

Then it rose up. Higher and higher. 

Finally it jerked to a halt a few feet below the ground. 

I was close enough to stare at the beasts’ ankles. I could see shiny black 
bugs crawling in their fur. I swallowed nervously. Was this some kind of trick? 
Or was I really safe? 



“I still need help to climb out of here,” I told Fleg. 

Fleg pounded on the purple rock again. 

The floor started moving. This time it stopped level with the ground. 

I hopped off the Free Lunch square. The beasts circled me. 

“The sun is almost down,” Fleg warned. “The game is almost over.” 

“You don’t have much time,” Spork added. 

Fleg snorted. Then he turned and lumbered away. 

“Good luck,” Spork cried as he hurried after Fleg. Gleeb followed. They 
raced back toward the stone tunnel. 

“Wait!” I yelled. I ran after them as fast as I could. 

I raced into the rock tunnel. I could hear the beasts up ahead of me. They 
growled and grunted, scraping their claws across the walls and ceiling again. 
Making a racket. 

I saw them burst through the other side of the tunnel. They split up, running 
in different directions. 

Which way should I go? I knew I couldn’t waste time. 

I followed Fleg. 

He wove in and out between the trees. He leaped over some scraggly 
bushes. 

I panted, straining to keep up. 

Fleg picked up the pace. 

Faster and faster. 

I could barely keep up now. I was gasping for air. 

“Wait!” I shouted desperately. “Wait!” 

Fleg glanced once over his shoulder. He disappeared into the trees. I 
stopped running after him. 

Overhead, the sky turned to purple. Soon it would be completely dark. 

I spun around, searching desperately for a beast to tag. 

“Yoo-hoo! Over here!” I heard a call. 

I whirled around. 

Spork. He waved to me from between two tall trees. 

I raced toward him. 

Spork lumbered down a twisting path. I followed him. 

What else could I do? 

Suddenly, my foot caught on a rock. I sprawled into the dirt. 



I forced myself to get up. The woods were quiet around me. 

No beasts. 

I wanted to scream! So I did. 

“Fleg! Spork! Gleeb! Where are you?” I shouted. How could I tag them? I 
couldn’t even find them. 

My eyes scanned the area. 

What was that? I squinted harder. 

Yes! A blue furry head! It popped up behind a bush. 

My last chance. 

I gathered my energy and sprinted toward the bush. My hand reached out. 
“Tag!” I yelled. “You’re—” 



24 


“Gurraughl” The tiny beast pawed the air. 

The baby beast! The only beast under three feet tall. Too short to play the 
game. 

No fair! I thought. 

My hopes were crushed. Again. 

I picked up a rock and heaved it angrily into the woods. 

“Where is everyone?” I screamed. “Come out and play!” 

The little beast patted its claws together and gurgled happily. 

I stared at it. Why was it here all alone? 

Then it hit me. Of course. 

There must be another beast nearby. A grownup beast to watch the kid. One 
over three feet tall. 

One I could tag. 

I checked out the area. Trees and large rocks. I would have to search behind 
every one of them. 

Taking a deep breath, I tiptoed silently through the trees. Stopped to peer 
behind each rock. 

Crunch. My foot cracked a pile of twigs. 

I stood completely still. And waited. 

Silence. 

I moved forward. 

I listened carefully. 

Silence. 

I crept forward. A beast had to be here somewhere. 

But where? 

Then I heard a noise. 

Mumbling. 

I crept behind a bush and inched closer to the sound. It came from behind a 
tall, jagged rock. 

I peeked out. 

Spork! 



Yes! Spork stood behind the rock, talking to himself. He scratched the 
lumpy scar on his nose. 

I could easily tag him. 

But was this another penalty rock? 

Would it go up in smoke? 

I didn’t want to end up in a cage dangling above the ground. 

Like Nat. Poor Nat. 

I took another deep breath and inched closer to Spork. 

Spork turned and searched the woods behind him. “Little beast,” he called 
out. “Is that you?” 

I dropped to the ground and waited. 

My heart pounded in my ears. I forced myself to stay quiet. 

Spork didn’t move from his spot. He sighed and started mumbling again. 
Three more steps and I could tag him. 

Two more. 

I wiped my forehead. One more. 

It was too good to be true. Spork had no idea I was behind him. 

I smacked him hard. “You’re It!” I shrieked. 

Spork gasped in surprise. His big paws shot up into the air. I thought he was 
about to faint! 

“I’ve done it! I’ve done it!” I cried happily. 

I was free! 

Nat was free! 

Spork grunted and raised himself up. He towered over me. He didn’t seem 
the least bit upset. But he had just lost the game. 

“You’re It!” I repeated. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 

Spork raised a paw lazily and scratched his open eye socket. 

I felt a chill of fear. What if Spork refused to obey the rules? 

“Sorry,” Spork said softly. “Not this time.” 

“Hey—!” I shouted angrily. “You have to obey the rules! I tagged you, fair 
and square!” 

Spork stared at me as if I were being very funny. Something was wrong. 
But what? What was it? Why didn’t he say something? Spork’s lips curled into a 
nasty grin. 



25 


“You tagged me from the west,” Spork whispered. “It doesn’t count.” 

I could feel the blood msh to my face. “No fair! I tagged you! I tagged 
you!” I wailed. 

Spork shrugged. 

“You have to tag me from the east. Remember?” Spork’s little eyes nearly 
disappeared as his face crumpled in laughter. “You’re still the Beast from the 
East!” 

I groaned. 

How could I have forgotten? That was the most important rule of all. 

How was I supposed to know which way was east? I couldn’t even see the 
sun anymore! 

My head throbbed. My whole body ached. I was sore and hungry. 

Spork stood there, shaking with silent laughter. 

I glanced at the darkening sky. 

Wait a minute! 

I climbed up on the boulder. The sun was setting behind me. That was the 
west. In front of me was east. 

I studied Spork. Without Fleg around, the big beast seemed less menacing. 
Harmless almost. 

After all, he was supposed to be baby-sitting. And what had happened? 
He’d lost the little beast. 

And now he was so busy laughing at my mistake, he had practically 
forgotten about me. 

“Hey, Spork,” I called. “Do you want to play one of my games now?” 

“But we’re still playing this one.” Spork blinked in surprise. 

“I’ll pause it. It’s kind of boring anyway, isn’t it?” I asked. “My game is lots 
more fun.” 

Spork scratched the hole where his eye used to be. He pulled a big, black 
bug out of it, and tossed the bug away. “What’s your game called?” 

“Freeze Frame,” I answered quickly. 

Nat and Pat loved to play this game. 



“We spin around and when I say stop, we freeze—and see if one of us can 
keep our balance and not fall over.” 

“Sounds fun,” Spork agreed. “Why not?” 

“Okay then,” I said. “Let’s try it. Spin!” I shouted. 

We both started to spin. 

I peeked at Spork. His arms swung out as he whirled around. 

“Faster!” I called out. “Much faster.” 

Spork whirled faster and faster as he turned around in circles. 

His tail swished against the bushes. I jumped out of the way. 

Spork started to wobble. 

“Game— unpausedl” I shouted. 

Spork didn’t seem to hear me. He teetered and stumbled into a tree. 
“Freeze!” I shouted. 

Spork froze in place. 

I leaped at him and tagged him. Hard. 

From the east. 

“You’re It!” I shouted. I backed away. “I tagged you from the east! This 
time you’re really It!” 

Spork placed both paws against his head and closed his eyes. I could tell he 
was still dizzy. He spread his legs and balanced himself against the tree. 

He bopped himself in the face with his paw. “You did it,” he agreed. He ran 
his bumpy tongue over his lips. He exhaled a deep breath. “I’m It,” he admitted. 
“Yes. Yes. Yes!” I cried. I jumped up in excitement. 

Spork plopped down against the boulder. 

“I’m free!” I shrieked. “The game is over.” I clenched my hand into a fist 
and pumped my arm. 

“I’m going to rescue Nat,” I said. “Which way is he?” 

Spork pointed his clawed finger to my right. 

“We’re outta here!” I shouted. 

I’d never been so happy in all my life. 

“Well, Spork old pal,” I said, beaming at him. “This is good-bye. See you!” 
“Not so quick,” Spork said. “I’m afraid you can’t leave.” 



26 


“Forget it,” I said. “You can’t change the rules again! No way.” 

“You can’t leave,” he repeated. “The game continues until sunset.” He 
glared at me stubbornly. 

I gazed at the sky. The purple was fading to gray. Not much time left. But 
enough. 

I wasn’t going to be It again. 

I could hide until dark. But where? 

“Don’t just stand there,” Spork warned. “You could be tagged again.” 
“Never,” I insisted. “I won’t let that happen.” 

Before I could move, Fleg stomped from behind a tree. The flabby skin 
under his chin swung from side to side. 

Gleeb crept behind him. 

“She tagged me!” Spork told them. 

“I knew it!” Fleg stared at me. “I knew you played this game before.” 

I balled my hands into fists. I was angry. I’d had enough. 

They forced me to play their stupid game. But I wasn’t going to lose now. 
Fleg waved me away. “You have until I count to trel,” he said. “Then we’re 
allowed to come after you again.” 

He turned his back and covered his eyes. “Gling... proo... zee... freen... 
trel,” he counted. 

I had no choice. I ran. 

Don’t stop, I told myself. Don’t think about anything. Run. Find a place to 

hide. 

“Ready or not—here we come!” I heard Fleg cry. 

Behind me, the beasts growled and grunted in excitement. 

I hurled myself off the path and pushed through the tall, scratchy grass 
between the trees. I jumped over a clump of cabbage plants. 

My legs ached. My feet burned. 

But I couldn’t stop. 

Not until I reached a hiding place. 

I skidded to a stop when I heard rushing water. I nearly fell into the stream. 



A large blue fish leaped out of the water and snapped at my ankles. 

This was no place to hide. I turned back into the woods. 

A cold wind blew in my face. The gourds whistled their strange melody. 

“Here I come!” Spork shouted off to my left. 

I pushed myself faster. No way he was going to tag me. 

I glanced around. Which way? 

The rock tunnel! I saw it only a few feet away. 

I darted into the darkness. Without the beasts yelling and shouting, it was 
eerily quiet inside. I slowed down and tiptoed through the tunnel. 

When I reached the other side, I crept into the dense trees. I slumped 
against a tree and waited, trying to keep quiet. I was breathing so hard I was 
afraid the beasts could hear me! 

A moment passed. 

I felt the trembling that meant the beasts were approaching. 

I held my breath and ducked beneath an umbrella plant. 

Seconds later, Fleg, Spork, and Gleeb burst out of the tunnel and raced 
down the path. Four more beasts followed behind them. They passed the bush 
where I hid. Crashed into the woods. And kept going. 

I waited to make sure they were gone. 

Silence. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. 

I scrambled to my feet and stretched. 

Something rushed at me from behind. 

“No!” I cried in terror. 

Two arms wrapped around my waist. And a creature threw me to the 
ground. 



27 


I thrashed and kicked wildly. 

“Stop it. Cut it out!” a familiar voice demanded. 

“Nat!” I screamed. I whirled around. “Nat! You’re safe! How did you get 
out of the cage?” 

“Cage? What cage?” My brother squinted at me. 

“The penalty cage,” I declared. “Nat—how did you escape? Did they let 
you go?” 

“I’m not Nat. It’s me. Pat.” 

“Pat?” I stared at him in confusion. Then I threw my arms around his neck. 
I’d never been so happy to see him. 

“Where have you been?” I demanded. 

“Where have / been?” Pat cried. “Where have you been? I’ve been 
searching everywhere for you guys. These woods are creepy.” 

He glanced around. “Where’s Nat, anyway?” 

“Trapped.” I started to explain. “See, the beasts got him. After you ran into 
the woods, we had to play this game and...” 

“A game?” Pat cried. He shook his head in disbelief. “I was lost in the 
woods—and you two are playing a game?” 

“It’s not what you think,” I said. 

I checked the trees around us for any sign of the creatures. 

“They forced us to play,” I told Pat, lowering my voice to a whisper. “It’s 
like tag—only they play for keeps. I was the Beast from the East and—” 

“Right.” Pat rolled his eyes. 

“Really,” I insisted. “This game is deadly. You have to believe me.” 

“Why?” Pat shrugged. “You never believe me. Why should I believe you?” 

“Because if we lose, they’ll eat us!” I told him. 

Pat burst out laughing. 

“I’m serious!” I grabbed Pat’s shoulders and shook him hard. “I’m telling 
the truth! It’s dangerous here. Fleg and Spork are after me, right now.” 

Pat twisted out of my grasp. “Right. Fleg and Spork. Woof woof!” Pat 
barked. 



“Shhh,” I hissed. “Keep quiet!” I pulled him behind an umbrella plant. “Pat, 
you have to believe me. They’re all around us. They could get us if we’re not 
careful.” 

“And I suppose this game was their idea?” he asked. 

“Yes,” I answered. 

“And I suppose they can talk,” Pat went on. “In English.” 

“Yes. Yes. Yes,” I insisted. 

“You’re weirder than I thought,” Pat said, shaking his head. “So where’s 
Nat? For real?” 

“ Grrravghl ” 

A deep growl echoed off the nearby rocks. “This way!” A beast bellowed. 
“Near the tunnel!” 

Heavy footsteps pounded closer. The ground shook under our feet. 

Pat’s eyes widened in shock. He reached for my arm. 

“It’s them!” I exclaimed. “Now do you believe me?” 

Pat swallowed hard and nodded his head. “Yes. I believe you,” he choked 

out. 

“She’s over here!” a beast shouted. 

“He heard us,” I whispered in Pat’s ear. “Run!” 

Pat and I took off. 

We raced through the woods, leaping over fallen logs, pushing sharp 
branches out of our faces. 

“This way!” I called. I grabbed Pat’s hand. “Stay low.” 

We ducked into a thick clump of trees. 

Spork thudded past us. 

I could hear him sniffing the air. 

“Can he smell us?” Pat asked in a whisper. 

“Sshh!” I pressed my finger to my lips. 

We crept between the bushy plants. 

Fleg appeared, stomping in our direction. 

I dropped to my hands and knees. I pulled Pat down beside me. 

Fleg thudded past us. 

I knew we weren’t safe. More beasts would follow. And one of them might 
find us. 

I motioned for Pat to follow me. 



We scrambled deeper into the woods. 

The trees were close together here. The bushes were so thick I couldn’t see 
between them. I flung out an arm, feeling my way. 

My hand brushed against something. 

Something big. 

And warm. 

And furry. 



28 


I leaped back. Crashed into Pat. 

What had I touched? 

The bushes parted and a strange creature bounced out. 

I had never seen anything like it. 

It had the body of a dog, as big as a German shepherd, and the face of a 
squirrel. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. 

It could talk, too. “In here! Quick!” the creature urged in a scratchy, 
squeaky voice. 

Its squirrel-nose twitched. Its bushy dog tail thrashed from side to side. 

Could we trust it? 

“In here!” it squeaked. 

It waved a paw in the air. Pointed to a bush of big orange leaves. 

Pat held back, but I crept forward. I spotted the entrance to a cave hidden 
behind the leaves. 

“It’s a good hiding place,” I told Pat. 

“It’s the Hiding Cave,” the squirrel-dog announced. “The Hiding Cave is 
the place to hide. Quick!” The animal held the leaves aside for us. 

The ground shook. I turned and saw furry blue beasts in the distance. They 
were moving quickly toward us. 

“Better do it, Pat,” I said. 

Pat hesitated. 

I yanked his hand and pulled him after me. I bent down to enter the Hiding 
Cave. 

I suddenly remembered what happened when Nat touched the penalty rock. 
The thought made me shiver. Would we really be safe in the Hiding Cave? 

Thump. Thump. 

The beasts drew closer. 

Pat hesitated and held back. 

“Where are they?” a beast shouted. I recognized Fleg’s voice. 

“They must be nearby,” Spork answered. 



The squirrel-dog stayed outside. It let go of the orange leaves. They sprang 
back into place, hiding the entrance to the cave. 

Pat and I crouched inside, hidden from view. 

We huddled close together. The air felt damp inside. It had a sour smell that 
I tried to ignore. 

I slumped against the wall of the cave and wiped the sweat off my forehead. 
I tucked my feet under me. “Try to get comfortable,” I whispered to Pat. “We 
might be here for a long time.” 

Something tickled my neck. I reached to scratch it. 

Something tickled my ear. 

I shivered. 

I brushed my hand against my ear and felt something crawl onto my cheek. 

“Ow!” I cried out as I felt a sharp bite on my shoulder. 

I turned to Pat. He was slapping at his ears and neck. 

Something buzzed past my ear. 

Something skittered through my hair. I shook my head hard. 

My whole body itched and tingled. Every inch of me! 

Beside me, Pat squirmed, and wriggled, scratched and slapped at himself. 

I leaped to my feet. “Help!” I cried. “What is happening? What is going on 
in here?” 



29 


“Help!” I cried, scratching desperately. “Help us!” 

The squirrel-dog’s face poked into the entrance. 

“What is happening to us?” I cried, squirming and scratching. 

“I forgot to tell you,” the strange creature whispered. “The Hiding Cave is 
also a hiding place for bugs!” 

Bugs! 

“Ohhh!” Pat let out a low moan. He rubbed his back against the cave wall. 
Scratched his hair. 

The bugs were everywhere. Crawling on the walls. Flying through the air. 
Buzzing. Whistling. Clicking. 

They crawled up and down my legs and arms. Over my face. In my hair. 

I picked some kind of worm off my cheek. I dragged my hand down my 
arms and my bare legs, brushing bugs onto the cave floor. 

Pat squirmed next to me. “Get them off me, Ginger,” he wailed. “Helllp!” 

“Sshhh!” The squirrel-dog stuck his nose back into the cave. “Quiet! Here 
comes the Beast from the East. Don’t make a sound or he’ll find you!” 

Pat and I drew closer together. 

I held my breath and tried not to move. 

I counted to ten. Silently. I pretended there were no bugs on me. 

I shut my eyes and pictured my bedroom. The posters on the wall. My 
comfortable canopy bed. I thought of being under the covers. Going to sleep. 

And then I thought about bedbugs! 

I couldn’t ignore the insects crawling over me. It was impossible not to 
think about them. 

I couldn’t stand it. I needed to scratch. I needed to screaml 

I couldn’t sit there another second. 

I heard a beast stomp close to the cave opening. 

I recognized Spork’s voice. “Hey—!” he snarled at the squirrel-dog. “Have 
you seen strangers here?” 

Did Spork know this creature? 

Were they friends? 



“Answer me,” Spork demanded. 

I waited for the squirrel-dog’s answer. Please don’t tell them we’re hiding in 
here, I prayed. Please. 

A fat, wet bug landed on my face. I picked at it with my fingers. It clung to 
my cheek. I pulled harder. I couldn’t tug it loose. 

I felt a scream building up inside me. 

I couldn’t take it another second. 

My mouth opened. 

I had to scream. I had to! 



30 


“Ah—” 

I clamped my hand over my mouth. 

I let out a tiny squeak. 

The orange leaves rustled. Fleg’s paw pushed into the cave entrance. 

I froze. I heard Pat gasp. 

“What’s in there?” I heard Fleg ask the squirrel-dog. 

“Bugs,” the squirrel-dog replied. “Thousands of them.” 

Millions! I thought bitterly. The bugs crawled over my face, my arms, my 
legs. They buzzed in my ears. 

Fleg pushed his nose into the cave. 

I stopped breathing. 

Fleg sniffed. “What’s that awful smell?” he complained. 

“Insects,” I heard the squirrel-dog answer. 

“They stink!” Fleg muttered. He let go of the leaves and they snapped back 
into place. “Only bugs in there,” Fleg reported to Spork. “No humans.” 

“Of course not,” the squirrel-dog said calmly. “The humans went the other 
way.” 

“Why didn’t you say so?” Fleg exploded. 

Spork shouted to the other beasts. “They’re not here! The other way, quick! 
Only trel minutes left to play.” 

“I’ll find her,” I heard Spork tell the others. “I have to tag her back! No 
human is going to make me Beast from the East!” 

I heard their footsteps pound in the other direction. 

Only trel minutes! I didn’t exactly know what trel meant. But I knew the 
game was nearly over. If Spork didn’t tag me back, my brothers and I would be 
free! 

But I couldn’t take another second in this bug-infested cave. 

I moved to the entrance on trembling legs. I itched so badly, I could barely 
control my muscles! 

I peered out of the cave. “Are they all gone?” I whispered to the squirrel- 

dog. 



“For now,” he answered. 

“Let’s get out of here!” I called back to Pat. I sprang out of the cave. He 
jumped out after me. 

We frantically brushed bugs off our skin and clothes. I scratched my head 
and rubbed my back up against a tree. 

Pat stomped his feet. “They’re even in my boots!” he wailed. He untied his 
laces and pulled off his boot. He shook it upside down. A hundred black bugs 
poured onto the ground and scurried away. 

“I’m never going to stop itching!” I wailed. “I’m going to itch for the rest of 
my life!” 

“You’d better hide,” the squirrel-dog warned. “They could be back. And 
you’re only allowed to use the Hiding Cave once a game.” 

Pat and I thanked the strange creature. Then we plunged back into the 
woods. 

I hadn’t been in this part of the forest before. Pat and I pushed our way past 
a row of high bushes. I stopped. 

A giant willow tree stood up ahead. Its branches spread low, sweeping 
against the ground. 

The Gulla Willow? 

It had to be. 

I glanced around, searching for a hiding place. A long, low rock stretched 
beyond the tree. 

Only a few minutes left. 

“Quick,” I whispered, grabbing Pat. I pulled him behind the rock. 

“That must be the Gulla Willow,” I told him. “When the sun sets behind it, 
we’ll be safe.” 

Pat nodded but didn’t reply. He was breathing hard. He scratched his 
cheeks. Still itchy. We were both still itchy. 

“Stay down,” I warned him. “And don’t touch the rock.” 

We crouched together in silence. 

And waited. 

My heart slammed against my chest. My skin tingled. I huddled beside my 
brother—and listened. 

Silence. 

The whisper of the wind through the trees. No other sound. 

“Are we safe now?” Pat asked in a trembling whisper. 



“Not yet,” I answered. I raised my eyes to the charcoal gray sky. A last ray 
of purple light spread over the top of the willow. 

Hurry! I urged the sun. Go down! What are you waiting for? 

The sky darkened. The purple light faded behind the Gulla Willow. 

Only gray sky now. Night sky. 

The sun was down. 

“We’re safe!” I cried, jumping to my feet. I turned and hugged Pat. “We’re 
safe! We made it.” 

I stepped out from behind the rock. 

A heavy hand slapped me hard. On the shoulder. 

“You’re It!” Spork bellowed. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 



31 


“Huh?” 

I gasped in shock. I could still feel the beast’s stinging slap on my shoulder. 

“No fair!” Pat cried. “No fair!” He stared as the beasts circled us. Pat had 
never seen them close-up before. 

“It’s dark! The sun is down!” I protested. “You can’t tag me now!” 

“Game Over! Game Over!” Fleg shouted. He stepped out of the woods and 
hurried toward the circle of beasts. 

I pointed angrily at the Gulla Willow. “The sun set behind the tree. You 
can’t tag me!” 

“The game hadn’t been called yet,” Spork said calmly. “You know the rule. 
Fleg has to shout out ‘Game Over’ before the game can end.” 

The beasts all murmured agreement. 

I clenched my fists. “But... but...” I stammered. I lowered my head in 
defeat. I knew they wouldn’t listen to me. 

Pat gulped. “What will they do now, Ginger?” he whispered softly. “Will 
they hurt us?” 

“I already told you,” I whispered back. “They’re going to eat us.” 

Pat let out a cry. He started to say something. But there wasn’t time. 

Fleg stepped forward and grabbed me by the waist. He tossed me over his 
shoulder. 

The blood rushed to my head and I felt dizzy. The ground was so far away! 

Spork hoisted Pat over his shoulder. 

“Hey—whoa!” I protested. “Put my brother down!” 

“He was your Helper,” Spork replied. “We always eat the Helper, too!” 

“Put me down!” Pat shrieked. “Let me go.” 

But the huge beast ignored him. 

They carried us both into a small clearing. 

A large stone pit sat in the center. A raging fire burned inside the pit. Yellow 
and blue flames leaped at the sky. 

Fleg lowered me onto a tree stump. Spork set Pat down beside me. 

The beasts circled around us. Drooling. Licking their lips. 



I thought I heard thunder. But I soon realized it was the sound of their 
stomachs growling. 

“It’s Flelday,” Spork said, smiling. “On Flelday we always barbecue.” 

I swallowed hard. And stared at the flames leaping against the sky. I 
wrapped my arms around my chest and hugged myself. 

Spork poked at the fire with a long metal rod. 

He pointed the rod at me. “Yum yum.” He grinned, rubbing his stomach. 

I felt sick. 

Gleeb lugged a huge pot over to the fire. He set it down in the middle of the 
flames. 

Fleg pulled some gourds off the nearby trees. He cracked them open and 
poured their yellow juice into the pot. He collected sticks and leaves and tossed 
them in, too. 

Gleeb stirred and stirred. A sour, rotting stench rose up from the pot. 

“The broth is ready,” Gleeb announced. 

I turned to Pat. “I’m sorry,” I said in a trembling voice. “Sorry I lost the 
game.” 

“I’m sorry, too,” he whispered, his eyes on the flames. 

The beasts began chanting. “Flelday. Flelday. Flelday.” 

“Who brought the barbecue sauce?” Spork asked. “I’m starving!” 

Fleg lifted me in his arms. And carried me toward the cooking pot. 



32 


“Whoa! Wait! Stop!” 

A familiar voice shouted across the clearing. 

I jerked my head around. “Nat!” I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He ran toward us, waving his arms. “What’s going on? 
What are they doing?” 

Fleg lowered me to the ground. “Nat—!” I screamed. “Run! Find help! 
Hurry!” 

He stopped halfway across the clearing. “But, Ginger—” 

“They’ll eat you, too,” I shrieked. “Run!” 

“Capture him!” Spork shouted to the other beasts. 

Gleeb and several others took off after Nat. 

Nat spun around. He darted for the woods and disappeared into the trees. 

I watched helplessly as the beasts plunged into the woods after him. 

Don’t find him, I prayed, crossing my fingers. All ten of them! 

Nat will escape, I told myself. He’ll climb a tree. He’ll get away from them. 
Then he’ll run and find help. 

Pat and I stared at the dark trees. And waited. 

“Oh, nooo!” I uttered a long wail when the beasts returned from the woods. 
And one of them carried Nat over his shoulder. 

Nat kicked and punched. But he couldn’t free himself. 

The beast dumped Nat beside Pat and me. Nat landed hard, face-down on 
the ground. 

Now they had all three of us. A feast! 

Spork and Fleg gazed at us hungrily. Gleeb ran his tongue over his long 

fang. 

I dropped down beside Nat. “How did you get out?” I asked him. “How did 
you get out of that cage?” 

Nat rolled over and sat up. “It wasn’t that hard,” he said, groaning. “The 
boards were weak. I worked and worked—until I pushed enough boards out. 
Then I broke out.” 

“You should have stayed away,” I told him. “You should have run. Now 



they’re going to eat you, too.” 

Nat raised his eyes to the cook pot and the blazing fire. “I—I don’t want to 
play anymore,” he stammered. 

“Nat,” I whispered sadly, “I’m afraid the game is just about over.” 



33 


“Quiet!” Fleg demanded. “Dinner—stop talking!” He stared at Nat. 

Fleg’s eyes narrowed. He tilted his head. He whispered to Spork and Gleeb. 

The other beasts moved closer. They were all moving their eyes from Pat to 
Nat. They began murmuring to each other, shaking their big, furry heads. Their 
snouts waved up and down as they talked. 

“You doubled!” Spork said to Pat. “You did a Classic Clone!” 

I stared at the beasts. Studied their startled expressions. Hadn’t they ever 
seen twins before? 

“You doubled yourselves!” Fleg declared. “That’s a Classic Clone. Why 
didn’t you tell us?” 

“Uh... tell you what?” I asked. 

Fleg glared at me. “Why didn’t you tell us that you are Level Three 
players?” 

My brothers and I exchanged confused glances. 

“You’re in the wrong game,” Spork announced, shaking his head. 

“If you can double yourselves, that means you belong in Level Three,” Fleg 
said. He slapped his furry forehead. “I’m so embarrassed! Why didn’t you tell us 
sooner?” 

“Well, I told you we didn’t want to play,” I replied sharply. “But you 
wouldn’t listen.” 

“I’m so sorry,” Fleg apologized. “We’re only Level One players. We’re just 
beginners. We’re not experts like you.” 

“Experts?” Pat muttered. He turned to me and rolled his eyes. 

“That’s why we have to play in the daytime,” Fleg explained. “We’re not 
ready to play at night.” 

All around us, the beasts were muttering and shaking their heads. 

“Of course, we’ll have to let you go now,” Fleg said. He scratched at his 
flabby chin. 

“Well, of course,” I cried. I wanted to jump up and down and shout for joy. 
But somehow I kept myself in control. 

“That’s it?” Nat cried to Fleg. “We’re free?” 

“Yes. Good-bye.” Fleg scowled. He rubbed his belly. I heard it growl. 



“Don’t ask again,” I told Nat. “Let’s just get out of here!” 

“Good-bye,” Fleg repeated. He waved his paws as if he were trying to shoo 
us away. 

I jumped to my feet. I didn’t feel tired or scared or itchy or dirty anymore. 

This time the game was really over! 

“How do we find our parents?” I asked. 

“That’s easy,” Fleg replied. “Follow that path.” He pointed. “Follow it 
through the trees. It leads back to your world.” 

We shouted good-bye—and took off. The narrow dirt path twisted through 
the trees. Silvery moonlight danced over the ground. 

“I am so glad you guys are twins!” I exclaimed. 

I had never said that before! But I really meant it. They had saved our lives! 

The trees thinned out. I could see a full moon climbing up over the dark 
treetops. I felt as if we were running to it, running into its warm, white light. 

“Mom and Dad will never believe this story,” I said. I planned to tell them 
every gory detail. 

“They have to believe us,” Pat declared. “It’s all true.” 

I put on a burst of speed. My brothers ran harder to keep up with me. 

I couldn’t wait to get back. Mom and Dad must be so worried. 

“Oh!” I gasped and skidded to a stop. 

Pat and Nat stumbled into me. All three of us struggled to stay on our feet. 

A huge beast had stepped out from behind a tree, blocking the path. 

He crossed his furry arms over his enormous chest. His snout flared as he 
stared down at us with cold marble eyes. He opened his lips and growled, 
exposing his long fang. 

I wasn’t afraid. Not this time. 

“Step aside,” I ordered him. “You have to let us go by. My brothers and I 
are Level Three players.” 

“You’re Level Three? Hey—that’s great! So am I!” the beast exclaimed. 
“Tag! You’re It.” 

