

THE CUCKOO 
CLOCK OF DOOM 

1 

“Michael, your shoe’s untied.” 

My sister, Tara, sat on the front steps, grinning at me. Another one of 
her dumb jokes. 

I’m not an idiot. I knew better than to look down at my shoe. If I did, 
she’d slap me under the chin or something. 

“I’m not falling for that old trick,” I told her. 

Mom had just called me and the brat inside for dinner. An hour before 
she had made us go outside because she couldn’t stand our fighting 
anymore. 

It was impossible not to fight with Tara. 

When it comes to stupid tricks, Tara never knows when to quit. “I’m 
not kidding,” she insisted. “Your shoe’s untied. You’re going to trip.” 

“Knock it off, Tara,” I said. I started up the front steps. 

My left shoe seemed to cling to the cement. I pulled it up with a jerk. 

“Yuck!” I’d stepped on something sticky. 

I glanced at Tara. She’s a skinny little squirt, with a wide red mouth 
like a clown’s and stringy brown hair that she wears in two pigtails. 

Everyone says she looks exactly like me. I hate it when they say that. 
My brown hair is not stringy, for one thing. It’s short and thick. And my 
mouth is normal-sized. No one has ever said I look like a clown. 

I’m a little short for my age, but not skinny. 

I do not look like Tara. 

She was watching me, giggling. “You’d better look down,” she taunted 
in her singsong voice. 

I glanced down at my shoe. It wasn’t untied, of course. But I’d just 
stepped on a huge wad of gum. If I had looked down to check my 
shoelaces, I would have seen it. 

But Tara knew I wouldn’t look down. Not if she told me to. 

Tricked by Tara the Terror again. 

“You’re going to get it, Tara,” I grumbled. I tried to grab her, but she 
dodged out of reach and ran into the house. 

I chased her into the kitchen. She screamed and hid behind my mother. 

“Mom! Hide me! Michael’s going to get me!” she shrieked. 

As if she were afraid of me. Fat chance. 

“Michael Webster!” Mom scolded. “Stop chasing your little sister.” 

She glanced at my feet and added, “Is that gum on your shoe? Oh, 
Michael, you’re tracking it all over the floor!” 

“Tara made me step on it!” I whined. 

Mom frowned. “Do you expect me to believe that? Michael, you’re 
fibbing again.” 

“I am not!” I cried. 

Mom shook her head in disgust. “If you’re going to tell a lie, Michael, 
at least make it a good one.” 

Tara peeked out from behind Mom and taunted me. “Yeah, Michael .” 

Then she laughed. She loved this. 

She’s always getting me into trouble. My parents always blame me for 
stuff that’s her fault. But does Tara ever do anything wrong? Oh, no, never. 
She’s a perfect angel. Not a bad bone in her body. 

I’m twelve. Tara’s seven. She’s made the last seven years of my life 
miserable. 

Too bad I don’t remember the first five very well. The pre-Tara years. 
They must have been awesome! Quiet and peaceful—and fun! 

I went out to the back porch and scraped the sticky gum off my shoe. I 
heard the doorbell ring and Dad calling, “It’s here! I’ll get it.” 

Inside, everybody gathered around the front door. Two men were 
struggling to carry something heavy into the house. Something long and 
narrow and wrapped with padded gray cloth. 

“Careful,” Dad warned them. “It’s very old. Bring it in here.” 

Dad led the delivery guys into the den. They set the thing down on one 
end and began to unwrap it. It was about as wide as me and maybe a foot 
taller. 

“What is it?” Tara asked. 

Dad didn’t answer right away. He mbbed his hands together in 
anticipation. Our cat, Bubba, slinked into the room and rubbed against 
Dad’s legs. 

The gray cloth fell away, and I saw a very fancy old clock. It was 
mostly black but painted with lots of silver, gold, and blue designs, and 

decorated with scrolls, carvings, knobs, and buttons. 

The clock itself had a white face with gold hands and gold Roman 
numerals. I saw little secret doors hidden under the paint designs, and a big 
door in the middle of the clock. 

The delivery guys gathered up the gray padding. Dad gave them some 
money, and they left. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed. “It’s an antique cuckoo clock. It was a 
bargain. You know that store across from my office, Anthony’s Antiques 
and Stuff?” 

We all nodded. 

“It’s been in the shop for fifteen years,” Dad told us, patting the clock. 
“Every time I pass Anthony’s, I stop and stare at it. I’ve always loved it. 
Anthony finally put it on sale.” 

“Cool,” Tara said. 

“But you’ve been bargaining with Anthony for years, and he always 
refused to lower the price,” Mom said. “Why now?” 

Dad’s face lit up. “Well, today I went into the shop at lunchtime, and 
Anthony told me he’d discovered a tiny flaw on the clock. Something 
wrong with it.” 

I scanned the clock. “Where?” 

“He wouldn’t say. Do you see anything, kids?” 

Tara and I began to search the clock for flaws. All the numbers on the 
face were correct, and both the hands were in place. I didn’t see any chips 
or scratches. 

“I don’t see anything wrong with it,” Tara said. 

“Me, either,” I added. 

“Neither do I,” Dad agreed. “I don’t know what Anthony’s talking 
about. I told him I wanted to buy the clock anyway. He tried to talk me out 
of it, but I insisted. If the flaw is so tiny we don’t even notice it, what 
difference does it make? Anyway, I really do love this thing.” 

Mom cleared her throat. “I don’t know, dear. Do you think it really 
belongs in the den?” I could tell by her face that she didn’t like the clock as 
much as Dad did. 

“Where else could we put it?” Dad asked. 

“Well—maybe the garage?” 

Dad laughed. “I get it—you’re joking!” 

Mom shook her head. She wasn’t joking. But she didn’t say anything 
more. 

“I think this clock is just what the den needs, honey,” Dad added. 

On the right side of the clock I saw a little dial. It had a gold face and 
looked like a miniature clock. But it had only one hand. 

Tiny numbers were painted in black along the outside of the dial, 
starting at 1800 and ending at 3000. The thin gold hand pointed to one of 
the numbers: 2003. 

The hand didn’t move. Beneath the dial, a little gold button had been 
set into the wood. 

“Don’t touch that button, Michael,” Dad warned. “This dial tells the 
current year. The button moves the hand to change the year.” 

“That’s kind of silly,” Mom said. “Who ever forgets what year it is?” 

Dad ignored her. “See, the clock was built in 1800, where the dial 
starts. Every year the pointer moves one notch to show the date.” 

“So why does it stop at three thousand?” Tara asked. 

Dad shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess the clock-maker couldn’t 
imagine the year three thousand would ever come. Or maybe he figured the 
clock wouldn’t last that long.” 

“Maybe he thought the world would blow up in 2999,” I suggested. 

“Could be,” Dad said. “Anyway, please don’t touch the dial. In fact, I 
don’t want anyone touching the clock at all. It’s very old and very, very 
delicate. Okay?” 

“Okay, Dad,” Tara said. 

“I won’t touch it,” I promised. 

“Look,” Mom said, pointing at the clock. “It’s six o’clock. Dinner’s 
almost—” 

Mom was interrupted by a loud gong. A little door just over the clock 
face slid open—and a bird flew out. It had the meanest bird face I ever saw 
—and it dove for my head. 

I screamed. “It’s alive!” 

2 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The bird flapped its yellow feathers. Its eerie, bright blue eyes glared 
at me. It squawked six times. Then it jumped back inside the clock. The 
little door slid shut. 

“It’s not alive, Michael,” Dad said, laughing. “It sure is real-looking, 
though, isn’t it? Wow!” 

“You birdbrain!” Tara teased. “You were scared! Scared of a cuckoo 
clock!” She reached out and pinched me. 

“Get off me,” I growled. I shoved her away. 

“Michael, don’t push your sister,” Mom said. “You don’t realize how 
strong you are. You could hurt her.” 

“Yeah, Michael,” Tara said. 

Dad kept admiring the clock. He could hardly take his eyes off it. “I’m 
not surprised the cuckoo startled you,” he said. “There’s something special 
about this clock. It comes from the Black Forest of Germany. It’s supposed 
to be enchanted.” 

“Enchanted?” I echoed. “You mean, magic? How?” 

“Legend has it that the man who built this clock had magical powers. 
He put a spell on the clock. They say if you know the secret, you can use 
the clock to go back in time.” 

Mom scoffed. “Did Anthony tell you that? What a great way to sell an 
old clock. Claim it has magic powers!” 

Dad wouldn’t let her spoil his fun. “You never know,” he said. “It 
could be true. Why not?” 

“I think it’s true,” Tara said. 

“Herman, I wish you wouldn’t tell the kids these wild stories,” Mom 
chided. “It’s not good for them. And it only encourages Michael. He’s 
always making things up, telling fibs and impossible stories. I think he gets 
it from you.” 

I protested. “I don’t make things up! I always tell the truth!” 

How could Mom say that about me? 

“I don’t think it hurts the kids to use their imaginations once in a 

while,” Dad said. 

“Imagination is one thing,” Mom said. “Lies and fibs are something 
else.” 

I fumed. Mom was so unfair to me. The worst part was the expression 
of victory on Tara’s face. 

Making me look bad was her mission in life. I wanted to wipe that 
smirk off her face forever. 

“Dinner’s almost ready,” Mom announced, leaving the den. The cat 
followed her. “Michael, Tara—go wash up.” 

“And remember,” Dad warned. “No one touches the clock.” 

“Okay, Dad,” I said. 

Dinner smelled good. I started for the bathroom to wash up. As I 
passed Tara, she stomped hard on my foot. 

“Ow!” I yelled. 

“Michael!” Dad barked. “Stop making so much noise.” 

“But, Dad, Tara stomped on my foot.” 

“It couldn’t have hurt that much, Michael. She’s a lot smaller than you 

are.” 

My foot throbbed. I limped to the bathroom. Tara followed me. 

“You’re such a baby,” she taunted. 

“Be quiet, Tara,” I said. How did I get the worst sister in the world? 

We had pasta with broccoli and tomato sauce for dinner. Mom was on 
a big no-meat, low-fat kick. I didn’t mind. Pasta was better than what we’d 
had the night before—lentil soup. 

“You know, honey,” Dad complained to Mom, “a hamburger now and 
then never hurt anybody.” 

“I disagree,” Mom said. She didn’t have to say more. We’d all heard 
her lectures about meat and fat and chemicals before. 

Dad covered his pasta with a thick layer of Parmesan cheese. 

“Maybe the den should be off-limits for a while,” Dad suggested. “I 
hate to think of you two playing in there and breaking the clock.” 

“But, Dad, I have to do my homework in the den tonight,” I said. “I’m 
doing a report on Transportation in Many Lands.’ And I need to use the 
encyclopedia.” 

“Can’t you take it up to your room?” Dad asked. 

“The whole encyclopedia?” 

Dad sighed. “No, I guess you can’t. Well, all right. You can use the den 
tonight.” 

“I need to use the encyclopedia, too,” Tara announced. 

“You do not,” I snapped. She wanted to hang around the den and bug 
me, that was all. 

“I do, too. I’m supposed to read about the gold rush.” 

“You’re making that up. You don’t study the gold rush in the second 
grade. That’s not until fourth.” 

“What do you know about it? Mrs. Dolin is teaching us the gold rush 
now. Maybe I’m in a smarter class than you were.” 

Mom said, “Michael, really. If Tara says she needs to use the 
encyclopedia, why start a fight about it?” 

I sighed and stuffed a forkful of pasta in my mouth. Tara stuck her 
tongue out at me. 

There’s no point in talking, I thought. All it does is get me into trouble. 

I lugged my backpack into the den after dinner. No sign of Tara—yet. 
Maybe I’d be able to get some homework done before she came in and 
started pestering me. 

I dumped my books on Dad’s desk. The clock caught my eye. It wasn’t 
pretty—kind of ugly, really. But I liked looking at all those scrolls and 
buttons and knobs. It really did seem as if the clock could be magic. 

I thought about the flaw Dad had mentioned. I wondered what it was. 
Some kind of bump? A missing notch on one of the gears? Maybe a piece 
of chipped paint? 

I glanced back at the door to the den. Bubba wandered through it, 
purring. I petted him. 

Mom and Dad were still in the kitchen, cleaning up after dinner. I 
didn’t think it would matter if I just looked at the clock a little. 

Careful not to touch any buttons, I stared at the dial that showed the 
year. I ran my fingers along a curve of silver at the edge of the clock. I 
glanced at the little door over the face of the clock. I knew the cuckoo sat 
behind that door, waiting to leap out at the right time. 

I didn’t want to be surprised by the bird again. I checked the time. Five 
minutes to eight. 

Under the face of the clock I saw another door. A big door. I touched 

its gold knob. 

What’s behind this door? I wondered. Maybe the gears of the clock, or 
a pendulum. 

I glanced over my shoulder again. No one was looking. No problem if 
I just peeked behind that big clock door. 

I tugged on the gold knob. The door stuck. I pulled harder. 

The door flew open. 

I let out a scream as an ugly green monster burst out of the clock. It 
grabbed me and knocked me to the floor. 

3 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” I shrieked. 

The monster raised its long claws over me. I covered my face, waiting 
to be slashed. 

“Goochy goochy goo!” The monster giggled and tickled me with its 
claws. 

I opened my eyes. Tara! Tara in her old Halloween costume! 

She rolled on the floor, giggling. “You’re so easy to scare!” she 
shouted. “You should have seen your face when I jumped out of the clock!” 

“It’s not funny!” I cried. “It’s—” 

Gong. 

Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo! 

The bird popped out of the clock and started cuckooing. Okay, I admit 
it scared me again. But did Tara have to clutch her sides, laughing at me 
that way? 

“What’s going on in here?” Dad stood in the doorway, glaring down at 
us. 

He pointed at the clock. “What’s that door doing open? Michael, I told 
you to stay away from the clock!” 

“ME?” I cried. 

“He was trying to catch the cuckoo,” Tara lied. 

“I thought so,” Dad said. 

“Dad, that’s not true! Tara’s the one who—” 

“Enough of that, Michael. I’m sick of hearing you blame Tara every 
time you do something wrong. Maybe your mother is right. Maybe I have 
been encouraging your imagination a little too much.” 

“That’s not fair!” I yelled. “I don’t have any imagination! I never make 
anything up!” 

“Dad, he’s lying,” Tara said. “I came in here and saw him playing with 
the clock. I tried to stop him.” 

Dad nodded, swallowing every word his precious Tara said. 

There was nothing I could do. I stormed off to my room and slammed 
the door. 

Tara was the biggest pain in the world, and she never got blamed for 
anything. She even mined my birthday. 

I turned twelve three days ago. Usually, people like their birthday. It’s 
supposed to be fun, right? 

Not for me. Tara made sure my birthday was the worst day of my life. 
Or at least one of the worst. 

First, she ruined my present. 

I could tell my parents were very excited about this present. My 
mother kept hopping around like a chicken, saying, “Don’t go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” 

I knew she’d hidden my present in there. But just to torture her, I 
asked, “Why not? Why can’t I go in the garage? The lock on my bedroom 
door is broken, and I need to borrow one of Dad’s tools....” 

“No, no!” Mom exclaimed. “Tell your father to fix the lock. He’ll get 
the tools. You can’t go in there, because... well... there’s a huge mound of 
trash in there. It really stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

Sad, isn’t it? And she thinks I get my “imagination” from Dad! 

“All right, Mom,” I promised. “I won’t go in the garage.” 

And I didn’t—even though the lock on my door really was broken. I 
didn’t want to spoil whatever surprise they had cooked up. 

They were throwing me a big birthday party that afternoon. A bunch of 
kids from school were coming over. Mom baked a cake and made snacks 
for the party. Dad ran around the house, setting up chairs and hanging crepe 
paper. 

“Dad, would you mind fixing the lock on my door?” I asked. 

I like my privacy—and I need that lock. Tara had broken it a week 
earlier. She’d been trying to kickbox the door down. 

“Sure, Michael,” Dad agreed. “Anything you say. After all, you’re the 
birthday boy.” 

“Thanks.” 

Dad took the toolbox upstairs and worked on the lock. Tara lounged 
around the dining room making trouble. As soon as Dad was gone, she 
pulled down a crepe paper streamer and left it lying on the floor. 

Dad fixed the lock and returned the tools to the garage. As he passed 
through the dining room, he noticed the torn-down streamer. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he mumbled. He taped it back 
up. A few minutes later, Tara tore it down again. 

“I know what you’re doing, Tara,” I told her. “Stop trying to wreck my 
birthday.” 

“I don’t have to wreck it,” she said. “It’s bad all by itself—just because 
it’s the day you were born.” She pretended to shudder in horror. 

I ignored her. It was my birthday. Nothing could keep me from having 
fun, not even Tara. 

That’s what I thought 

About half an hour before the party, Mom and Dad called me into the 
garage. 

I pretended to go along with Mom’s silly story. “What about the 
horrible trash?” 

“Oh, that,” Mom clucked. “I made it up.” 

“Really?” I said. “Wow. It was so believable.” 

“If you believed that, you must be a moron,” Tara said. 

Dad threw open the garage door. I stepped inside. 

There stood a brand-new 21-speed bike. The bike I’d wanted for a 
long time. 

The coolest bike I’d ever seen! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“I love it!” I cried. “It’s awesome! Thanks!” 

“Cool bike, Mike,” Tara said. “Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Before I could stop her, she climbed up on the seat of my new bike. 

“Tara, get off!” I yelled. 

She didn’t listen. She tried to reach her feet to the pedals, but her legs 
were too short. The bike fell over. 

“Tara!” Mom cried, running to the little brat’s side. “Are you hurt?” 

Tara stood up and brushed herself off. “I’m okay. I scraped my knee a 
little, though.” 

I picked up my bike and inspected it. It was no longer perfectly shiny 
and black. There was a huge white scratch across the middle bar. 

It was practically ruined. 

“Tara, you wrecked my bike! ” 

“Let’s not get overexcited, Michael,” Dad said. “It’s only a scratch.” 

“Don’t you even care about your sister?” Mom asked. “She could’ve 
been hurt!” 

“It’s her own fault! She shouldn’t have touched my bike in the first 
place!” 

“Michael, you have a lot to learn about being a good brother,” Dad 

said. 

They make me so mad sometimes! 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “Your friends will be here soon.” 

The party. I thought the party would make me feel better. After all, 
there would be cake, presents, and my best friends. What could go wrong? 

It started out okay. One by one my friends arrived, and they all brought 
me presents. I’d invited five guys: David, Josh, Michael B., Henry, and 
Lars; and three girls: Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona. 

I wasn’t so crazy about Ceecee and Rosie, but I really liked Mona. She 
has long, shiny brown hair and a turned-up nose that’s kind of cute. She’s 
tall, and good at basketball. There’s something sort of cool about her. 

Ceecee and Rosie are Mona’s best friends. I had to invite them if I was 
going to invite Mona. They always go everywhere together. 

Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona arrived all at once. They took off their 
jackets. Mona was wearing pink overalls over a white turtleneck. She 
looked great. I didn’t care what the other girls were wearing. 

“Happy birthday, Michael!” they all called out at the door. 

“Thanks,” I said. 

They each handed me a gift. Mona’s was small and flat and wrapped in 
silver paper. Probably a CD, I figured. But which one? What kind of CD 
would a girl like Mona think a guy like me would like? 

I set the presents on top of the pile in the living room. 

“Hey, Michael—what did your parents give you?” David asked. 

“Just a bike,” I said, trying to be cool about it. “A twenty-one speed.” 

I put on a CD. Mom and Tara brought in plates of sandwiches. Mom 
went back to the kitchen, but Tara stayed. 

“Your little sister is so cute,” Mona said. 

“Not once you get to know her,” I muttered. 

“Michael! That’s not very nice,” Mona said. 

“He’s a terrible big brother,” Tara told her. “He yells at me all the 

time.” 

“I do not! Get lost, Tara.” 

“I don’t have to.” She stuck her tongue out at me. 

“Let her stay, Michael,” Mona said. “She’s not bothering anybody.” 

“Hey, Mona,” Tara chirped. “You know, Michael really likes you.” 

Mona’s eyes widened. “He does?” 

My face got red-hot. I glared at Tara. I wanted to strangle her right 
then and there. But I couldn’t—too many witnesses. 

Mona started laughing. Ceecee and Rosie laughed, too. Luckily, the 
guys didn’t hear this. They were around the CD player, skipping from cut to 
cut. 

What could I say? I did like Mona. I couldn’t deny it—it would hurt 
her feelings. But I couldn’t admit it, either. 

I wanted to die. I wanted to sink through the floor and die. 

“Michael, your face is all red!” Mona cried. 

Lars heard this and called out, “What did Webster do now?” 

Some of the guys call me by my last name. 

I grabbed Tara and dragged her into the kitchen, Mona’s laughter 
ringing in my ears. 

“Thanks a lot, Tara,” I whispered. “Why did you have to tell Mona I 
like her?” 

“It’s true, isn’t it?” the brat said. “I always tell the truth.” 

“Yeah, right!” 

“Michael—” Mom interrupted. “Are you being mean to Tara again?” 

I stormed out of the kitchen without answering her. 

“Hey, Webster,” Josh called when I returned to the living room. “Let’s 
see your new bike.” 

Good, I thought. A way to get away from the girls. 

I led them to the garage. They all stared at the bike and nodded at each 
other. They seemed really impressed. Then Henry grabbed the handlebars. 

“Hey, what’s this big scratch?” he said. 

“I know,” I explained. “My sister...” 

I stopped and shook my head. What was the use? 

“Let’s go back and open my presents,” I suggested. 

We trooped back into the living room. 

At least I’ve got more presents coming, I thought. Tara can’t ruin 
those. 

But Tara always finds a way. 

When I entered the living room, I found Tara sitting in the middle of a 
pile of torn-up wrapping paper. Rosie, Mona, and Ceecee sat around her, 
watching. 

Tara had opened all my presents for me. 

Thanks so much, Tara. 

She was ripping open the last present—Mona’s. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

It was a CD. 

“I’ve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara teased. 

Everybody laughed. They all thought Tara was a riot. 

Later, we all sat down in the dining room for cake and ice cream. I carried 
the cake myself. Mom followed me, holding plates, candles, and matches. 

It was my favorite kind of cake, chocolate-chocolate. 

Balancing the cake in my hands, I stepped through the kitchen door 
and into the dining room. 

I didn’t see Tara pressed against the wall. I didn’t see her stick her 
bratty little foot in the doorway. 

I tripped. The cake flew out of my hands. 

I landed on top of the cake. Facedown. Of course. 

Some kids gasped. Some tried to muffle their laughter. 

I sat up and wiped the brown frosting from my eyes. 

The first face I saw was Mona’s. She was shaking with laughter. 

Mom leaned over and scolded me. “What a mess! Michael, why don’t 
you look where you’re going?” 

I listened to the laughter and stared at my ruined cake. I had no candles 
to blow out now. But it didn’t matter. I decided to make a wish, anyway. 

I wish I could start this birthday all over again. 

I stood up, covered in gooey brown cake. My friends howled. 

“You look like the Hulk!” Rosie cried. 

Everybody laughed harder than ever. 

They all had a great time at my party. Everyone did. 

Except for me. 

My birthday was bad—very bad. But ruining it wasn’t the worst thing 
Tara did to me. 

Nobody would believe the worst thing. 

4 

It happened the week before my birthday. Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie were 
coming over. We all had parts in the school play, and planned to rehearse 
together at my house. 

The play was a new version of The Frog Prince. Mona played the 
princess, and Ceecee and Rosie were her two silly sisters. Perfect casting, I 
thought. 

I played the frog, before the princess kisses him and turns him into a 
prince. For some reason, our drama teacher didn’t want me to play the 
prince. Josh got that part. 

Anyway, I decided that the frog is a better part. Because Mona, the 
princess, kisses the frog, not the prince. 

The girls would arrive any minute. 

Tara sat on the rug in the den, torturing our cat, Bubba. Bubba hated 
Tara almost as much as I did. 

Tara lifted Bubba by the hind legs, trying to make him do a handstand. 
Bubba yowled and squirmed and wriggled away. But Tara caught him and 
made him do a handstand again. 

“Stop that, Tara,” I ordered. 

“Why?” Tara said. “It’s fun.” 

“You’re hurting Bubba.” 

“No, I’m not. He likes it. See? He’s smiling.” She let go of his hind 
legs and grabbed him with one hand under his front legs. With the other 
hand she lifted the corners of his mouth and stretched them into a pained 
smile. 

Bubba tried to bite her. He missed. 

“Tara,” I said, “let him go. And get out of here. My friends are coming 
over.” 

“No.” Now Tara tried to make Bubba walk on his front paws. He fell 
and bumped his nose. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. As I tried to take Bubba away from her, she let 
the cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom stood in the 
doorway. Bubba slipped past her into the hall. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. She left, 
calling over her shoulder, “I’m going upstairs to lie down for a while. I have 
a headache.” 

The doorbell rang. “We’ll get it, Mom!” I called. 

I knew it must be the girls at the door. I wanted to surprise them in my 
frog costume, but I wasn’t ready yet. 

“Answer the door, Tara,” I told the brat. “Tell Mona and the others to 
wait for me in the den. I’ll be right back.” 

“Okay,” Tara said. She trotted off to the front door. I hurried upstairs to 
change into my costume. 

I pulled the costume out of my closet. I took off my pants and shirt. I 
picked up the frog suit, trying to open the zipper. It was stuck. 

I stood there in my underwear, tugging at the zipper. Then my 
bedroom door clicked open. 

“Here he is, girls,” I heard Tara say. “He told me to bring you 
upstairs.” 

No! I thought. Please don’t let it be true! 

I was afraid to look up. I knew what I’d see. 

The door wide open. Mona, Ceecee, Rosie, and Tara, staring at me in 
my underwear! 

I forced myself to look. It was worse than I’d thought. 

There they all stood—staring and laughing! 

Tara laughed hardest of all. She laughed like a rotten little hyena. 

You think that’s bad? Wait. There’s more. 

* * * 

Two days before the underwear disaster, I was hanging around after school, 
playing basketball in the gym with Josh, Henry, and some other guys, 
including Kevin Flowers. 

Kevin is a good player, big and tough. He is twice as tall as me! He 
loves basketball. The Duke Blue Devils are his favorite college team. He 
wears a Blue Devils cap to school every day. 

While we were shooting baskets, I spied Tara hanging around the 
sidelines, where we’d all tossed our jackets and backpacks against the wall. 

I got a bad feeling. I always do when Tara’s around. 

What’s she doing there? I wondered. 

Maybe her teacher kept her after school, and she’s waiting for me to 
walk her home. 

She’s just trying to distract me, I told myself. Don’t let her. Don’t think 
about her. Just concentrate on the game. 

I felt good. I actually sank a few baskets before the game ended. My 
side won. We had Kevin Flowers on our team, that’s why. 

We all jogged to the wall to get our packs. Tara was gone. 

Funny, I thought. I guess she went home without me. 

I hoisted my pack over my shoulder and said, “See you tomorrow, 
guys.” 

But Kevin’s voice boomed through the gym. “Nobody move!” 

We all froze. 

“Where’s my cap?” he demanded. “My Blue Devils cap is missing!” 

I shrugged. I didn’t know where his stupid cap was. 

“Somebody took my cap,” Kevin insisted. “Nobody leaves until we 
find it.” 

He grabbed Henry’s backpack and started pawing through it. Everyone 
knows how much Kevin loves that cap. 

But Josh pointed at me. “Hey—what’s that hanging out of Webster’s 
pack?” he asked. 

“My pack?” I cried. I glanced over my shoulder. 

I saw a patch of blue sticking out of the zippered pocket. 

My stomach lurched. 

Kevin strode over to me and ripped the cap out of my pack. 

“I don’t know how it got there, Kevin,” I insisted. “I swear—” 

Kevin didn’t wait to hear my excuses. He never was much of a listener. 

Til spare you the blood and gore. Let’s just say my clothes didn’t fit 
too well when Kevin got through taking me apart! 

Josh and Henry helped me home. My mom didn’t recognize me. My 
eyes and nose had traded places with my chin. 

While I was in the bathroom cleaning myself up, I caught a glimpse of 
Tara in the mirror. The bratty grin on her face told me all I needed to know. 

“You!” I cried. “You put Kevin’s cap in my pack! Didn’t you!” 

Tara just grinned. Yeah. She did it, all right. 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why did you do it, Tara?” 

Tara shrugged and tried to look innocent. “Was that Kevin’s cap?” she 
said. “I thought it was yours.” 

“What a lie!” I cried. “I never wore a Duke cap, and you know it! You 
did that on purpose!” 

I was so furious, I couldn’t stand to look at her. I slammed the 
bathroom door in her face. 

And of course I got in trouble for slamming the door. 

Now you understand what I had to live with. 

Now you know why I did the terrible thing that I did. 

Anyone in my place would have done the same. 

5 

I stayed in my room that night, thinking hard. Plotting a way to get Tara in 
trouble. 

But nothing came to me. At least, nothing good enough. 

Then the clock arrived. A few days later, Tara did something that gave 
me an idea. 

Tara couldn’t stay away from the cuckoo clock. One afternoon, Dad 
caught Tara playing with the clock hands. She didn’t get into any real 
trouble, of course—not sweet little Tara. But Dad did say, “I’ve got my eye 
on you, young lady. No more playing with the clock.” 

At last! I thought. At last Dad realizes that Tara’s not a perfect angel. 
And at last I’ve found a way to get her into big trouble. 

If something went wrong with the clock, I knew Tara would be blamed 
for it. 

So I decided to make sure something did go wrong. 

Tara deserved to get into trouble for the hundreds of terrible things she 
did to me. 

So what if just once she gets blamed for something she didn’t do? I 
thought. It’s only evening the score a little. 

That night, after everybody was asleep, I sneaked downstairs to the 

den. 

It was almost midnight. I crept up to the clock and waited. 

One minute to go. 

Thirty seconds. 

Ten seconds. 

Six, five, four, three, two, one... 

The gong sounded. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The yellow bird popped out. I grabbed it in mid-cuckoo. It made short, 
strangling noises. 

I twisted its head around, so it faced backwards. It looked really funny 
that way. 

It finished out its twelve cuckoos, facing the wrong way. 

I laughed to myself. When Dad saw it, he’d go ballistic ! 

The cuckoo slid back into its little window, still facing backwards. 

This is going to drive Dad insane! I thought wickedly. 

He’ll be furious at Tara. He’ll explode like a volcano! 

Finally, Tara will know what it feels like to be blamed for something 
you didn’t do. 

I crept back upstairs. Not a sound. No one saw me. 

I fell asleep that night a happy guy. There’s nothing like revenge. 

I slept late the next morning. I couldn’t wait to see Dad blow up at Tara. I 
just hoped I hadn’t missed it already. 

I hurried downstairs. I checked the den. 

The door stood open. 

No one there. No sign of trouble yet. 

Good, I thought. I haven’t missed it. 

I made my way into the kitchen, hungry. Mom, Dad, and Tara sat 
around the table, piled with empty breakfast dishes. 

As soon as they saw me, their faces lit up. 

“Happy Birthday!” they cried all at once. 

“Very funny,” I snapped. I opened a cabinet. “Is there any more cereal 
left?” 

“Cereal!” Mom said. “Don’t you want something special, like 
pancakes?” 

I scratched my head. “Well, sure. Pancakes would be great.” 

This was a little strange. Usually if I woke up late, Mom said I had to 
fix my own breakfast. And why should I want something special, anyway? 

Mom mixed a fresh batch of pancake batter. “Don’t go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” She hopped up and 
down, all excited. Just as if it were my birthday again. 

Weird. 

“.. .there’s a huge mound of trash in there,” Mom was saying. “It really 
stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

“Mom, what’s with the trash story?” I asked. “I didn’t believe it the 
first time.” 

“Just don’t go into the garage,” she repeated. 

Why was she saying this to me? Why was she acting so weird? 

Dad excused himself, saying, “I’ve got a few important chores to do,” 
in a strange, jolly way. 

I shrugged and tried to eat my breakfast in peace. But after breakfast I 
passed through the dining room. Somebody had decorated it with crepe 
paper. One strand had been torn down. 

Weird. Totally weird. 

Dad came into the room, toolbox in hand. He picked up the torn piece 
of crepe paper and started to tape it back up again. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he asked. 

“Dad,” I said. “Why are you covering the dining room with crepe 
paper?” 

Dad smiled. “Because it’s your birthday, of course! Every birthday 
party needs crepe paper. Now, I bet you can’t wait to see your present, 
right?” 

I stared at him. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

6 

Mom and Dad led me to the garage. Tara followed. They all acted as if they 
were really going to give me a birthday present. 

Dad opened the garage door. 

There it was. The bike. 

It was perfectly shiny and new-looking. No scratches anywhere. 

That must be the surprise, I thought. They figured out a way to get rid 
of the scratch somehow. Or maybe they got me another new bike! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“It’s awesome!” I replied. 

Tara said, “Cool bike, Mike. Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Then she jumped up on the seat. The bike fell over on her. When we 
pulled it up, it had a big scratch on it. 

Mom cried, “Tara! Are you hurt?” 

I couldn’t believe it. What a nightmare! 

It was happening all over again. Exactly as it had happened on my 
birthday. 

What’s going on? 

“What’s wrong, Michael?” Dad asked. “Don’t you like the bike?” 

What could I say? I felt sick. I felt so confused. 

Then it dawned on me. 

It must have been my wish, I thought. 

My birthday wish. 

After Tara tripped me and I fell on my cake, I wished I could go back 
in time and start my birthday all over again. 

Somehow my wish came tme. 

Wow! I thought. This is kind of cool. 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “The party guests will be here soon.” 

The party? 

Oh, no. 

Please, no! 

Do I have to live through that horrible party again? 

7 

Yes. 

Yes, I had to live through the whole horrible nightmare again. 

My friends all showed up, just like the first time. 

I heard Tara say the awful words, “Hey, Mona. You know, Michael 
really likes you.” 

Mona said, “He does?” 

You already knew that, Mona, I thought. Tara told you four days ago. 

You were standing in that very same spot. Wearing those same pink 
overalls. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie cracked up. 

I panicked. This can’t go on, I thought. 

My mother came in, carrying a tray of soda. I grabbed her. 

“Mom,” I begged. “Please take Tara away. Shut her up in her room or 
something!” 

“Michael, why? Your sister wants to have fun, too.” 

“Mom— please !” 

“Oh, Michael, you’re being silly. Be nice to Tara. She won’t bother 
you. She’s just a little girl.” 

Mom left the room, stranding me with Tara and my friends. 

She couldn’t save me. 

No one could. 

I showed the guys my new bike. Henry said, “Hey, what’s this big 
scratch?” 

When we got back to the living room, there were all my presents, 
opened by Tara. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

I know, I know, I thought. A CD. With great love songs on it. 

“I’ve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara repeated. 

Everybody laughed. 

It was just as bad as before. 

No. Worse. Because I could see it all coming. And I couldn’t stop it. 

Could I? 

“Michael,” Mom called. “Come into the kitchen, please. It’s time for 
the birthday cake!” 

Here’s the test, I thought, dragging myself into the kitchen. 

I’ll carry in the cake—but this time I won’t trip. 

I know Tara is going to try and trip me. I won’t let her. 

I won’t make a fool of myself this time. 

I don’t have to. I don’t have to repeat everything the same way. 

Do I? 

8 

I stood in the kitchen, staring at the cake. I could hear my friends laughing 
and talking in the dining room. Tara was in there, too. 

I knew she was standing just beyond the dining room door, waiting. 
Waiting to stick out her foot and trip me. Waiting to make me fall on my 
face and embarrass myself all over again. 

Not this time. 

I carefully picked up the cake in both hands. I started toward the 
dining room. 

Mom followed, just as before. 

I stopped in front of the entrance to the dining room. I glanced down. 
No sign of Tara’s foot. 

Carefully, watching closely, I stepped through the door. One step. 

So far, so good. 

Another step. I stood inside the dining room now. 

I’d made it! All I had to do was get to the table, about five steps away, 
and I’d be safe. 

I took another step forward. Another. 

Then I felt a tug on my foot. 

Tara reached out from under the table. 

So that was where she’d been hiding. I knew it now. But it was too 

late. 

Everything seemed to move in slow motion. Like in a dream. 

I heard an evil giggle. 

She grabbed my foot. 

Oh, no, I thought. It’s happened. 

I lost my balance. 

As I fell, I turned my head and glanced back. 

Tara sat under that table, smirking at me. 

I wanted to kill her. 

But first I had to fall on my face on a cake. 

The cake flew out of my arms. I turned my head again. 

Splat! 

Everybody gasped with laughter. I sat up and wiped the frosting from 
my eyes. 

Mona leaned over the table, laughing harder than anybody. 

The second time was more embarrassing than the first. 

I sat on the floor, my face covered with cake, thinking, how could I 
have been so stupid? 

Why did I have to make that wish? 

I’ll never wish for anything ever again. 

I cleaned myself up and managed to survive the rest of the party. When 
I went to bed that night, I thought, at least it’s over. 

I switched off the light and pulled the covers up high. 

It’s over, I repeated. I’ll go to sleep, and everything will be back to 
normal in the morning. 

I shut my eyes and fell asleep. But in my dreams, all night long, I saw 
scenes from my horrible birthday party. The nightmare party became a real 
nightmare. 

There was Tara, telling Mona that I liked her. Mona’s face loomed up 
large in my dreams, laughing, laughing. Ceecee and Rosie and the guys, all 
laughing right in my face. 

I tripped and fell on top of the cake, over and over again. 

I tossed and turned. Each dream was scarier than the last. Soon my 
friends looked like horrible monsters. And Tara was the most horrible of all. 
Her features melted into a blur as she laughed and laughed at me. 

Wake up, I told myself. Wake up! 

I dragged myself out of the nightmare world. I sat up in bed, in a cold 
sweat. 

The room was still dark. I glanced at the clock. 

Three o’clock in the morning. 

I can’t sleep, I thought miserably. I can’t calm down. 

I’ve got to tell Mom and Dad what happened. Maybe they can help. 

Maybe they can make me feel better. 

I climbed out of bed and hurried down the dark hall to their room. 
Their door was open a crack. 

I pushed it open. 

“Mom? Dad? Are you awake?” 

Dad rolled over and grunted, “Huh?” 

I shook Mom’s shoulder. “Mom?” 

Mom stirred. “What is it, Michael?” she whispered. She sat up and 
grabbed the clock radio. In the clock’s dim blue glow I saw her squint, 
trying to read the time. 

“It’s three o’clock!” she cried. 

Dad snorted and sat up suddenly. “Huh? What?” 

“Mom, you’ve got to listen to me!” I whispered. “Something creepy 
happened today. Didn’t you notice it?” 

“Michael, what is this—” 

“My birthday,” I explained. “Tara ruined my birthday, and I wished I 
could have it all over again. I wanted to make it better. But I never thought 
the wish would come true! Then, today, it was my birthday again! And 
everything happened exactly the same. It was horrible!” 

Dad rubbed his eyes. “That you, Michael?” 

Mom patted him. “Go back to sleep, dear. Michael’s just had a bad 
dream.” 

“No, Mom,” I cried. “It wasn’t a dream. It was real! My birthday 
happened twice! You were there, both times. Don’t you understand?” 

“Listen, Michael,” Mom began. I heard impatience in her voice. “I 
know you’re excited about your birthday, but it’s two days away. Only two 
days to go—then it will be your birthday at last! Okay? So go back to bed 
now and get some sleep.” 

She kissed me good night. “Only two days till your birthday. Sweet 
dreams.” 

9 

I staggered back to bed, my head spinning. 

Two days until my birthday? 

Hadn’t I just lived through my birthday—twice? 

I switched on the reading lamp and stared at the date on my watch. 
February third, it said. 

My birthday is February fifth. My birthday was two days away. 

Could it be true? Was time going backwards? 

No, I thought. I must be going nuts. 

I shook my head hard. I slapped myself a few times. Going back in 
time. I laughed at the idea. 

It’s impossible, I thought. Get a hold of yourself, Michael. 

All I did was wish to celebrate my birthday over again— once. 

I didn’t wish to repeat my twelfth birthday for the rest of my life! 

But if that’s what’s happening, why is it now two days before my 
birthday? Why isn’t it just the night before? 

Maybe time really is going backwards, I thought. Maybe this has 
nothing to do with my wish. 

But, then—why is this happening to me? 

I racked my brains. 

The clock. Dad’s cuckoo clock. 

I twisted the cuckoo’s head backwards... went to bed... and when I 
woke up, time had gone backwards. 

Could that be it? Did / do this? 

Is Dad’s clock really magic? 

Maybe I shouldn’t have turned that stupid bird backwards, I decided. It 
figures—I try to get Tara in trouble, and end up getting myself into a 
horrible mess. 

Well, if that is what happened, it’s easy enough to fix. 

I’ll just go downstairs and turn the cuckoo’s head back around. 

I tiptoed out of my room and down the stairs. My parents had probably 
fallen back to sleep already, but I didn’t want to take any chances. 

I definitely didn’t want Dad to catch me fooling around with his 
precious clock. 

My feet hit the cold, bare floor of the foyer. I crept into the den. I 
switched on a lamp. I glanced around the room. The cuckoo clock was 
gone! 

10 

“No!” I cried. 

Had the clock been stolen? 

Without the clock, how could I fix everything? How could I turn the 
bird’s head around and make my life go forward again? 

I raced upstairs. I didn’t care who I woke up now. 

“Mom! Dad!” I yelled. I burst into their room and shook Mom awake 
again. 

“Michael, what is it?” She sounded furious. “It’s the middle of the 
night. We’re trying to get some sleep!” 

Let them be angry, I thought. This was way more important. 

“The cuckoo clock! It’s gone!” 

Dad rolled over. “What? Huh?” 

“Michael, you’ve had another nightmare,” Mom assured me. 

“It’s not a nightmare, Mom—it’s true! Go downstairs and see for 
yourself! There’s no cuckoo clock in the den!” 

“Michael—listen to me. It was a dream.” Mom’s voice was firm. “We 
don’t own a cuckoo clock. We never did.” 

I staggered backwards. 

“It’s just a dream. A bad dream,” she said. 

“But Dad bought it....” 

I stopped. 

I understood now. 

The date was February third. Two days before my birthday. 

And five days before Dad bought the cuckoo clock. 

We were traveling back in time. Dad hadn’t bought the clock yet. 

I felt sick. 

Mom said, “Michael, are you all right?” She climbed out of bed and 
pressed the back of her hand against my forehead. 

“You feel a little warm,” she said, nicer now that she thought I might 
be sick. “Come on, let’s get you to bed. I’ll bet you have a fever—and that’s 
why you’re having all these nightmares.” 

Dad grunted again. “What? Sick?” 

“I’ll take care of it, Herman,” Mom whispered. “Go back to sleep.” 

She guided me back to bed. She thought I was sick. 

But I knew the truth. 

I had made time move backwards. And the clock was gone. How 
would I fix things now? 

By the time I got to the kitchen the next morning, Mom, Dad, and Tara had 
already eaten. 

“Hurry up, Michael,” Dad said. “You’ll be late.” 

Being late for school didn’t seem to matter much at the moment. 

“Dad, please sit down for a second,” I pleaded. “Just for a minute. It’s 
important.” 

Dad sat, impatiently, on the edge of a kitchen chair. “Michael, what is 

it?” 

“Mom, are you listening?” I asked. 

“Sure, honey,” Mom said. She put the milk in the refrigerator and 
busily wiped off the counter. 

“This is going to sound weird,” I began. “But I’m not kidding.” 

I paused. Dad waited. I could tell by the tension in his face he expected 
me to say something totally dopey. 

I didn’t disappoint him. 

“Dad, time is going backwards. Every day I wake up—and it’s an 
earlier day than the last!” 

Dad’s face drooped. “Michael, you have a wonderful imagination, but 
I’m really running late. Can we talk about it when I get home from work 
tonight? Or why don’t you write it down? You know I love reading science 
fiction stories.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Mom said, “Did somebody remember to feed the cat?” 

“I did it,” Tara said. “Even though it’s supposed to be Michael’s job.” 
“Thanks, Tara,” Mom said. “Let’s hit the road, everybody.” 

I grabbed a muffin as Mom hustled us out the door. 

They’re too busy to understand right now, I reasoned as I hurried to 
school. Tonight, at dinner, when I have more time to explain... 

I had lots of time to think about my problem during school. I’d lived 

through this day before, too. I’d already done all the work, heard all the 
lessons, eaten the lousy lunch. 

When my math teacher, Mr. Parker, turned his back to the class, I 
knew what would happen next. I predicted it to the second. Kevin Flowers 
threw an eraser at him and hit him smack on the back of his black pants. 

Now Mr. Parker is going to turn around... I thought, watching Mr. 
Parker. 

He turned around. 

.. .now he’ll yell at Kevin... 

Mr. Parker shouted, “Kevin Flowers—to the principal’s office, now!” 

.. .now Kevin will start yelling his head off. 

“How do you know it was me!” Kevin yelled. “You didn’t see me do 
anything!” 

The rest of the scene happened as I remembered it. Mr. Parker cowered 
a bit—Kevin is pretty big—but told Kevin to go to the principal’s office 
again. Kevin kicked over an empty chair and threw his books across the 
room. 

It was all so boring. 

After school, I found Tara in the den, teasing Bubba. She lifted his 
hind legs and made him walk on his front paws. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. I tried to take Bubba away from her. She let the 
cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

It felt very familiar. And painful. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom demanded. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. 

The doorbell rang. 

Oh, no. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie. The Frog Prince. 

The underwear. 

I can’t let it happen. 

But my feet started taking me upstairs. I was walking like a robot to 
my room. 

Why am I doing this? I asked myself. 

I’ll get out my frog costume. The zipper will be stuck. 

Tara will open the door, and I’ll be standing there in my underpants. 
Mona will laugh her head off. I’ll want to sink through the floor. 

I know all this will happen. 

So why am I doing it? 

Can’t I stop myself? 

11 

Don’t go upstairs, I begged myself. Don’t go to your room. 

You don’t have to do this. 

There must be a way to stop it, to control it. 

I forced myself to turn around. I walked back down the steps. I sat 
down on the third step. 

Tara answered the door, and soon the girls stood before me in the 
foyer. 

Okay, I thought. I’m controlling it. Already things are happening 
differently from before. 

“Michael, where’s your costume?” Mona asked. “I really want to see 
what your costume looks like.” 

“Uh, no you don’t,” I said, shrinking a little. “It’s really ugly, and I 
don’t want to scare you girls—” 

“Don’t be a jerk, Michael,” Ceecee said. “Why would we be scared by 
a stupid frog costume?” 

“And, anyway, I want to rehearse with it,” Mona added. “I don’t want 
to see the costume for the first time onstage. I’ll need to be prepared for it. I 
need to practice with the costume—and you in it.” 

“Come on, Michael,” Tara put in. “Show them the costume. I want to 
see it, too.” 

I flashed her a dirty look. I knew what she had in mind. 

“No,” I insisted. “I can’t do that.” 

“Why not?” Mona demanded. 

“I just can’t.” 

“He’s shy!” Rosie exclaimed. 

“He’s embarrassed,” Tara added. 

“No, it’s not that,” I said. “It’s just that... it’s awfully hot in that 
costume, and—” 

Mona leaned close to me. I smelled something sweet, like 
strawberries. It must’ve been the shampoo she used. “Come on, Michael,” 
she said. “For me?” 

“No.” 

She stamped her foot. “I won’t rehearse our scenes unless you put on 
that costume!” 

I sighed. I didn’t see any way out of it. 

Mona wouldn’t leave me alone until I put on that frog costume. 

I gave in. “Okay.” 

“Hurray!” Tara cried. I gave her another dirty look. 

All right, I thought. I may have to put on the costume. But that doesn’t 
mean the girls have to see me in my underwear. 

I can still keep that from happening. 

I trudged up to my room. But this time, I locked the door. 

Now try to embarrass me, Tara, I thought. You can’t outsmart Michael 
Webster. No way. 

The door was locked. I felt sure I was safe. 

I took off my jeans and my shirt. I dragged the frog costume out of the 
closet. 

I tugged on the zipper. It was stuck. 

Just like the last time. 

But this time it’s okay, I told myself. The door is locked. I have 
privacy. 

Then the door flew open. 

I stood helplessly in my underwear. Mona, Rosie, and Ceecee stared at 
me. Then they screamed and started laughing. 

“Tara!” I yelled. “The door was locked!” 

“No, it wasn’t,” Tara replied. “The lock’s broken, remember?” 

“No!” I cried. “Dad fixed it... he fixed it...” 

I tried to remember when Dad had fixed the lock on my bedroom door. 
Oh, right. 

It was after the underwear nightmare. On my birthday. 

So it hadn’t happened yet. 

How was I supposed to keep all this straight? 

Oh, no, I thought. I’m doomed. 

Time is all messed up. And I have no way of stopping it. 

I began to shake. This was too frightening. 

Where would it end? I had no idea. It was getting scarier by the 
minute. 

I could hardly eat dinner that night. I’d eaten it before, of course, and hadn’t 
liked it the first time. Peas, carrots, and mushrooms. Over brown rice. 

I picked at the rice and the carrots. I never eat peas. I slipped them into 
my napkin when Mom and Dad weren’t looking. 

I watched Mom, Dad, and Tara eat dinner as if nothing were wrong. 
They sat calmly around the table, saying the same things they’d said last 
time. 

Mom and Dad must notice that something is weird, I thought. They 
must. 

So why don’t they say anything about it? 

I waited for Dad to finish telling us about his day at work. Then I 
brought up the subject again. I decided to take it slowly. 

“Mom? Dad? Doesn’t this dinner seem a little bit familiar?” 

“I’ll say,” Dad replied. “It reminds me of the lunch we ate at that 
vegetarian restaurant last month. Ugh.” 

Mom glared at him, then at me. “What are you trying to tell us, 
Michael?” she said frostily. “Are you tired of eating healthy food?” 

“I am,” Dad said. 

“Me, too,” Tara chimed in. 

“No. No way,” I insisted. “You don’t understand. I don’t mean that 
we’ve eaten food like this before. I mean that we have eaten this very meal 
before. We’re eating it twice.” 

Dad frowned. “No weird theories at the dinner table, please, Michael.” 

They weren’t getting it. I plowed ahead. “It’s not just this dinner. It’s 
this whole day. Haven’t you noticed? We’re doing everything over! Time is 
going backwards!” 

“Shut up, Michael,” Tara said. “This is so boring. Can’t we talk about 
something else?” 

“Tara,” Mom scolded, “don’t say ‘shut up’.” She turned to me. “Have 
you been reading those comic books again?” 

I grew very frustrated. “You’re not listening to me!” I cried. 
“Tomorrow is going to be yesterday, and the day after that will be the day 
before! Everything is going backwards!” 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. They seemed to be sharing a secret. 

They do know something, I thought with excitement. They know 
something, but they’re afraid to tell me. 

Mom gazed at me very seriously. “All right, Michael. We might as 
well tell you,” she said. “We’re all caught in a time warp, and there’s 
nothing we can do about it.” 

12 

Mom pushed back her chair. She walked backwards to the stove. She 
started dishing rice from her plate into the pot on the stove. 

“Yenoh, ecir erom?” she asked Dad. 

Huh? 

“Esaelp, sey,” Dad replied. 

“Oot, em,” Tara said. She spit some rice out on her fork and dumped it 
back on her plate. She was eating backwards! 

Dad stood up and walked backwards to Mom. Then Tara skipped 
backwards around the kitchen table. 

They were all talking and moving backwards. We really were in a time 
warp! 

“Hey!” I cried. “It’s true!” 

Why wasn’t I talking backwards, too? 

“Norom,” Tara said. 

She cracked up first. Then Dad started laughing. Then Mom. 

I finally caught on. It was a joke. “You—you’re all horrible !” I cried. 

That made them laugh even more. 

“I was wondering when you’d figure it out,” Tara sneered. 

They all sat down at the table again. Mom couldn’t help grinning. 
“We’re sorry, Michael. We didn’t mean to make fun of you.” 

“Yes we did!” Tara exclaimed. 

I stared at them in horror. 

This was the most terrible thing that had ever happened to me. And my 
parents thought it was a big joke. 

Then Dad said, “Michael, did you ever hear of dejr vu?” 

I shook my head. 

“It’s when something happens to you and you have the feeling it’s 
happened before,” he explained. “Everyone feels that way once in a while. 
It’s nothing to be afraid of.” 

“Maybe you’re nervous about something,” Mom added. “Like your 
birthday coming up. I’ll bet you’re a little nervous about turning twelve, 

right? And planning your party and everything?” 

“Not really,” I protested. “I know that feeling. But this isn’t the same 
thing! This is—” 

“Say, Mike,” Dad interrupted. “Wait till you see what I got you for 
your birthday. You’re going to flip! It’s a big surprise.” 

No, it isn’t, I thought unhappily. 

It’s not a surprise at all. You’ve given me that birthday present twice 
already. How many times are you going to give me that stupid bike? 

“Mom, Michael is hiding peas in his napkin again,” Tara ratted. 

I smushed the peas up in my napkin and threw it in her face. 

When I went to school the next morning, I wasn’t sure what day it was. It 
was getting hard to keep track. My classes, my lunch, the stuff my friends 
said all seemed familiar. But nothing unusual happened. It could have been 
any day of the school year. 

I played basketball after school that day, as usual. While I was playing, 
a funny feeling crept over me. 

A bad feeling. 

I’ve already played this game, I realized. And it didn’t end well. 

But I kept on playing, waiting to see what would happen. 

My team won. We collected our packs. 

Then Kevin Flowers yelled, “Where’s my Blue Devils cap?” 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. 

This was that basketball game. How could I forget? 

Good old Tara. She’s done it again! “Nobody leaves until we find that 
cap!” I shut my eyes and handed over my pack. I knew what was coming. 
Might as well get it over with. 

Getting pounded to a pulp by Kevin Flowers hurt a lot. But at least the pain 
didn’t last long. 

The next morning when I woke up, it was all gone. The pain, the 
scabs, the bruises, everything. 

What day is it today? I wondered. It must be a few days before Kevin 
beat me up. 

I hope I won’t have to live through that a third time. 

But what will happen today? 

As I walked to school, I searched for clues. I tried to remember what 
had happened a day or two before Kevin beat me up. 

A math test? Maybe. I hoped not. But at least it would be easier this 
time around. I could even try to remember what the problems were and look 
up all the answers before the test! 

I was a little late today. Did that mean something? I wondered. Would 
I get into trouble? 

My homeroom teacher, Ms. Jacobson, had closed the classroom door. I 
opened it. The classroom was already full. 

Ms. Jacobson didn’t look up when I walked in. 

I must not be that late, I thought. Guess I won’t get in trouble after all. 

I started for the back of the room, where I usually sit. As I passed 
through the rows of desks, I glanced at the other kids. 

Who’s that guy? I wondered, staring at a chubby, blond kid I’d never 
seen before. 

Then I noticed a pretty girl with cornrows and three earrings in one 
ear. I’d never seen her before, either. 

I stared at all the faces in the classroom. None of the kids looked 
familiar. 

What’s going on? I wondered, feeling panic choke my throat. 

I don’t know any of these kids! 

Where’s my class? 

13 

Ms. Jacobson finally turned around. She stared at me. 

“Hey,” the blond kid shouted. “What’s a third-grader doing in here?” 

Everybody laughed. I couldn’t understand why. 

A third-grader? Who was he talking about? 

I didn’t see any third-graders. 

“You’re in the wrong classroom, young man,” Ms. Jacobson said to 
me. She opened the door, showing me the way out. 

“I think your room is downstairs on the second floor,” she added. 

“Thanks,” I said. I didn’t know what she was talking about. But I 
decided to go along with her. 

She shut the door behind her. I could hear the kids laughing behind the 
door. I hurried down the hall to the boy’s bathroom. I needed to splash some 
cold water on my face. Maybe that would help. 

I turned on the cold water tap. Then I glanced in the mirror, very 
quickly. 

The mirror seems a little higher than usual, I thought. 

I washed my hands in the cold water and splashed some on my face. 

The sink seems higher, too, I noticed. Strange. 

Am I in the right school? 

I glanced in the mirror again—and got the shock of my life. 

Was that me? 

I looked so young. 

I ran my hand through my short, brushlike brown hair. That dopey 
crew cut I’d had ah through the third grade. 

I don’t believe it, I thought, shaking my head. I’m a third-grader again! 

I’ve got my third-grade hair. My third-grade clothes. My third-grade 
body. 

But my seventh-grade brain. I think. 

Third grade. 

That means I’ve slipped back four years—in one night. 

My whole body started to tremble. I grabbed on to the sink to steady 

myself. 

I was suddenly paralyzed with fear. 

Things were speeding up. Now I lost whole years in one night! How 
old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I asked myself. 

Time was going backward faster and faster—and I still hadn’t found a 
way to stop it! 

I shut off the water and dried my face with a paper towel. I didn’t 
know what to do. I was so frightened, I couldn’t think straight. 

I walked back to my third-grade classroom. 

First I glanced through the window of the classroom door. There she 
was, Mrs. Harris, my old third-grade teacher. I’d know that helmet of silver 
hair anywhere. 

And I knew, as soon as I saw her, that I really had gone back in time 
four years. 

Because old Mrs. Harris shouldn’t have been in school that day. She’d 
retired two years earlier. When I was in fifth grade. 

I opened the door and stepped into the classroom. 

Mrs. Harris didn’t bat an eye. “Take a seat, Michael,” she commanded. 
She never mentioned the fact that I was late. 

Mrs. Harris always liked me. 

I checked out the other kids in the class. I saw Henry, Josh, Ceecee, 
and Mona, all little third-graders now. 

Mona wore her shiny brown hair in two braids. Ceecee wore hers in 
one of those stupid side ponytails. 

Josh didn’t have pimples on his forehead, I noticed. Henry had a 
sticker on the back of his hand—Donatello, from the Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Turtles. 

It was my class all right. 

I sat down at an empty desk in the back. My old desk. Right next to 
Henry. 

I glanced at him. He was picking his nose. 

Gross. I’d forgotten about that part of being a third-grader. 

“Michael, we’re on page 33 in your spelling book,” Mrs. Harris 
informed me. 

I reached inside the desk and found my spelling book. I opened it to 
page 33. 

“These are the words you’ll need to know for tomorrow’s spelling 
test,” Mrs. Harris announced. She wrote the words on the board, even 
though we could read them right there in the spelling book: Taste, sense, 
grandmother, easy, happiness. 

“Man,” Henry whispered to me. “These words are tough. Look how 
many letters there are in grandmother !” 

I didn’t know what to say to him. On my last spelling test (when I was 
still in the seventh grade), I’d had to spell psychology. Grandmother wasn’t 
a big challenge for me anymore. 

I zoned out for most of the day. I’d always wished school were easier, 
but not this easy. It was so babyish and boring. 

Lunch and recess were even worse. Josh chewed up a banana and 
stuck his tongue out at me. Henry painted his face with chocolate pudding. 

Finally the school day ended. I dragged my little third-grade body 
home. 

When I opened the front door, I heard a horrible screech. Bubba, just a 
kitten now, raced past me and out the door. Tara toddled after him. 

“Don’t tease the cat,” I scolded her. 

“You’re dumb,” she replied. 

I stared at Tara. She was three years old. 

I tried to remember: Had I liked her better when she was three? 

“Give me a piggyback!” she cried, tugging on my backpack. 

“Get off me,” I said. 

My pack dropped to the floor. I stooped to pick it up. She grabbed a 
hunk of my hair and yanked it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

She laughed and laughed. 

“That hurt!” I yelled, and shoved her—just as Mom stepped into the 
foyer. 

She rushed to Tara’s side. “Michael, don’t shove your sister. She’s only 
a little girl!” 

I stormed off to my room to think. 

No, I hadn ’t liked Tara better when she was three. She was as much of 
a brat as ever. 

She was born a brat, and she’d never grow out of it, I knew. She’d be a 
brat for the rest of her life, driving me crazy even when we’re old. 

If we ever get to be old, I thought with a shudder. We’ll never grow up 
at this rate. 

What am I going to do? I worried. I’ve slipped back in time four years! 
If I don’t do something fast, I’ll be a baby again. 

And then what? 

A cold shiver ran down my back. 

And then what? I asked myself. 

Will I disappear completely ? 

14 

I woke up in a panic every morning. 

What day was it? What year was it? 

I had no idea. 

I climbed out of bed—it seemed farther away from the floor than it 
used to—and padded across the hall to the bathroom. 

I stared in the mirror. How old was I? Younger than I’d been the day 
before, I knew that much. 

I went back to my room and began to get dressed. Mom had left my 
clothes for the day folded on a chair in my room. 

I examined the jeans I was supposed to wear. They had a picture of a 
cowboy on the back pocket. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. These jeans. The cowboy jeans. 

Second grade. 

That means I must be seven years old now. 

I stepped into the pants, thinking, I can’t believe I have to wear these 
stupid jeans again. 

Then I unfolded the shirt Mom had picked out for me. 

My heart sank when I saw it: A cowboy shirt—with fringe and 
everything. 

This is so embarrassing, I thought. How could I have ever let Mom do 
this to me? 

Deep down I knew that I used to like these clothes. I probably picked 
them out myself. 

But I couldn’t stand to admit that I’d ever been so stupid. 

Downstairs, Tara was still in her pajamas, watching cartoons. She was 
now two. 

When she saw me pass through the living room, she held out her arms 
to me. “Kiss! Kiss!” she called. 

She wanted me to kiss her? That didn’t seem like Tara. 

But maybe the two-year-old Tara was still sweet and innocent. Maybe, 
at two, Tara was actually likable. 

“Kiss! Kiss!” she begged. 

“Give poor Tara a kiss,” Mom called from the kitchen. “You’re her big 
brother, Michael. She looks up to you.” 

I sighed. “Okay.” 

I leaned down to give Tara a kiss on the cheek. With one chubby index 
finger, she poked me in the eye. 

“Ow!” I shrieked. 

Tara laughed. 

Same old terrible Tara, I thought as I stumbled into the kitchen, one 
hand over my sore eye. 

She was born bad! 

This time, at school, I knew which classroom to go to. 

There sat all my old friends, Mona and everybody, younger than ever. 
I’d forgotten how dopey everybody used to look when we were little. 

I sat through another dull day of learning stuff I already knew. 
Subtraction. How to read books with really big print. Perfecting my capital 
L. 

At least it gave me lots of time to think. 

Every day I tried to figure out what to do. But I never came up with an 
answer. 

Then I remembered Dad telling us he’d been wanting the cuckoo clock 
for fifteen years. 

Fifteen years! That’s it! The clock must be at that antique store! 

I’ll go find the clock, I decided. I couldn’t wait for school to end that 

day. 

I figured if I could turn the cuckoo around, time would go forward 
again. I knew the dial that showed the year must be going backwards, too. 
All I had to do was reset the date on the clock to the right year, and I’d be 
twelve again. 

I missed being twelve. Seven-year-olds don’t get away with much. 
Someone’s always watching you. 

When the school day ended, I started down the block toward my 
house. I knew the crossing guard was watching me, making sure I’d get 
home safely. 

But at the second block I dashed around the corner to the bus stop. I 
hoped the crossing guard hadn’t seen me. 

I stood behind a tree, trying not to be seen. 

A few minutes later, a bus pulled over. The doors opened with a hiss. I 
stepped aboard. 

The bus driver eyed me strangely. “Aren’t you a little young to be 
riding the bus by yourself?” he asked me. 

“Mind your own business,” I replied. 

He looked startled, so I added, “I’m meeting Daddy at his office. 
Mommy said it was okay.” 

He nodded and let the doors slide shut. 

I started to put three quarters in the coin slot, but the driver stopped me 
after two. 

“Whoa, there, buddy,” he said, pressing the third quarter into my palm. 
“Fare’s only fifty cents. Keep this quarter for a phone call.” 

“Oh, yeah. Right.” I’d forgotten. They raised the bus fare to 75 cents 
when I was eleven. But now I was only seven. I put the quarter in my 
pocket. 

The bus pulled away from the curb and chugged downtown. 

I remembered hearing Dad say that Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff was 
across the street from his office. I got off the bus at Dad’s block. 

I hoped Dad wouldn’t see me. I knew I’d be in big trouble if he did. 

I wasn’t allowed to ride the bus by myself when I was seven. 

I hurried past Dad’s building and crossed the street. On the corner 
stood a construction site; just a pile of bricks and rubble, really. Further 
down the block I saw a black sign with Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff 
painted on it in gold letters. 

My heart began to pound. 

I’m almost there, I thought. Soon everything will be all right. 

I’ll just walk into the store and find the clock. Then, when no one’s 
looking, I’ll turn the cuckoo around and fix the year. 

I won’t have to worry about waking up tomorrow morning as a three- 
year-old or something. My life will go back to normal. 

Life will seem so easy, I told myself, when time is moving forward the 
way it’s supposed to. Even with Tara around! 

I gazed through the big plate-glass window of the shop. There it stood, 
right in the window. The clock. 

My palms began to sweat, I felt so excited. 

I hurried to the shop door and turned the handle. 

It wouldn’t move. I jiggled it harder. 

The door was locked. 

Then I noticed a sign, tucked in the bottom corner of the door. 
It said, CLOSED FOR VACATION. 

15 

I let out a howl of frustration. “NOOO!” I cried. Tears sprang to my eyes. 
“No! Not after all this.” 

I banged my head against the door. I couldn’t stand it. 

Closed for vacation. 

How could I have such terrible luck? 

How long was Anthony planning to be on vacation? I wondered. How 
long will the shop be closed? 

By the time it reopens, I could be a baby! 

I gritted my teeth and thought, there’s no way I’m letting that happen. 
No way! 

I’ve got to do something. Anything. 

I pressed my nose against the shop window. The cuckoo clock was 
standing there, two feet in front of me. 

And I couldn’t get to it. 

The window stood between me and that clock. 

The window... 

Normally, I would never think of doing what I decided to do at that 
moment. 

But I was desperate. I had to reach that clock. 

It really was a matter of life and death! 

I strolled down the block to the construction site, trying to look casual. 
Trying not to look like a kid who was planning to break a shop window. 

I stuffed my hands in the pockets of my cowboy jeans and whistled. I 
was sort of grateful to be wearing this stupid cowboy outfit after all. It 
made me look innocent. 

Who would suspect a seven-year-old in a cowboy suit of trying to 
break into an antique shop? 

I kicked around a little dirt at the construction site. Kicked a few rocks. 
Nobody seemed to be working there. 

Slowly I made my way over to a pile of bricks. I glanced around to see 
if anybody saw me. 

The coast was clear. 

I picked up a brick and hefted it in my hand. It was very heavy. It 
wouldn’t be easy for me, in my little second-grade body, to throw it far. 

But I didn’t have to throw it far. Just through the window. 

I tried stuffing the brick in my pants pocket, but it was too big. So I 
carried it in both hands back to the shop. 

I tried to look as if it were perfectly normal for a boy to be carrying a 
brick down the street. 

A few adults quickly passed by. No one gave me a second glance. 

I stood in front of the shiny plate-glass window, weighing the brick in 
my hand. I wondered if a burglar alarm would go off when I broke the 
window. 

Would I be arrested? 

Maybe it wouldn’t matter. If I made time go to the present, I’d escape 
the police. 

Be brave, I told myself. Go for it! 

With both hands, I raised the brick over my head... 

.. .and someone grabbed me from behind. 

16 

“Help!” I shouted. I spun around. “Dad!” 

“Michael, what are you doing here?” Dad demanded. “Are you by 
yourself?” 

I let the brick fall to the sidewalk. He didn’t seem to see it. 

“I—I wanted to surprise you,” I lied. “I wanted to come visit you after 
school.” 

He stared at me as if he didn’t quite understand. So I added, for good 
measure, “I missed you, Daddy.” 

He smiled. “You missed me?” He was touched. I could tell. 

“How did you get here?” he asked. “On the bus?” 

I nodded. 

“You know you’re not allowed to ride the bus by yourself,” he said. 
But he didn’t sound angry. I knew that line about missing him would soften 
him up. 

Meanwhile, I still had the same major problem—getting my hands on 
the cuckoo clock. 

Could Dad help me? Would he? I was willing to try anything. “Dad,” I 
said, “that clock—” 

Dad put his arm around me. “Isn’t it a beauty? I’ve been admiring it 
for years.” 

“Dad, I’ve got to get to the clock,” I insisted. “It’s very, very 
important! Do you know when the store will open again? We’ve got to get 
that clock somehow!” 

Dad misunderstood me. He patted me on the head and said, “I know 
how you feel, Michael. I wish I could have the clock right now. But I can’t 
afford it. Maybe some day...” 

He pulled me away from the shop. “Come on—let’s go home. I 
wonder what’s for supper tonight?” 

I didn’t say another word all the way home in the car. All I could think 
about was the clock—and what would happen to me next. 

How old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I wondered. 

Or how young? 

17 

When I opened my eyes the next morning, everything had changed. 

The walls were painted baby blue. The bedspread and the curtains 
matched. The material was printed with bouncing kangaroos. On one wall 
hung a needlepoint picture of a cow. 

It wasn’t my room, but it looked familiar. 

Then I felt a lump in the bed. I reached under the kangaroo covers and 
pulled out Harold, my old teddy bear. 

I slowly understood. I was back in my old bedroom. 

How had I ended up there? It was Tara’s room now. 

I jumped out of bed. I was wearing Smurf pajamas. 

I swear I don’t remember ever liking Smurfs that much. 

I ran to the bathroom to look in the mirror. 

How old was I now? 

I couldn’t tell. I had to stand on the toilet seat to see my face. 

A bad sign. 

Yikes. I looked about five years old! 

I hopped off the toilet seat and hurried downstairs. 

“Hello, Mikey,” Mom said, squeezing me and giving me a big kiss. 

“Hi, Mommy,” I said. I couldn’t believe how babyish my voice 
sounded. 

Dad sat at the kitchen table, drinking coffee. He put down his mug and 
held out his arms. “Come give Daddy a good morning kiss,” he said. 

I sighed and forced myself to run into his arms and kiss him on the 
cheek. I’d forgotten how many stupid things little kids have to put up with. 

I ran out of the kitchen on my little five-year-old legs, through the 
living room, into the den, and back to the kitchen. Something was missing. 

No, someone was missing. 

Tara. 

“Sit still for a minute, sweetie,” Mom said, scooping me up and 
plopping me into a chair. “Want some cereal?” 

“Where’s Tara?” I demanded. 

“Who?” Mom replied. 

“Tara,” I repeated. 

Mom glanced at Dad. Dad shrugged. 

“You know,” I persisted. “My little sister.” 

Mom smiled. “Oh, Tara,” she said, seeming to understand at last. 

She glanced at Dad and mouthed, “Invisible friend.” 

“Huh?” Dad said out loud. “He has an invisible friend?” 

Mom frowned at him and gave me a bowl of cereal. “What does your 
friend Tara look like, Mikey?” 

I didn’t answer her. I was too shocked to speak. 

They don’t know who I’m talking about! I realized. 

Tara doesn’t exist. She hasn’t been born yet! 

For a brief moment, I felt a thrill. No Tara! I could go through this 
whole day without ever seeing, hearing, or smelling Tara the Terrible! How 
totally awesome! 

But then the real meaning of this sank in. 

One Webster kid had disappeared. 

I was next. 

After I’d finished my cereal, Mom took me upstairs to get dressed. She put 
on my shirt and pants and socks and shoes. She didn’t tie the shoes, though. 

“Okay, Mikey,” she said. “Let’s practice tying your shoes. Remember 
how we did it yesterday?” 

She took my shoelaces in her fingers and, as she tied them, chanted, 
“The bunny hops around the tree and ducks under the bush. Remember?” 

She sat back to watch me try to tie my other shoe. I could tell by the 
look on her face she didn’t expect me to get very far. 

I bent over and easily tied the shoe. I didn’t have time to fool around 
with this stuff. 

Mom stared at me in amazement. 

“Come on, Mom, let’s get going,” I said, straightening up. 

“Mikey!” Mom cried. “You did it! You tied your shoe for the first 
time!” She grabbed me and hugged me hard. “Wait till I tell Daddy!” 

I followed her downstairs, rolling my eyes. 

So I tied my shoe. Big deal! 

“Honey!” Mom called. “Mikey tied his shoe—all by himself!” 

“Hey!” Dad cried happily. He held up one hand so I could slap him 
five. “That’s my big boy!” 

This time I saw him mouth to Mom: “Took him long enough!” 

I was too worried to be insulted. 

Mom walked me to kindergarten. She told my teacher that I’d learned 
to tie my shoe. Big excitement all around. 

I had to sit around that stupid kindergarten all morning, finger¬ 
painting, and singing the ABC song. 

I knew I had to get back to that antique store. It was all I could think 
about. 

I’ve got to change that cuckoo clock, I thought desperately. Who 
knows? Tomorrow I might not know how to walk. 

But how would I get there? It had been hard enough to get downtown 
as a second-grader. As a kindergartner, it would be nearly impossible. 

And, besides, even if I could get on the bus without anybody asking 
questions, I didn’t have any money with me. 

I glanced at the teacher’s purse. Maybe I could steal a couple of 
quarters from her. She’d probably never know. 

But if she caught me, I’d be in really big trouble. And I had enough 
trouble now. 

I decided to sneak on to the bus somehow. I knew I could find a way. 

When the kindergarten torture was finally over for the day, I raced out 
of the building to catch the bus— 

—and bumped smack into Mom. 

“Hi, Mikey,” she said. “Did you have a nice day?” 

I forgot that she picked me up every day from kindergarten. 

She took my hand in her iron grip. There was no escape. 

18 

At least I’m here, I thought when I woke up the next morning. At least I’m 
still alive. 

But I’m four years old. 

Time is running out. 

Mom waltzed into my room, singing, “Good morning to you, good 
morning to you, good morning dear Mikey, good morning to you! Ready 
for nursery school?” 

Yuck. Nursery school. 

Things kept getting worse and worse. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. Mom dropped me off at nursery school 
with a kiss and her usual, “Have a nice day, Mikey!” 

I stalked to the nearest corner and sat. I watched the other little kids 
play. I refused to do anything. No singing. No painting. No sandbox. No 
games for me. 

“Michael, what’s the matter with you today?” the teacher, Ms. Sarton, 
asked. “Don’t you feel well?” 

“I feel okay,” I told her. 

“Well, then, why aren’t you playing?” She studied me for a minute, 
then added, “I think you need to play.” 

Without asking my permission or anything, she picked me up, carried 
me outside, and dumped me in the sandbox. 

“Mona will play with you,” she said brightly. 

Mona was very cute when she was four. Why didn’t I remember that? 

Mona didn’t say anything to me. She concentrated on the sand igloo 
she was building—at least I think it was supposed to be an igloo. It was 
round, anyway. I started to say hi to her, but suddenly felt shy. 

Then I caught myself. Why should I feel bashful with a four-year-old 

girl? 

Anyway, I reasoned, she hasn’t seen me in my underwear yet. That 
won’t happen for another eight years. 

“Hi, Mona,” I said. I cringed when I heard the babyish nursery school 
voice that came out of my mouth. But everyone else seemed to be used to 

it. 
Mona turned up her nose. “Eeew,” she sniffed. “A boy. I hate boys.” 

“Well,” I squeaked in my little boy voice, “if that’s the way you feel, 
forget I said anything.” 

Mona stared at me now, as if she didn’t quite understand what I had 

said. 

“You’re stupid,” she said. 

I shrugged and began to draw swirls in the sand with my chubby little 
finger. Mona dug a moat around her sand igloo. Then she stood up. “Don’t 
let anybody smash my sand castle,” she ordered. 

So it wasn’t an igloo. Guess I was wrong. 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

She toddled away. A few minutes later she returned, carrying a bucket. 

She carefully poured a little water into her sand castle moat. She 
dumped the rest on my head. 

“Stupid boy!” she squealed, running away. 

I rose and shook my wet head like a dog. I felt a strange urge to burst 
into tears and run to the teacher for help, but I fought it. 

Mona stood a few yards away from me, ready to run. “Nyah nyah!” 
she taunted. “Come and get me, Mikey!” 

I pushed my wet hair out of my face and stared at Mona. 

“You can’t catch me!” she called. 

What could I do? I had to chase after her. 

I began to run. Mona screamed and raced to a tree by the playground 
fence. Another girl stood there. Was that Ceecee? 

She wore thick glasses with pink rims, and underneath, a pink 
eyepatch. 

I’d forgotten about that eyepatch. She’d had to wear it until halfway 
through first grade. 

Mona screamed again and clutched at Ceecee. Ceecee clutched her 
back and screamed, too. 

I stopped in front of the tree. “Don’t worry. I won’t hurt you,” I 
assured them. 

“Yes you will!” Mona squealed. “Help!” 

I sat down on the grass to prove I didn’t want to hurt them. 

“He’s hurting us! He’s hurting us!” the girls shouted. They unclutched 

their hands and jumped on top of me. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Hold his arms!” Mona ordered. Ceecee obeyed. Mona started tickling 
me under the arms. 

“Stop it!” I begged. It was torture. “Stop it!” 

“No!” Mona cried. “That’s what you get for trying to catch us!” 

“I... didn’t...” I had trouble getting the words out while she tickled 
me. “I didn’t... try to...” 

“Yes you did!” Mona insisted. 

I’d forgotten that Mona used to be so bossy. It made me think twice. If 
I ever make it back to my real age, I thought, maybe I won’t like Mona so 
much anymore. 

“Please stop,” I begged again. 

“I’ll stop,” Mona said. “But only if you promise something.” 

“What?” 

“You have to climb that tree.” She pointed to the tree by the fence. 
“Okay?” 

I stared at the tree. Climbing it wouldn’t be such a big deal. “Okay,” I 
agreed. “Just get off me!” 

Mona stood up. Ceecee let go of my arms. 

I climbed to my feet and brushed the grass off my pants. 

“You’re scared,” Mona taunted. 

“I am not!” I replied. What a brat! She was almost as bad as Tara! 

Now Mona and Ceecee chanted, “Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

I ignored them. I grabbed the lowest branch of the tree and hauled 
myself up. It was harder than I thought it would be. My four-year-old body 
wasn’t very athletic. 

“Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

“Shut up!” I yelled down at them. “Can’t you see that I’m climbing the 
stupid tree? It doesn’t make sense to tease me about being scared.” 

They both gave me that blank look Mona had given me before. As if 
they didn’t understand what I was saying. 

“Mikey is scared,” they chanted again. 

I sighed and kept climbing. My hands were so small, it was hard to 
grip the branches. One of my feet slipped. 

Then a terrible thought popped into my head. 

Wait a minute. 

I shouldn’t be doing this. 

Isn’t nursery school the year I broke my arm? 
YEEEEOOOOOOWWWWW! 

19 

Morning again. 

I yawned and opened my eyes. I shook my left arm, the one I broke 
climbing that stupid tree the day before. 

The arm felt fine. Perfectly normal. Completely healed. 

I must have gone back in time again, I thought. That’s the good part 
about this messed-up time thing: I didn’t have to wait for my arm to heal. 

I wondered how far back I went. 

The sun poured in through the window of Tara’s—or my—room. It 
cast a weird shadow across my face: a striped shadow. 

I tried to roll out of bed. My body slammed against something. 

What was that? I rolled back to look. 

Bars! 

I was surrounded by bars! Was I in jail? 

I tried to sit up so I could see better. It wasn’t as easy as usual. My 
stomach muscles seemed to have grown weak. 

At last I managed to sit up and look around. 

I wasn’t in jail. I was in a crib! 

Crumpled up beside me was my old yellow blankie with the 
embroidered duck on it. I sat beside a small pile of stuffed animals. I was 
wearing a tiny white undershirt, and— 

Oh, no. 

I shut my eyes in horror. 

It can’t be. Please don’t let it be true! I prayed. 

I opened my eyes and checked to see if my prayer had come true. 

It hadn’t. 

I was wearing diapers. 

Diapers! 

How young am I now? How far back in time did I go? I wondered. 

“Are you awake, Mikey?” 

Mom came into the room. She looked pretty young. I didn’t remember 
ever seeing her this young before. 

“Did you get lots of sleep, sweetie pie?” Mom asked. She clearly 
expected no answer from me. Instead, she shoved a bottle of juice into my 
mouth. 

Yuck! A bottle! 

I pulled it out of my mouth and clumsily threw it down. 

Mom picked it up. “No, no,” she said patiently. “Bad little Mikey. 
Drink your bottle now. Come on.” 

She slid it back into my mouth. I was thirsty, so I drank the juice. 
Drinking from a bottle wasn’t that bad, once you got used to it. 

Mom left the room. I let the bottle drop. 

I had to know how old I was. I had to find out how much time I had 

left. 

I grabbed the bars of the crib and pulled myself to my feet. 

Okay, I thought. I can stand. 

I took a step. I couldn’t control my leg muscles very well. I toddled 
around the crib. 

I can walk, I realized. Unsteadily, but at least I can walk. 

I must be about one year old! 

I fell just then and banged my head against the side of the crib. Tears 
welled in my eyes. I started wailing, bawling. 

Mom ran into the room. “What’s the matter, Mikey? What happened?” 
She picked me up and started patting me on the back. 

I couldn’t stop crying. It was really embarrassing. 

What am I going to do? I thought desperately. In one night, I went 
back in time three years! 

I’m only one year old now. How old will I be tomorrow? 

A little shiver ran down my tiny spine. 

I’ve got to find a way to make time go forward again—today! I told 
myself. 

But what can I do? 

I’m not even in nursery school anymore. 

I’m a baby! 

20 

Mom said we were going out. She wanted to dress me. Then she uttered the 
dreaded words. 

“I bet I know what’s bothering you, Mikey. You probably need your 
diaper changed.” 

“No!” I cried. “No!” 

“Oh, yes you do, Mikey. Come on...” 

I don’t like to think about what happened after that. I’d rather block it 
out of my memory. 

I’m sure you understand. 

When the worst was over, Mom plopped me down in a playpen—more 
bars—while she bustled around the house. 

I shook a rattle. I batted at a mobile hanging over my head. I watched 
it spin around. 

I pressed buttons on a plastic toy. Different noises came out when I 
pressed different buttons. A squeak. A honk. A moo. 

I was bored out of my mind. 

Then Mom picked me up again. She bundled me into a warm sweater 
and a dopey little knit cap. Baby blue. 

“Want to see Daddy?” she cooed at me. “Want to see Daddy and go 
shopping?” 

“Da-da,” I replied. 

I’d planned to say, “If you don’t take me to Anthony’s Antiques, I’ll 
throw myself out of my crib and crack my head open.” 

But I couldn’t talk. It was so frustrating! 

Mom carried me out to the car. She strapped me into a baby seat in the 
back. I tried to say, “Not so tight, Mom!” It came out, “No no no no no!” 

“Don’t give me a hard time now, Mikey,” Mom said sharply. “I know 
you don’t like your car seat, but it’s the law.” She gave the strap an extra 
tug. 

Then she drove into town. 

At least there’s a chance, I thought. If we’re going to meet Dad, we’ll 
be near the antique store. Maybe, just maybe. 

Mom parked the car outside Dad’s office building. She unstrapped me 
from the car seat. 

I could move again. But not for long. She pulled a stroller out of the 
trunk, unfolded it, and strapped me in. 

Being a baby really is like being a prisoner, I thought as she wheeled 
me across the sidewalk. I never realized how awful it is! 

It was lunchtime. A stream of workers flowed out of the office 
building. Dad appeared and gave Mom a kiss. 

He squatted down to tickle me under the chin. “There’s my little boy!” 
he said. 

“Can you say hi to your daddy?” Mom prompted me. 

“Hi, Da-da,” I gurgled. 

“Hi, Mikey,” Dad said fondly. But when he stood up, he spoke quietly 
to Mom, as if I couldn’t hear. “Shouldn’t he being saying more words by 
now, honey? Ted Jackson’s kid is Mikey’s age, and he can say whole 
sentences. He can say ‘lightbulb’, and ‘kitchen’, and ‘I want my teddy 
bear.’” 

“Don’t start that again,” Mom whispered angrily. “Mikey is not slow.” 

I squirmed in my stroller, fuming. Slow! Who said I was slow? 

“I didn’t say he was slow, honey,” Dad went on. “I only said—” 

“Yes you did,” Mom insisted. “Yes you did! The other night, when he 
stuffed those peas up his nose, you said you thought we should have him 
tested!” 

I stuffed peas up my nose? I shuddered. 

Sure, stuffing peas up your nose is stupid. But I was only a baby. 
Wasn’t Dad getting carried away? 

I thought so. 

I wished I could tell them I would turn out all right—at least up to the 
age of twelve. I mean, I’m no genius, but I get mostly A’s and B’s. 

“Can we discuss this later?” Dad said. “I’ve only got an hour for 
lunch. If we’re going to find a dining room table, we’d better get moving.” 

“You brought it up,” Mom sniffed. She wheeled the stroller smartly 
around and began to cross the street. Dad followed us. 

I let my eyes rove along the storefronts across the street. An apartment 
building. A pawnshop. A coffee shop. 

Then I found what I was looking for: Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff. 

My heart leaped. The store still existed! I kept my eyes glued to that 

sign. 

Please take me in there, Mom, I silently prayed. Please please please! 
Mom steered me down the street. Past the apartment building. Past the 
pawnshop. Past the coffee shop. 

We stopped in front of Anthony’s. Dad stood in front of the window, 
hands in his pockets, gazing through the glass. Mom and I pulled up beside 
him. 

I couldn’t believe it. Finally, after all this time—some good luck! 

I stared through the window, searching for it. 

The clock. 

The window display was set up like an old-fashioned living room. My 
eyes roamed over the furniture: a wooden bookcase, a fringed table lamp, a 
Persian rug, an overstuffed armchair, and a clock... a table clock. Not the 
cuckoo clock. 

Not the right clock. 

My heart sank back to its normal low spot in my chest. 

It figures, I thought. Here I am, at the antique store, at last. 

And the clock isn’t here. 

21 

I felt like crying. 

I could have cried, too. Easily. 

After all, I was a baby. People expected me to cry. 

But I didn’t. Even though I looked like a baby, I was a twelve-year-old 
inside. I still had my pride. 

Dad stepped to the door and held it open for Mom and me. Mom 
pushed me inside. I sat strapped into the stroller. 

The shop was jammed with old furniture. A chubby man in his forties 
strolled down the aisle toward us. 

Behind him, down at the end of the aisle, in a corner at the back of the 
shop, I saw it. The clock. The clock. 

A squeal of excitement popped out of me. I began to rock in my 
stroller. I was so close! 

“May I help you?” the man asked Mom and Dad. 

“We’re looking for a dining room table,” Mom told him. 

I had to get out of that stroller. I had to get to that clock. 

I rocked harder, but it was no good. I was strapped in. “Let me out of 
this thing!” I shouted. 

Mom and Dad turned to look at me. “What’s he saying?” Dad asked. 

“It sounded like 'La ma la ma’,” the shopkeeper suggested. 

I rocked harder than ever and screamed. 

“He hates his stroller,” Mom explained. She leaned down and 
unbuckled the straps. “I’ll hold him for a few minutes. Then he’ll quiet 
down.” 

I waited until she held me in her arms. Then I screamed again and 
wriggled as hard as I could. 

Dad’s face reddened. “Michael, what is wrong with you?” 

“Down! Down!” I yelled. 

“All right,” Mom muttered, setting me down on the floor. “Now please 
stop screaming.” 

I quieted down immediately. I tested my wobbly, chubby little legs. 

They wouldn’t get me far, but they were all I had to work with. 

“Keep an eye on him,” the shopkeeper warned. “A lot of this stuff is 
breakable.” 

Mom grabbed my hand. “Come on, Mikey. Let’s go look at some 
tables.” 

She tried to lead me to a corner of the shop where several wooden 
tables stood. I whined and squirmed, hoping to get away. Her grip was too 
tight. 

“Mikey, shhh,” she said. 

I let her drag me to the tables. I glanced up at the cuckoo clock. It was 
almost noon. 

At noon, I knew, the cuckoo would pop out. It was my only chance to 
grab the bird and turn it around. 

I tugged on Mom’s hand. She tightened her grip. 

“What do you think of this one, honey?” Dad asked her, rubbing his 
hand along a dark wood table. 

“I think that wood’s too dark for our chairs, Herman,” Mom said. 
Another table caught her eye. As she moved toward it, I tried to slip my 
hand out of hers. No go. 

I toddled after her to the second table. I shot another glance at the 
clock. The minute hand moved. 

Two minutes to twelve. 

“We can’t be too picky, honey,” Dad said. “The Bergers are coming 
over Saturday night—two days from now—for a dinner party. We can’t 
have a dinner party without a dining room table!” 

“I know that, dear. But there’s no point in buying a table we don’t 
like.” 

Dad’s voice began to rise. Mom’s mouth got that hard, set look to it. 

Aha. A fight. This was my chance. 

Dad was shouting. “Why don’t we just spread a blanket out on the 
floor and make them eat there? We’ll call it a picnic!” 

Mom finally relaxed her grip on my hand. 

I slipped away and toddled as fast as I could toward the clock. 

The clock’s minute hand moved again. 

I toddled faster. 

I heard my parents shouting at each other. “I won’t buy an ugly table, 

and that’s that!” Mom cried. 

Please don’t let them notice me, I prayed. Not yet. 

I reached the cuckoo clock at last. I stood in front of it and stared up at 
the clock. 

The cuckoo’s window was far above me, out of reach. 

The minute hand clicked again. The clock’s gong sounded. 

The cuckoo’s window slid open. The cuckoo popped out. 

It cuckooed once. 

It cuckooed twice. 

I stared up at it, helpless. 

A twelve-year-old boy trapped in a baby’s body. 

I stared grimly up at the clock. 

Somehow, I had to reach that cuckoo. 

Somehow, I had to turn it around. 

22 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

Three, four. 

I knew that once it reached twelve, I was doomed. 

The cuckoo bird would disappear. 

And so would my last chance to save myself. 

In a day or so, I would disappear. Disappear forever. 

Frantic, I glanced around for a ladder, a stool, anything. 

The closest thing was a chair. 

I toddled over to the chair and pushed it toward the clock. It moved 
about an inch. 

I leaned, putting all my weight into it. I figured I weighed about 
twenty pounds. 

But it was enough. The chair began to slide across the floor. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Five, six. 

I shoved the chair up against the clock. The seat of the chair came up 
to my chin. 

I tried to pull myself up onto the seat. My arms were too weak. 

I planted a baby sneaker against the chair leg. I boosted myself up. I 
grabbed a spindle at the back of the chair and heaved my body onto the 
seat. 

I made it! 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Seven, eight. 

I got to my knees. I got to my feet. 

I reached up to grab the cuckoo. I stretched as tall as I could. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Nine, ten. 

Reaching, reaching. 

Then I heard the shopkeeper shout, “Somebody grab that baby!” 

23 

I heard pounding footsteps. 

They were running to get me. 

I strained to reach the cuckoo. Just another inch... 

Cuckoo! 

Eleven. 

Mom grabbed me. She lifted me up. 

For one second, the cuckoo flashed within my reach. 

I grasped it and turned the head around. 

Cuckoo! 

Twelve. 

The cuckoo slid back into the clock, facing the right way. 

Forward. 

I wriggled out of Mom’s arms, landing on the chair. 

“Mikey, what’s gotten into you?” she cried. She tried to grab me again. 
I dodged her. I reached around to the side of the clock. 

I saw the little dial that told the year. I felt for the button that 
controlled it. I could just reach it, standing on the chair. 

I slammed my hand on the button, carefully watching the years whiz 

by. 

I heard the shopkeeper yelling, “Get that baby away from my clock!” 
Mom grabbed me again, but I screamed. I screamed so loudly, it 
startled her. She let her hands drop. 

“Mikey, let go of that!” Dad ordered. 

I took my hand off the button. The dial showed the right year. The 
present year. The year I turned twelve. 

Mom made another grab for me. This time I let her pick me up. 

It doesn’t matter what happens now, I thought. Either the clock will 
work, and I’ll go back to being twelve again... 

.. .or else it won’t work. And then what? 

Then I’ll disappear. Vanish in time. Forever. 

I waited. 

“I’m so sorry,” Dad said to the shopkeeper. “I hope the baby didn’t 
damage the clock.” 

The muscles in my neck tensed. 

Nothing was happening. Nothing. 

I waited another minute. 

The shopkeeper inspected the clock. “Everything seems okay,” he told 
Dad. “But he changed the year. I’ll have to change it back.” 

“NO!” I wailed. “No! Don’t!” 

“That boy could use a little discipline, if you ask me,” the shopkeeper 

said. 

He reached his hand around the side of the clock and started to set 
back the year. 

24 

“Nooo!” I wailed. “Nooo!” 

That’s it, I realized. I’m doomed. I’m a goner. 

But the shopkeeper never touched the button. 

A bright white light flashed. I felt dizzy, stunned. I blinked. And 
blinked again. 

Several seconds passed before I could see anything. 

I felt cool, damp air. I smelled a musty odor. A garage smell. 

“Michael? Do you like it?” Dad’s voice. 

I blinked. My eyes adjusted. I saw Dad and Mom. Looking older. 
Looking normal. 

We were standing in the garage. Dad was holding a shiny new 21- 
speed bike. 

Mom frowned. “Michael, are you feeling all right?” 

They were giving me the bike. It was my birthday! 

The clock worked! I’d brought myself back to the present! 

Almost to the present. Up to my twelfth birthday. 

Close enough. 

I felt so happy, I thought I’d explode. 

I threw myself at Mom and hugged her hard. Then I hugged Dad. 

“Wow,” Dad gushed. “I guess you really do like the bike!” 

I grinned. “I love it!” I exclaimed. “I love everything! I love the whole 
world!” 

Mainly, I loved being twelve again. I could walk! I could talk! I could 
ride the bus by myself! 

Whoa! Wait a minute, I thought. It’s my birthday. 

Don’t tell me I have to live through it again. 

I tensed my shoulders and steeled myself for the horrible day to come. 

It’s worth it, I told myself. It’s worth it if it means time will go forward 
again, the way it’s supposed to. 

I knew too well what would happen next. 

Tara. 

She’d try to get on my bike. The bike would fall over and get 
scratched. 

Okay, Tara, I thought. I’m ready. Come and do your worst. 

I waited. 

Tara didn’t come. 

In fact, she didn’t seem to be around at all. 

She wasn’t in the garage. No sign of her. 

Mom and Dad oohed and ahhed over the bike. They didn’t act as if 
anything was wrong. Or anyone was missing. 

“Where’s Tara?” I asked them. 

They looked up. 

“Who?” They stared at me. 

“Did you invite her to your party?” Mom asked. “I don’t remember 
sending an invitation to a Tara.” 

Dad grinned at me. “Tara? Is that some girl you have a crush on, 
Michael?” 

“No,” I answered, turning red. 

It was as if they’d never heard of Tara. Never heard of their own 
daughter. 

“You’d better go upstairs and get ready for your party, Michael,” Mom 
suggested. “The kids will be here soon.” 

“Okay.” I stumbled into the house, dazed. 

“Tara?” I called. 

Silence. 

Could she be hiding somewhere? 

I searched through the house. Then I checked her room. I threw open 
the door. I expected to see a messy, all-pink girl’s room with a white canopy 
bed. 

Instead, I saw two twin beds, neatly made with plaid covers. A chair. 
An empty closet. No personal stuff. 

Not Tara’s room. 

A guest room. 

Wow. I was amazed. 

No Tara. Tara doesn’t exist. 

How did that happen? 

I wandered into the den, looking for the cuckoo clock. 

It wasn’t there. 

For a second, I felt a shock of fear. Then I calmed down. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. We don’t have the clock yet. Not on my 
birthday. Dad bought it a couple of days later. 

But I still didn’t understand. What had happened to my little sister? 
Where was Tara? 

My friends arrived for the party. We played CDs and ate tortilla chips. 
Ceecee pulled me into a corner and whispered that Mona had a crush on 
me. 

Wow. I glanced at Mona. She turned a little pink and glanced away, 
shyly. 

Tara wasn’t there to embarrass me. It made a big difference. 

My friends all brought presents. I actually opened them myself. No 
Tara to open my presents before I get to them. 

At cake time, I carried the cake into the dining room and set it in the 
middle of the table. No problem. I didn’t fall and make a fool out of myself. 
Because Tara wasn’t there to trip me. 

It was the greatest birthday party I’d ever had. It was probably the 
greatest day I’d ever lived—because Tara wasn’t there to ruin it. 

I could get used to this, I thought. 

A few days later, the cuckoo clock was delivered to our house. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed, as he had the first time. “Anthony sold 
me the clock cheap. He said he’d discovered a tiny flaw on it.” 

The flaw. I’d almost forgotten about it. 

We still didn’t know what it was. But I couldn’t help wondering if it 
had something to do with Tara’s disappearance. 

Maybe the clock didn’t work perfectly in some way? Maybe it 
somehow left Tara behind? 

I hardly dared to touch the clock. I didn’t want to set off any more 
weird time trips. 

But I had to know what had happened. 

I carefully studied the face of the clock again, and all the decorations. 
Then I stared at the dial that showed the year. 

It was properly set at the current year. 

Without really thinking about it, I scanned twelve places down the dial 

to find the year I was born. 

There it was. 

Then I scanned my eyes back up to the dial. 
1992.1993.1994.1995.1997... 

Wait a second. 

Didn’t I just skip a year? 

I checked the dates again. 

Nineteen ninety-six was missing. There was no 1996 on the dial. 

And 1996 was the year Tara was born! 

“Dad!” I cried. “I found the flaw! Look—there’s a year missing on the 
dial.” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Good job, son! Wow, isn’t that funny?” 

To him it was just a funny mistake. 

He had no idea his daughter had never been born. 

I suppose there’s some way to go back in time and get her. 

I guess I probably ought to do that. 

And I will. 

Really. 

One of these days. 

Maybe. 

MONSTER BLOOD III 

1 

“The Monster Blood! It’s growing again!” Evan Ross stared at the quivering 
green blob in his driveway. It looked like an enormous wad of sticky green 
bubble gum, and was bigger than a beach ball. Bigger than two beach balls! 

The green blob trembled and shook as if it were breathing hard. It made 
disgusting sucking sounds. Then it started to bounce. 

Evan took a step back. How did the sticky goo get out of its can? he 
wondered. Who left it in the driveway? Who opened the can? 

Evan knew that once Monster Blood starts to grow, it can’t be stopped. It 
will grow and grow, and suck up everything in its path. 

Evan knew this from painful experience. 

He had seen a giant glob of Monster Blood swallow kids whole. And he 
had seen what had happened when his dog, Trigger, had eaten Monster Blood. 
The cocker spaniel had grown and grown and grown—until he was big enough 
to pick up Evan in his teeth and bury him in the backyard! 

A small chunk of Monster Blood had turned Cuddles, the tiny hamster in 
Evan’s class, into a raging, growling monster. The giant hamster—bigger than a 
gorilla—had roared through the school, destroying everything in its path! 

This gunk is dangerous, Evan thought. It may be the most dangerous green 
slimy stuff on Earth! 

So how did it get in Evan’s driveway? 

And what was he going to do about it? 

The Monster Blood bounced and hiccupped. It made more disgusting 
sucking sounds. 

As it bounced, it picked up sticks and gravel from the driveway. They stuck 
to its side for a moment, before being sucked into the center of the giant wet ball. 

Evan took another step back as the ball slowly started to roll. “Oh, noooo.” 
Alow moan escaped his throat. “Please. Noooo.” 

The Monster Blood rolled over the driveway toward Evan, picking up speed 
as it moved. Evan had tossed one of his Rollerblades by the side of the house. 
The green goo swallowed up the skate with a loud thwoccccck. 

Evan gulped as he saw the skate disappear into the bouncing green ball. “I 
—I’m next!” he stammered out loud. 

No way! he told himself. I’m getting out of here. 

He turned to run—and went sprawling over the other skate. 

“Ow!” he cried out as he fell hard on his elbows and knees. Pain shot up his 
arms. He had landed on both funny bones. 

Shaking away the tingling, he scrambled to his knees. He turned in time to 
see the seething goo roll over him. 

He opened his mouth to scream. But the scream was trapped inside him as 
the heavy green gunk splatted over his face. 

He thrashed both arms wildly. Kicked his feet. 

But the sticky goo wrapped around him. Pulling him. Pulling him in. 

I—I can’t breathe! he realized. 

And, then, everything turned green. 

2 

“Evan—stop daydreaming and eat your Jell-O,” Mrs. Ross scolded. 

Evan shook his head hard. The daydream had seemed so real. His mother’s 
voice still sounded far away. 

“Evan—hurry. Eat the Jell-O. You’ll be late.” 

“Uh... Mom...” Evan said softly. “Could you do me a really big favor?” 

“What favor?” his mother asked him patiently, pushing back her straight 
blond hair into a ponytail. 

“Could we never have green Jell-0 again? Could you just buy other colors? 
Not green?” 

He stared at the shimmering, quivering green mound of Jell-0 in the glass 
bowl in front of him on the kitchen counter. 

“Evan, you’re weird,” Mrs. Ross replied, rolling her eyes. “Hurry up. 
Kermit is probably wondering where you are.” 

“Kermit is probably busy blowing up his house,” 

Evan replied glumly. He pulled the spoon out of the Jell-O. It made a gross 
sucking sound. 

“All the more reason for you to hurry over there,” his mother said sharply. 
“You are responsible for him, Evan. You are in charge of your cousin until his 
mom gets home from work.” 

Evan shoved the green Jell-0 away. “I can’t eat this,” he murmured. “It 
makes me think of Monster Blood.” 

Mrs. Ross made a disgusted face. “Don’t mention that slimy stuff.” 

Evan climbed down from the stool. Mrs. Ross pushed a hand gently through 
his curly, carrot-colored hair. “It’s nice of you to help out,” she said softly. “Aunt 
Dee can’t really afford a babysitter.” 

“Kermit doesn’t need a baby-sitter. He needs a keeper!” Evan grumbled. 
“Or maybe a trainer. A guy with a whip and a chair. Like in the circus.” 

“Kermit looks up to you,” Mrs. Ross insisted. 

“Only because he’s two feet tall!” Evan exclaimed. “I can’t believe he’s my 
cousin. He’s such a nerd.” 

“Kermit isn’t a nerd. Kermit is a genius!” Mrs. Ross declared. “He’s only 
eight, and already he’s a scientific genius.” 

“Some genius,” Evan grumbled. “Mom, yesterday he melted my sneakers.” 

Mrs. Ross’ pale blue eyes grew wide. “He what?” 

“He made one of his concoctions. It was a bright yellow liquid. He said it 
would toughen up the sneakers so they would never wear out.” 

“And you let him pour the stuff on your sneakers?” Evan’s mother 
demanded. 

“I didn’t have a choice,” Evan replied unhappily. “I have to do everything 
Kermit wants. If I don’t, he tells Aunt Dee I was mean to him.” 

Mrs. Ross shook her head. “I wondered why you came home barefoot 
yesterday.” 

“My sneakers are still stuck to Kermit’s basement floor,” Evan told her. 
“They melted right off my feet.” 

“Well, be careful over there, okay?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. He pulled his Atlanta Braves cap over his head, 
waved to his mother, and headed out the back door. 

It was a warm spring day. Two black-and-yellow monarch butterflies 
fluttered over the flower garden. The bright new leaves on the trees shimmered 
in the sunlight. 

Evan stopped at the bottom of the driveway and lowered the baseball cap to 
shield his eyes from the sun. He squinted down the street, hoping to see his 
friend Andy. 

No sign of her. 

Disappointed, he kicked a large pebble along the curb and started to make 
his way toward Kermit’s house. Aunt Dee, Kermit’s mom, paid Evan three 
dollars an hour to watch Kermit after school every afternoon. Three hundred 
dollars an hour would be a lot more fair! he thought angrily. 

But Evan was glad to earn the money. He was saving for a new Walkman. 
Trigger had mistaken his old Walkman for a dog bone. 

But Evan was earning every penny. Kermit was impossible. That was the 
only word for him. Impossible. 

He didn’t want to play video games. He didn’t want to watch TV. He 
refused to go outside and play ball or toss a Frisbee around. He didn’t even want 
to sneak down to the little grocery on the corner and load up on candy bars and 
potato chips. 

All he wanted to do was stay downstairs in his dark, damp basement lab 
and mix beakers of chemicals together. “My experiments,” he called them. “I 

have to do my experiments.” 

Maybe he is a genius, Evan thought bitterly. But that doesn’t make him any 
fun. He’s just impossible. 

Evan definitely wasn’t enjoying his after-school baby-sitting job watching 
Kermit. In fact, he had several daydreams in which Kermit tried one of his own 
mixtures and melted to the basement floor, just like Evan’s sneakers. 

Some afternoons, Andy came along, and that made the job a little easier. 
Andy thought Kermit was really weird, too. But at least when she was there, 
Evan had someone to talk to, someone who didn’t want to talk about mixing 
aluminum pyrite with sodium chlorobenzadrate. 

What is Kermit’s problem, anyway? Evan wondered as he crossed the street 
and made his way through backyards toward Kermit’s house. Why does he think 
mixing is so much fun? Why is he always mixing this with that and that with 
this? 

I can’t even mix chocolate milk! 

Kermit’s house came into view two yards down. It was a two-story white 
house with a sloping black roof. 

Evan picked up his pace. He was about fifteen minutes late. He hoped that 
Kermit hadn’t already gotten into some kind of trouble. 

He had just pushed his way though the prickly, low hedges that fenced in 
Kermit’s yard when a familiar gruff voice made him freeze. 

“Evan—were you looking at my yard?” 

“Huh?” Evan recognized the voice at once. It belonged to Kermit’s next- 
door neighbor, a kid from Evan’s school. 

His name was Conan Barber. But the kids at school all called him Conan 
the Barbarian. That’s because he had to be the biggest, meanest kid in Atlanta. 
Maybe in the universe. 

Conan sat on top of the tall white fence that separated the yards. His cold 
blue eyes glared down at Evan. “Were you looking at my yard?” Conan 
demanded. 

“No way!” Evan’s voice came out in a squeak. 

“You were looking at my yard. That’s trespassing,” Conan accused. He 
leaped down from the high fence. He was big and very athletic. His hobby was 
leaping over kids he had just pounded into the ground. 

Conan wore a gray muscle shirt and baggy, faded jeans cutoffs. He also 
wore a very mean expression. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute, Conan!” Evan protested. “I was looking at Kermit’s 
yard. I never look at your yard. Never!” 

Conan stepped up to Evan. He stuck out his chest and bumped Evan hard, 
so hard he stumbled backwards. 

That was Conan’s other hobby. Bumping kids with his chest. His chest 
didn’t feel like a chest. It felt like a truck. 

“Why don’t you look at my yard?” Conan demanded. “Is there something 
wrong with my yard? Is my yard too ugly? Is that why you never look at it?” 

Evan swallowed hard. It began to dawn on him that maybe Conan was 
itching for a fight. 

Before he could answer Conan, he heard a scratchy voice reply for him. 
“It’s a free country, Conan!” 

“Oh, noooo,” Evan groaned, shutting his eyes. 

Evan’s cousin, Kermit, stepped out from behind Evan. He was tiny and 
skinny. A very pale kid with a pile of white-blond hair, and round black eyes 
behind big red plastic-framed glasses. Evan always thought his cousin looked 
like a white mouse wearing glasses. 

Kermit wore enormous red shorts that came down nearly to his ankles, and 
a red-and-black Braves T-shirt. The short sleeves hung down past the elbows of 
his skinny arms. 

“What did you say?” Conan demanded, glaring down menacingly at 
Kermit. 

“It’s a free country!” Kermit repeated shrilly. “Evan can look at any yard he 
wants to!” 

Conan let out an angry growl. As he lumbered forward to pound Evan’s 
face into mashed potatoes, Evan turned to Kermit. “Thanks a lot,” he told his 
cousin. “Thanks for all your help.” 

“Which way do you want your nose to slant?” Conan asked Evan. “To the 
right or to the left?” 

3 

“Don’t do it!” Kermit shrieked in his scratchy mouse voice. 

Conan raised a huge fist. With his other hand, he grabbed the front of 
Evan’s T-shirt. He glared down at Kermit. “Why not?” he growled. 

“Because I have this!” Kermit declared. 

“Huh?” Conan let go of Evan’s shirt. He stared at the glass beaker Kermit 
had raised in both hands. The beaker was half-full with a dark blue liquid. 

Conan let out a sigh and swept a beefy hand back through his wavy blond 
hair. His blue eyes narrowed at Kermit. “What’s that? Your baby formula?” 

“Ha-ha,” Kermit replied sarcastically. 

If Kermit doesn’t shut up, we’re both going to get pounded! Evan realized. 
What is the little creep trying to do? 

He tugged at Kermit’s sleeve, trying to pull him away from Conan. But 
Kermit ignored him. He raised the beaker close to Conan’s face. 

“It’s an Invisibility Mixture,” Kermit said. “If I pour it on you, you’ll 
disappear.” 

We should both disappear! Evan thought frantically. He let his eyes dart 
around the backyard. Maybe I can make it through that hedge before Conan 
grabs me, he thought. If I can get around the next house and down to the street, I 
might escape. 

But would it be right to leave little Kermit at Conan’s mercy? 

Evan sighed. He couldn’t abandon his cousin like that. Even though Kermit 
was definitely asking for it. 

“You’re going to make me invisible with that stuff?” Conan asked Kermit 
with a sneer. 

Kermit nodded. “If I pour a few drops on you, you’ll disappear. Really. I 
mixed it myself. It works. It’s a mixture of Teflon dioxinate and magnesium 
parasulfidine.” 

“Yeah. Right,” Conan muttered. He peered at the liquid in the beaker. 
“What makes it blue?” 

“Food coloring,” Kermit replied. Then he lowered his squeaky voice, trying 
to sound tough. “You’d better go home now, Conan. I don’t want to have to use 
this stuff.” 

Oh, wow! Evan thought, pulling the bill of his Braves cap down over his 
face. I can’t bear to watch this. This is sad. Really sad. Kermit is such a jerk. 

“Go ahead. Try it,” Evan heard Conan say. 

Evan raised the cap so he could see. “Uh... Kermit... maybe we should go 
in the house now,” he whispered. 

“Go ahead. Make me invisible,” Conan challenged. 

“You really want me to?” Kermit demanded. 

“Yeah,” Conan replied. “I want to be invisible. Go ahead, Kermit. Pour it on 
me. Make me disappear. I dare you.” 

Kermit raised the beaker over the gray muscle shirt that covered Conan’s 
broad chest. 

“Kermit—no!” Evan pleaded. “Don’t! Please don’t!” 

Evan made a frantic grab for the beaker. 

Too late. 

Kermit turned the beaker over and let the thick blue liquid pour onto the 
front of Conan’s shirt. 

4 

Out of the corner of his eye, Evan saw a monarch butterfly fluttering over the 
low hedges. I wish I were a butterfly, he thought. I wish I could flap my wings 
and float away. 

As far away from here as I can get! 

The blue liquid oozed down the front of Conan’s muscle shirt. All three 
boys stared at it in silence. 

“Well? I’m not disappearing,” Conan murmured, narrowing his eyes 
suspiciously at Kermit. 

Then his shirt started to shrink. 

“Hey—!” Conan cried angrily. He struggled to pull off the shrinking shirt. 
It got tinier and tinier. “It—it’s choking me!” Conan shrieked. 

“Wow!” Kermit squeaked, his black eyes glowing excitedly behind his 
glasses. “This is cool!” 

Evan gazed in amazement as the muscle shirt shrank down to a tiny shred 
of cloth. And then it vanished completely. 

Now Conan stood in front of them bare-chested. 

A heavy silence fell over the backyard. All three of them stared at Conan’s 
broad, bare chest for a few moments. 

Conan broke the silence. “That was my best muscle shirt,” he told Evan 
through gritted teeth. 

“Uh-oh,” Evan uttered. 

“I like your nose that way,” Andy told Evan. “It kind of tilts in both directions at 
once.” 

“I think it will go back to the way it was,” Evan replied, patting his nose 
tenderly. “At least it stopped hurting so much.” He sighed. “All the other cuts 
and bruises will go away, too. In time.” 

It was two days later. Evan sat across from Andy in the lunchroom at 
school. He stared down sadly at the tuna fish sandwich his mom had packed for 
him. He hadn’t taken a bite. His mouth wasn’t working exactly right yet. It kept 
going sideways instead of up and down. 

Andy wiped a chunk of egg salad off her cheek. She had short brown hair 

and big brown eyes that stared across the table at Evan. 

Andy didn’t dress like most of the other kids in their sixth-grade class. She 
liked bright colors. A lot of bright colors. 

Today she wore a yellow vest over a magenta T-shirt and orange Day-Glo 
shorts. 

When Andy moved to Atlanta in the beginning of the school year, some 
kids made fun of her colorful clothes. But they didn’t anymore. Now everyone 
agreed that Andy had style. And a few kids were even copying her look. 

“So what happened after Conan the Barbarian pounded your body into 
coleslaw?” Andy asked. She pulled a handful of potato chips from her bag and 
shoved them one by one into her mouth. 

Evan took a few bites from a section of his tuna fish sandwich. It took him 
a long time to swallow. “Conan made me promise I’d never look in his yard 
again,” he told Andy. “I had to raise my right hand and swear. Then he went 
home.” 

Evan sighed. He touched his sore nose again. “After Conan left, Kermit 
helped me hobble into his house,” Evan continued. “A little while later, Aunt 
Dee got home.” 

“Then what happened?” Andy asked, crinkling up the empty potato chip 

bag. 

“She saw that I was messed up,” Evan replied. “So she asked what 
happened.” 

Evan shook his head and scowled. “And before I could say anything, that 
little rat Kermit piped up and said, 'Evan picked a fight with Conan.’” 

“Oh, wow,” Andy murmured. 

“And Aunt Dee said, ‘Well, Evan, if you’re just going to get into fights 
instead of taking care of Kermit, I’m going to have to talk to your mom about 
you. Maybe you’re not mature enough for this job.’” 

“Oh, wow,” Andy repeated. 

“And the whole thing was Kermit’s fault!” Evan shouted, pounding his fist 
so hard on the table that his milk carton tipped over. Milk spilled over the 
tabletop, onto the front of his jeans. 

Evan was so upset, he didn’t even move out of the way. “And do you know 
the worst thing?” Evan demanded. “The worst thing?” 

“What?” Andy asked. 

“Kermit did it deliberately. He knew what that blue mixture would do. He 

knew it would shrink Conan’s shirt. Kermit wanted me to get pounded by 
Conan. He did the whole thing to get me in trouble with Conan.” 

“How do you know?” Andy asked. 

“The smile,” Evan told her. 

“Huh? What smile?” 

“The smile on Kermit’s face. You know that twisted little smile he has 
where his two front teeth stick out? That’s the smile he had when he helped me 
back to the house.” 

Andy tsk-tsked. 

Evan finished the section of tuna fish sandwich. “Is that all you’re going to 
say?” he snapped. 

“What can I say?” Andy replied. “Your cousin, Kermit, is a weird little 
dude. I think you should teach him a lesson. Pay him back.” 

“Huh?” Evan gaped at her. “How do I do that?” 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe you could... uh...” Her dark eyes 
suddenly flashed with excitement. “I know! Doesn’t he have a snack after school 
every day? You could slip some Monster Blood into his food.” 

Evan gulped and jumped to his feet. “Hey—no way! No way, Andy!” he 
shouted. 

Several kids turned to stare at Evan, startled by his loud cries. 

“Don’t even think it!” Evan shouted, ignoring the stares. “No Monster 
Blood. Ever! I never want to hear those words again!” 

“Okay, okay!” Andy cried. She raised both hands, as if to shield herself 
from him. 

“By the way,” Evan said, a little calmer, “where is the Monster Blood? 
Where did you hide it? You didn’t take any of it out—did you?” 

“Well...” Andy replied, lowering her eyes. A devilish grin spread across her 
face. “I put a little bit of it in the tuna fish sandwich you just ate.” 

5 

Evan let out a cry so loud, it made two kids fall off their chairs. Two other kids 
dropped their lunch trays. 

His eyes bulged and his voice rose higher than the gym teacher’s whistle. 
“You—you—you—!” he sputtered, grabbing his throat. 

Andy laughed. She pointed at his chair. “Evan, sit down. I was only 
joking.” 

“Huh?” 

“You heard me,” Andy said. “It was a joke. The Monster Blood is home, 
safe and sound.” 

Evan let out a long sigh. He sank back into the chair. He didn’t care that he 
was sitting in the milk he had spilled. 

“Annndrea,” he said unhappily, stretching out the word. “Annnndrea, that 
wasn’t funny.” 

“Sure it was,” Andy insisted. “And don’t call me Andrea. You know I hate 
that name.” 

“Andrea. Andrea. Andrea,” Evan repeated, paying her back for her mean 
joke. He narrowed his eyes at her sternly. “That new can of Monster Blood your 
parents sent you from Europe—it really is hidden away?” 

Andy nodded. “On the top shelf of a closet in the basement. Way in the 
back,” she told him. “The can is shut tight. No way the stuff can get out.” 

He stared hard at her, studying her face. 

“Don’t look at me like that!” she cried. She balled up the sandwich tinfoil 
and tossed it at him. “I’m telling the truth. The Monster Blood is totally hidden 
away. You don’t have to worry about it.” 

Evan relaxed. He pulled the Fruit Roll-Up from his lunch bag and started to 
unwrap it. “You owe me now,” he said softly. 

“Excuse me?” 

“You owe me for playing that stupid joke,” Evan said. 

“Oh, yeah? What do I have to do?” Andy demanded. 

“Come with me after school. To Kermit’s,” Evan said. 

Andy made a disgusted face. 

“Please,” Evan added. 

“Okay,” she said. “Kermit isn’t that bad when I’m around.” 

Evan held up the sticky Fruit Roll-Up. “Want this? I begged my mom not to 
buy the green ones!” 

* * * 

After school, Evan and Andy walked together to Kermit’s house. It was a gray 
day, threatening rain. The air felt heavy and wet, as humid as summer. 

Evan led the way across the street. He started to cut through the backyards 
—but stopped. “Let’s go the front way,” he instructed. “Conan might be hanging 
out in back. Waiting for us.” 

“Don’t say us,” Andy muttered. She shifted her backpack to the other 
shoulder. She scratched her arm. “Ow. Look at this.” 

Evan lowered his eyes to the large red bump on Andy’s right arm. “What is 
that? A mosquito bite?” 

Andy scratched it some more. “I guess so. It itches like crazy.” 

“You’re not supposed to scratch it,” Evan told her. 

“Thanks, Doc,” she replied sarcastically. She scratched it even harder to 
annoy him. 

A few sprinkles of rain came down as they made their way up Kermit’s 
driveway. Evan opened the front door and stepped into the living room. 

“Kermit—are you here?” 

No reply. 

A sour smell attacked Evan’s nostrils. He pressed his fingers over his nose. 
“Yuck. Do you smell that?” 

Andy nodded, her face twisted in disgust. “I think it’s coming from the 
basement.” 

“For sure,” Evan muttered. “Kermit must already be in his lab.” 

“Kermit? Hey—Kermit, what are you doing down there?” Evan called out. 

Holding their noses, they made their way quickly down the stairs. The 
basement was divided into two rooms. To the right stood the laundry room and 
furnace; to the left the rec room with Kermit’s lab set up along the back wall. 

Evan hurried across the tiled floor into the lab. He spotted Kermit behind 
his lab table, several beakers of colored liquids in front of him. “Kermit—what’s 
that disgusting smell?” he demanded. 

As Evan and Andy ran up to the lab table, Kermit poured a yellow liquid 

into a green liquid. “Uh-oh!” he cried, staring down at the bubbling mixture. 
Behind his glasses, his eyes grew wide with horror. 

“Run!” Kermit screamed. “Hurry! Get out! It’s going to BLOW!” 

6 

The liquid swirled and bubbled. 

Kermit ducked under the lab table. 

With a cry of horror, Evan spun round. Grabbed Andy’s hand. Started to 
pull her to the stairs. 

But he had only taken a step when he stumbled over Dogface, Kermit’s 
huge sheepdog. 

“Oof!” Evan felt the wind knocked out of him as he fell over the dog and 
landed facedown on the tile floor. He gasped. Struggled to choke in a mouthful 
of air. 

The room tilted and swayed. 

“It’s going to BLOW!” Kermit’s shrill warning rang in Evan’s ears. 

He finally managed to take a deep breath. Raised himself to one knee. 
Turned back to the lab table. 

And saw Andy standing calmly in the center of the rec room, her hands at 
her waist. 

“Andy—it’s going to BLOW!” Evan choked out. 

She rolled her eyes. “Evan, really,” she muttered, shaking her head. “Did 
you really fall for that?” 

“Huh?” Evan gazed past her to the long glass table. 

Kermit had climbed back to his feet. He was leaning with both elbows on 
the table. And he had the grin on his face. That grin. 

The twisted grin with the two front teeth sticking out. The grin Evan hated 
more than any grin in the world. 

“Yeah, Evan,” Kermit repeated, mimicking Andy, “did you really fall for 
that?” He burst into his squealing-high laugh that sounded like a pig stuck in a 
fence. 

Evan pulled himself up, muttering under his breath. Dogface hiccupped. 
The dog’s tongue tumbled out, and he began to pant loudly. 

Evan turned to Andy. “I didn’t really fall for it,” he claimed. “I knew it was 
another one of Kermit’s dumb jokes. I was just seeing if you believed it.” 

“For sure.” Andy rolled her eyes again. She was doing a lot of eye-rolling 
this afternoon, Evan realized. 

Evan and Andy stepped up to the table. It was littered with bottles and glass 
tubes, beakers and jars—all filled with colored liquids. 

On the wall behind the table stood a high bookshelf. The shelves were also 
jammed with bottles and jars of liquids and chemicals. Kermit’s mixtures. 

“I was only a few minutes late getting here,” Evan told Kermit. “From now 
on, don’t do anything. Just wait for me.” He sniffed the air. “What’s that really 
gross smell?” 

Kermit grinned back at him. “I didn’t notice it until you came in!” he joked. 

Evan didn’t laugh. “Give me a break,” he muttered. 

Andy scratched her mosquito bite. “Yeah. No more jokes today, Kermit.” 

The big sheepdog hiccupped again. 

“I’m mixing up something to cure Dogface’s hiccups,” Kermit announced. 

“Oh, no!” Evan replied sharply. “No way! I can’t let you give the dog one 
of your mixtures to drink.” 

“It’s a very simple hiccup cure,” Kermit said, pouring a blue liquid into a 
green liquid. “It’s just maglesium harposyrate and ribotussal polythorbital. With 
a little sugar for sweetness.” 

“No way,” Evan insisted. “You’re not giving Dogface anything to drink but 
water. It’s too dangerous.” 

Kermit ignored him and continued to mix chemicals from one glass beaker 
into another. He glanced up at Andy. “What’s wrong with your arm?” 

“It’s a really big mosquito bite,” Andy told him. “It itches like crazy.” 

“Let me see it,” Kermit urged. 

Andy eyed him suspiciously. “Why?” 

Kermit grabbed Andy’s hand and tugged her closer. “Let me see it,” he 
insisted. 

“It’s just a mosquito bite,” Andy said. 

“I have some of that blue shrinking mixture left,” Kermit announced. “The 
stuff I shrank Conan’s shirt with.” 

“Don’t remind me,” Evan groaned. 

“It’ll shrink your mosquito bite,” Kermit told Andy. He picked up the 
beaker. 

“You’re going to pour that stuff on my arm?” Andy cried. “I don’t think 

so!” 

She tried to step away. 

But Kermit grabbed her arm. And poured. 

The blue liquid spread over the mosquito bite. 
“No! Oh, no!” Andy shrieked. 

7 

“My arm!” Andy shrieked. “What did you do to me?” 

Evan lurched to the lab table, nearly stumbling over the dog again. He 
grabbed Andy’s arm and examined it. “It—it—” he stammered. 

“It’s gone!” Andy cried. “The mosquito bite—it’s gone!” 

Evan stared at Andy’s arm. Perfectly smooth, except for a few drips of the 
blue liquid. 

“Kermit—you’re a geniusl” Andy cried. “That mixture of yours shrank the 
mosquito bite away!” 

“Told you,” Kermit replied, grinning happily. 

“You can make a fortune!” Andy exclaimed. “Don’t you realize what 
you’ve done? You’ve invented the greatest cure for mosquito bites ever!” 

Kermit held up the beaker. He tilted it one way, then the other. “Not much 
left,” he said softly. 

“But you can mix up some more—right?” Andy demanded. 

Kermit frowned. “I’m not sure,” he said softly. 

“I think I can mix up a new batch. But I’m not sure. I didn’t write down 
what I put in it.” 

He scratched his white-blond hair and stared at the empty glass beaker, 
twitching his nose like a mouse, thinking hard. 

Dogface let out another loud hiccup. The hiccup was followed by a howl. 
Evan saw that the poor dog was getting very unhappy about the hiccups. 
Dogface was a big dog—and so he had big hiccups that shook his sheepdog 
body like an earthquake. 

“I’d better get to work on the hiccup cure,” Kermit announced. He pulled 
some jars of chemicals off the shelf and started to open them. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Evan told him. “I told you, Kermit—I can’t let you 
feed anything to the dog. Aunt Dee will kill me if—” 

“Oh, let him try!” Andy interrupted. She rubbed her smooth arm. “Kermit is 
a genius, Evan. You have to let a genius work.” 

Evan glared at her. “Whose side are you on?” he demanded in a loud 
whisper. 

Andy didn’t answer. She unzipped her orange-and-blue backpack and 

pulled out some papers. “I think I’ll do my math homework while Kermit mixes 
up his hiccup cure.” 

Kermit’s eyes lit up excitedly behind his glasses. “Math? Do you have math 
problems?” 

Andy nodded. “It’s a take-home equations exam. Very hard.” 

Kermit set down the test tubes and beakers. He hurried out from behind the 
lab table. “Can I do the problems for you, Andy?” he asked eagerly. “You know I 
love to do math problems.” 

Andy flashed Evan a quick wink. Evan frowned back at her. He shook his 
head. 

So that’s why Andy is being so nice to Kermit! Evan told himself. It was all 
a trick. A trick to get Kermit to do the math test for her. 

Kermit could never resist math problems. His parents had to buy him stacks 
and stacks of math workbooks. He could spend an entire afternoon doing all the 
problems in the workbooks —for fun ! 

Dogface hiccupped. 

Kermit grabbed the math test from Andy’s hand. “Please let me do the 
equations,” he begged. “Pretty please?” 

“Well... okay,” Andy agreed. She flashed Evan another wink. 

Evan scowled back at her. Andy is going to get in trouble for this, he 
thought. Andy is a terrible math student. It’s her worst subject. Mrs. McGrady is 
going to get very suspicious when Andy gets every problem right. 

But Evan didn’t say anything. What was the point? 

Kermit was already scribbling answers on the page, solving the equations as 
fast as he could read them. His eyes were dancing wildly. He was breathing hard. 
And he had a happy grin on his face. 

“All done,” he announced. 

Wow, he’s fast! Evan thought. He finished that math test in the time it 
would take me to write my name at the top of the page! 

Kermit handed the pencil and math pages back to Andy. “Thanks a lot,” she 
said. “I really need a good grade in math this term.” 

“Cheater,” Evan whispered in her ear. 

“I just did it for Kermit,” Andy whispered back. “He loves doing math 
problems. So why shouldn’t I give him a break?” 

“Cheater,” Evan repeated. 

Dogface hiccupped. Then he let out a pained howl. 

Kermit returned to his lab table. He poured a yellow liquid into a red liquid. 
It started to smoke. Then it turned bright orange. 

Andy tucked the math test into her backpack. 

Kermit poured the orange liquid into a large glass beaker. He picked up a 
tiny bottle, turned it upside down, and emptied silvery crystals into the beaker. 

Evan stepped up beside Kermit. “You can’t feed that to Dogface,” Evan 
insisted. “I really mean it. I won’t let you give it to him.” 

Kermit ignored him. He stirred the mixture until it turned white. Then he 
added another powder that made it turn orange again. 

“You have to listen to me, Kermit,” Evan said. “I’m in charge, right?” 

Kermit continued to ignore him. 

Dogface hiccupped. His white furry body quivered and shook. 

“Let Kermit work,” Andy told Evan. “He’s a genius.” 

“Maybe he’s a genius,” Evan replied. “But I’m in charge. Until Kermit’s 
mom gets home, I’m the boss.” 

Kermit poured the mixture into a red dog dish. 

“I’m the boss,” said Evan. “And the boss says no.” 

Kermit lowered the dog dish to the floor. 

“The boss says you can’t feed that to Dogface,” Evan said. 

“Here, boy! Here, boy!” Kermit called. 

“No way!” Evan cried. “No way the dog is drinking that!” 

Evan made a dive for the bowl. He planned to grab it away. 

But he dove too hard—and went sliding under the lab table. 

Dogface lowered his head to the dog dish and began lapping up the orange 
mixture. 

Evan spun around and stared eagerly at the dog. All three of them were 
waiting... waiting... waiting to see what would happen. 

8 

Dogface licked the bowl clean. Then he stared up at Kermit, as if to say, “Thank 
you.” 

Kermit petted the big dog’s head. He smoothed the white, curly fur from in 
front of Dogface’s eyes. The fur fell right back in place. Dogface licked Kermit’s 
hand. 

“See? The hiccups are gone,” Kermit declared to Evan. 

Evan stared at the dog. He waited a few seconds more. “You’re right,” he 
confessed. “The hiccups are gone.” 

“It was a simple mixture,” Kermit bragged. “Just a little tetrahydropodol 
with some hydradroxilate crystals and an ounce of megahydracyl oxyneuroplat. 
Any child could do it.” 

“What a genius!” Andy exclaimed. 

Evan started to say something. But Dogface interrupted with a sharp yip. 

Then, without warning, the big sheepdog sprang forward. With another 
shrill yip, Dogface raised his enormous front paws—and leaped on to Kermit. 

Kermit let out a startled cry and stumbled back against the wall. Bottles and 
jars shook on the shelves behind him. 

Dogface began barking wildly, uttering shrill, excited yips. The dog jumped 
again, as if trying to leap into Kermit’s arms. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Kermit squealed. 

The dog jumped again. 

The shelves shook. Kermit sank to the floor. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Kermit shrieked, covering his head with both arms. 
“Stop it, Dogface! Stop jumping!” 

The excited dog used his head to push Kermit’s arm away. Then he began 
licking Kermit’s face frantically. Then he began nipping at his T-shirt. 

“Stop! Yuck! Stop!” Kermit struggled to get away. But the big dog had 
Kermit pinned to the floor. 

“What’s going on?” Andy cried. “What’s gotten into that dog?” 

“Kermit’s mixture!” Evan replied. He dove at the dog, grabbed Dogface 
with both hands, and tried to tug him off Kermit. 

Dogface spun around. With another high-pitched yip, he bounded away, 

running at full speed across the basement. 

“Stop him!” Kermit cried. “He’s out of control! He’ll break something!” 

CRAAAASH. 

A shelf of canning jars toppled to the floor. 

Barking loudly, the dog bounded away from the shelf and began running in 
wide circles, his big paws clomping on the tile floor. Round and round, as if 
chasing his tail. 

“Dogface—whoa!” Evan called, chasing after the sheepdog. He turned back 
to Andy. “Help me! We’ve got to stop him! He’s acting crazy!” 

Dogface disappeared into the laundry room. “Dogface—come back here!” 
Evan called. 

He burst into the laundry room in time to see the dog crash into the ironing 
board. It toppled over, along with a stack of clothes that had been resting on it. 
The iron clattered over the hard floor. 

Dogface yelped and climbed out from under the spilled clothes. Spotting 
Evan, the dog’s stubby tail began wagging—and he leaped across the room. 

“No!” Evan screeched as the huge dog knocked him over backwards to the 
ground. Dogface frantically licked Evan’s face. 

Behind him, Evan heard Andy laugh. “Too much energy! He’s acting like a 
crazy puppy!” she declared. 

“He’s too big to think he’s a puppy!” Evan wailed. 

Dogface was sniffing furiously under the washing machine. He pounced on 
a large black ant. 

Then he turned and came bounding over to Andy and Evan. 

“Look out!” Evan cried. 

But the big sheepdog lumbered past them, back into the other room. They 
followed him, watching him roll over a few times, kicking his big, furry paws in 
the air. 

Then Dogface jumped to his feet—and came charging at Kermit. 

“Whoa! Whoa, boy!” Kermit cried. He turned to Andy. “You’re right. This 
is just the way Dogface acted when he was a puppy. The mixture gave him too 
much energy!” 

The sheepdog crashed into an old couch against the wall. He climbed up 
onto the couch, sniffing the cushions, exploring. His stubby tail wagged 
furiously. 

“Dogface, you’re not a puppy!” Evan cried. “Please listen to me! You’re too 

big to be a puppy! Dogface—please!” 

“Look out!” Andy shrieked. 

The dog jumped off the couch and went running full speed toward Kermit. 

“No! Stop!” Kermit cried. He dove behind the lab table. 

The dog tried to slow down. But his big legs were carrying him too fast. 

Dogface crashed into the lab table. Bottles and beakers flew into the air, 
then crashed to the floor. The table toppled over on top of Kermit. 

The shelves fell off the wall, and all of the jars and tubes and beakers 
tumbled to the floor, shattering, clattering, chemicals pouring out over the floor. 

“What a mess!” Evan cried. “What a horrible mess!” 

He turned—and let out a loud gasp. 

Aunt Dee stood in the doorway. Her mouth was opened wide in surprise, 
and her eyes nearly bulged out of her head. 

“What on Earth is going on down here?” she shrieked. 

“Uh... well...” Evan started. 

How could he begin to explain? And if he did find a way to explain, would 
Aunt Dee believe him? 

Aunt Dee pressed her hands against her waist and tapped one foot on the 
floor. “What has happened here?” she demanded angrily. 

“Uh... well...” Evan repeated. 

Kermit spoke up first. He pointed an accusing finger at Evan. “Evan was 
teasing the dog!” he cried. 

9 

Kermit’s mom glared angrily at Evan. “I’m paying you to take care of Kermit,” 
she said sternly. “Not to play silly jokes on the dog and wreck my house.” 

“But—but—but—” Evan sputtered. 

“Evan didn’t do it!” Andy protested. 

But her words were drowned out by Kermit, who let out a loud, phony wail 
—and burst into tears. “I tried to stop Evan!” Kermit sobbed. “I didn’t want him 
to tease Dogface! But he wouldn’t stop!” 

Kermit rushed into his mother’s arms. “It’s okay,” Aunt Dee said 
soothingly. “It’s okay, Kermit. I’ll make sure Evan never does it again.” 

She narrowed her eyes angrily at Evan as Kermit continued to sob, holding 
on to his mother like a baby. 

Evan rolled his eyes at Andy. Andy replied with a shrug. 

“Evan, you and Andy can start cleaning up this mess,” Mrs. Majors 
ordered. “Kermit is a very sensitive boy. When you play jokes like this, it upsets 
him terribly.” 

Kermit sobbed even louder. His mom tenderly patted his head. “It’s okay, 
Kermit. It’s okay. Evan won’t ever tease Dogface again,” she whispered. 

“But—but—” Evan sputtered. 

How could Kermit put on such an act? 

How could he deliberately get Evan into trouble? This mess wasn’t Evan’s 
fault. It was Kermit’s! 

“I really don’t think—” Andy started. 

But Aunt Dee raised a hand to silence her. “Just get this mess cleaned up— 
okay?” 

She turned to Evan. “I’m not going to tell your mom about this, Evan,” she 
said, still patting Kermit’s head. 

“Thanks,” Evan muttered. 

“I’m going to give you one more chance,” she continued. “You don’t really 
deserve it. If you weren’t my nephew, I’d make you pay for all the damage. And 
I’d get someone else to take care of Kermit.” 

“Evan is mean,” Kermit murmured, removing his glasses and wiping tears 
off his cheeks. “Evan is really mean.” 

What a little rat! Evan thought. But he remained silent, his eyes lowered to 
the floor. 

“Kermit, let’s get you cleaned up,” Aunt Dee said, leading him to the stairs. 
“Then we’ll have to give the dog a bath.” 

She turned back to Evan and pointed a finger at him. “One more chance,” 
she warned. “One more chance.” 

In the corner, Dogface let out a loud hiccup. 

“See how you’ve upset the dog?” Kermit’s mom called to Evan. “You’ve 
given poor Dogface the hiccups!” 

“But—but—” Evan sputtered again. 

As Evan struggled to find words to defend himself, Kermit and his mom 
disappeared up the stairs. 

Two hours later, Andy and Evan wearily headed for home. 

“What a mess,” Evan moaned. “Look at me. I’m covered in chemicals.” 

“Two hours,” Andy muttered. “Two hours to clean up the basement. And 
Dogface stood there watching us, hiccupping the whole time.” 

“Kermit is such a little creep,” Evan said, kicking a stone across the 
sidewalk. 

Andy shook her head bitterly. “Do you have any more cousins like him?” 

“No,” Evan replied. “Kermit is one of a kind.” 

“He’s such a little liar,” Andy said. 

“Hey—you stuck up for him,” Evan accused. “You said he was a genius, 
remember? You were so happy that he did your math problems for you, you 
thought he was wonderful.” 

Andy shifted her backpack onto her other shoulder. A smile crossed her 
face. “I forgot all about the math problems,” she said. “Kermit may be a little 
creep—but he’s also a genius. I’m going to get an A in math!” She let out a 
happy cheer. 

“Winners never cheat, and cheaters never win,” Evan muttered. 

Andy gave him a playful shove. “Did you just make that up? It’s very 
catchy.” 

“Give me a break,” Evan growled. He turned and made his way up his 
driveway without saying good-bye. 

Andy called him two nights later. “Your cousin Kermit is a total creep!” She 

shouted so loudly, Evan had to hold his phone away from his ear. 

“Do you know what he did? Do you know what he did?” Andy shrieked. 

“No. What?” Evan asked softly. 

“He did all the math equations wrong,” Andy cried. 

“Excuse me?” Evan wasn’t sure he heard correctly. “The genius got 
everything wrong?” 

“On purpose!” Andy declared. “He got them wrong on purpose. He made 
up answers for all of them! He didn’t even read the problems. He just wrote 
down stupid answers.” 

“But why?” Evan demanded. 

“Why? Why? Because he’s Kermit!” Andy screamed. 

Evan swallowed hard. Poor Andy, he thought. Now she will fail in math. 

“What a mean, rotten trick!” Andy shrieked into the phone. “Mrs. McGrady 
called me up to her desk and asked me to explain my answers. She asked me 
how I could possibly be so totally off on every single equation.” 

Andy sighed bitterly. “Of course I couldn’t answer her. I just stood there 
with my mouth open. I think I drooled on her desk!” 

“After we left his house, Kermit probably laughed his head off,” Evan said. 

“That brat has such a sick sense of humor,” Andy wailed. “We have to pay 
him back, Evan. We really have to.” 

“Yeah. We do,” Evan agreed. 

“We have to get out the Monster Blood,” Andy urged. “We have to use the 
Monster Blood to pay him back.” 

“Yeah. We do,” Evan agreed. 

10 

Evan called Andy back later that night. “I changed my mind,” he said. “I don’t 
want to use the Monster Blood.” 

“What’s your problem?” Andy demanded. “Kermit deserves it. You know 
he does.” 

“Monster Blood is too dangerous,” Evan told her. “It turned Cuddles the 
hamster into a giant, roaring monster. I don’t want to turn Kermit into a giant, 
roaring monster.” 

“Neither do I!” Andy exclaimed. “I don’t want to feed it to him, Evan. I just 
want to slip a tiny bit into one of his mixtures. He thinks he’s so smart and can 
do anything. I want to see Kermit’s face when his mixture goes berserk!” 

She laughed gleefully. 

What an evil laugh, Evan thought. 

“It’ll be awesome!” Andy exclaimed. 

“Forget about it,” Evan insisted. “I have nightmares about Monster Blood 
almost every night. I don’t want to see that stuff again, Andy. I really don’t. 
Leave it locked up—please!” 

“But you said we could do it!” Andy pleaded. 

“I made a mistake,” Evan told her. “Don’t take it out of the closet, Andy. 
Leave it safe and sound in its can—okay?” 

Andy didn’t reply. 

“Okay?” Evan demanded. “Okay?” 

“Okay,” Andy finally agreed. 

“We’re going to play outside today, Kermit,” Evan said firmly. “It’s a beautiful 
day, and we’re going to go out and not stay in the stupid basement. Get it?” 

It was a sunny, warm Thursday afternoon. Golden sunlight filtered down 
through the dust-covered basement windows up near the ceiling. 

Standing behind his lab table, arranging his jars and bottles of chemicals, 
Kermit muttered something to himself. 

“No argument,” Andy added. “We’re going outside even if Evan and I have 
to drag you out.” 

“But I have a mixture I want to try,” Kermit whined. 

“You need some sunshine,” Evan told him. “Look how pale you are. You 
look just like a white mouse.” 

Kermit was wearing a huge olive-colored T-shirt over baggy brown shorts. 
With his white-blond hair, beady eyes, and buck teeth, he looked more like a rat 
in human clothes. 

He frowned, hurt by Evan’s description. 

“Okay. I’ll go outside with you,” he murmured unhappily. 

“Yaay!” Andy whooped. It was the first time Kermit had ever agreed to 
leave his basement lab. 

“But first I have to have a drink,” Kermit said. He stepped out from behind 
the lab table and made his way toward the basement stairs. “You want an orange 
soda?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. He and Andy followed Kermit up the stairs to 
the kitchen. 

“I can’t believe he agreed to go out and play,” Andy whispered. “Do you 
think he’s sick or something?” 

“Maybe he feels bad about the mean tricks he’s pulled,” Evan whispered. 

The kitchen phone rang. Evan answered it. It was the wrong number. 

He hung up the phone. He and Andy stepped up to the counter. Andy was 
wearing pink jeans, a yellow sleeveless T-shirt, and bright orange high-tops. 

Kermit had already poured out three glasses of orange soda. The soda was 
the same color as Andy’s high-tops, Evan noticed. They all drank the soda down 
quickly. 

“I was really thirsty,” Kermit said. Evan didn’t pay any attention to the 
strange smile on Kermit’s face. After all, Kermit always had a strange smile on 
his face. 

“This orange soda is very sweet,” Andy commented. She made a face. “Too 
sweet! It makes my teeth itch!” 

Kermit laughed. “I think it’s good,” he said. 

They set their glasses down in the sink and stepped out the back door. Evan 
found a red Frisbee on the back stoop. He flipped it to Andy. 

Andy trotted across the backyard and flipped it back to Evan. “Let’s play 
keep-away from Kermit!” she cried. 

“Hey—no way!” Kermit protested. “Toss it to me!” 

Andy sent the Frisbee flying over Kermit’s head to Evan. Kermit made a 
wild grab for it, but it sailed out of his reach. It hit Evan’s hands, but Evan 

dropped it. 

Andy started to laugh. 

“What’s so funny?” Evan demanded. 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know.” She let out another giggle. 

Evan flipped the Frisbee to Kermit. It bounced off Kermit’s chest. 

This kid is a real klutz, Evan thought. It’s because he never plays sports. He 
never comes up out of his basement. 

Andy uttered a high-pitched laugh. 

Evan started to laugh, too. 

Kermit picked up the Frisbee. He tried to toss it to Andy, but the Frisbee 
sailed way over her head. It hit the side of the garage and bounced off. 

Evan and Andy both laughed harder. 

Evan trotted over to the garage. He sent a sidearm toss toward Andy. She 
missed, and the Frisbee flew into the low hedges at the side of the yard. 

Andy didn’t chase after it. She was laughing too hard. 

Evan laughed even harder. Tears ran down his cheeks. 

What’s happening to me? he wondered, suddenly feeling frightened. 

Why can’t I stop laughing? What’s going on? 

Kermit grinned at both of them. That grin! 

Evan laughed even harder. So hard, his stomach hurt. 

Something is wrong, Evan realized. Something is terribly wrong. 

“K-Kermit—why are we 1-laughing?” he stammered. 

Andy wiped tears from her eyes. She held her sides and laughed some 
more. 

“Why are we laughing?” Evan demanded. 

“I gave you my laughing mixture,” Kermit told them. “I put it in the orange 
soda.” 

Evan tossed back his head and laughed. Andy giggled so hard, she choked. 
But she kept on laughing. 

This isn’t funny. This is scary, Evan thought. But he let out a shrill giggle. 

“How—how long are we going to laugh like this, Kermit?” Evan managed 
to ask. 

“Probably forever,” Kermit replied, flashing his famous toothy grin. 

11 

Evan took a deep breath and tried to hold it. But the laughter burst out of him so 
hard, his chest ached. 

Laughing giddily, Andy made a grab for Kermit. 

Kermit ducked out of her reach and went scampering toward the fence at 
the back of the yard. 

Evan shook his head hard, trying to shake off the effect of the laughter 
potion. But it didn’t help. He laughed until tears rolled down his face. 

Andy chased after Kermit, laughing shrilly. 

Evan followed, gasping for breath. I can’t breathe, he realized. I’m laughing 
so hard, I can’t breathe. 

“K-Kermit—!” Evan choked out. “You’ve got to s-stop it!” A high giggle 
burst out of his throat. “You’ve g-got to!” 

“I don’t know how,” Kermit replied calmly. 

Andy and Evan laughed in reply. 

“It’s awesome—isn’t it!” Kermit declared happily. “The mixture works 
perfectly!” 

Andy made a grab for Kermit’s throat. 

Again, Kermit ducked away. 

Andy and Evan laughed a little harder. 

Andy picked up the Frisbee and tried to heave it at Kermit. But she was 
laughing too hard to control it. The Frisbee sailed over the fence. 

“Hey—get that back. That’s mine!” Kermit demanded. 

Evan and Andy laughed. 

A familiar face popped up on the other side of the fence. 

“Conan!” Kermit cried. 

Conan peered first at Andy, then at Evan. “Are you looking at my yard?” he 
asked Evan. 

Evan struggled to hold it in. But he let out a high, shrill laugh. 

“Didn’t I warn you last week about looking at my yard?” Conan demanded. 

Evan laughed. 

“Conan, give me back my Frisbee,” Kermit whined. 

Conan leaped over the fence. Evan saw that he had the Frisbee in his left 
hand. Conan quickly hid the Frisbee behind his back. 

Andy and Evan laughed. Andy wiped tears from her eyes. Her whole body 
shook with laughter. 

“Give me back my Frisbee,” Kermit insisted. 

Conan ignored him. “What’s so funny?” he asked Andy and Evan. He 
balled his right hand into a fist. 

Andy giggled. 

If we keep laughing, he’ll pound us! Evan realized. But he couldn’t help 
himself. He let out a loud belly laugh. 

“Hey—I want my Frisbee!” Kermit whined. 

“I don’t have your Frisbee,” Conan lied, keeping his left hand behind his 
back. 

Evan tossed his head back and laughed. 

“Yes, you do. It’s behind your back,” Kermit said. “Give it back, Conan.” 

“Who’s going to make me?” Conan demanded in a low, menacing voice. 

Evan let out a high giggle. Andy laughed, too. 

“They are!” Kermit replied to Conan. “They’re going to make you!” He 
turned to Evan. “Make Conan give back my Frisbee.” 

Evan laughed in reply. 

“What’s so funny?” Conan asked again. 

Andy shook her head. “Nothing. Nothing’s funny,” she choked. Then she 
burst out laughing. 

“I don’t like people laughing at me,” Conan said. 

This is horrible! Evan thought. One more laugh—and Conan could 
explode! 

Evan let out a long hyena laugh. 

“I really go ballistic when people laugh at me,” Conan warned. 

Evan and Andy laughed some more. 

“I have to hurt people who laugh at me,” Conan threatened. 

Evan and Andy laughed in reply. 

Conan turned to Kermit. “Why are they laughing like that?” 

Kermit shrugged. “Beats me. I guess they think you’re funny.” 

“Oh, is that right?” Conan shouted angrily, turning back to Evan and Andy. 
“You two think I’m funny?” 

Evan and Andy held their sides and laughed. 

“Give me my Frisbee!” Kermit shouted. 

“Okay. Go chase it.” Conan flung the Frisbee across the hedges. It sailed 
over two yards and disappeared in a clump of evergreen shrubs. 

Kermit went running after it. 

Conan scowled at Evan and Andy. “I’m going to count to three,” he 
growled. “And if you don’t stop laughing by the count of three, I’ll make you 
stop!” He raised both fists to show them how he would make them stop. 

“One...” Conan said. 

Evan laughed. Andy pressed her hand over mouth, but couldn’t stop a 
giggle from escaping. 

“Two...” Conan counted, his face twisted in anger. 

I’ve got to stop laughing! Evan told himself. I’m in serious trouble here. 
Serious. 

He opened his mouth, and a booming “Hahahahaha!” burst out. 

Andy had both hands pressed over her mouth. But it didn’t stop the snickers 
and guffaws from pouring out her nose. 

Kermit came jogging back into the backyard. “I can’t find the Frisbee,” he 
complained. “Somebody has to help me. I can’t find it anywhere.” 

Conan turned to him. “You sure you don’t know why they’re laughing like 
that?” he asked. 

Kermit shook his head. “They told me they think you’re funny-looking,” he 
told Conan. “I guess that’s why they’re laughing.” 

I don’t believe this! Evan thought, so angry he wanted to explode. That 
little creep! How can he do this to us? 

Conan turned back to Andy and Evan. “Last chance to stop,” he said. He 
took a deep breath, stretching out his big, powerful chest. “Three!” 

Andy laughed. 

Evan laughed even harder. 

“I warned you,” Conan growled. 

12 

Andy phoned Evan that night to see how he was feeling. Evan had to hold the 
phone away from his ear. His head hurt too much to press a phone against it. 

“I guess I’ll survive,” Evan groaned. “I’m getting used to looking in the 
mirror and seeing a pile of coleslaw where my head used to be.” 

Andy sighed. “Your cousin is such a creep,” she said. 

“How are you feeling?” Evan asked. “How long did it take you to climb 
down from the tree?” 

“Not too many hours,” Andy replied weakly. 

Conan had said he never hit girls. So he picked Andy up and stuck her onto 
a high tree branch. 

“At least Conan stopped us from laughing,” Evan said. “My stomach still 
hurts from laughing so hard.” 

“Mine, too,” Andy told him. “I’m never going to laugh again. Never. If 
someone tells me the funniest joke in the world, I’ll just smile and say, ‘Very 
funny.’” 

“I can’t believe Kermit did that to us,” Evan moaned. 

“I believe it,” Andy replied dryly. “Kermit will do anything to get us into 
trouble. That’s what he lives for—getting us into major trouble.” 

“Did you hear that little mouse laughing while Conan pounded me into the 
ground?” Evan asked. 

“I was up in the tree, remember? I could see him laughing!” Andy declared. 

There was a long silence at the other end. And then Andy spoke in a hushed 
voice, just above a whisper, “Evan—are you ready to use the Monster Blood on 
Kermit?” 

“Yeah,” Evan replied without having to think about it even for a second. 
“I’m ready.” 

13 

After school the next afternoon, Evan and Andy found Kermit behind his lab 
table as usual. “Hi, Kermit,” Evan called, tossing his backpack down and 
stepping up to the table. 

Kermit didn’t glance up. He was busy stirring ingredients in a large mixing 
bowl, using a large wooden spoon. 

Evan peered into the bowl. It looked like pie dough in there. It was thick 
and gooey and yellowish. 

Kermit hummed to himself as he stirred. 

Andy was wearing a sleeveless, hot pink T-shirt over bright yellow shorts 
and matching yellow sneakers. She stepped up beside Evan and peeked into the 
bowl. “Making a pie?” she asked. 

Kermit ignored her, too. He kept stirring and humming, stirring and 
humming. 

Finally he stopped and glanced up at Evan. “I told my mom you lost my 
Frisbee,” he said, sneering. “She says you have to get me a new one.” 

“Huh? Me?” Evan cried. 

Andy walked around to Kermit’s side of the table. She lowered her head to 
the bowl. “Smells lemony,” she said. “What is it, Kermit? Is it some kind of 
dough?” 

“It was your fault my Frisbee got lost,” Kermit told Evan, ignoring Andy’s 
questions. “Mom says you’re a very bad baby-sitter.” 

Evan let out an angry cry. He balled his hands into fists. He struggled to 
keep himself from strangling Kermit. 

It was a real struggle. 

“Mom wanted to know who drank up all the orange soda,” Kermit 
continued. “I told her you and Andy drank it.” 

“Kermit!” Evan shrieked. “You played a horrible trick on us yesterday! You 
put chemicals in our orange soda! You made us laugh and laugh and laugh— 
until it hurt. Then you got us in major trouble with Conan! Did you tell your 
mom that? Did you? Did you ? ” 

Kermit put his hands over his ears. “Don’t shout, Evan,” he whined. “You 
know I have very sensitive ears.” 

Another angry growl escaped Evan’s throat. He felt about to explode with 

rage. 

“I told my mom that you shout at me all the time,” Kermit continued. 
“Mom says you’re just immature. She thinks you’re very babyish. She only lets 
you stay with me because you’re my cousin.” 

Kermit picked up the wooden spoon and started to stir the doughy mixture 
again. 

Evan spun away, trying to control his anger. 

I’m glad Andy and I are going to do what we’re going to do, he thought. 
I’m glad we’re going to give Kermit a little scare. He’s been asking for it. He 
really has. And now he’s going to get it. 

Evan walked over to his backpack. He unzipped it and pulled out a candy 
bar. “Mmmm. A Choc-O-Lik Bar,” he murmured. He crossed back to the lab 
table, unwrapping the candy bar as he walked. 

Standing in front of Kermit, Evan took a big bite of the chocolate bar. It 
made a loud crunch as his teeth sank into it. “Mmmmmm!” he proclaimed. 
“Choc-O-Lik Bars are cool.” 

The candy bar was part of the plot. 

Evan knew that the Choc-O-Lik Bar was Kermit’s favorite. 

The candy bar was supposed to distract Kermit. While Kermit stared at the 
candy and pleaded with Evan to give him a bite, Andy would slip a tiny chunk of 
Monster Blood into Kermit’s mixture. 

Evan crunched the candy bar loudly, making lip-smacking sounds as he 
chewed. 

Kermit glanced up. He stopped stirring the yellowish dough. “Is that really 
a Choc-O-Lik Bar?” he asked. 

Evan nodded. “Yeah. Sure is.” 

“My favorite,” Kermit said. 

“I know,” Evan replied. He took another crunchy bite. 

Kermit stared at the candy bar. 

Andy stood beside Kermit. Evan saw the blue container of Monster Blood 
in her hand. Just seeing the can made Evan shiver. 

So many bad memories. So many nightmares. 

The green gunk inside the can was so dangerous. 

“Can I have a piece of the Choc-O-Lik Bar?” Kermit asked Evan. 

Andy lifted off the top of the Monster Blood container. 

“Maybe. Maybe not,” Evan told Kermit. 

Andy stuck two fingers in the container. She pulled out a gooey green hunk 
of Monster Blood. 

“Please? Pretty please?” Kermit begged Evan. 

Andy dropped the chunk of Monster Blood into Kermit’s big bowl of 
dough. Then she quietly snapped the cap back on the container and slid it back 
into her bag. 

Evan took another bite of the candy bar. 

“You shouldn’t eat a candy bar unless you have enough to share with 
everyone,” Kermit scolded. 

“You haven’t been very nice to me,” Evan told him. “So I’m not going to 
share.” 

Kermit started stirring the dough again. He stared angrily at Evan as he 
stirred. He didn’t see the green Monster Blood being stirred up in the yellow 
dough. 

Evan took another bite of the Choc-O-Lik Bar. Only a few bites left. 

“I’m going to tell Mom you were mean to me,” Kermit threatened. “I’m 
going to tell her you wouldn’t share.” 

Evan shook his head. “See what I mean? You’re not nice to me, Kermit. If 
you were nice to me, I’d share all my candy bars with you.” 

Andy winked at Evan. Then she peered into the bowl. 

Kermit stirred and stirred. 

Andy’s expression became tense. She gripped the edge of the table with 
both hands. Evan saw her nibble her bottom lip. 

Watching Kermit stir the Monster Blood, Evan suddenly had a heavy 
feeling in his stomach. 

We’ve done it, he thought. 

We’ve opened another can of Monster Blood. 

He stared at the yellow dough in the bowl. It made a soft plopping sound as 
Kermit pushed the wooden spoon through it. 

Now what? Evan wondered. 

Now what’s going to happen? 

14 

Kermit stirred the yellow dough. The big wooden spoon scraped the bowl. The 
doughy mixture plopped softly, tumbling and swirling as Kermit worked. 

Andy kept nibbling her lower lip, her eyes locked on the bowl. Her brown 
hair fell over her face. But she made no move to push it back. 

Evan watched from the other side of the table. His heart began doing flip- 
flops in his chest. He took another bite of the chocolate bar. 

He chewed as quietly as possible. He didn’t want to disturb Kermit. As he 
chewed, he stared at the bowl. 

He and Andy were waiting. Waiting to see what the little hunk of Monster 
Blood would do to Kermit’s mixture. 

Waiting to see the look of horror on Kermit’s face. 

Waiting to pay him back for being such a little monster. 

Kermit didn’t seem to notice how quiet it had become in the basement. 
Dogface came lumbering in, panting loudly, his paws thudding on the tile floor. 

No one turned to look at him. 

The dog hiccupped, turned, and padded out of the room. 

Evan bit off another chunk of the candy bar. 

Kermit stirred, humming to himself. The spoon scraped the side of the 
bowl. The dough slapped against the edge. 

And spilled over. 

Kermit stopped stirring. “Weird,” he muttered. 

Evan’s heart did a flip-flop up to his throat. “What’s weird?” he asked. 

“It grew,” Kermit replied, scratching his white-blond hair. “Look.” 

Kermit pointed to the yellow dough with the wooden spoon. It plopped up 
over the top of the bowl. 

“It—it’s growing really fast!” Kermit declared. 

Evan took a few steps closer. Andy leaned down to get a better look. 

The dough rose up, shimmering and quivering. 

“Wow!” Kermit cried. “It wasn’t supposed to do this! It was supposed to 
turn sticky and black!” 

Andy winked at Evan. Her brown eyes lit up excitedly. A smile spread 

across her face. 

The yellow blob quivered up over the top of the bowl, as big as a beach 

ball. 

How big was it going to get? 

“Oh, wow! This is awesome!” Kermit declared. 

The dough shimmered higher. Wider. 

It rose up high over the bowl. It overflowed the sides. 

Bigger. Bigger. It started to look like an enormous hot air balloon. 

“It’s taller than me!” Kermit declared. His voice had changed. He didn’t 
sound excited now. He was beginning to sound frightened. 

“We’d better stop it, I think,” he murmured. 

“How?” Andy asked. She stepped out from behind the lab table and joined 
Evan on the other side. 

Andy grinned at Evan. She was enjoying the expression of fear on Kermit’s 
face. Evan had to admit he enjoyed it, too. 

The ball of yellow dough shimmered and shook, growing bigger every 
second. It bubbled up faster and faster, pressing Kermit back against the 
basement wall. 

“Hey—help!” he sputtered. 

Andy’s grin grew wider. “He’s terrified now,” she whispered to Evan. 

Evan nodded. He knew he was supposed to enjoy this. It was supposed to 
be sweet revenge. 

But Evan was terrified, too. 

How much bigger would the huge yellow blob grow? Could they stop it? 
Or would it grow and grow and grow until it filled the entire basement? 

“Evan—help me!” Kermit cried. “I’m trapped back here!” 

The dough began to shake harder. It bobbed up against the basement 
ceiling. 

Evan glanced down and realized he was still holding a chunk of candy bar 
in his hand. The chocolate had started to melt. 

Evan started to pop the candy into his mouth—just as the giant dough ball 
exploded with a deafening roar. 

15 

“ULP!” 

Evan swallowed hard as the doughy goop exploded. The force of the blast 
sent the candy chunk flying down his throat. 

He started to cough and choke. 

With a hard splat, globs of sticky dough hit him in the face. The yellow goo 
spread over his hair and covered his eyes. 

“Hey!” Evan choked out. He frantically wiped the dough from his eyes, 
blinking hard. 

He could taste it on his tongue. “Yuck!” He spit it out and rubbed the sticky 
stuff off his lips. Then he pulled thick wads of goo off his face. 

“It’s stuck to my hair!” Andy wailed. 

“Help me! Help me!” Kermit’s cries sounded as if they were coming from 
far away. Evan quickly saw why. Kermit was buried under a big heap of yellow 
goop. 

Pulling dough from his hair, Evan hurried behind the lab table. He reached 
down with both hands and tugged Kermit up from under the dough. 

“Wow. I’m kind of dizzy!” Kermit cried. He leaned heavily against the lab 
table. His hands slid in the yellow goo that covered the table. 

“Til never get it out of my hair!” Andy wailed, tugging at her hair with both 
hands. “Never!” She turned to Evan. “It wasn’t supposed to explode. Just get 
big. I guess something in the dough made it blow up.” 

Wiping dough off the front of his T-shirt, Evan gazed around the basement. 
The yellow dough had splattered over everything. Now it dripped down the 
walls, making soft plopping sounds as it hit the floor. 

“That was an awesome explosion!” Kermit declared. His eyeglasses were 
covered with yellow goop. He pulled them off and squinted around the room. 

He turned to Andy. “Did you put something in the bowl?” 

“Never mind,” Andy replied, still pulling sticky yellow globs from her hair. 

Kermit tugged her arm. “What was it? What did you put in my mixture?” 

“Why do you want to know?” Andy demanded. 

“So we can do that again!” Kermit declared gleefully. “It was so awesome !” 

“No way we’re doing it again!” Evan moaned. 

Their revenge on Kermit hadn’t exactly worked out, Evan realized bitterly. 
Kermit should be in tears by now. Or he should be quivering in fear and terror. 

Instead, his eyes were dancing with excitement and he was grinning from 
ear to ear. 

We were total jerks! Evan thought sadly. Kermit is loving this! 

Kermit pulled out a cloth and cleaned his glasses. “What a mess!” he 
declared, gazing around the room. “Evan, you’re going to be in major trouble 
when Mom gets home.” 

Evan swallowed hard. He had forgotten about Kermit’s mom. 

She had given him one last chance to prove that he was a good baby-sitter. 

Now she was going to come home to a basement splattered with sticky 
yellow goop from floor to ceiling. And Kermit was sure to tell her the whole 
thing was Evan’s fault. 

Aunt Dee will tell everyone in the world why she had to take the job away 
from me, Evan thought unhappily. And I’ll never get another baby-sitting job as 
long as I live. 

Bye-bye, Walkman, he thought grimly. No way he’d ever earn the money 
for one now. 

“This is your fault!” he snapped at Andy, pointing an accusing finger at her. 
A spot of yellow dough stuck to his fingernail. 

“My fault?” Andy shrieked. “You’re the one who wanted to teach Kermit a 
lesson!” 

“But you ’re the one who wanted to use the Monster Blood!” Evan cried. 

“Look at my hair!” Andy wailed. “It’s solid goop! It looks like I’m wearing 
a helmet! It’s ruined! Ruined!” She uttered an angry growl. 

Kermit giggled. He bent down and picked up a chunk of the sticky yellow 
dough. “Think fast!” he shouted—and heaved it at Evan. 

The dough ball hit the front of Evan’s T-shirt and stuck there. “Stop it, 
Kermit!” he shouted angrily. 

“Let’s have a dough fight!” Kermit suggested, grinning. He scooped up 
another handful of the stuff. 

“No! No way! Stop it!” Evan cried. He pulled the dough ball off his T-shirt. 
“This is dangerous! We’ve got to clean this up!” 

Kermit flung another big chunk of yellow goo at Evan. 

Evan tried to dodge out of the way. But his sneakers slipped on a big, slimy 
puddle of goop, and he hit the floor hard. He landed on his side with a loud 

“OOF!” 

Kermit let out a gleeful laugh. “That was awesome!” he declared. “What a 
shot!” 

Andy hurried over and helped tug Evan to his feet. “Maybe we can vacuum 
it all up,” she suggested. She turned to Kermit. “Where does your mom keep the 
vacuum cleaner?” 

Kermit shrugged. “Beats me.” 

Evan leaned against the lab table. His hand rested in a puddle of dough, but 
he didn’t care. 

He suddenly felt strange. 

His entire body started to tingle. His stomach felt queasy. He shut his eyes, 
trying to force the strange feeling away. 

But the tingling grew stronger. 

He heard a shrill whistling sound in his ears. His muscles started to ache. 
He could feel the blood throbbing at his temples. 

“Maybe we can mop it up,” Evan heard Andy say. But her voice sounded 
tiny and far away. 

He turned to see her pick up a mop and bucket from against the basement 

wall. 

That bucket is too tiny, Evan thought. Why does Andy want to use such a 
tiny mop? 

The room tilted—to the right, then to the left. 

Evan blinked hard, trying to straighten everything out. 

His whole body buzzed, as if an electrical current were shooting through 
him. He shut his eyes and pressed both hands against his throbbing temples. 

“Evan—aren’t you going to help me?” Andy’s voice sounded so faint, so 
far away. “Evan—?” he heard her call. “Evan—?” 

When he opened his eyes, he saw that Andy and Kermit were staring up at 
him. Their expressions had changed. Their eyes bulged in fright and surprise. 
Their mouths were wide open. 

“What’s going on?” Evan demanded. His voice boomed through the 
basement, echoing off the concrete walls. 

Andy and Kermit stared up at him. The tiny mop fell out of Andy’s hand 
and clattered to the floor. 

Such a tiny mop, Evan thought again, staring down at it. Such a tiny bucket. 

And then he realized that Andy and Kermit were tiny, too. 


“Oh!” A cry of surprise escaped Evan’s throat. 

Everyone is so small. Everything is so tiny. 

It took Evan a long time to figure out what had happened. 

But when it finally dawned on him, he let out a shriek of horror. 

“Oh, no! No!” he moaned. “I’m growing ! I’m growing bigger and bigger!” 

16 

Evan lowered his eyes to the floor. It seemed so far below. 

“My—my legs—” he stammered. 

Andy and Kermit still hadn’t said a word. They stared up at him, their faces 
twisted in surprise. 

Evan swallowed hard. “What’s going on?” he cried. His voice boomed 
through the small room. “I must be eight feet tall!” 

“You—you’re a giant]” Kermit declared. He stepped forward and grabbed 
on to Evan’s knee. “Me, too! Okay? Okay, Evan? Make me a giant, too!” he 
begged. 

“Give me a break,” Evan muttered. He picked up Kermit easily and set him 
down on top of the lab table. 

Then Evan turned to Andy. “What am I going to do? This is terrible!” 

“Not so loud!” Andy pleaded, covering her ears with her hands. “Please, 
Evan—try to whisper or something, okay?” 

“What am I going to do?” Evan repeated, ignoring her plea. 

Andy forced a smile. “Try out for basketball, I guess.” 

Evan balled his huge hands into huge fists. “I’m not in the mood for your 
sick sense of humor, Andy,” he snapped. 

His body started to tingle again. His muscles ached. 

I’m growing even bigger, he realized. 

Evan’s throat suddenly felt very dry. He realized his knees were shaking. 
They made a loud banging sound as they hit together. 

Don’t panic! he instructed himself. 

The first rule is—don’t panic. 

But why shouldn ’t he panic? His head was nearly pushing up against the 
basement ceiling. 

Kermit stood up on top of the lab table. His white high-tops were splattered 
with yellow dough. They looked like little doll shoes to Evan. 

“Make me a giant, too!” Kermit pleaded. “Why can’t I be a giant?” 

Evan stared down at his cousin. Kermit really did look like a little white 

mouse now. 

Evan’s body tingled harder. The room tilted and swayed again. “This is 
your fault, Andy!” he shouted. 

Andy shrank back against the wall. “Huh? My fault?” 

“You and your Monster Blood!” Evan thundered. “I—I swallowed some!” 

Andy stared up at him. “How?” 

“When Kermit’s mixture exploded,” Evan replied. “I was putting the candy 
bar in my mouth. The dough exploded. I started to choke. The dough hit me in 
the face. I remember I tasted it. It was on my lips. And—and—” 

“And it had Monster Blood in it!” Andy finished his sentence for him. Her 
face filled with horror. “Oh, Evan. I’m sorry. I really am.” 

But then her face brightened. “The Monster Blood splashed on your 
clothes, too. That was lucky. They’re growing with you.” 

Evan let out an exasperated sigh. “Lucky?” he cried. “You call this lucky? 
What if I keep growing and never stop?” 

Kermit remained standing on the lab table. He stared up at Evan. “You 
mean if I eat some of the dough, I’ll turn into a giant, too?” He bent down and 
scooped up a handful of dough. 

“Don’t you dare!” Evan screamed. He leaned over and flicked the dough 
out of Kermit’s hand with two fingers. Then he hovered over Kermit, glaring at 
him menacingly. “I can squash you, Kermit. I really can,” Evan warned. 

“Okay, okay,” Kermit muttered, his voice trembling. He slid off the table 
and stepped behind Andy. 

Wow, Evan thought, I actually have Kermit afraid of me! That’s a first. 
Maybe growing so big isn’t all bad! 

His body tingled and vibrated. The whistling in his ears grew louder. He 
could feel himself grow some more. 

He turned to see Dogface pad into the room. The big sheepdog looked like 
a tiny poodle. 

The dog hiccupped. It sniffed at a yellow puddle of dough on the floor. 

“No!” Evan cried. “Don’t eat that! Dogface—no!” 

He bent over and picked up the sheepdog. 

Seeing a giant human lift him up easily off the floor, Dogface let out a yelp 
of terror. All four legs thrashed the air as the frightened dog struggled to break 
free. 

But Evan cradled the sheepdog in one arm and held on to him tightly. 

When he realized he couldn’t escape from the giant, the dog’s terrified 

yelps turned to quiet whimpers. 

“Take Dogface out of here. Lock him outside,” Evan ordered Kermit. He 
lowered the whimpering dog to the floor. 

Kermit obediently led the dog away. Halfway to the stairs, he turned back to 
Evan. “Hey, you cured Dogface’s hiccups!” 

I guess I scared them out of him! Evan told himself. 

Kermit led Dogface up the stairs. Evan turned to Andy. “I told you to leave 
the Monster Blood in the closet!” he cried. “Now look at me!” 

He had to duck his head. Otherwise it would brush against the ceiling. 

“Who told you to eat the stuff?” Andy replied. “Why did you have to be 
eating that candy bar?” 

“It was part of the plan—remember?” Evan snapped angrily. He uttered a 
bitter sigh. “Great plan we had!” 

“I guess it didn’t work out too well,” Andy admitted. 

“I guess it didn’t,” Evan muttered. “Now what will happen to me? What 
will Mom and Dad say?” 

“What will you eat?” Andy added. “You’ll probably have to eat sixteen 
meals a day! And where will you sleep? And how can you go to school? There 
aren’t any desks big enough for you. And what will you wear? They’ll have to 
make your T-shirts out of bedsheets!” 

“You’re not cheering me up,” Evan murmured glumly. 

He felt his body tingle. Again, he could feel his skin stretching, feel all of 
his muscles throb. 

“Ow!” he cried out as the top of his head banged against the ceiling. 

He had to lean over to rub his head. 

“Evan—you’re growing!” Andy exclaimed. 

“I know. I know,” Evan grumbled. The basement ceiling was at least nine 
feet high. Evan had to stoop to keep from banging the ceiling. That meant he 
was more than nine feet tall. 

A shiver of fear shook his body. He glanced around the basement. “I have to 
get out of here!” he cried. 

Kermit returned to the room. He stopped and gawked at Evan. “You grew 
even more!” he cried. “I’ll bet you weigh three hundred pounds!” 

“I don’t have time to weigh myself,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “I have 
to get out of here. I’m so big, I can’t stand up. I’m so big, I—” 

He stopped. He felt himself grow a little more. 

“I’m too big now!” he cried. “I’m trapped down here! There’s no way I can 
get out!” 

17 

“Stay calm,” Andy called up to him. 

“Calm? How can I stay calm?” Evan shrieked. “I’m going to spend the rest 
of my life in this basement! I’m too big for the stairs!” 

“Mom won’t like that,” Kermit said, shaking his head. 

“Try the stairs!” Andy cried. “Maybe you can squeeze up if you hurry!” 

Evan turned to the basement stairs. “I—I don’t think I’ll fit,” he stammered. 
The stairway appeared very narrow. And Evan was now very wide. 

“Come on,” Andy urged. “We’ll help you.” 

“You push and I’ll pull,” Kermit said, running to the stairs. 

Evan lumbered toward the stairs. His sneakers thudded heavily on the tile 
floor. He stooped his shoulders to keep his head from crashing against the 
ceiling. 

“Try not to grow any bigger!” Andy called, following closely behind him. 

“Great advice!” Evan replied sarcastically. “Do you have any more advice 
like that?” 

“Don’t be nasty,” Andy scolded. “I’m only trying to help you.” 

“You’ve already helped me more than enough,” Evan grumbled. 

He felt his body start to tingle. His muscles started to throb. 

“No! Please—no!” He uttered a silent plea. I don’t want to grow any more! 

He sucked in a deep breath and held it. He shut his eyes tight and tried to 
concentrate—concentrate on not growing. 

“I think I just saw you grow another few inches,” Andy called to him. 
“You’d better hurry, Evan.” 

“How big is Evan going to get?” Kermit asked. He had climbed halfway up 
the stairs. “Is he going to get bigger than an elephant?” 

“That’s not helpful, Kermit,” Evan muttered unhappily. “Please stop asking 
questions like that—okay?” 

“If you get as big as an elephant, will you give me a ride?” Kermit 
demanded. 

Evan glared angrily at his cousin. “Do you know what elephants do to 
mice?” he bellowed. Evan raised one foot and brought it down with a crunching 
thud to demonstrate to Kermit what elephants do to mice. 

Kermit swallowed hard and didn’t say anything more. 

Evan walked over to the stairway. He glanced up the stairs. “I don’t think I 
can make it,” he told Andy. “I’m too big.” 

“Give it a try,” she urged. “You’ve got to, Evan.” 

Evan stepped on to the first step. Leaning low, he raised himself to the next 

step. 

“You’re doing it!” Kermit cried happily. He stayed at the top of the stairs, 
watching Evan’s progress eagerly. 

Evan took another step. The wooden stairs creaked under his weight. He 
tried to lean on the banister. But it snapped beneath his hand. 

He climbed two more steps. 

He was a third of the way up when he became stuck. 

His body was just too wide for the narrow stairway. 

Kermit pulled both of Evan’s hands. Andy pushed him from behind. 

But they couldn’t budge him. 

“I—I can’t move,” Evan stammered. He felt panic choke his throat. “I’m 
jammed tight in here. There’s no way I’ll ever get out!” 

Then he felt his body start to tingle. And he knew he was growing even 

more. 

18 

As Evan grew, he heard a cracking sound. 

Soft at first. Then louder. Very close by. 

He cried out as the wall to his left crumbled. His expanding body had 
broken the wall away. 

As the wall cracked and fell, Evan took a deep breath and lurched up the 
stairs. 

“Made it!” he cried as he squeezed through the doorway. 

A few seconds later, he burst out through the kitchen door, into the sunlit 
backyard. 

Dogface lay stretched out near the fence. The dog jumped to his feet as the 
gigantic Evan appeared. Frightened, Dogface gave a loud bark, his stubby tail 
wagging furiously, then turned and bolted from the yard. 

Kermit and Andy followed Evan into the backyard, cheering and shouting, 
“You made it! You’re free!” 

Evan turned to face them. “But now what?” he asked. “Now what do I do? 
I’m nearly as tall as the garage. How tall am I going to grow?” 

Kermit stepped closer to Evan. “Look—I’m standing in your shade!” he 
declared. 

Evan’s shadow fell across the yard like the shadow of a tree trunk. “Kermit, 
give me a break,” Evan muttered. “I have a little bit of a problem here, you 
know?” 

“Maybe we should get you to a doctor,” Andy suggested. 

“A doctor?” Evan cried. “What could a doctor do for me?” 

“Put you on a diet?” Andy joked. 

Evan leaned over her, squinting down at her menacingly. “Andy, I’m 
warning you. One more bad joke, and—” 

“Okay, okay.” Andy raised her hands as if trying to shield herself from him. 
“Sorry. Just trying to keep it light.” 

“Evan isn’t light. He’s heavy!” Kermit chimed in. His idea of a joke. 

Evan let out an unhappy growl. “I don’t think a doctor can help me. I mean, 
I couldn’t fit into a doctor’s office.” 

“But maybe if we brought the can of Monster Blood along, the doctor could 

figure out an antidote,” Andy suggested. “Some kind of cure.” 

Evan started to reply. But shrill voices on the other side of the tall wooden 
fence at the back of the yard made him stop. 

“Cut it out, Conan!” a girl pleaded. 

“Yeah. Leave us alone, Conan!” Evan heard a boy shout. 

Evan lumbered over to the fence and peered into Conan’s yard. He saw 
Conan Barber furiously swinging a baseball bat, swinging it hard, forcing a little 
boy and girl to back up against the fence. 

“Let us go!” the little girl screamed. “Why are you so mean?” 

Conan swung the bat, bringing it close to the boy and girl, making them cry 

out. 

Evan leaned over the fence. His broad shadow fell over Conan. “Want to 
play ball with me, Conan?” Evan thundered. 

The two little kids spun around. They stared up at the enormous Evan. It 
took them a long time to realize they were staring at a real, giant human. 

Then they began to scream. 

Conan’s mouth dropped open and a strangled gurgling sound escaped his 
throat. 

“Hey, Conan, how about a little batting practice?” Evan asked, his voice 
booming over the backyard. Evan reached over the fence and plucked the bat 
from Conan’s hand. 

The little boy and girl ran away screaming. They darted through the hedge 
at the side of Conan’s yard and kept running until they vanished from view. 

Evan took the bat and snapped it in two between his hands. It cracked apart 
like a toothpick. 

Conan froze in place, staring up at Evan in disbelief. He pointed a 
trembling finger. “Evan—you—you—you—” he stammered. 

Evan tossed the two pieces of the cracked bat at Conan’s feet, forcing 
Conan to hop out of the way. 

“You ate Monster Blood!” Conan accused. “That sticky green stuff. The 
stuff that Cuddles the hamster ate last year! You ate some—didn’t you!” 

Evan didn’t want to be reminded of Cuddles the hamster. The little creature 
had turned into a huge, vicious beast after eating Monster Blood. Cuddles had 
returned to hamster size only because the Monster Blood was old and stale. 

But the Monster Blood Evan had swallowed was new and fresh. 

Now I’m a huge, vicious beast, Evan thought sadly. 

“Are you crazy? Are you totally messed up? Why did you eat Monster 
Blood?” Conan demanded. 

“It was an accident,” Evan told him. 

Conan continued to stare up at Evan, but his fearful expression faded. 
Conan suddenly started to laugh. “I’m glad it happened to you and not me!” he 
exclaimed. 

“Huh? Why?” Evan demanded. 

“Because I’m afraid of heights!” Conan replied. He laughed again. “I 
always thought you were a nerd, Evan!” Conan declared. “But now you’re a BIG 
nerd!” 

Evan let out an angry growl and lurched forward. He tried to climb over the 
fence. But he didn’t step high enough. Conan’s fence splintered beneath Evan’s 
heavy sneaker. 

“Hey—!” Conan cried in alarm. 

He tried to turn and run, but Evan was too fast for him. 

Evan grabbed Conan under the shoulders and lifted him off the ground as if 
he weighed nothing. 

“Let go! Let go of me!” Conan screamed. He kicked his arms and legs like 
a baby. 

“I never knew you were afraid of heights,” Evan said. Holding Conan in 
both hands, he raised him high in the air. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” Conan cried. “What are you going to do?” 

“Let’s see if you know how to fly!” Evan exclaimed. 

“Noooooo!” Conan’s shrill cry rose up over the yard. He kicked and 
thrashed as Evan raised him even higher. “Put me down! Put me down!” 

“Okay,” Evan agreed. “I’ll put you down.” He set Conan down on a high 
tree branch. 

Conan clung to the trunk for dear life, trembling and crying. “Evan—don’t 
leave me up here! Please! I told you, I’m afraid of heights! Evan—come back! 
Evan!” 

A huge grin on his huge face, Evan turned away from Conan. “That was a 
lot of fun!” he called down to his friends. 

Conan continued to weep and wail up in the tree. Evan took a few steps 
toward the front yard. “That was excellent!” Evan said, still grinning. 
“Excellent!” 

“Where are you going?” he heard Andy call up to him. 

“Yeah! What are you going to do now?” Kermit asked eagerly. 

“This is kind of cool!” Evan declared. Having his revenge on Conan had 
put him in a better mood. “Let’s go see if we can have some more fun!” 

“Yaaaay!” Kermit cried, racing to keep up with Evan. 

Evan ducked his head to keep from banging it on a low tree branch. He took 
several big steps toward the street. 

“Oh!” He stopped and cried out when he felt himself step on something. He 
heard a cracking, then a crunch beneath his enormous sneaker. 

He turned to see Kermit raise both hands to his face. “Oh, no!” Kermit 
shrieked. “You squashed Andy! Evan—you squashed Andy!” 

19 

Evan gasped and jerked up his foot. 

Kermit let out a high-pitched laugh. “Gotcha, Evan!” 

Andy came running over from the driveway. “That wasn’t funny!” she 
scolded Kermit. “That was a really dumb joke, Kermit. You scared Evan to 
death.” 

“I know!” Kermit laughed, very pleased with himself. 

Evan let out a sigh of relief. He bent down to see what he had stepped on. 
Conan’s skateboard. It lay crushed and splintered, flat on the grass. 

He turned angrily to Kermit. “No more stupid jokes,” he thundered. “Or I’ll 
put you up in the tree with Conan.” 

“Okay. Okay,” Kermit mumbled. “You think you’re tough just because 
you’re so big.” 

Evan held up a pointer finger. “Careful, Kermit,” he warned. “I could knock 
you over with one finger.” 

“Conan is still yelling for help back there,” Andy reported. 

Evan smiled. “Let’s see who’s hanging out at the playground. Maybe we 
can surprise some other kids.” 

Evan crossed the street, taking long, heavy strides. He felt as if he were 
walking on stilts. This is kind of cool, he told himself. I’m the biggest person in 
the world! 

He passed by the neighbors’ basketball hoop, which stood on a pole at the 
curb. Hey—I’m at least six feet taller than the basket! he realized. 

“Hey—wait up!” Andy called breathlessly. “Don’t walk so fast!” 

“I can’t help it!” Evan called back. 

A small blue car rolled by, then squealed to a stop. Evan could see a woman 
and two kids in the car. They were all staring out at him. 

A little girl on a bike turned the corner. She started pedaling toward Evan. 
He saw the look of surprise on her face when she spotted him. 

She braked her bike hard, nearly toppling over the handlebars. Then she 
wheeled around and sped out of sight. 

Evan laughed. 

Another car screeched to a halt. 

As he started to cross another street, Evan turned to see who was in the car. 
He didn’t watch where he was going. 

A loud crunch made him stop. 

With a gasp, he peered down—and saw that he had stepped on a car. 

“Oh, no!” Evan cried. His sneaker had crushed in the top of the car—as if it 
were made of tinfoil. 

Evan backed away in horror. Was someone inside? 

He dropped to his knees to stare in the window. “Thank goodness!” he cried 
when he saw that the car was empty. 

“Wow!” Kermit exclaimed, walking around and around the smashed-in car. 
“You must weigh at least a ton, Evan!” 

Andy stepped up beside Evan, who remained on his knees. “Be careful,” 
she warned. “You’ve got to watch every step.” 

Evan nodded in agreement. “At least I think I’ve stopped growing,” he 
called down to her. 

As they reached the playground, Evan saw several kids shouting and 
pointing excitedly at a tall maple tree on the corner. 

What’s going on? Evan wondered. 

As he lumbered closer, he saw the problem. Their yellow kite had become 
stuck up in the tree. 

“Hey—no problem!” Evan boomed. 

The kids screamed and cried out in surprise as Evan stepped up to them. 
They all backed away, their faces tight with fear. 

Evan reached up easily and tugged the kite loose from the tree limb. Then 
he leaned down and gently handed it to the nearest kid. 

“Hey, thanks!” A grin spread across the kid’s freckled face. 

The other kids all cheered. Evan took a bow. 

Andy laughed. “You need a red cape and a pair of blue tights,” she shouted 
up to him. “It’s Super Evan!” 

“Super Evan!” the kids shouted as they ran off happily with their kite. 

Evan leaned down to talk to Andy. “If I stay big like this, do you think I 
really could get a job as a superhero?” 

“I don’t think it pays very well,” Kermit chimed in. “In the comic books, 
you never see those guys getting paid.” 

They crossed the street and headed toward the playground. Evan glanced at 
the redbrick school building on the corner. It’s so small, he thought. 

He suddenly realized that he stood at least two stories tall. If I walk over 
there, I can see into the second-floor classrooms, he thought. 

How will I go to school? Evan wondered. I can’t squeeze through the door. 
I won’t fit in Mrs. McGrady’s room anymore. 

Feeling a wave of sadness roll over him, he turned away from the school 
building. He heard cheers and shouts. A softball game was underway on the 
practice diamond. 

Evan recognized Billy Denver and Brian Johnson and some of the other 
kids. He always had to beg to play softball with them. They never wanted Evan 
on their team because he wasn’t a very good hitter. 

He strolled over the grass to the practice diamond. Andy and Kermit ran 
behind him, struggling to keep up. 

Brian was starting to pitch the ball. But he stopped short when he spotted 
Evan. The ball dropped from his hand and dribbled to the ground. 

Players on both teams gasped and shouted. 

Evan strode up to Brian on the pitcher’s mound. Brian’s eyes bulged in fear 
as Evan drew near. Brian raised his hands to shield himself. “Don’t hurt me!” he 
pleaded. 

“Hey—it’s Evan!” Billy exclaimed. “Look, guys! It’s Evan!” 

Kids from both teams gathered around, murmuring excitedly, nervously. 

Brian slowly lowered his hands and stared up at the giant Evan. “Wow! It 
really is you! Evan—how did you do that?” 

“What happened to you?” another kid cried. 

“He’s been working out!” Andy told them. 

The kids laughed. Very tense laughter. 

Andy always has a joke for everything, Evan thought. 

“Uh... want to play?” Brian asked. “You can be on my team.” 

“No. My team!” Billy insisted. 

“No way! He’s on my team!” Brian shouted. “We’re one man short, 
remember?” 

“Don’t say short around Evan!” Andy joked. 

Everyone laughed again. 

Billy and Brian continued to fight over which team would get Evan. Evan 
stood back and enjoyed the argument. He picked up a wooden bat. It had always 
seemed so heavy before. Now it felt as light as a pencil. 

Billy won the argument. “You can bat now, Evan,” he said, grinning up at 

him. 

“How can I pitch to him? He’s a giant!” Brian complained. 

“Pitch it really high,” Evan suggested. 

“Evan, do your mom and dad know you grew like this?” Billy asked, 
walking to home plate beside Evan. 

Evan swallowed hard. He hadn’t thought about his parents. They’d be 
getting home from work soon. They weren’t going to be happy about this. How 
would he break the news to them? he wondered. 

And then he thought: I won’t have to break the news to them. They’ll see 
for themselves what has happened! 

He stepped up to the plate and swung the bat onto his shoulder. “Wish we 
had a bigger bat,” he muttered. It was a little larger than a drinking straw. 

“Get a hit!” Billy shouted from behind the backstop. 

“Get a hit, Evan!” several other players called. 

Brian’s first pitch sailed past Evan’s ankles. 

“Higher!” Evan called out to him. “You’ll have to throw it higher.” 

“I’m trying!” Brian grumbled. He pulled the softball back and tossed it 
again. 

This time, the pitch flew past Evan’s knees. 

“It’s hard to throw that high,” Brian complained. “This isn’t fair.” 

“Strike him out, Brian!” the first baseman cried. “You can do it. Evan 
always strikes out!” 

It’s true, Evan thought unhappily. I do usually strike out. 

He gripped the little bat tighter, poising it over his shoulder. He suddenly 
wondered if being so big would make a difference. 

Maybe he’d just strike out bigger ! 

Brian’s next pitch sailed higher. Evan swung hard. The bat hit the softball 
with a deafening thwack —and cracked in two. 

The ball sailed up, up, up. Off the playground. Over the school. And out of 
sight, somewhere in the next block. 

Cheers and cries of amazement rang out over the diamond. 

Evan watched the ball fly out of sight. Then he leaped joyfully in the air 
and began running the bases. 

The longest home run in the history of the world! 

It took only four steps between bases. He had just rounded second base 
when he heard the sirens. 

Evan turned his eyes to the street in time to see two fire trucks squeal 
around the corner. The trucks pulled right up onto the playground grass and 
came roaring toward the softball diamond, sirens blaring. 

Evan stopped at third base. 

The sirens cut off as the two fire engines skidded to a halt along the first 
base line. 

Evan’s mouth dropped open as Conan Barber leaped out of the first truck. 
Several black-uniformed firefighters dropped to the ground behind Conan. 

“There he is!” Conan cried, pointing furiously at Evan. “That’s him! Get 
him!” 

20 

Grim-faced firefighters began hoisting heavy firehoses off the trucks. Others 
moved toward Evan, hatchets clutched menacingly in their hands. 

“That’s him!” Conan shrieked. “He’s the one who put me in the tree and 
wrecked my parents’ fence!” 

“Huh?” Still standing on third base, Evan froze in shock. 

Was this really happening? 

The playground rang out with shouts of surprise. But the voices were 
drowned out by more sirens. 

Evan saw flashing red lights. And then two black-and-white police cars 
roared over the grass, screeching up behind the fire engines. 

A man and woman came running behind the police cars. “That’s the one!” 
they called breathlessly, pointing at Evan. “That’s the one who crushed the car. 
We saw him do it!” 

The firefighters were busily connecting the hoses to hydrants at the curb. 
Blue-uniformed police swarmed on to the field. The kids on the two softball 
teams huddled together on the pitcher’s mound. They all seemed dazed and 
frightened. 

“He tried to kill me!” Conan was shouting to a woman police officer. “That 
giant put me in a tree and left me there!” 

“He crushed a car!” a woman screamed. 

Evan hadn’t moved from third base. He gazed past the fire engines to Andy 
and Kermit. They stood near the backstop. Kermit had the dumb, toothy grin on 
his face. 

Andy had her hands cupped around her mouth. She was shouting something 
to Evan. But he couldn’t hear her over the wail of sirens and the excited shouts 
and cries of everyone in the playground. 

Some of the police and fire officers huddled together, talking rapidly. They 
kept glancing up at Evan as they talked. 

What are they going to do to me? Evan wondered, frozen in fear. 

Should I run? Should I try to explain? 

More people came hurrying across the playground. As soon as they spotted 
Evan, their expressions turned to surprise and amazement. 

They’re all staring at me, Evan realized. They’re pointing at me as if I’m 
some kind of freak. 

I am some kind of freak! he admitted to himself. 

Firefighters formed a line, holding their hatchets waist-high. Others readied 
the firehoses, aiming them up at Evan’s chest. 

Evan heard more sirens. More police cars rolled on to the playground. 

A young police officer with wavy red hair and a red mustache stepped up to 
Evan. “What—is—your—name?” he shouted, speaking each word slowly, as if 
maybe Evan didn’t speak English. 

“Uh... Evan. Evan Ross,” Evan called down. 

“Do you come from another planet?” the officer shouted. 

“Huh?” Evan couldn’t help himself. He burst out laughing. 

He heard some of the softball players laughing, too. 

“I live in Atlanta,” he shouted down to the officer. “Around the corner. On 
Brookridge Drive.” 

Several officers and firefighters held their ears. Evan’s voice came out 
louder than he had planned. 

Evan took a step toward them. 

The firefighters raised a firehose. Several others readied their hatchets. 

“He’s dangerous!” Evan heard Conan shout. “Watch out! He’s really 
dangerous!” 

That got everyone shouting and screaming. 

The playground was filling with people. Neighborhood people. Kids and 
their parents. Cars stopped and people climbed out to see why the crowd had 
gathered. 

More police cars bumped over the grass. Their wailing sirens added to the 
deafening noise, the shouts and cries, the frightened murmurs. 

The noise. The staring eyes. The pointed fingers. 

It all started to make Evan dizzy. 

He felt his legs tremble. His forehead throbbed. 

The police had formed a line. They started to circle Evan. 

As they closed in, Evan felt himself explode. “I can’t take any more!” he 
screamed, raising his fists. “Stop it! Stop it! All of you! Get away! Leave me 
alone! I mean it!” 

Silence as the sirens cut off. The voices hushed. 

And then Evan heard the red-haired police officer shout to the others: “He’s 

turned violent. We have to bring him down!” 

21 

Evan didn’t have time to be frightened. 

The firehoses chugged and gurgled—then shot out thick streams of water. 

Evan ducked low. Dove forward. Tried to get away from the roaring water. 

The force of the water stream ripped the ground to his side. 

Evan dodged to the other side. 

Wow! That’s powerful! he thought, horrified. The water is strong enough to 
knock me over! 

Frightened shouts rose up over the roar of the water. 

Evan plunged through the line of dark-uniformed police officers—and kept 
mnning. “Don’t shoot!” he screamed. “Don’t shoot me! I’m not from another 
planet! I’m just a boy!” 

He didn’t know if they could hear him or not. 

He dodged past several startled onlookers. A long hook-and-ladder stood in 
his path. 

He stopped. Glanced back. 

Firefighters were turning the hoses. The powerful spray arced high. Water 
crashed to the ground just behind Evan, loud as thunder. 

Kids and parents were running in all directions, frantic, frightened 
expressions locked on their faces. 

Evan took a deep breath. Bent his knees. And leaped over the fire truck in 
his path. 

He heard shouts of surprise behind him. He vaulted high over the truck. 
Landed hard on the other side. Stumbled. Caught his balance. 

Then, ducking low, his arms stretched out in front of him, Evan ran. 

His long legs carried him away quickly. As he reached the street, a low tree 
branch popped up as if from nowhere. 

Evan dipped his head just in time. 

Leaves scratched over his forehead, but he kept running. 

Got to watch out for tree branches, he warned himself. Got to remember 
that I’m two stories tall. 

Breathing hard, he plunged across the street. The late afternoon sun was 

lowering behind the trees. The shadows were longer now, and darker. Evan’s 
shadow seemed a mile long as it stretched out in front of him. 

He heard the rise and fall of shrill sirens behind him. Heard angry shouts. 
Heard the thud of footsteps, people running after him. 

Where can I hide? he asked himself. Where will I be safe? 

Home? 

No. That’s the first place the police will look. 

Where? Where? 

It was so hard to think clearly. They were close behind him, he knew. 
Chasing him. Eager to bring him down. 

If only he could stop somewhere, close his eyes, shut them all out, and 
think. Then maybe he could come up with a plan. 

But he knew he had to keep running. 

His head throbbed. His chest ached. 

His long legs were taking him quickly away from the playground. But he 
still felt awkward, with his sneakers so far below him and his head so high in the 
trees. 

I’ll hide out at Kermit’s house, he thought. 

Then he quickly decided that was a bad idea, too. 

“I can’t get in Kermit’s house!” he cried out loud. “I’m too big!” 

And then he had a truly frightening thought: “I can’t fit in any house!” 

Where will I sleep? he wondered. And then: Will they let me sleep? 

Can’t the police see I’m just a boy? Evan asked himself bitterly. He turned 
the corner and ran past his house. The lights were all off. The door closed. No 
car in the driveway. 

His parents hadn’t come home from work. 

He kept running. Running across yards. Ducking low. Trying to hide behind 
shrubs and tall hedges. 

Can’t they see I’m a boy? Not a creature from another planet? 

Why do they think I’m so dangerous? 

It’s all Conan’s fault, Evan decided. Conan got the firefighters and police all 
crazy with his wild stories. 

His wild, true stories. 

And now where can I run? Where can I hide? 

The answer came to him as he neared Kermit’s house. Two doors down, a 
lot had been cleared. And an enormous stack of lumber had been piled at the 

back. Someone was about to build a house on the lot. 

Breathing hard, sweat pouring down his broad forehead, Evan turned and 
ran across the lot. He ducked behind the tall pile of lumber. And stopped. 

He dropped to his knees and leaned against the lumber stack, struggling to 
catch his breath. He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T- 
shirt. 

Maybe I’ll hide here for a while, he thought. He lowered himself to a sitting 
position. 

If I sit down and hunch my shoulders, the lumber pile hides me from the 
street. And it’s shady and cool behind it. And I can keep an eye on Kermit’s 
house from here. 

Yes. This is a good hiding spot for now, Evan decided. Then, after dark, I’ll 
sneak over to my house and try to explain to my parents what happened. 

He leaned his back against the lumber pile and shut his eyes. 

He had just started to relax a little when he heard a voice cry: “Got him!” 

22 

Evan’s eyes shot open. 

He tried to scramble to his feet. 

But then he saw who had shouted. 

“Kermit!” he cried angrily. “You scared me to death!” 

Kermit flashed his annoying grin. “I knew you’d hide here, Evan,” he said, 
smirking. “I’m so smart.” 

Kermit turned and called out, “He’s back here! I was right!” 

A few seconds later, Andy gingerly poked her head behind the stack of 
lumber. Her eyes studied Evan for a few seconds. Then a smile crossed her face. 

“You’re okay?” she asked softly. “I was so worried—” 

“Yeah. I’m okay—for now,” Evan replied bitterly. 

“The whole town is after you!” Kermit exclaimed. “It’s really awesome! It’s 
like a movie!” 

“I don’t want to be in a movie!” Evan griped. “This movie is too scary.” 

“They’ve got guns and everything!” Kermit continued excitedly, ignoring 
Evan’s complaint. “And did you see those firehoses? It’s amazing! They all want 
to catch you!” 

“They think you’re an alien from outer space,” Andy added, shaking her 
head. 

“And who told them that? Conan?” Evan asked bitterly. 

“Conan made them believe you’re real dangerous,” Kermit said, grinning 
that grin Evan hated so much. 

“I am dangerous!” Evan declared. He growled menacingly at Kermit. 

The growl shocked the grin off Kermit’s face. 

Evan turned to Andy. “What am I going to do? I can’t run and hide for the 
rest of my life. They’re going to catch me. If you two tracked me down, the 
police will track me down, too.” 

Evan let out a long, frightened sigh. “There’s nowhere I can hide. I’m too 
big to hide! So what can I do? What?” 

Andy scratched her arm. She knotted up her face, thinking hard. “Well...” 

And suddenly Evan knew exactly what to do. 

Watching Andy, Evan knew how to solve the whole problem. 

23 

Evan jumped to his feet. His heart began to pound. For the first time in hours, a 
big smile spread across his face. 

“Evan—what’s wrong?” Andy demanded. His sudden move had startled 
her. 

“I know what we can do!” Evan declared. “Everything is going to be okay!” 

“Get down!” Kermit cried. “I hear sirens. They’ll see you.” 

In his excitement, Evan had forgotten that he was taller than the lumber 
pile. He dropped back to his knees. Even on his knees, he was a lot taller than 
Kermit and Andy. 

The sirens blared louder. Closer. 

Evan gazed around. The sun had fallen behind the trees. The sky was 
evening gray now. The air grew cooler. 

“We’ve got to hurry,” Evan told them. He put a hand on Kermit’s slender 
shoulder. “Kermit, you’ve got to help me.” 

Behind his glasses, Kermit’s little mouse eyes bulged with excitement. 
“Me? What can I do?” 

“The blue mixture,” Evan said, holding on to his cousin’s shoulder. 
“Remember the blue mixture?” 

“Wh-which one?” Kermit stammered. 

“The one that shrank my mosquito bite!” Andy chimed in. She suddenly 
realized what Evan was thinking. 

“That’s right,” Evan explained to Kermit. “Watching Andy scratch her arm 
reminded me. That blue mixture of yours shrank the mosquito bite instantly.” 

“Maybe it can shrink Evan, too!” Andy exclaimed excitedly. 

Kermit nodded, thinking hard. “Yeah. Maybe it can.” 

“I’ll rub it all over my body, and I’ll shrink back to my normal size,” Evan 
said happily. 

“It’ll work! I know it will!” Andy cried enthusiastically. She let out a cheer 
and jumped up and down. Then she tugged Kermit’s arm. “Come on, Kermit. 
Hurry! Let’s get to your basement. You still have the blue mixture, don’t you?” 

Kermit narrowed his eyes, trying to remember. “I think so,” he told them. 
“A lot of stuff got wrecked, remember? But I think I have it.” 

“He has to have it!” Evan cried. “He has to!” 

Evan climbed to his feet. “Come on. Hurry.” 

They heard sirens. Loud and near. 

Kermit peered around the lumber pile toward the street. “A police car!” he 
whispered. “They’re cruising this block.” 

“You’d better wait here,” Andy warned Evan. 

Evan shook his head. “No way. I’m coming with you. I want to get that blue 
mixture as fast as I can.” 

He ducked his head. “We can walk through the backyards. No one will see 

us.” 

“But, Evan—” Andy started to protest. 

She stopped when Evan stepped away from the lumber pile and started 
loping quickly across the backyard toward Kermit’s house. 

Dogface greeted them in the driveway. The sheepdog barked happily, 
jumping up on Kermit, nearly knocking him to the ground. 

“Shhh. Quiet, boy! Quiet!” Kermit cried, petting the dog, trying to stop his 
barks. “We don’t want anyone to hear us.” 

Dogface gazed up at Evan—and got very quiet. The dog slumped across the 
driveway. It stared up suspiciously at Evan, panting hard, its stubby tail wagging 
furiously. 

Evan’s eyes darted up and down the driveway. No car. “Your mom isn’t 
home yet, Kermit,” he said. 

“She must be working late,” Kermit replied. “That’s good news. This is our 
lucky day!” 

Evan let out a bitter laugh. “For sure. Lucky day,” he muttered. 

Kermit and Andy hurried to the kitchen door. Evan started to follow. Then 
he remembered he didn’t fit in the house. 

“Wait right there,” Andy instructed him. “Make sure no one sees you.” 

Evan nodded. “Hurry—please!” 

He watched them disappear through the door. Then he sat down behind the 
house. He motioned for Dogface to come over to him. He felt like holding on to 
something. 

But the big dog just stared back and wouldn’t budge. 

The whole town is looking for me, Evan thought unhappily. The whole 
town is looking for a giant me. But they’ll never find the giant me. Because in a 
few seconds, I’ll shrink back to normal size. 

Then everything will be okay again. 

He raised his eyes to the house. What is keeping Andy and Kermit? he 
wondered. Can’t they find the bottle of blue liquid? 

He took a deep breath. Don’t panic, Evan, he instructed himself. They’ve 
only been in the house a few seconds. They’ll be out soon. And everything will 
be okay. 

To pass the time, he counted slowly to ten. Then he counted slowly to ten 
again. 

He was about to start counting one more time when the screen door flew 
open. Kermit stepped out, carrying the blue beaker. Andy followed right behind. 

“Found it!” Kermit cried happily. 

Evan jumped to his knees. He reached out eagerly. “Quick—let me have it.” 

Kermit stretched up his hand. Evan grabbed for the glass beaker. 

It slipped out of his grasp. 

It started to fall. 

“Ohhh!” Evan let out a horrified moan—and caught the beaker just before it 
crashed against the driveway. 

“Wow! Nice catch!” Kermit exclaimed. 

Evan’s heart had leaped to his mouth. He took a deep breath. He grasped 
the beaker tightly in his hand. “Close one,” he murmured. The beaker was so 
tiny in his hand, like something made for a dollhouse. 

They heard sirens in the distance. 

The search for the giant Evan was still on. 

“I—I hope this mixture works,” Evan declared. 

He raised the beaker. Tilted it upside down over his other hand. Waited. 

And waited. 

Finally, a tiny blue drop of liquid dripped on to Evan’s palm. 

Nothing more. 

He shook the beaker. Hard. Harder. The way he shook a ketchup bottle 
when the ketchup stuck. 

Then he raised the beaker to his eye and peered inside. 

A few seconds later, he let out a long, sad sigh. He tossed the bottle 
disgustedly onto the grass. “It’s empty,” Evan reported. “Totally empty.” 

24 

“I knew there wasn’t much left,” Kermit murmured, shaking his head. 

The empty bottle rolled under a shrub. Dogface walked over and sniffed it. 

“I’m doomed,” Evan muttered. Forgetting how strong he was, he angrily 
kicked a pebble down the driveway. The pebble sailed up into the air and 
disappeared over the house across the street. 

“Be careful,” Andy warned. “You could break a window.” 

“Who cares?” Evan snapped. “My life is ruined.” 

“No way!” Kermit cried. “You’ll be okay, Evan.” He started running to the 
house. “Be right back!” 

“Kermit, where are you going?” Evan called glumly. 

“To mix up another batch!” Kermit replied. “It will only take me a few 
seconds, Evan. I’ve got all the ingredients.” 

Evan could feel his sadness lifting. “Do you really think you can do it?” he 
asked his cousin. 

“No problem,” Kermit replied, flashing Evan a thumbs-up sign. “I think I 
remember what I put in it. I’ll mix up more blue shrinking stuff and be back in a 
jiffy.” 

Kermit disappeared into the house. “I’m coming, too!” Andy called after 
him. She turned back to Evan. “I can try to clean up some of the lab while 
Kermit mixes the liquid. If Kermit’s mom gets home and sees the basement, 
you’ll be in big trouble.” 

Evan let out a weak laugh. “Big trouble. Very funny, Annnndrea. You’re a 

riot.” 

“Don’t call me Andrea,” she shot back, ignoring his sarcasm. He watched 
her hurry into the house. 

Dogface got tired of sniffing the blue bottle. The sheepdog lumbered across 
the yard to inspect the fence that Evan had knocked down earlier. 

Evan sighed. I wonder if my own dog will recognize me now? he thought. 
Trigger, Evan’s cocker spaniel, had been the first to eat Monster Blood. The dog 
had grown bigger than a horse. 

I wonder if Trigger ever has nightmares about that? Evan asked himself. 

He knew he’d be having nightmares about today for a long time to come. 

He glanced at his watch. Almost dinnertime. His parents would be getting 
home soon. And Kermit’s mom would be pulling up the driveway at any minute. 

“Wow. She’ll be surprised when she sees me!” Evan exclaimed out loud. 

He turned to the house in time to see Kermit step out. He was carrying a 
fresh bottle of blue liquid. “See? No problem!” Kermit declared. 

Evan carefully took the bottle from Kermit’s hand. 

Andy walked over, her eyes raised to Evan’s. “Go ahead. Rub it all over,” 
she urged. “Hurry!” 

Evan carefully poured a puddle of blue liquid into his palm. Then he rubbed 
it onto his cheeks, his forehead, his neck. 

He poured more into his hand. He rubbed blue liquid onto his arms. Then 
he raised his T-shirt and rubbed some on his chest. 

Please let it work, he prayed silently. Please let it work. 

He turned to Andy and Kermit. “See any change?” 

25 

Andy’s mouth dropped open. 

Kermit’s eyes bulged, and he uttered a choking sound. 

“Well?” Evan demanded eagerly. “Do you see any change? Do you?” 

“Uh... well... uh...” Kermit sputtered. 

“You turned blue! ” Andy cried. 

“Excuse me?” Evan demanded. He knew he hadn’t heard her correctly. 

“Your skin—it’s bright blue!” Andy wailed, pressing her hands against her 
cheeks. 

“My—what?” Evan shrieked. “You mean—HIC!—” A powerful hiccup 
made his entire body shake. 

Evan stared down at his hands. 

“They—they’re blue!” he cried. “HIC!” 

Another hiccup burst from his open mouth. His enormous body shook as if 
struck by an earthquake. 

Frantically, he pulled up the T-shirt and stared at his stomach. His blue 
stomach. 

His arms. His chest. All blue. Bright blue. 

“HIC!” 

“I don’t believe it!” Evan screamed. “I’m bright blue, and—HIC!—I’ve got 
the hiccups!” 

He glared down furiously at Kermit. 

Kermit was so frightened, his legs trembled and his knees actually knocked 
together. “I—I can fix it,” he called up to Evan. “N-no problem! I just mixed it 
up wrong. I’ll be right back with another mixture.” 

He ran to the house. At the screen door, he turned back to Evan. “Don’t go 
anywhere—okay?” 

Evan let out a furious roar, interrupted by a deafening hiccup. “Where can I 
go?” he shrieked at the top of his lungs. “Where can I — HIC! — go?!” 

The door slammed behind Kermit. 

Evan let out another roar, clenching his blue fists and shaking his blue arms 
over his head. He paced back and forth on the driveway, hiccupping every few 

seconds. 

“Try to calm down a little,” Andy called up to him. “People will hear you.” 

“I—I—HIC!—can’t calm down!” Evan complained bitterly. “Look at me!” 

“But the neighbors will hear you. Or see you,” Andy warned. “They’ll call 
the police.” 

Evan replied with a hiccup that nearly knocked him off his feet. 

Kermit came running out of the house. He raised another bottle of blue 
liquid to Evan. “Here! Try this!” 

“HIC!” Evan declared. He grasped the bottle in his blue hand. 

Without saying another word, he turned the bottle upside down. With quick, 
frantic motions, he splashed the blue liquid all over him. Over his cheeks. His 
forehead. His hands and arms. His chest. 

He rolled up his jeans and rubbed the mixture onto his knees and legs. He 
pulled off his socks and sneakers and smoothed the blue liquid over his ankles 
and feet. 

“It’s got to work!” he cried. “This time, it’s got to!” 

Andy and Kermit stared up at him eagerly. 

They waited. 

Evan waited. 

Nothing happened. No change at all. 

Then Evan began to feel it. 

“Hey—I’m tingling!” he announced happily. 

He felt the same electric tingling he had felt before. The itchy feeling he 
had every time he was about to grow a little more. 

“Yes!” Evan cheered. “Yes!” 

The tingling grew sharper, stronger, as it spread over his entire body. 

“It’s working! I can—HIC!—feel it!” Evan shouted. “It’s really working! 
I’m tingling! I’m itching! I can feel it! It’s working!” 

“No, it isn’t,” Andy murmured quietly. 

26 

“Huh?” Evan narrowed his eyes at her. 

The tingling became a violent itch. He started to scratch. But pulled back 
his hand because his skin felt so strange. 

“It... didn’t... work....” Andy said sadly, her voice trembling. 

“Yuck! He looks so gross!” Kermit declared, making a disgusted face. 

“Huh? HIC!” Evan replied. 

He uttered a horrified gasp as he stared at his arms. “F-f-feathers!” he 
stammered in a high, shrill voice. 

He checked out his arms. His stomach. His legs. 

“Noooooo!” Along, low wail burst from his chest. 

His entire body was covered in fluffy white feathers. 

“Noooo—HIC! —oooooooo! ” 

“I’m sorry,” Kermit said, shaking his head. “I don’t know what I’m doing 
wrong. I thought I had the mixture right this time.” 

“You look like a big eagle,” Andy commented. “Except eagles aren’t blue.” 

“HIC!” Evan cried. 

“And eagles don’t get hiccups,” Andy added. She gazed up at him with 
concern. “Poor Evan. That must itch like crazy. You’re having a real bad day.” 

Evan frantically scratched his feathery chest. “It can’t get any worse than 
this,” he muttered. 

And then he saw a police car pull up in front of the house. 

27 

“HIC!” Evan cried. He backed off the driveway and crouched low against the 
back wall of the house. “The police!” he whispered. 

His throat tightened in panic. His feathers all stood up on end. 

What should I do? he asked himself, pressed against the house, ducking his 
head. Should I run? Should I give myself up? 

“One more try!” Kermit cried, leaping into the house. “Let me try one more 
mixture. I think I can get it this time!” 

The door slammed behind him. 

“Hurry!” Andy called from the driveway. “The police—they’re climbing 
out of their car.” 

“How many are there?” Evan whispered. His feathers itched, but he was too 
frightened to scratch. 

“Two,” Andy replied, staring through the gray evening light to the street. 
“They look kind of mean.” 

A sudden cool gust of wind ruffled Evan’s feathers. His huge body 
trembled. 

“They’re walking up the driveway,” Andy reported. “They’re going to be 
here in a few seconds!” 

“I’d better make a run for it,” Evan declared. He took one step away from 
the house and nearly fell. It was hard to run when your feet were covered with 
stiff, prickly feathers. 

His entire body itched. He pressed himself against the house again. “I’m 
doomed,” he murmured to himself. 

“They stopped to check out the front door,” Andy told him. “You’ve still 
got a few seconds.” 

“Hurry, Kermit! Hurry!” Evan urged out loud. 

He turned to the kitchen door. No sign of Kermit. 

Would Kermit get the mixture right this time? Could he get the mixture to 
Evan before the two police officers entered the backyard? 

The screen door opened. Kermit burst out. He tripped on the back stoop. 
The blue bottle nearly went flying. 

He caught his balance. He handed the bottle up to Evan. “Good luck!” 

Kermit called up to Evan. Kermit raised both hands. He had his fingers tightly 
crossed on both hands. 

“Here come the police,” Andy warned. “They’re walking really fast now.” 

The bottle trembled in Evan’s hand. He turned it upside down. It puddled in 
his enormous, feathery palm. 

Frantically, he began rubbing it over his feathers, over his blue skin. 
Splashing it wildly. Pouring it over his body. 

Please work! he silently urged it. Please work! 

He waited. 

Kermit stared up at him hopefully, his fingers still crossed. 

“They’re here!” Andy reported from the driveway. 

Evan gulped. 

The mixture hadn’t worked. 

He hadn’t changed. Not a bit. 

The two dark-uniformed officers approached the back of the house. “Hello, 
there,” one of them called to Andy. 

28 

Evan heard a loud POP. 

He uttered a startled cry as he felt himself falling. Falling to the ground. 

He reached out a hand and steadied himself against the house. 

It took him a second or two to realize that he hadn’t fallen. He had shrunk. 

The two officers stepped into the backyard. One was very tall. The other 
was short and plump. “Sorry to bother you kids,” the tall one said. “But we got a 
call from a neighbor.” 

“A call? About what?” Andy demanded. She cast a surprised glance at 
Evan. She didn’t expect to see him back to normal. 

“Did you kids see a giant in the neighborhood?” the short officer asked. He 
narrowed his eyes at them, trying to appear tough. 

“A giant? What kind of giant?” Kermit asked innocently. 

“A giant kid,” the short officer replied. 

Evan, Andy, and Kermit shook their heads. “He didn’t come back here,” 
Andy told them. 

“No. We didn’t see him,” Evan said. He couldn’t keep a smile from 
crossing his face. His voice was back to normal, too. 

The tall officer pushed his cap back on his head. “Well, if you see him, be 
careful,” he warned. “He’s dangerous.” 

“He’s very dangerous,” the short officer added. “Call us right away— 
okay?” 

“Okay,” all three kids replied in unison. 

The officers gave the backyard one last look. Then they turned and headed 
back down the driveway to their car. 

As soon as they were gone, Evan burst into a long, happy cheer. Andy and 
Kermit joined in, clapping him joyfully on the back, slapping high fives all 
around. 

“Am I a genius or what?” Kermit demanded, grinning his toothy grin. 

“Or what!” Evan joked. 

They were still laughing and celebrating Evan’s return to Evan-size when 
Kermit’s mom pulled up the driveway. As she climbed out of her car, she 
appeared surprised to find them outdoors. 

“Sorry I’m so late,” she called. She hugged Kermit. “How was your 
afternoon?” 

Kermit glanced at Evan. Then he smiled at his mother. “Oh, it was kind of 
boring,” he told her. 

“Yeah. Kind of boring,” Andy repeated. 

“Kind of boring,” Evan agreed. 

Evan knew he’d have nightmares about what had happened to him. And that 
night, he had a really scary one. In the dream, he was a giant boy being chased 
by giant rats. The rats all looked like Kermit. 

Evan sat up in the dark, shivering all over. 

“Just a nightmare,” he murmured, glancing at his clock radio. Midnight. “It 
was just a nightmare.” 

He sat up straight, wiping sweat off his forehead with his pajama-top 
sleeve. I need a glass of cold water, he decided. 

He started to climb out of bed—but stopped when he saw what a steep drop 
it was to the floor. 

Huh? What’s going on? he asked himself. 

He tried to click on the bedtable lamp. But it towered high above him, way 
beyond his reach. 

He stood up on the bed. As his eyes adjusted to the dim light, he saw that 
his bed seemed to stretch on forever. A lump in the bedspread curled up over 
Evan’s head. 

I—I’m short! he realized. I’m as short as a mouse! 

Kermit! 

Kermit strikes again! Evan thought bitterly. 

He made the blue shrinking mixture too powerful. 

I shrank—and shrank—and shrank. And now I’m as tiny as a mouse. 

“I’ll pound Kermit! I really will!” Evan cried. His voice came out as tiny 
mouse squeaks. 

Standing on the edge of his bed, staring down, down—miles down—to the 
floor, Evan heard a rumbling sound. Loud panting that sounded like a strong 
wind through the trees. 

A big head popped up in front of him. Two dark eyes. 

“No! Trigger! Go back to sleep!” Evan pleaded in his little mouse voice. 
“No! Trigger—down!” 

Evan’s squeaks had awakened the cocker spaniel. 

Evan felt the dog’s hot breath blow across his face. 

“Yuck! Dog breath!” he squeaked. 

Then he felt sharp teeth close around his waist. Felt himself tilted sideways. 
Felt the hot, wet saliva of Trigger’s mouth as the dog secured Evan between its 
teeth. 

“Trigger—down! Put me down!” Evan begged. 

He was bounced hard now. The dog teeth tightened their grip. 

“Trigger! Put me down! Where are you taking me?” 

Through the dark hallway. The hot breath blowing over Evan’s helpless 
body. 

Into his parents’ room. Evan gazed up to see his mom and dad getting ready 
for bed. 

Mr. Ross leaned over the dog. “What have you got there, Trigger? Did you 
find a bone?” 

“Uh... Dad? Dad?” Evan squeaked up at him. “Dad? It’s me? Do you see 
me? Dad? Uh... I think we have a little problem!” 


IT CAME FROM 
BENEATH THE SINK! 

1 

Before my brother and I found the strange little creature under the sink, we were 
a normal happy family. In fact, I’d have to say we were very lucky. 

But our luck quickly changed when we pulled the creature from its dark 
hiding place. 

The sad, frightening story begins on the day we moved. 

“Here we are, kids.” Dad honked the horn happily as we rounded the corner 
onto Maple Lane and pulled up in front of our new house. “Ready for the big 
move, Kitty Kat?” 

My dad is the only one who can get away with calling me Kitty Kat. My 
real name is Katrina (ugh!) Merton, but only the teachers call me Katrina. To 
everyone else I’m simply Kat. 

“Definitely, Dad!” I shouted. I jumped out of the station wagon. 

“Rowf! Rowf!” Killer, our cocker spaniel, barked in agreement and 
followed me out onto the sidewalk. 

Daniel, my goofy little brother, is the one who named the dog. What a 
dumb name. Killer is afraid of everything. The only thing he kills is his rubber 
ball! 

Daniel and I had hiked past the new house plenty of times already. It’s only 
three blocks away from where we used to live, on East Main. 

But I still couldn’t believe we’d be living here. I mean, I always thought our 
old house was pretty great. But this place is awesome! 

Three stories high, sitting up on its own little hill, with butter-yellow 
shutters and at least a dozen windows. A wide porch wraps around the whole 
house. The front yard must be about the size of a football field. 

It’s not a house—it’s a mansion! 

Well, practically a mansion. Enormous—but not exactly fancy. What Mom 
calls “a comfortable old shoe kind of house.” 

Actually, today it really looked messy and old. A few of the shutters hung 
crookedly, the grass needed mowing, and the whole place seemed to be covered 
with an inch of dust. 

But as Mom said, “Nothing that can’t be taken care of with a good cleaning, 
a coat of paint, and a few bangs with the hammer.” 

Mom, Dad, and Daniel climbed out of the car, and we all stood staring 
excitedly at the house. Today, I’d finally get to see the inside! 

Mom pointed to the second floor. “See that big balcony?” she asked. 
“That’s the room where your father and I will sleep. The next room over is 
Daniel’s.” 

She gave my hand a little squeeze. “The little balcony—that’s outside your 
room, Kat.” She beamed. 

My very own private porch! I leaned over and gave Mom a big hug. “I love 
it already,” I whispered into her ear. 

Naturally, Daniel started whining immediately. He’s ten years old, but most 
of the time he acts as if he’s about two. 

“How come Kat’s room has a balcony—and mine doesn’t?” he complained. 
“It’s not fair! I want a balcony, too!” 

“Get a life, Daniel,” I muttered. “Mom, tell him to be quiet. Don’t I get 
something for being two years older?” 

Well, almost two years older. My birthday was in four days. 

“Quiet, kids,” Mom ordered. “Daniel, you don’t have a balcony. But you 
are getting something neat, too—bunk beds. So Carlo can sleep over whenever 
you want.” 

“Excellent!” Daniel shouted. Carlo is Daniel’s best friend. They’re always 
together—and always bugging me. 

Daniel is okay—most of the time. But he insists on being right. Dad calls 
him Mr. Know-It-All. 

And sometimes Dad calls Daniel the Human Tornado, because he runs 
around like a whirlwind and makes unbelievable messes. 

I’m a lot more like my Dad—sort of calm and quiet. Well, usually calm. 
And we both have the same favorite foods—lasagna, really sour garlic pickles, 
and mocha-chip ice-cream. 

I even look like my father, tall and thin with a lot of freckles and reddish 
hair. I usually wear my hair in a ponytail. Dad doesn’t have much hair to worry 
about. 

Daniel looks more like my mother. Straight, light brown hair that’s always 
falling in his eyes, and what Mom calls a “sturdy” build. (That means he’s 
chunky.) 

Today, Daniel was definitely in Human Tornado mode. He ran up onto the 
big green lawn and began spinning around in a circle. “It’s huge,” he shouted. 

“It’s gigantic. It’s... it’s... it’s super-house!” 

He collapsed in a heap on the grass. “And this is the super-yard! Hey, Kat, 
look at me—I’m Super-Daniel!” 

“You’re super-dumb,” I told him, messing up his hair with both hands. 

“Hey, quit it!” Daniel yelped. He pulled out his super-soaker gun and 
squirted the front of my T-shirt. “You’re captured,” he announced. “You are my 
prisoner!” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied, tugging on the water pistol. “Give up the gun!” 
I commanded. I pulled harder. “Let go!” 

“Okay!” Daniel grinned. He loosened his grip so suddenly that I staggered 
backwards—and fell on to the sidewalk. 

“What a klutz!” Daniel snickered. 

I knew how to get him. I zoomed up the porch steps. “Hey, Daniel,” I 
called, “I’m going to be first in the new house!” 

“No way!” he exclaimed, scrambling up off the lawn. He hurled himself at 
the steps and grabbed me by the ankle. “Me first! Me first!” 

That’s when Dad walked up the driveway, carrying an overstuffed 
cardboard box with Kitchen written on the side. Two moving men followed, 
hauling our big blue couch. 

“Hey, stop goofing around! Mom and I really need your help today. That’s 
why we allowed you to miss a school day,” he called. “Daniel, walk Killer—and 
make sure he has food and water. Kat, keep an eye on Daniel. 

“And Kat, clean the inside of the kitchen cabinets, okay?” Dad added. 
“Mom wants to start putting the dishes and pots away.” 

“Sure, Dad,” I answered. I saw Daniel rummaging through a box on the 
lawn. The box was marked Cards and Comics. 

“Hey, where’s the dog?” I yelled to him. 

He shrugged. 

“Daniel!” I frowned. “I don’t see Killer anywhere. Where is he?” 

He dropped a stack of baseball cards. “Okay, okay, I’ll go find him,” he 
mumbled. He stood up and made his way to the driveway, calling the dog’s 
name. 

As soon as he disappeared around the side of the house, I hurried to the box 
marked Cards and Comics and checked through it. Sure enough, the little brat 
had stolen some of my comics. 

I tucked them under my arm and walked inside to the kitchen to clean out 

the cabinets. One quick glance made me groan. 

Cabinets filled just about every square inch of the big bright room! Sighing, 
I yanked paper towels and a bottle of cleaner out of the Cleaning Supplies box 
and started scrubbing. 

Spritz, rub, spritz, rub. 

This could take hours! 

After I finished a cabinet, I stepped back to admire my work. Then I knelt 
down in front of the cabinet under the sink. 

But something—a squeaky noise, like the sound of a footstep on an old 
wooden stair—made me stop short. 

What is that? I wondered, my heart beating faster. 

I slowly opened the cabinet. Tried to peek inside. 

I opened it a little wider. A little wider. 

I heard the noise again. 

My heart was pounding now. 

I opened the cabinet door another inch. 

And then it grabbed me. 

A dark, hairy claw. 

It wouldn’t let go. 

I screamed. 

2 

“Daniel! You scared me to death!” I screamed. I pounded him on the back. 

Laughing his head off, my brother yanked off the stupid rat costume he had 
insisted on packing. “You should have seen your face!” he cried. “Know what? 
I’m going to start calling you Scaredy-Kat!” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Did I mention that Daniel 
also thinks he’s the king of practical jokes? 

I suddenly remembered what my brother was supposed to be doing. “Dad 
asked you to find Killer. Where is he?” 

“I didn’t have to find him.” Daniel snickered. “He was never lost.” 

“What do you mean?” I demanded. 

“I stuck Killer in the basement,” he said proudly. “While you were hanging 
around on the porch, I ran in through the side door and hid under the sink.” 

“You really are a big rat!” I exclaimed. 

I heard a funny tap-tapping on the linoleum floor. “What’s that noise?” I 
asked. 

Daniel’s mouth dropped open. “Oh, no, it’s a real rat!” he shrieked. “Kat, 
look out! Move!” 

Without thinking, I jumped on to a kitchen chair as... Killer came trotting 
into the kitchen. 

Daniel let out a high-pitched laugh. “Twice on the same trick!” He was very 
pleased with himself. 

I dove at my brother, ready to tickle him. “Prepare to die laughing!” I 
yelled. 

“Stop! Help! No!” he gulped. “Kat, please. Stop, please. I... can’t... take... 
it!” 

“Give up?” I asked. 

Daniel nodded. “Yes!” he half-gasped, half-laughed. 

“All right,” I said generously. “You can get up now.” 

“Thanks!” he said. “Hey, what’s Killer doing over there?” 

“No way. I’m not falling for another one of your tricks,” I declared. 

But when I glanced over, the cocker spaniel did seem very interested in 
something inside the sink cabinet I’d left open. 

He pulled it out, then sniffed. Pushed it with his nose and gave a head¬ 
tossing growl. 

That’s weird, I thought. Killer never growls. 

“What do you have there, boy?” I called to him. 

The dog didn’t even look up. 

Sniff, sniff, sniff... growl. 

I leaned in for a closer view. 

“What is it, Kat?” Daniel asked. 

“Nothing much,” I answered casually. “Just an old sponge, I think.” 

Sniff, sniff, sniff... growl. 

It seemed perfectly ordinary—small, round, and light brown. A little bigger 
than an egg. 

But the sponge had Killer all excited and nervous. The dog danced around 
it, barking and growling. 

I snatched the sponge from him to get a better look. And my sweet dog tried 
to bite me! 

“Killer!” I yelled. “Bad boy!” 

He slunk to a corner. And with an embarrassed howl, he lay his head down 
sadly on his paws. 

I held the sponge up close to my face, to study it better. 

Whoa! Wait a minute! 

I suddenly understood Killer’s strange behavior. 

“Daniel—check it out!” I exclaimed. “Wow! I don’t BELIEVE this!” 

3

“Huh? What is it, Kat?” Daniel cried. 

I stared in shock at the tiny sponge. 

“Maybe my eyes are playing tricks on me,” I muttered. “It’s totally weird!” 

“Come on, Kat,” Daniel insisted. “What is it?” 

I studied the sponge some more. “Wow!” I gasped. My eyes weren’t fooling 
me. 

The round sponge moved in my hand, gently and slowly, in and out, in and 
out in a lazy rhythm. 

As if it were breathing! 

But sponges don’t breathe. Do they? 

This one sure did! 

I could even hear its little breaths: Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

“Daniel! I don’t think this is just a sponge,” I stammered. “I think it’s 
alive!” I tossed it back into the sink cabinet. I admit it. I felt a little scared. 

My brother put his hands on his hips. “That’s a pretty lame joke,” he 
snickered. 

“But, Daniel—” I started. 

“You can’t get me with that one, Kat. It’s an old sponge,” he insisted, 
grinning. “A dirty old sponge that’s probably been here for a hundred years.” 

“All right, don’t believe me!” I exclaimed. “When I’m famous for 
discovering this thing, I won’t tell them you’re my brother.” 

Mom walked by, carrying an armload of winter coats. I knew that she 
would believe me. 

“Mom!” I yelled. “The sponge! It’s alive!” 

“That’s nice, dear,” she murmured. “Only a few more things to bring in. 
Now, where did I put that box of silverware?” 

My mother acted as if she didn’t even hear me! “Mom,” I started again, 
even louder this time. “The sponge! Under the sink! It’s breathing!” 

She ignored me and kept walking through the kitchen and right out the 
screen door into the backyard. 

Nobody cared about my amazing find. 

Except for Killer. He seemed really interested. 

Maybe too interested. 

Killer bent his neck down low, poked his head into the cabinet, gave the 
sponge a long stare—and growled, deep in his throat. 

Grrrr. Grrrr. 

Why was he growling again? 

Killer touched his wet nose to the sponge. He shoved it around, sniffing and 
sniffing. He gazed up at me for a moment, a puzzled expression on his dog face. 
Grrrr. Grrrr. 

Killer opened his mouth and grabbed the sponge in his teeth. 

“Hey, that’s not lunch!” I yelped, grabbing Killer by his collar and yanking 
him out from under the sink. “That could be a very important discovery.” 

I turned to my brother. 

“See, Daniel? Killer knows it’s alive,” I insisted. “Honest, it’s not a trick. 
Look closer—I promise that you’ll see it breathing.” 

Daniel smirked as if he didn’t believe me. But he poked his head into the 
cabinet. 

“Hey, whoa! You might be right,” he admitted. He pulled himself up to face 
me. “I think it is alive! And I also think... it’s mine!” 

With that, he dove under the sink to grab the sponge. 

“No way!” I protested. I grabbed the back of his T-shirt and hauled him out. 
“I saw it first. The sponge belongs to me!” 

He shook me off and dove back down again. “Finders, keepers!” he cried. 

I made another grab for him. 

But before I could touch him, Daniel uttered a bloodcurdling scream of 

pain! 

4 

“AAAAAIIIIIIII!” 

You could probably hear Daniel’s wail for blocks. 

That got Mom’s attention. She came banging through the screen door from 
the backyard. 

“What happened? Who screamed? What’s wrong? What’s going on?” Mom 
demanded. 

Daniel backed out from under the sink, holding his head. He squinted up at 
us. “I hit my head on the sink,” he wailed. “Kat pushed me!” 

Mom knelt down and put her arm around Daniel. “You poor thing,” she said 
soothingly. She patted his head softly. 

“I did not push him,” I declared. “I didn’t even touch him.” 

Daniel groaned and rubbed the side of his head. “It really hurts,” he 
complained. “I’ll probably have a huge bump there.” 

He glared at me. “You did it on purpose! And it’s not your sponge, anyway. 
It was in the house. So it belongs to all of us!” 

“It is so my sponge!” I insisted. “What’s your problem, Daniel? Why do 
you always want what’s mine?” 

“That’s enough!” Mom cried impatiently. “I can’t believe you’re fighting 
over a stupid sponge!” 

Mom turned to me. “Kat, you are supposed to be keeping an eye on your 
brother, aren’t you?” she demanded. “And, Daniel, don’t take things that aren’t 
yours.” 

She turned to leave the room. “Not one more word about a silly sponge! Or 
you’ll both be sorry!” 

As soon as Mom left the room, Daniel stuck out his tongue at me and 
crossed his eyes. “Thanks for getting me in trouble,” he grumbled. 

He stomped off, with Killer at his heels. 

Alone in the kitchen, I bent down, reached my hand under the sink, and 
picked up the sponge. 

“Everyone’s yelling and screaming around here,” I whispered to it. “You’re 
causing a lot of trouble—aren’t you?” 

I felt sort of dumb talking to a sponge. 

But it didn’t feel like a sponge. Not at all. 

It’s warm, I thought in surprise. Warm and damp. 

“Are you alive?” I asked the wrinkled little ball. 

I closed my hand around it softly—and the weirdest thing happened. The 
sponge started moving in my hand. 

Well, not exactly moving. 

Pulsing—slowly and gently. 

Ca-chunk. Ca-chunk. 

It moved like the plastic model heart we used in science class. 

Could I be feeling a heartbeat? 

I peered curiously at the thing. I ran my fingertips over the wrinkles that 
covered it, pushing back the folds of spongy, moist material. 

“Whoa!” I cried, startled. Two wet, black eyes stared out at me. 

I shuddered. “Yuck!” 

You aren’t a sponge at all, I thought. Sponges don’t have eyes, do they? 
What are you? 

I needed some answers. Quick. But who could I talk to? 

Not Mom. She didn’t want to hear about the sponge. 

“Dad! Dad!” I called out, dashing through the living room and dining room. 
“Where are you?” 

“Mmmmph,” he shouted. “Mmmmmpph.” 

“What?” I yelled, running through the house. “Oh, here you are.” 

Dad stood at the top of a ladder in the front hall. He had a hammer in one 
hand and a big roll of black electrician’s tape in the other. 

And a bunch of nails in his mouth. “Mmmmpph,” he mumbled. 

“Dad, what are you trying to say?” I asked. 

He spit the nails out. 

“Sorry,” Dad grumbled. “I’ve got to get this hall light working. These darn 
old wires.” 

He stared down at a pile of tools on the floor. “Kat, hand me those pliers. If 
this doesn’t do it, I’ll have to call an electrician.” 

Dad is great at getting flowers to bloom and grass to grow. But when it 
comes to handyman stuff, he messes up. A lot. 

One time, he tried to fix a fan—and knocked out the electricity all over the 
neighborhood. 

“Here, Dad.” I handed him the pliers and held up the sponge. 

“Check this out,” I urged. I stood on tiptoes so he could see the sponge up 
close. “I found it under the sink, and it’s warm and it has eyes and it’s alive. I 
can’t figure out what it is.” 

Dad peered out from under his baseball cap. “Let’s have a look at that,” he 
offered. 

I shoved the sponge up so he could reach it. 

He leaned down to grab the sponge from me. 

I didn’t see the ladder wobble. 

And I didn’t see it start to tilt over. 

I only saw Dad’s expression change. I saw his eyes go wide. And his mouth 
open in a startled scream. 

As he started to fall, he grabbed at the light in the ceiling for support. 

“Nooooooo!” 

The light came crashing down on his head. Dad sailed off the top of the 
ladder. He lay on the hall floor, perfectly still. “Mom! Mo-om! Mom!” I 
shrieked. “Come quick! It’s Dad!” 

5 

Mom, Daniel, and I huddled around Dad. His eyes fluttered open. He blinked. 

“Huh?” he murmured. “What happened?” 

Dad shook his head and pushed himself up onto his elbows. “I think I’m 
okay, guys,” he said shakily. 

Dad tried to stand up. But he collapsed to the floor. “My ankle. I think it 
may be broken.” He groaned in pain. 

With me on one side and Mom on the other, we helped Dad to the couch. 
“Oof, that really hurts,” he moaned. He rubbed the ankle tenderly. 

“Daniel, go put some ice into a towel for your father,” Mom instructed. 
“Kat, get him a cold drink.” 

“Now, honey,” Mom whispered, wiping Dad’s brow, “tell me what 
happened.” 

When I came running back into the living room with a tall glass of ice 
water, Mom and Dad had the weirdest expressions on their faces. 

“Kat,” said Mom angrily, “did you push your father?” 

“Why did you push the ladder?” Dad asked, rubbing his ankle. 

“Huh? Excuse me?” I spluttered. “I didn’t push you! I wouldn’t!” 

“We’ll discuss this later, young lady,” Mom said sternly. “For now, I’ve got 
to take care of your father.” 

She leaned over and applied the ice pack to Dad’s swelling ankle. 

I felt a hot red flush of embarrassment creep over my face. How could Dad 
think I pushed him? 

I lowered my eyes and realized I still held the sponge. 

And I realized something else. Something strange and scary. 

Instead of pulsing gently, the sponge throbbed in my hand. Throbbed 
wildly. 

Ba-boom, ba-boom, ba-boom. 

Vibrating—as if someone had turned a blender to high speed. The sponge 
practically purred with excitement. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I sat down on the hall floor, feeling shaky. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. Daniel thought I pushed him. And then 
Dad said the same thing. 

They both think I pushed them. Why? 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. Ba-boom. The sponge throbbed warmly in my hand. 

I shivered with fear. Suddenly, the sponge seemed kind of scary. I didn’t 
want the thing anywhere near me—or my family. 

I ran outside. I found a big metal garbage can near the garage. I lifted the 
lid. Dropped the sponge inside. Pushed the lid shut firmly. 

Back inside the house, Mom called me into the living room. “I think Dad’s 
ankle is only sprained,” she said. “Now, tell me what happened.” 

Thursday, I sat at my desk, writing down the names of guests for my birthday 
party. The big day was only two days away. 

I had to give the list to Mom today, so she could buy enough favors by 
Saturday. 

I heard Daniel babbling away to Carlo as the two boys clambered noisily up 
the stairs. 

“Check it out—it looks like an old sponge. But it’s alive!” Daniel 
explained. “I bet it’s a prehistoric creature, like a dinosaur or something.” 

I jumped up and ran out of my room. 

“Hey!” I yelled at Daniel. “What are you doing with that?” I pointed at the 
sponge in his hands. “I threw that thing away.” 

“I found it in the garbage can,” Daniel replied. “It’s too cool to throw away. 
Right, Carlo?” 

Carlo shrugged, his shaggy black hair touching his shoulders. “It looks like 
an old sponge. What’s the big deal?” 

“It’s a very big deal,” I shot back. “And that thing is definitely not a 
sponge.” 

I pulled a large book from my new bookcase. “I checked the encyclopedia,” 
I explained. “Under sponges. You should have left it in the trash, Daniel. You 
really should have.” 

“What did the encyclopedia say?” Daniel asked eagerly, plopping down on 
my bed. He held the sponge between his hands. 

“It said that sponges do not have eyes,” I replied. “And they can live only in 
the water. If they’re out of the water for more than thirty minutes, they die.” 

“See, Carlo? It’s not a sponge,” Daniel declared. “Our creature has eyes. It’s 

been out of water since we found it.” 

“Well, I don’t see any eyes. And it sure doesn’t look alive to me,” said 
Carlo doubtfully. 

Daniel leaped off the bed and offered his friend the sponge. “Hold it. You’ll 

see.” 

Carlo carefully cradled the sponge in his hands. His big brown eyes grew 
wide. “It’s warm! And... and... it’s moving. It’s squirming! It is alive.” 

Carlo spun around to face me. “But if it’s not a sponge, then... then, what is 

it?” 

“I haven’t figured that out yet,” I admitted. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of a super-sponge,” Daniel offered. “So powerful 
that it can live on land.” 

“It could be part sponge and part another animal,” added Carlo, gazing at it. 
“Can I take it home for a while? It’ll really spook Sandy.” 

Sandy is Carlo’s baby-sitter. “I’ll bring it right back,” Carlo promised. 

“No way, Carlo,” I said quickly. “I think I’ll keep the sponge right here until 
I know exactly what it is. Here—stick it in this old gerbil cage.” 

“Aw, come on,” Carlo begged, petting the sponge on the top of its wrinkled 
head. “See? It likes me.” 

“No way!” I replied. “Daniel, tell your friend to quit bugging me.” 

“Okay, okay,” Carlo muttered. “Hey, what does this little guy eat, anyway?” 
“I don’t know,” I replied. “But it seems to be fine without eating. Put it in 
the cage.” 

Carlo reached into the gerbil cage and set the creature down. As he did, his 
face filled with horror. 

I saw his arm tremble. 

Then he let out a terrified scream. 

“Aaagh! My hand! It ate my hand!” 

6 

“Noooo!” I shrieked. 

His mouth twisted in horror, Carlo yanked his arm from the gerbil cage— 
and shoved it in my face. 

“Oh!” I gasped. 

Carlo wiggled his hand in my face and began to laugh. His hand was 
perfectly okay. 

“You are horrible!” I yelled. “That is so completely not funny. It’s sick!” 

Carlo and Daniel collapsed with laughter. 

“Excellent joke!” Daniel grinned. “Hey, Carlo. Give me a... hand! Haw, 
haw, haw.” 

He and Carlo slapped each other high fives. “Way to go, dude!” Daniel 
cried. 

I glared at the dumb, immature brats. 

“You know, guys, this isn’t funny,” I said seriously. “We don’t know what 
kind of creature the sponge is.” 

“We don’t know what kind of creature you are, either!” Daniel announced 
with a big grin. 

“If I’m a creature, you’re a creature’s baby brother!” I shot back. 

“Hey, I have an idea,” said Carlo, winking at Daniel. “Maybe you should 
put the sponge on a leash and take it for a walk. The exercise will give it an 
appetite!” He hooted with laughter. 

He really cracked himself up. 

“But it doesn’t have legs,” Daniel chimed in. 

“She can roll it down Maple Lane!” Carlo suggested. 

More laughter. 

“That’s it, you guys. Get out!” I shouted. “Leave me and the sponge alone! 
Now!” 

Slapping each other another high five, Daniel and Carlo turned to leave. 

I could hardly wait for them to go. I needed to be by myself for a while. To 
sit and figure out what I should do with the little round creature. 

But before Carlo and Daniel got out the bedroom door, a scream made me 

nearly jump to the ceiling. 

I turned to see Carlo hopping frantically up and down on one foot. 

“Oh, right,” I said. “Like I’m going to believe another one of your stupid 
jokes.” 

Carlo, his face twisted in pain, pointed wildly to his foot. Falling back onto 
the bed with a groan, he yanked off his sneaker. 

Blood oozed through his white sock. 

“A nail!” he gasped. “I stepped on a nail!” 

I dropped my eyes to the sneaker on the floor. 

Along nail had poked through the thick rubber sole—and into Carlo’s foot! 

Weird, I thought. Where did a nail come from? 

“Hey, it’s really bleeding!” Carlo wailed. “Do something!” 

I searched around frantically for something to use as a bandage. As I did, 
my eyes rested on the sponge in the gerbil cage. 

“Whoa!” I cried. 

The sponge quivered and shook. 

It shook with what seemed like joy\ 

And it breathed—so loudly that I could hear the eerie sound from the other 
side of the room! 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

As I wrapped an old T-shirt around Carlo’s foot, two questions ran through 
my mind—what in the world is happening here? Why did the sponge creature 
suddenly get so excited? 

I wouldn’t find out the frightening truth about the sponge creature until the 
next day. 

When I learned it, I understood why there were so many accidents in our 
new house. 

And it made me wish that I had never opened that cabinet, never reached 
under the sink, and never found the spongy... thing. 

Because now it was too late. 

Too late for us all. 

7 

“Kat, it’s all set.” Mom grinned at me the next morning when I walked into the 
kitchen for breakfast. 

“What’s all set?” I asked sleepily. 

“Your birthday party tomorrow!” Mom replied, giving me a quick hug. 
Mom’s very big on hugging. 

“How could you forget?” she asked in surprise. “We’ve been planning your 
birthday for weeks!” 

“My party!” I breathed with delight. “Oh, I can’t wait!” I sat down at the 
table for cornflakes and orange juice. 

Birthday parties are a really big deal around the Merton house. Mom 
always orders a big cake. And she makes all the invitations and decorations by 
hand. 

This year, I helped with the invitations. We cut them out of purple 
construction paper and used a pink sparkle pen to write the words. 

I usually have a theme for my parties. Last year’s theme was “Make your 
own pizza.” And it was awesome! My friends talked about it for weeks. 

Now that I’m going to be twelve, I decided I’m too old for a theme. So 
Mom and Dad are taking me and five of my best friends to WonderPark—for the 
entire day. 

WonderPark is definitely the coolest. It has two wave pools, a whole bunch 
of water slides, and the Monster Masher. That’s the scariest upside-down roller 
coaster I’ve ever been on! 

Just how cool is it? Well, last summer, Carlo lost his lunch after a ride on 
the Masher. 

Pretty cool. 

“This is going to be my best birthday ever!” I exclaimed, smiling across the 
table at Mom. I turned to Daniel. “Sorry, you’re not invited. This is for twelve- 
year-olds only.” 

“No fair! Why can’t I come along?” he complained, banging his spoon into 
his cereal and splashing milk all over the table. “I promise I won’t talk to any of 
Kat’s friends. Who would want to? Please let me come!” 

I started to feel sort of bad. I started to change my mind. 

And then Daniel totally mined his chance. 

He folded his arms over his chest. “Kat gets everything around here,” he 
grumbled. “She won’t even share the sponge with me!” 

“That old thing Kat found under the sink?” Mom asked in surprise. “Who’d 
want it?” 

“Me!” yelled Daniel. 

“Well, I found it, so it’s mine. And I’m bringing my sponge to school 
today,” I informed Daniel. 

“Why?” Mom asked. 

“I’m going to show it to Mrs. Vanderhoff,” I explained. “Maybe she’ll 
know what it is. Now I need to find a carrier for my sponge.” 

I searched around in the kitchen cabinets. “Perfect!” I proclaimed, holding 
up a plastic container labeled Deli. It still smelled faintly of potato salad. 

With an old pair of scissors, I punched a few air holes in the top of the 
container. Then I ran upstairs to get the sponge. 

Back in the kitchen, I set the sealed container on the floor and opened the 
refrigerator. 

“Mom,” I called, “which lunch bag is mine?” 

“The blue one, honey,” she replied. 

I grabbed my lunch and shut the refrigerator. 

I heard a sniffing sound coming from the kitchen floor. I looked down. 

“Killer, what are you doing, boy?” I smiled at the floppy-eared dog. 

Snrff. Snrff. Snrff. 

He sniffed at the container. 

Grrr. Grrr. 

He pawed the ground and growled. 

Here we go again, I thought. 

Killer set his ears back, circling the container suspiciously. 

And barked. 

And barked. And barked. 

“Killer! Get back!” I shouted. 

But the dog was way too excited to listen to me. 

“Mom, Daniel!” I called. “Help me get Killer away. I think he wants to eat 
the sponge for breakfast!” 

Mom grabbed Killer by his collar and hauled him, still growling, away from 
the container. She pushed the door open and shooed the dog into the backyard. 

“Go outside, boy, there you go,” she said gently. 

Mom turned to me. “What’s got that dog so upset? He sure is acting 
strange. Now get a move on, or you’ll be late for school. And then I’ll be 
growling and barking!” 

Throwing my backpack over my shoulder, I gave Mom a quick kiss good¬ 
bye and followed Daniel out the door. 

“Watch this!” he yelled, dashing across the street to the Johnsons’ house 
and planting himself underneath their basketball hoop. 

Daniel faked a dribble and a pass, and ran madly around in circles. “Bet you 
can’t jump this high!” he said, pretending to sink a basket. 

“Come on, Daniel,” I replied, walking quickly down the street. “Mrs. 
Vanderhoff will keep me after school if I show up late.” 

Daniel trotted over to me. Suddenly, his eyes bulged! 

“Kat! Look out!” he screamed. 

Craaack! 

I heard a frightening sound above my head. A loud cracking. As if someone 
had cracked about a thousand knuckles at the same time. 

I glanced up in time to see a huge dead tree branch hurtling down through 
the air. 

I froze. 

I couldn’t scream. I couldn’t move. 

I couldn’t move a muscle. 

I was about to be crushed into Kat litter! 

8 

“Ohhhhhhh.” A terrified moan escaped my throat. 

I felt someone shove me hard from behind. 

The force of it sent me flying to the ground. 

I lay there in shock and watched the huge tree branch crash down to the 
ground, cracking and shattering. 

It landed a few feet behind me. 

As I struggled to pull myself up, the sponge container rolled out of my 
hand. The little creature came spilling out onto the sidewalk. 

“Saved your life!” cried Daniel. “Now you owe me big!” 

I barely heard him. 

The sponge. I could only stare at the sponge. 

Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

Breathing louder and faster and deeper than I’d ever heard before. 

Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

Throbbing its little heart out. Practically hopping around on the ground in 
excitement. 

Ba-boom, ba-boom. 

Very weird. I’d almost been killed by the falling branch. And the sponge 
seemed really excited. As if it enjoyed my near accident. As if my accident made 
it really happy. 

“Mrs. Vanderhoff!” I called, rushing into the classroom. “I have to show you 
something!” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff is a brain. She basically knows everything about 
everything. 

She’s very smart. And she takes us on great class trips. At Halloween, we 
visited a spooky old theater that’s supposed to be haunted by the ghosts of dead 
actors. 

But Mrs. Vanderhoff is also really strict. Anyone who goofs off or talks out 
of turn stays after school for a week! 

One other problem. She has no sense of humor at all. I’ve never even seen 
her crack a smile. 

“Check this out, Mrs. Vanderhoff,” I blurted out, shoving the sponge under 
her nose. “I found it under the kitchen sink of our new house. And when Daniel 
went to grab it, he hit his head. And my Dad thought I pushed him, and—and—” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff peered at me over her wire-rim glasses. “Kat, sshh,” she 
ordered sharply. “Now, start over—slowly and clearly.” 

I took a deep breath and began again, starting with moving day and ending 
with the falling tree branch. 

“And you say it throbs and breathes?” Mrs. Vanderhoff asked, staring hard 
at me. 

“Yes!” I exclaimed. 

“Let me see it,” Mrs. Vanderhoff replied. I handed over the container. 

Hesitantly, she stuck her hand in and lifted the sponge out. 

“Oh, wow.” I groaned in disappointment. The sponge appeared dry and 
shriveled. 

It didn’t breathe. It didn’t throb. 

Mrs. Vanderhoff glared at me. “Kat, what’s the meaning of this?” she 
huffed. “This is an ordinary kitchen sponge.” 

She made a face. “A dirty one, I might add.” 

“You’re wrong!” I cried shrilly, desperate for her to believe me. “It’s much 
more than a sponge. It’s alive. It has eyes—see? You’ve got to see!” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff squinted at me, shaking her gray-haired head. 

“Oh, all right,” she said with a sigh. She bent her head and examined the 
sponge closely. She ran her fingers over its wrinkled surface. 

“I don’t know what in the world you’re talking about,” she said angrily, 
motioning for me to take my seat. “This thing doesn’t have eyes. And it’s not 
alive. It’s a dirty, dried-up old sponge.” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff glared at me. “If this is your idea of a joke, Katrina, I don’t 
get it. I don’t get it at all.” 

“But...” I started. 

Mrs. Vanderhoff held up her hand. “Not another word,” she instructed. She 
handed the sponge back—dropping it into my hand like a piece of junk. 

My stomach churned with disappointment. 

Couldn’t I say anything else to convince her? 

The sharp rap of a ruler on her desk interrupted my thoughts. “I’m going to 
pass back the papers from your math test last week,” Mrs. Vanderhoff 
announced. 

Everyone groaned. The surprise quiz on long division had been a major 
disaster for all of us. 

“Settle down,” Mrs. Vanderhoff snapped. 

She reached into her desk to pull out the test papers, and —slammed her 
fingers in the drawer! 

With a howl of pain, she shrieked, “My fingers! Owww—I think I broke 
my fingers! ” 

I was still standing beside her desk. Holding her hand, she turned to me. 
“Help me, Katrina. I’ve got to get to the nurse’s office!” 

I opened the classroom door for Mrs. Vanderhoff. Then I helped her down 
the hall to the infirmary. 

“What’s happened?” Mrs. Twitchell, the school nurse, jumped up from her 
desk and came running up to us. Her starchy white uniform rustled as she 
moved. She sat Mrs. Vanderhoff in a comfortable chair. 

“My fingers,” groaned Mrs. Vanderhoff, holding up her red, swollen hand. 
“I smashed them in the desk drawer!” 

“All right,” Mrs. Twitchell said soothingly. “We’ll put some ice on that 
hand. And I’ll make sure the principal sends somebody to watch your class.” 

“Thank you,” Mrs. Vanderhoff moaned. “Katrina, you can go on back to 
class now. You’ve been very helpful.” 

Helpful? 

Everywhere I went these days, I told myself, somebody seemed to get badly 

hurt! 

Unhappily, I shuffled my way back toward classroom 6B. 

“Kat! Kat!” I heard someone shouting my name. 

Daniel raced out of the library, nearly tripping over his untied shoelaces. He 
crashed right into me. 

“I found it!” he cried breathlessly. “I found the sponge creature! In a book! I 
know what it is!” 

9 

I grabbed Daniel by the front of his shirt. “What is it? What?” I demanded. “I 
have to know!” 

“Whoa. Take it easy. Cool your jets.” Daniel pushed my hands off his shirt. 
“Til show you,” he promised. “I have a picture in here.” 

“In where?” I asked. 

Daniel gazed around the hall. No one in sight. 

He pulled a book out from under his shirt and handed it to me. A big black 
volume. 

I glanced quickly at the title: Encyclopedia of the Weird. 

“Is your picture in there?” I teased. 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” he replied. He grabbed the book away from me. “Do 
you want to see your sponge?” 

“Definitely!” 

Daniel flipped the pages quickly, muttering to himself, “Grebles, Griffins, 
Grocks. Here it is!” 

He shoved the book under my nose. It smelled funny—sort of musty. I 
guessed it had been sitting on the library shelf a long, long time. 

Daniel pointed to a drawing on page 89.1 lowered my eyes to the page. 

Wrinkly skin. Tiny black eyes. “It does look like the sponge,” I gasped. 

I began reading the story underneath the drawing. 

“This is a Grool. ” 

A Grool? I thought. What in the world is that? I returned to the book: 

“The Grool is an ancient and mythical creature. ” 

“Mythical?” I cried. “That means it’s not real—that it’s made up! But it is 
real!” 

“Keep reading,” Daniel urged. 

“The Grool does not eat food or drink water. Instead, it gets its strength 
from luck. Bad luck. ” 

“Daniel,” I stammered. “This is weird. Really weird.” He nodded, his eyes 
wide. 

“The Grool has always been known as a bad-luck charm. It feeds on the 

bad luck of other people. The Grool becomes stronger each time something bad 
happens around it. ” 

“This book is crazy,” I muttered. I eagerly read some more: 

“Bad luck for the Grool owner never ends. The Grool cannot be killed—by 
force or by any violent means. And it cannot — ever—be given away or tossed 
aside. ” 

Why not? I wondered. 

The next lines gave me the answer: 

“A Grool is only passed on to a new owner when an owner dies. Anyone 
who gives the Grool away will DIE within one day. ” 

“That is so stupid!” I exclaimed. “Stupid. Stupid. Stupid.” 

Turning to Daniel, I said in a low voice, “There is no such thing as a 
creature that lives on bad luck.” 

“How do you know, genius?” Daniel demanded. 

“Everything needs food and water,” I replied. “Everything that’s alive, 
anyway.” 

“I don’t know,” Daniel said. “I think the book could be right.” 

The drawing of a creature on another page caught my eye. “Hey, what’s 
this?” I asked. 

It looked like a potato—oval and brown. But it had a mouth full of sharp, 
pointy teeth. 

I quickly read the description. 

“The Lanx is a cousin of the Grool. But it is much more dangerous. ” 

“Yuck!” Daniel cried, making a face. 

I kept reading: 

“Once the Lanx latches on to someone, it never lets go—until it has drained 
every drop of energy from that person. ” 

I slammed the encyclopedia shut. “Here, Daniel, take this dumb book!” I 
shoved the Encyclopedia of the Weird back into my brother’s arms. “This stuff is 
totally crazy. I don’t believe any of it.” 

“But I thought you wanted to know more about the sponge,” Daniel said. 

“I do. But not this made-up stuff!” I told him. 

I knew I was acting sort of rotten to Daniel. And that he only wanted to 

help. 

But give me a break. After all that had been happening, I was a little 
stressed out. 

I mean, it had been a bad couple of days—with Dad falling off the ladder, 
and Mrs. Vanderhoff slamming her hand in the desk. 

And me nearly being crushed by the tree branch! 

I stomped down the hall back to class. “Stupid book,” I muttered to myself. 
But another thought kept forcing its way into my mind: What if the book is 
right? 

I stared at the Grool, still sitting in its container on the corner of Mrs. 
Vanderhoff’s desk. I walked up to it. 

It was wet again. And breathing. Its cold, black eyes stared back. 

I felt a chill of fear and a prickling all over my skin. 

“Mythical creatures don’t exist,” I whispered to the creature. “I’m not going 
to believe that book. I’m not!” 

The sponge stared up at me, breathing softly. 

I picked up the container and shook it angrily. “What are you?” I cried. 
“What?” 

Daniel told Carlo the whole story on the walk home. I walked behind them, 
trying to think about something else. Anything else. 

“It’s called a Grool. And it’s a bad-luck charm,” Daniel explained excitedly. 
“Right, Kat?” 

“I think you’re the bad-luck charm,” I snapped. “And I don’t think that 
book makes any sense.” 

“Oh, yeah?” he cried. He grabbed my backpack. 

“You don’t need these books, do you?” he teased. “You’re so smart, you 
know more than the encyclopedia.” 

Dancing down the street with my books, Daniel turned on to Maple Lane. 
“Hey, Mom’s outside!” he cried, surprised. He started to run. 

Carlo and I hurried to catch up with Daniel. 

Mom stood at the door, waiting for us. Her face wore a tense, worried 
expression. “Hi, kids. Come on inside,” she said. 

Daniel, Carlo, and I followed Mom into the kitchen. 

“I’m afraid I have some very bad news,” she began sadly. 

10 

“Killer is gone,” Mom announced. She bit her lower lip. 

“Gone?” Daniel and I shrieked at once. 

“He ran away,” Mom explained. “I can’t find him anywhere. He must have 
slipped out when I went to put some things in the garage.” 

“But, Mom—” I protested. “Killer never runs away. He’s never done it 
before.” 

“Kat is right!” Daniel agreed. “He’s not brave enough to run away.” 

“Don’t worry,” Mom said. “I’m sure we’ll find him. I’ve called the police, 
and they’re out searching for him right now.” 

“I’ll find Killer,” Daniel cried. “Bet I can find him before the police! Come 
on, Carlo!” 

Daniel grabbed a handful of doggie treats and ran out. Carlo followed close 
behind. 

The door slammed shut behind them. 

Poor Killer, I thought. Out somewhere alone. Probably lost. Bet he’s scared. 

Our new house is so close to the highway—to all those speeding cars. What 
will happen to my little dog? 

I suddenly felt like crying. I grabbed the sponge in its container and ran up 
the stairs. 

“It’s all your fault, isn’t it?” I accused the creature. “I bet you are a Grool 
after all!” 

As I talked, the Grool pulsed. It shook so hard, I expected it to throb right 
out of the container. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

And it breathed fast and deep. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I yanked the Grool out. “We’ve had enough bad luck!” I wailed. “Maybe 
this will stop you!” I hurled the horrible thing as hard as I could against the wall. 

The Grool hit the wall with a sickening splat. 

And I let out a shrill cry of pain. 

11 

I glanced down and saw red. 

Red blood. 

Flowing over my left hand. 

As I threw the Grool, I slammed the hand down on my desk—onto the 
sharp point of a pair of scissors! 

“Ohhh!” I moaned, checking out my hand. A deep, nasty cut. 

I wrapped some tissues around the cut to slow the bleeding. Then I spotted 
the Grool down on the floor. 

Dead, I hoped. 

I bent down. 

“Gross!” I yelped. The Grool was breathing and throbbing—faster and 
harder than ever before. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I leaned in closer. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

“Hey, what’s that?” I murmured. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

I guess you’d call the noise a laugh. A dry, cruel snicker that sounded more 
like a cough. 

Then, as I listened to that evil laugh, the Grool began changing. 

Its color suddenly brightened—from dull brown to light pink. As I stared in 
amazement, the Grool turned bright tomato-red. 

As red as the blood on my cut hand. 

My hand! Yuck! Blood seeped through the tissues and dripped slowly onto 
the floor. 

I needed help with this. Mom’s help. 

“Mom!” I called, leaping up. “I need a Band-Aid. A big one!” 

As I hurried down the hall, a jumble of questions ran through my mind. 

Why did the Grool change color? I wondered. And that laugh—I’d never 
heard it before. What did it mean? Was it really laughing? 

Did I hurt the Grool when I threw it against my bedroom wall? Is that why 

it turned red? 

So many frightening questions.... 

I listened at the door, cupping my hand around my ear. 

Voices. Inside my room. 

“Who’s there?” I called out shakily. 

The door flew open. 

“It’s the ghost of the Grool,” Daniel whispered in a spooky voice. 
“Owoooooooo.” 

Daniel and Carlo stood over the gerbil cage, giggling. 

“Oh, I’m so scared,” I sneered. “Did you find Killer?” 

“No,” Daniel replied sadly. “Carlo and I searched all over the 
neighborhood. Mom says the police will find him.” 

I turned my eyes to the gerbil cage. “How did the Grool get back in there?” 

“I found it on the floor, so I stuck it back in the cage,” Daniel replied. “How 
did it get out?” 

“Beats me.” I shrugged. I didn’t feel like explaining. 

Carlo, who’d been studying the Grool closely, stared at me. “Hey, what 
happened to your hand?” he asked, pointing to my bandage. 

I didn’t want to tell them. 

“Oh, uh, nothing,” I replied. “Just a little cut. Why are you guys standing 
there staring at the Grool?” 

“Carlo still wants to borrow it,” Daniel explained, tapping the side of the 
cage to get the creature’s attention. “I told him no.” 

Carlo turned to me. “Please,” he begged. “I promise I’ll be careful. Please, 
please, please, please...” 

That stupid Grool! “Oh, take it and keep it!” I snapped. 

“Excellent!” Carlo’s eyes lit up, and he reached eagerly into the plastic cage 
to grab his prize. 

“Wait!” Daniel cried, grabbing Carlo’s arm to stop him. “Kat, remember 
what the Encyclopedia of the Weird said.” 

Daniel began reciting the Grool entry from memory, staring at me all the 
while. 

“You cannot give a Grool away. Anyone who gives the Grool away will DIE 
within one day. ” 

A feeling of dread grew in my stomach. 

But I couldn’t believe that stupid book. Could I? 

Did the encyclopedia say that Grools laugh? Or change color? 

No. 

Carlo and Daniel stared at me. Waiting for my decision. Should I give the 
sponge creature to Carlo? 

I studied the Grool. 

“Don’t do it, Kat,” Daniel urged. “Please don’t give it away. It’s too 
dangerous.” 

I knew only one thing. I wanted to get the Grool away from me as quickly 
as I could. And if Carlo wanted it so badly, I decided, let him have it! 

“Go ahead, Carlo,” I said. “Take the gross, disgusting thing.” 

Daniel grabbed the Grool out of the cage and held it tightly. “No!” he cried. 
“Carlo is not taking it. I don’t care what you say. I won’t let him take it!” 

“Now who’s the scaredy-cat?” I asked, giving Daniel a poke in the arm. 

“I’m trying to save you!” Daniel exclaimed. “Don’t you understand?” 

Poor Daniel. He seemed so serious, so frightened. I decided to give him a 
break. 

“Well, okay. Carlo, I guess you’d better not take the Grool,” I announced. 

Daniel heaved a sigh of relief. 

Carlo frowned. “Okay. Bye. I’m out of here.” 

“I’ll go with you,” Daniel said, tossing the Grool back into the cage. “Come 
on, let’s ride our bikes to the park. Maybe Killer’s there.” As he hurried out of 
the bedroom, Daniel turned and gave me a thumbs-up. 

After the boys left, I collapsed on my bed. What’s going to happen next? I 
wondered. 

I lifted my eyes to the plastic cage and glared at the Grool. I felt a deep 
hatred for the little creature. 

“If one more bad thing happens around here, I’ll bury you,” I promised it. 
“I’ll bury you so far in the ground that no one will ever find you or see you 
again. Ever.” 

It was a promise I would soon have to keep. 

12 

The next morning I woke up with a jolt. 

Toot! Toot! Daniel stood at the foot of my bed, blowing away on a party 

horn. 

“Time to get up, Kat!” he squealed. 

I reached out to grab the noisy horn away. “Quit it, you loser!” I grumbled. 
Then I remembered. 

My birthday! Finally! Something to celebrate. 

I jumped out of bed. Time to get ready to go to WonderPark! 

I planned to be on the Seattle Log Flume and the Wild Wave Slide all day 

long! 

Running to the window, I peeked out through the glass. “No!” I cried in 
disappointment. “No! It can’t be!” 

Rain poured down. Lightning crackled through the sky. Thunder boomed so 
loud, I felt the house shake. 

How could we go to WonderPark in this mess? 

“Kat,” Mom called from downstairs. “Breakfast.” 

I threw on my purple-and-pink-striped leggings and a purple T-shirt and ran 
to the kitchen. On my birthday Mom always makes my favorite—waffles with 
strawberries and powdered sugar. 

“Here’s the birthday girl. Happy birthday, honey.” Mom beamed, giving me 
a big hug. 

“I’m dressed for my party,” I said hopefully as I sat down at the table. 

“Oh, honey, I’m afraid we’ll have to cancel your party,” Mom said sadly. 
“We certainly can’t go to WonderPark in this storm.” 

Cancel? I poked unhappily at my waffles. 

“Can’t we have the party here—indoors?” I pleaded. “We’ll order pizza and 
play computer games in the den.” 

“You know that we can’t do that,” Mom said. “The painters will be here all 
day in the living room and dining room. With all those ladders and buckets of 
paint, I can’t have your friends running around.” 

What rotten luck. 

“But, Mom, it’s my birthday!” I protested, throwing down my fork. “And 

you promised I could have a party. You promised!” 

Mom sighed. “I know how disappointed you are, Kat. We’ll have your party 
another day. Maybe next weekend.” 

Another day wouldn’t be my birthday. “Everything’s going wrong!” I cried. 
“Ever since we moved!” 

I hated this new house. I even hated my birthday. 

Most of all, I hated the Grool. 

Leaving my waffles on the plate, I ran up to my room. I snatched the Grool 
out of its cage and shook it as hard as I could. 

“I warned you!” I threatened. “You ruined my birthday! Now you’ll pay!” 

The Grool throbbed happily in my hand, and I hurled it back into the gerbil 
cage. “I hate you!” I shrieked. “I really hate you! You and your bad luck!” 

Plopping down at my desk, I decided I had to take action. Strong action. 

No birthday party. No more Grool. 

“I’m keeping my promise,” I told the creature. 

I pulled a notebook out of my desk drawer and began to make some plans 
to get rid of it. 

“Daniel, it’s not raining anymore,” I whispered to my brother. “Come on, it’s 
time.” 

The Grool vibrated in its plastic container. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

Daniel glanced up from his computer screen. “Now?” he asked. “Give me a 
break, Kat. I’m on level ten, and I need to slay only one more troll before I can 
open the treasure chest.” 

“This is important. Really important,” I insisted. 

Daniel sighed. “Do you think you should do it? You know what the book 
said.” 

“I’ve got to!” I cried. “Remember, it’s the Grool’s fault that Killer ran 
away.” 

Daniel was definitely nervous. And scared. 

But he obediently hit the save button on Troll Terror and followed me 
outside to the backyard. It had rained all day. But now a few stars shone high 
above us in the charcoal night sky. 

“Here. You hold the Grool,” I whispered. I shoved the creature into his 
trembling hands. 

I skipped over to the garage—feeling happy for the first time in days. “I’m 
getting rid of the Grool,” I sang to myself. 

Grabbing the biggest shovel I could find, I made my way back to Daniel. 
Then I started to dig. 

This had to be a serious hole, a deep hole. Something the Grool could 
never, ever climb out of. 

A cool breeze blew around me. But digging in the damp ground was hard 
work. Sweat rolled down my back and forehead. 

I didn’t feel scared at all. I had to do something to make life normal again. I 
had to stop all the bad luck. 

And if it meant burying a living sponge, fine. As long as I never had to see 
that stupid, snickering creature again. 

I peered down into the hole. It seemed pretty deep, about as long as my 

arm. 

“I’m finished,” I told my brother. “Pass me the Grool.” 

Daniel silently handed the sponge to me. 

As I held it over the deep hole, the sponge didn’t throb. It didn’t breathe. It 
didn’t even feel warm. 

It felt dry and dead, like an ordinary kitchen sponge. 

But I knew better. 

I dropped the Grool into the hole and watched happily as it tumbled down 
the steep dirt sides to the bottom. 

Picking up the shovel again, I began throwing dirt onto the creature—heap 
after heap. 

Dig. Throw. Dig. Throw. 

Finally, the hole was filled up. I used the back of the shovel to smooth the 
dirt flat. “There,” I said. “No one but us will know the Grool is buried here.” 

I lowered my eyes to the soft, wet dirt. “Bye, bye Grool,” I called out 
happily. “Daniel, I think our luck is going to change now.” 

Daniel didn’t reply. 

I spun around. “Daniel? Daniel? Where are you?” 

My brother had disappeared. 

13 

What had I done? 

I dropped the shovel in a panic. “Daniel!” I shrieked. “Where are you?” 

Had I made my brother disappear? Did burying the Grool somehow make 
Daniel vanish into thin air? 

“Daniel? Daniel?” I called in a trembling voice. 

I heard a soft rustling sound coming from behind the garage. 

I crept quietly toward it. “Daniel,” I whispered. “Is that you?” 

No reply. 

I peeked behind the garage. 

Daniel sat with his arms locked around his knees. Safe and sound. 

“Daniel!” I cried. I felt so relieved that I pinched him. 

“Cut it out,” he snapped. He leaped to his feet. 

“What are you doing back here? I was so worried—I thought the Grool got 
you!” 

Daniel didn’t reply. He lowered his eyes to the ground. 

“Why did you hide?” I demanded. 

“I was scared,” he murmured. “I thought the Grool might explode or fight 
back or something.” 

“You were scared?” I asked. “Why didn’t you at least answer me when I 
called you?” 

“I thought maybe the Grool was chasing you,” he confessed, his face 
turning red. 

“Daniel, don’t worry,” I said. The poor guy was really frightened. And 
embarrassed that he had hid. 

I put both hands on his shoulders. “The Grool is gone. It’s buried deep in 
the ground.” 

He swallowed hard. “But what if it comes back? What if what the book said 
comes true?” 

“We’ll never see the Grool again,” I said quietly. “And don’t forget—the 
book said Grools don’t really exist. It’s all made up. Just a myth, a fairy tale.” 

Daniel sighed. “I hate to admit it, but you’re right, Kat,” he said. “At least 

this time.” 

“This time?” I shot back. “How about all the time?” I slugged Daniel on the 

arm. 

“Oh, that hurts so much I think I’m going to pass out!” Daniel cried 
sarcastically. He fell on to the wet lawn and pretended to faint. 

“Come on, let’s go in,” I urged. “You’re getting soaked. And I’m covered 
with dirt.” 

Daniel scrambled up and elbowed me aside. 

“Race you!” he cried, running toward the house. 

I leaped up the steps and beat him into the house by about a second. I 
slammed the screen door and held it closed, so Daniel couldn’t open it. 

“I won!” I shouted. 

“Only because I let you,” Daniel cried. He banged on the door. 

“Do you want to get in here?” I asked. 

Daniel nodded. 

“Then say, ‘Kat beat me fair and square’,” I commanded. 

“No way!” he replied. 

“Stay out there all night, then—with the Groooooooool!” I told him. I let 
out a ghostly howl. 

“Okay, okay. Kat beat me fair and square,” Daniel grumbled. “But I’ll win 
next time!” 

Actually, I didn’t really care about the race. I felt so glad that I buried the 
Grool, I would have let Daniel win ten races. 

As we burst into the living room, Mom and Dad raised their eyes from their 
newspapers. The house smelled of fresh paint. 

“Where were you?” Dad asked. 

“Oh, just fooling around in the yard,” I replied. 

“Is everything all right?” Mom asked with concern. “You’re filthy!” 

“Everything is fine,” I answered. “Now.” 

“Okay, go and wash up,” Mom ordered. “Then come into the kitchen.” 

Daniel and I crowded into the bathroom, leaned over the sink, pushing and 
bumping each other, and cleaned ourselves up. 

“Do you know what time it is?” Mom asked as I raced back into the 
kitchen. 

“Yes!” I shouted happily. “It’s time for my birthday cake.” 

Mom beamed. “Well, sit right down here.” 

I dropped excitedly into the chair she offered. Finally, I thought, things are 
going right again. 

Daniel perched on the chair next to mine. He grabbed my arm. “Something 
bad is going to happen,” he whispered. “I know it. I just know it.” 

I’m not going to let anything wreck tonight, I thought. 

“Don’t be such a wimp,” I whispered. “Everything’s fine.” 

At the kitchen counter, Mom hovered over the cake. She touched a match to 
each of the thirteen candles—one for each year and an extra one for luck. 

What an awesome cake! Mom had ordered it from the bakery down the 
street. It had all my favorites: pink frosting roses, chocolate icing, and a layer of 
strawberries. A tiny chocolate Ferris wheel sat on top. 

“Ready, Kat?” Mom asked. She carried the cake to the table. Her faced 
glowed happily in the candlelight. Dad flashed me a big grin. 

They all began to sing “Happy Birthday”. 

I saw Daniel watching me closely as he sang. 

They finished the song. I shut my eyes and made my wishes. 

“I wish Killer would come home,” I said to myself. “And I wish the Grool 
would never return. And that Daniel is wrong—that nothing bad will happen.” 

I leaned forward, closer to the candles, and blew hard. 

Pop! 

The loud noise from the kitchen nearly made me fall into my cake! 

14 

“Boy, that cork was loud!” chirped Mom. 

She set down a tray of glasses and a large green bottle. “It’s your favorite— 
sparkling apple cider,” she announced. “I know it’s not as good as a day at 
WonderPark....” 

“Oh, Mom!” I gasped, my heart still pounding. “It’s great. Everything is 
going to be great.” 

An excellent birthday. Cake, sparkling cider, and presents—two new video 
games, a Discman and some CDs, a purple backpack, and a sweatshirt in pink 
and purple—my favorite colors. 

That night before bed, I stuffed my school books into my new backpack. I 
stared at the gerbil cage. Empty and clean—as if the Grool had never even 
existed. 

I got rid of the disgusting creature, I thought happily. I really did. 

My family will finally be safe from bad luck. 

The clock in the hall chimed ten. Time for bed. I climbed into my nightshirt 
and dove under the covers. 

When the alarm rang the next morning, I bounced out of bed and ran to the 
window to check the weather. 

“Oh, nooo!” 

I uttered a low moan of horror. 

The backyard—it looked like a desert! 

Overnight, the grass had all burned brown. All the pink begonias dropped to 
the ground, dead and brown. Dad’s red roses had shriveled and turned black. 

Poor Dad, I thought. He worked so hard to make the yard beautiful. And, 
now... 

As I stared at the ugly, dead yard, I tried to force the thought from my mind. 
But deep down inside, I knew exactly how it all happened. 

The Grool. 

From its grave, the Grool had turned its evil powers on the lawn. And it 
killed every single living plant, flower, and blade of grass! 

What should I do? I wondered, staring out at the burned, dried-out, dead, 

dead yard. 

Should I remove the Grool from the ground? 

Did I have a choice? 

Not really. 

I quickly pulled on my new sweatshirt and a pair of jeans. Then I crept 
downstairs. I sneaked out to the spot where I had buried the Grool. 

And I began to dig. 

Brown, dry leaves rained down on my head. My shoulder ached from lifting 
the damp, heavy dirt. My stomach didn’t feel too great, either. 

Dig, toss. Dig, toss. 

The more I dug, the worse I felt. 

I wanted to throw the shovel down and run from the spot. To leave the 
terrible creature buried for good. 

But I had to face the truth. 

If I left the Grool buried, it would keep on punishing me. It would punish 
my whole family. 

I dug to the bottom of the hole. Then I bent down and pushed the dirt away 
with both hands. 

Slowly, before my frightened eyes, the Grool throbbed into view. More 
alive and excited than ever. 

“I should smash you with this shovel!” I yelled at it. 

The Grool vibrated crazily, almost as if what I said made it happy. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. I could hear it breathe. 

And then once again, it turned from brown to pink to tomato-red. And it 
kept changing color as it breathed. 

Brown. Pink. Red. 

Brown. Pink. Red. 

I grabbed the Grool from its grave. It pulsed so hard that it throbbed right 
out of my hand and fell to the ground. 

“Stay still!” I shrieked, snatching it up. 

The Grool stared at me. Its tiny, round eyes glowed red with evil. 

I shivered. 

I gritted my teeth and shoved the Grool into the pocket of my new 
sweatshirt. I trudged back to the house, through the kitchen door, and into the 
hall that led to the stairs. 

At the bottom of the stairs, I heard a noise. It came from Mom and Dad’s 

bedroom. 

They’re awake, I thought. I’ve got to hurry before they see me and ask 
questions. That’s all I need. 

I leaped up the stairs, taking them two at a time. 

Whomp! I slipped and landed hard on my right knee. “Ouch!” I shrieked. 

I felt the Grool shake in my pocket. I heard its ugly, soft snicker. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

It was laughing at me! 

I jerked it out of my pocket and squeezed it so hard that my fingers hurt. 
Then I ran to my room and threw the Grool into the gerbil cage. 

“I’ll find a way to destroy you,” I promised. I rubbed my aching knee and 
glared at the little beast. “Before you can bring us any more bad luck, I will 
destroy you!” I cried. 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 

15 

“Kids, Aunt Louise is coming tomorrow,” Mom told Daniel and me the next 
morning. “So I want you both to clean up your rooms after school today.” 

“Aunt Louise is coming?” I asked. “Great!” 

Aunt Louise is my favorite aunt. Even though she^s a grown-up, she^s 
completely cool. 

She wears long, flowery dresses and drives a bright yellow convertible. 

And Aunt Louise blows the biggest bubble gum bubbles! And she knows a 
lot of really funny jokes. 

Mom says Aunt Louise has her head in the clouds. I guess that means she 
has a wild imagination. I don’t know about that, but she does know a lot about 
things like astrology and tarot cards. 

And, maybe—about Grools. 

That night, after I cleaned my room and before I went to bed, I said a 
special good night to the Grool. 

“My aunt is coming tomorrow and she’s going to help me get rid of you 
forever,” I whispered. It stared up at me, breathing softly. 

After school the next afternoon, Daniel and I turned the corner onto our block. 
And we saw Aunt Louise’s yellow convertible in the driveway. We ran the rest 
of the way home. 

“Hey—what’s up?” Aunt Louise called as we burst into the house. A floppy 
yellow straw hat covered her black curly hair. 

Before Daniel could get to her, I threw my arms around Aunt Louise and 
whispered in her ear, “Come upstairs with me. Now. It’s super-important.” 

My aunt pulled off her hat and set it on my head. She admired me in the hat. 
“Super-important?” she asked. 

“Yes,” I whispered, grabbing her hand and tugging her toward the stairs. 

“Have you ever heard of a Grool?” I asked. 

“A Grool? Hmmm. I’ll have to think about that one for a minute,” she 
replied thoughtfully. “No, I don’t think so. What is a Grool?” 

“Well,” I explained, “Daniel found a picture in an encyclopedia. And the 
book said it was an ancient, mythical creature....” 

“Well, if it’s mythical, honey, that means it doesn’t exist,” Aunt Louise 
interrupted. 

“But it’s not mythical!” I cried impatiently. “I should know because I have 
one. And it causes trouble, lots of trouble.” 

Aunt Louise followed me to my room. 

“Have you ever heard of a Lanx?” I asked. 

She shook her head. 

“That’s another creature in that encyclopedia. It looks like a potato, but it 
has a mouth full of sharp teeth.” 

“Good heavens. It sounds disgusting!” Aunt Louise exclaimed. “But tell me 
about this... Grool. What does it look like?” 

“Here. I’ll show you,” I said. I pulled her into my room. 

I pointed at the gerbil cage. The Grool squatted in the corner. 

Aunt Louise walked up to the cage. “So you’re a Grool,” she said, leaning 
down. She reached over to pick it up. 

“Wait,” I cried. “Maybe you shouldn’t touch it.” 

But I was too late. 

16 

Aunt Louise picked up the Grool and placed it in the palm of her hand. She 
studied it for a long while. 

Then she turned to me. “Kat, it’s only a dried-up sponge. What’s the big 
idea?” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Oh, I get it!” she laughed. “You really had me fooled! I thought you were 
serious!” She tossed the Grool to me. 

I tried to catch it, but I didn’t want to touch it. It plopped to the floor. 

“Pretty funny, kid.” She chuckled as she turned to leave. “You have a great 
imagination. Just like your aunt.” 

I picked up the Grool and examined it closely. 

Not warm. 

Not breathing. 

Not moving at all. 

Dry and hard. 

An ordinary sponge. 

Aunt Louise thought I was joking. But the joke was on me. 

The Grool had tricked me again! 

I hurled the creature back into the gerbil cage. It lay there lifeless. “I hope 
you rot in there!” I exploded. 

Before my amazed eyes, the dry brown sponge began plumping-up. In a 
few seconds, it became fuller and moister. 

“Yuck!” I groaned, watching it turn pink and then red. 

The Grool huffed and puffed. Whoa-ahhhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

Those little black eyes peered out at me excitedly. 

The Grool snickered softly. 

Why was it so pleased with itself? I wondered. Nothing horrible had 
happened. 

Or had it? 

I thought of Dad’s fall off the ladder. The tree branch. Mrs. Vanderhoff’s 
fingers. Killer running away. My spoiled birthday party. Our dry, rotted 

backyard. 

It was all too much. Too much! 

With a desperate cry, I yanked the evil thing out of its cage. Then I 
slammed it down hard on my desk. 

Breathing hard, my heart pounding, I grabbed one of my heaviest 
textbooks. And I slammed it down onto the Grool. 

“Die!” I shouted. “Please! Die!” 

I raised the book high. Pounded the Grool with it. 

Again. Again. 

I pounded hard enough to kill anything. 

Finally, I stopped. Gasping for breath, my arms aching, I stared down at 
what I’d done. 

Yuck. What a mess. 

Brown and pink shreds of Grool littered my desk. 

I had smashed it to pieces. 

“Yes!” I cried breathlessly. “Yes!” 

Finally! I had finally destroyed the evil creature! 

“Yes!” I cried again. 

But the cry stuck in my throat. 

As the pink and brown shreds started to move, I stared down in horror—and 
began to shake all over. 

17 

“This can’t be happening,” I whispered. 

But it was. 

The pieces—the shreds of Grool—they were sliding across the desktop. 
Slithering. Rolling together. 

Coming back together. 

Forming a brown ball. A sponge. 

It didn’t take long. A minute at the most. 

And now the Grool stared up at me again. And it vibrated so hard that my 
desk actually began to rock. 

Its cruel snicker cut through my shocked silence. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

“Shut up! Shut up!” I screamed. 

But it snickered even louder. 

Frantic, I grabbed a dirty sock from the clothes hamper. I used it to pick up 
the Grool. And then I hurled the thing back into the cage. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

With a cry, I threw myself face down on my bed and covered my ears. “Will 
I have this bad luck for the rest of my life? Is there anything I can do?” 

I was so frightened. So angry. So confused. 

I couldn’t even pretend to be my usual cheery self. 

When Aunt Louise took me and Daniel out to an ice-cream parlor, I 
couldn’t even finish a small butterscotch sundae. Usually, I’m good for a triple 
decker. 

But how could I ever be happy again? I was stuck with the Grool—forever. 

“Wake up, Kat! Wake up!” A frantic voice whispered in my ear. 

I slowly raised my head off the pillow. “Huh?” 

Daniel was waving his bookbag back and forth about an inch above my 
head. “Get that away!” I shouted, grabbing for it. 

“Hey, I’m only trying to help you,” he replied, snatching the pack away. 
“You’re going to be late for school. You’d better get moving!” 

He ran out of the room. 

I tore the covers off and raced to the closet. I slipped on my Save the Earth 
sweatshirt and purple flowered leggings. Then I remembered. 

“Daniel, you little dweeb!” I bellowed. “We have no school today! There’s 
a teachers’ conference!” 

He peeked back into my room. 

“Got you!” he gloated. 

I hurled a pillow at his head and hit him in the face. A nice shot. 

“You’re a bad sport,” he said, laughing. “Carlo’s coming over after 
breakfast. We can play Mega Monster Warriors. ” 

I slammed the door in his face. 

Daniel’s stupid tricks usually don’t bother me too much. 

And a day off from school always puts me in a great mood. 

But how could I enjoy myself? I just kept wondering what bad thing was 
going to happen next. 

What bad luck would the evil Grool bring today? 

After breakfast, I hung around on the back porch, reading a magazine. And 
trying to ignore Daniel’s and Carlo’s shrieks and wild laughter as they played 
computer games. 

I really missed Killer. He usually sits next to me when I read. 

After about an hour, I got bored. I decided to go up to my room and work 
on my social studies assignment. 

I had to write an essay for Mrs. Vanderhoff. My Family and What They 
Mean to Me. 

But I kept thinking about the Grool and how it was totally ruining my 
family. 

So far, all I had written was: “I’m Kat Merton and my family means an 
awful lot to me.” 

Not exactly grade-A material. And the paper was due tomorrow morning. 

I decided to take a break. I went to the kitchen and poured myself a glass of 
chocolate milk and grabbed a handful of oatmeal cookies. 

On my way back upstairs, I peeked into the den. Things seemed very quiet 
in there. 

I didn’t see Carlo. Only Daniel, playing Underwater Adventure Quest. 

“Where is Carlo?” I asked. 

“Um,” Daniel replied, his eyes glued to the submarines and torpedoes 

flashing across the computer screen. 

“Was my question too hard for you?” I asked sarcastically. “I’ll go slower 
now. Where... is... Carlo?” 

“Home,” he mumbled. 

“Did he get mad because you sank more enemy submarines than he did?” I 
joked. 

Daniel didn’t answer. 

I headed upstairs to my room. I set down my milk and cookies. I couldn’t 
help but glance at the gerbil cage. 

It wasn’t what I saw that made a prickle of fear run down my back. It was 
what I didn’t see. 

The cage stood empty. 

The Grool was gone. 

Escaped. 

18 

How had it escaped? The Grool had never even tried to get out of its cage 
before. 

In fact, the stupid sponge never seemed very interested in going anywhere. 

Why did it disappear now? And where did it go? 

And what kind of trouble was it planning to make? 

It couldn’t get very far, I told myself. It had no legs. 

I started to call to Daniel. But my throat choked with panic. 

I frantically started to search for the Grool. I slid on my stomach under the 
bed. Not there. 

I pulled everything out of my closet. I opened dresser drawers. No sign of 
it. 

I checked every inch of the room. I even called out to it: “Here Grool, here 
Grool.” 

No. No way. The creature was gone. 

The words from the Encyclopedia of the Weird suddenly flashed into my 
mind: “Anyone who gives the Grool away will DIE within one day.” 

“Daniel!” I shrieked. “Daniel!” I tore downstairs and into the TV room. I 
shook him so hard, he dropped his computer mouse. 

“The Grool is gone!” I cried. “It escaped!” 

Daniel turned away from the computer screen. “Excuse me? What do you 
mean—gone?” 

“It’s gone! The cage is empty!” I wailed. 

Daniel scrunched up his face, thinking hard. “I know where it is,” he said. 
“Carlo.” 

“Huh?” I cried. “How could you? How could you let Carlo take it?” 

“I didn’t let him!” Daniel snapped. “He must have grabbed it when he left. 
Carlo thinks it’s all a big joke. He said there’s no way a little sponge can do 
anything bad.” 

“What a jerk!” I sputtered. “Maybe we should let him keep the Grool. It 
would teach him a lesson—a real nasty lesson!” 

“Kat, we can’t!” Daniel exclaimed. “He’s my best friend. We have to get 
the Grool back from him—before something terrible happens!” 

Daniel and I pulled our jackets out of the hall closet. Then we ran out to the 
garage. We jumped on our bikes and pedaled furiously down Maple Lane. 

“Where do you think he went?” I shouted. 

“Let’s try the school playground,” Daniel suggested. “There’s always a 
bunch of kids there.” 

“Yeah, and Carlo’s a big show-off,” I exclaimed. “He probably went 
straight to the playground to show off the Grool.” 

“He is not a show-off,” Daniel protested. 

“Is too!” I argued. Pedaling furiously, I shot way ahead of Daniel. 

I made it to Chestnut Street a few minutes later. “Only two more blocks!” I 
called breathlessly. I slowed down so that Daniel could catch up. 

I turned the corner. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. 

I squeezed on the brakes. Stopped short. 

Who was that lying in the middle of the street? 

Was it Carlo? 

Yes! 

Carlo. Sprawled on his stomach. His arms and legs stretched over the 
pavement. 

“We’re too late!” Daniel cried. “We’re too late!” 

19 

Our bikes crashed to the ground as Daniel and I leaped off them. We bent over 
Carlo, calling his name. 

“Ohhhh, wow.” Carlo let out a low moan. He clutched his right leg. 

“Carlo!” I yelled breathlessly. “What is it? What happened? Are you okay?” 

Carlo bent his leg carefully and winced. “My knee really hurts. I twisted it 
when I fell off my bike.” 

I looked up and saw his bike, on its side under a tree. 

“How did it happen?” Daniel asked weakly. My brother hates the sight of 
blood. 

“Some of the older kids wanted to race me,” Carlo groaned. “I didn’t really 
want to race them—but they dared me.” 

He sat up, still rubbing his knee. “Man, I was flying! Then, well, I hit some 
gravel—and skidded into a tree. Those kids all thought it was a riot. They just 
rode off and left me.” 

“Daniel, help me get him up,” I instructed. We put our arms around Carlo 
and guided him over to the curb. 

Then we just sat there, staring at Carlo’s mangled bicycle. The handlebars 
looked like a giant metal pretzel. 

“You know what?” Carlo finally said. “I didn’t even see that stupid tree 
until I was right on top of it.” 

Daniel poked me. I knew he was thinking what I was thinking. 

The Grool strikes again. 

We had to get the Grool back. 

“Carlo, where is the Grool?” I asked. 

“Right there in my bike basket.” He pointed. 

I reached over the tangled handlebars and felt around the basket with my 
hand. 

And felt again. 

Nothing in the basket. Completely empty. 

“Carlo, give me a break,” I complained. “There’s no Grool in there. Where 
is it?” My voice got high and shrill. I could feel the panic sweeping over me. 

“Huh? It’s got to be in there!” Carlo declared. “That’s where I stuck it. I 
was going to take it right home.” 

“Oh, sure, Carlo,” I snapped. “Like you weren’t going to bring it to the 
playground and show it off?” 

Carlo hung his head. “Well, maybe for a couple of minutes.” 

“Great! Just great!” I fumed. “Because of you, the Grool is missing.” 

Daniel leaned close to me, his face pale with fear. “We’ve got to find the 
Grool, Kat,” he whispered. “Remember what the encyclopedia said. If you don’t 
find it in a day, you’ll die!” 

“I remember,” I replied with a shudder. “But how are we ever going to find 
it now? Where can it be?” 

20 

“I don’t even know where to start looking.” I sighed. 

“Maybe it fell out of the basket when I hit the tree,” Carlo suggested. 
“Maybe it rolled somewhere around here.” 

Daniel tugged on my sleeve. “Come on,” he urged. “Let’s start looking.” 

Carlo stood up. “I’d better get home,” he said. He limped away. Luckily, his 
house was on the next block. 

Daniel and I hunted all over the block. In doorways, underneath cars, in 
flower beds—anywhere the Grool might have rolled. 

No luck. 

As we were about to give up, I spotted a sewer grating a few feet away 
from Carlo’s bike. Could the Grool have tumbled down there? 

Daniel saw the sewer, too. “Kat? I’ll bet it rolled down into the sewer! It’s 
down there. I know it is!” 

I dropped to the pavement. On my stomach. I peered into the darkness 
through the grating. 

“It’s way too dark to see anything,” I reported. “Somebody will have to go 
down there.” 

“Uh... somebody? Maybe... maybe I could go,” my brother offered in a 
shaky voice. 

Daniel acts really brave. But I know he’s afraid of a lot of things. Like dark 
sewers. 

He’d freak out down in the sewer. 

“No. I’ll do it,” I said. “The Grool knows me better.” 

We lifted off the heavy grate. I felt around with my sneaker. It slid against a 
narrow ladder built into the side of the sewer. 

“I guess this is the only way down,” I said softly. “Here I go.” 

Slowly, I lowered myself into the dark wet hole. The ladder rungs were wet 
and slippery. The walls were thick with sewer slime. 

“This place really stinks /” I called up. “I can’t believe I’m doing this.” 

Squishhhhh! 

As I reached the sewer floor, my sneaker landed on something wet and 
oozy. 

“Gross!” I screamed, pulling my foot back up. 

“Are you okay?” Daniel called from above. He sounded ten miles away. 

“Yeah,” I shouted back. “I think I stepped in a pile of slime. Wow, it’s really 
dark down here.” 

I carefully touched my feet down again, and gripped the ladder tightly with 
one hand—afraid I would never find my way back if I let go. 

It’s too dark, I realized. I’ll never find the Grool down here. 

Then I heard it. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

Breathing! 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

The Grool! But where? 

I held my breath and stood completely still. I concentrated really hard, 
trying to figure out exactly where in the inky blackness the breathing came from. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

Somewhere to my right? 

I knew I had to walk over there and snatch the Grool. But I was afraid to let 
go of the ladder. Finally, I decided to count my steps there, find the Grool—then 
count the same number of steps back to the ladder. 

I swallowed hard and let go of the ladder. I stepped into the blackness and 
started counting. 

“One... two... three... four...” 

The breathing sounded a little closer. 

“Five... six...” 

I stopped. I listened hard. 

“Huh?” I cried to myself. “What’s that scratching sound?” Then I saw the 
eyes. Not the Grool’s small, round eyes. Big, bright eyes. Several pairs of them. 
All glowing at me in the dark. 

21 

The scratching grew louder. The eyes stared up at me. 

Yellow eyes. Glowing in the darkness. 

I heard a creature scrabble over the floor. Felt something warm and furry 
brush against my leg. 

Were they raccoons? Rats? 

I didn’t want to know. 

Another one brushed against me. They were all starting to scrape around on 
the sewer floor. They were growing restless. 

I forced myself to breathe. 

Turned. 

And started to run. 

Get me out of here! I thought. Get me out of here before they attack! 

My sneakers slid over the damp, slimy floor. 

“Please let me find my way out of here,” I prayed as I stumbled through the 
darkness. 

“Oww!” 

My knee slammed into something hard. 

I cried out and reached for something to lean on. 

And caught hold of the ladder. 

“Yes! Yes!” I cried happily. 

Ignoring my throbbing knee, I scrambled up the slimy rungs. Up, up, up 
toward the light. 

“Daniel—help me out!” I cried. 

Daniel leaned down and grabbed my hands. He helped pull me out of that 
awful hole. 

I fell on to the pavement and nearly sobbed with relief. 

Daniel dropped down next to me. “Did you get it?” he asked eagerly. “Did 
you find it?” 

I wiped my sludge-covered hands on my jeans. “No,” I told him. “No 
Grool.” 

“I should have gone down there,” he declared. “I definitely would have 

found it.” 

“You definitely would have been terrified!” I replied angrily. “There were 
animals down there. Rats, maybe. Dozens of them.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” he said, rolling his eyes. He sighed. “Now what do we do?” 
He kicked a pebble across the street. 

I sighed. “Don’t worry—we’ll find the Grool.” 

“But how?” he cried. “We can’t even find Killer. We’ll never find a little 
sponge.” 

I had never seen Daniel this upset. “Daniel, the police will find Killer. I 
know they will,” I said softly. 

“We must have missed the sponge,” he said, ignoring my words. “We have 
to check everywhere again.” 

We started to search again. In the street. In the grass. Behind hedges. Under 
trees. 

Carlo appeared as we were about to give up. He was walking fine. He 
examined his mangled bike. Then he helped us with our search. 

The afternoon sun was settling behind the trees. The air felt cooler. Evening 
was approaching. 

I sank down on the sidewalk, feeling totally hopeless. 

The warning in the encyclopedia kept running through my mind. Was it 
possible? Could it be true? If we didn’t find the Grool, would my life really be 
over by tomorrow? 

“There it is!” 

Daniel’s excited shout interrupted my frightening thoughts. 

“There it is!” my brother cried happily. “I see it! I see the Grool!” 

22 

Daniel took off, running full speed. 

“Way to go!” My heart pounding, I leaped up from the sidewalk. “You are 
the most awesome brother in the entire universe!” 

I was so excited and happy, I threw my arms around Carlo. “He saved my 
life!” I shouted. “He saved my life!” 

“Hey—give me a break!” Carlo cried, squirming away. 

I hurried after Daniel. I watched him bend down to pick up something. 
Something small and round and brown. 

But a gust of wind rolled the Grool away from him. 

“Hey—!” he cried out. He stumbled after it. The wind blew it out of his 
reach again. 

“Got you!” Daniel cried, pouncing on it. 

“Bring it here!” I yelled. 

“Oh, wow,” he murmured. His face fell. “Sorry about that. It’s not the 
Grool.” 

I grabbed the thing from his hands. “No, it’s not,” I whispered sadly. 

Not the Grool. Only a brown paper bag, all wadded up in a ball. 

Daniel hurled the paper bag to the ground and stomped on it. 

My stomach lurched. I really felt sick. 

Time is running out, I thought. And we have no idea where the Grool might 
be. 

A tear came to my eye, and I blinked it away quickly. I didn’t want Daniel 
and Carlo to see how scared I was. 

The panic rose in my chest. Would I really die if we didn’t find that evil 
creature? 

I suddenly pictured Mom and Dad sitting around crying and missing me. I 
pictured Aunt Louise wailing, “It’s all my fault. I didn’t believe her.” 

I imagined Daniel walking to school all alone. 

I gazed down at my brother, who slumped sadly on the curb with Carlo. 

And I had a truly terrifying idea. Maybe the Grool xvasn ’t lost. 

Maybe the creepy little creature had decided to hide. 

To hide from me. 

So it could perform its most evil trick of all. 

Hide for twenty-four hours so that I’d have the ultimate bad luck. 

Death! 

Carlo startled me by jumping to his feet. His dark eyes glowed excitedly. “I 
—I have an idea!” he cried. 

“An idea?” I demanded. “What kind of idea?” 

He smiled at me and grabbed my arm. “Come on. Hurry. I think I know 
where the Grool might be!” 

23 

“You know those guys who raced me?” Carlo asked, tugging me forward along 
the street. “The ones who hang out at the playground?” 

“Yeah. What about them?” I asked. 

“HI bet one of them picked up the Grool. I kind of remember—” 

Daniel didn’t even wait for Carlo to finish the sentence. “Let’s go!” he 
shouted. He sprang onto his bike and raced off toward the playground. 

I picked up my bike and started pedaling after my brother. Carlo ran behind 
us, calling, “Wait up! Wait up!” 

We pedaled to the playground and walked our bikes to the baseball field. 
That’s where the older kids usually hang out. 

“There they are,” Carlo said. He pointed to a group of boys taking turns 
batting and fielding balls. 

“Carlo,” Daniel whispered nervously. “Those guys are really big. They look 
like they’re in high school.” 

I spotted two older boys standing on the side of the baseball field. Their 
heads were bent, and they were staring at something in the taller boy’s hands. 

Something small and round and brown. 

The Grool! 

I ran up to them. “Hey, how’s it going?” I said in my friendliest voice. “I 
know this sounds dumb, but you’ve got my favorite sponge. Can I have it back?” 

The tall boy narrowed his eyes at me. He was kind of good-looking, with 
bright green eyes, and straight blond hair down over his shoulders. 

“Your favorite sponge?” he repeated. He grinned. “Sorry. You’re mistaken. 
This is my favorite sponge.” 

“No. Really,” I insisted. “It fell off that kid’s bike.” I pointed to Carlo. He 
and Daniel stood watching from a distance. “I really need it.” 

“Can you prove it’s yours?” the boy demanded. He rolled it around in his 
hand. “I don’t see your name on it.” 

I narrowed my eyes and gave him my meanest glare. “You’d better give it 
back to me,” I threatened. “Because it’s not really a sponge. It’s evil. It brings 
bad luck to anyone who has it.” 

“Oooh, I’m really scared,” he teased. “Maybe it’s bad luck for you— 

because you’re not getting it back!” 

He waved the Grool in front of my face, then called to his friend, “Hey, 
Dave. Catch!” 

He tossed the Grool to Dave. “Here,” he snickered. “Catch some bad luck!” 

“Hey, give me that!” I leaped for the Grool. But the sponge sailed high over 
my head. 

Back and forth they threw the Grool, laughing, keeping it high over my 
head, out of my reach. 

They were having fun. I wasn’t. 

After ten minutes of their stupid keep-away game, I gave up. 

Fine, I thought. Let them play with the Grool. 

They would soon find out that it didn’t play fair, I thought nastily. 

As I backed off, I shouted at the two older boys, “You’ll be sorry.” 

The blond guy shrugged his shoulders, laughed, and hurried off to take his 
turn at bat. He made a big show of tucking the sponge into his back pocket— 
where he knew I couldn’t get it. 

He stepped to the plate, crouched in a batter’s stance... 

Thwock! 

The very first pitch beaned the guy in the head. 

His eyes rolled around wildly. He wobbled, then sank to the ground. He 
collapsed in a heap and didn’t move. 

“Help!” the other boys were shouting. “Somebody—help!” 

The Grool had done its work. The bad luck had struck again! 

“Is he okay?” Daniel asked. “Is he—?” 

I didn’t answer. I saw the Grool roll out of the boy’s back pocket and onto 
the ground. 

I darted forward and dove for the evil sponge. 

But my hands closed around dry grass. 

Dave, the blond boy’s friend, snatched the Grool before I could reach it. 

“Go chase it!” he cried. He heaved the little creature high into the sky. 

24 

I made a desperate grab. But Dave was much taller than me. He caught the Grool 
easily. 

“Here. Take it,” he said. He tossed it at me. Then he hurried over to check 
on his friend. 

The blond boy was sitting up now, rubbing his head. “I’m okay,” he kept 
repeating. “Really. I’m okay. What hit me?” 

Daniel and I hurried to our bikes. Carlo came running after us. I tossed the 
Grool into my bike basket. 

The sponge creature pulsed so violently that the basket shook as I rode. Its 
body changed from red to black, red to black, changing in time to its horrible 
breathing. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

It snickered with joy. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

It acted so pleased with itself. So happy it had knocked the blond boy out. 

“You’re disgusting!” I shouted. “I’m taking you home and locking you in 
that cage!” 

I pedaled rapidly, standing up for an extra boost of speed. Home, I thought. 
Get me home. 

I zoomed down Oak Street, hunching over the bike with my head down. 
Faster, faster I pedaled. 

The wind whipped my hair into my eyes. 

I heard Daniel calling out from behind me. 

But I was riding too fast. The wind rushed past me. I couldn’t make out 
Daniel’s words. 

I heard him call out again. 

And then I heard the blare of a horn and the shrill squeal of brakes. 

I turned around in time to see an enormous black and silver truck skidding 
over the street, about to crush me like a bug. 

25 

I squeezed my brakes hard. 

The truck skidded up behind me, tires scraping the pavement, horn blaring. 

My bike lurched to a stop—and I tumbled off. 

Hit the pavement hard on my elbows and knees. 

The bike bounced on to the curb. Toppled over. 

I rolled on to the grass. 

As the truck swerved away. Squealed to a stop. 

Missed me by less than a foot. 

I climbed shakily to my feet. And stood there on the side of the road, too 
terrified to move. 

I turned to see the truck driver toss open the door of his cab. “What were 
you doing in the middle of the street?” he shouted at me. “I could have killed 
you! Do your parents know you’re out here like this?” 

Great, I thought bitterly. First this guy almost squashes me into a pancake— 
then he yells at me. 

“Sorry!” I called. 

What else could I say? 

I waited for the truck driver to back up and drive away. 

And all the time, I kept thinking: Bad luck forever. I’m going to have bad 
luck forever. 

I called to Daniel and Carlo that I was okay. Then I raced down Oak Street 
and turned on to Maple. 

Only two houses to go, I thought. I pushed down harder on the pedals. 

Blam! 

My front tire hit something. A broken bottle, I think. 

The bike toppled on to its side, and I fell with it. 

“Ow!” I cried. I’m spending a lot of time on the ground, I realized. 

I examined the tire. Completely shredded. 

Bad luck. Bad luck forever. 

Heh, heh, heh. I heard the Grool’s wicked laugh. 

The sound filled me with rage. I kicked the bicycle and stubbed my toe on 

the metal wheel rim. 

“Oww!” I yelped, grabbing my foot. 

Bad luck. Bad luck forever. 

With a furious cry, I grabbed the evil sponge and flung it to the ground. 
Then I jumped back on my bike and started to run over the Grool. 

Back and forth, back and forth. 

Squishing the evil creature into the ground. 

“Stop it! Stop!” Daniel screamed, riding up onto the grass. “You can’t kill 
the Grool. You’re only giving it what it wants.” 

I glared at my brother. I struggled to catch my breath. 

“Look at it!” Daniel shouted, pointing. “The Grool is getting even more 
excited. You’re helping it, not hurting it!” 

I lowered my eyes to the Grool. It pulsed faster than before. An evil light 
shone from its ugly little eyes. Its blood-red body gleamed in the afternoon sun. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

The cruel snicker cut through the air like fingernails on a blackboard. 

I grabbed my bike and wheeled it to our driveway. I let it fall on to the 
asphalt. 

Then I ran back to the Grool, gripped it tightly in one hand, and carried it 
into the house. 

Daniel followed close behind me. “Now what are you going to do?” he 
asked. 

“You’ll see,” I said. I made my way into the kitchen. 

My heart pounded. I could feel the blood racing at my temples. 

I jammed the Grool into the kitchen sink drain. Then I grabbed a wooden 
spatula and stabbed at the Grool, shoving it deep into the pipe. 

Daniel stood beside me, watching in silence. 

I turned the hot water on full force. I flicked a switch next to the sink and 
smiled at my brother. 

The garbage disposal gurgled on. 

The gurgle became a whine. 

The whine became a roar as the grinding teeth went to work. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. “Yes!” 

A few seconds later, the disposal had ground up the Grool. 

“That’s the end of that,” I told Daniel, sighing happily. I listened to the 
pipes run clean. “Down the drain! Yaaay!” 

Carlo came running into the kitchen. “What’s happening?” he cried 
breathlessly. “Where’s the Grool?” 

I turned to Carlo, grinning. “It’s gone. The Grool is gone!” I announced 
gleefully. 

Then I heard my brother gasp. 

I saw his mouth drop open as he stared down at the sink. “No, it’s not.” His 
voice was so low, I could barely hear him. “No, it’s not gone,” he whispered. 

26 

I lowered my eyes to the sink. 

And realized at once what had horrified Daniel. 

The hot water had started to back up. 

It splashed and spurted up from the drain. As if something were pushing it 
with great force. 

The hot water churned quickly—rolling up from the pipe below. 

“I don’t believe it!” Carlo cried. 

The Grool popped up, bobbing in the churning hot water. 

There it was. Still in one piece. It had turned bright purple, an angry purple. 
As I stared down at it in horror, it thumped wildly in the sink. 

“No!” I screamed. “It’s impossible! You can’t be back!! You can’t!” 

I grabbed the sopping wet Grool and squeezed it as hard as I could. 

A river of water ran out of the slimy thing and into the sink. 

The harder I gripped, the warmer the Grool felt. 

Warmer and warmer and... 

“Ow!” I dropped it as it became scorching hot. Quickly, I ran my hands 
under soothing cold water. 

The Grool perched on the side of the sink. It throbbed with joy, leered up at 
me with its creepy eyes, and let out an evil cackle. 

“Daniel, Carlo,” I moaned. “There has to be a way to kill this thing! There 
has to! Think, guys!” 

But the two of them stared in silence at the throbbing Grool. 

“Come on, Daniel—think!” I waved my hand in front of Daniel’s face. 
“Help me! I’m all out of ideas.” 

Suddenly, his eyes came back into focus. “I’ve got an idea,” he said quietly. 

He rushed out of the kitchen. “I’ll be right back,” he shouted, leaving Carlo 
and me alone with the nasty creature. 

“I hate you!” I shouted at it. But my anger seemed to make it pulse faster. 

A short while later, Daniel hurried back into the room. “Maybe this will 
help,” he announced. He set the Encyclopedia of the Weird on the kitchen table. 

“I borrowed it from the library,” he explained. “I thought we might need it.” 

He started to search for “Grool” in the index. 

“Oh, Daniel,” I sighed wearily. “We’ve already read everything in that book 
about Grools. It can’t help us.” 

“But maybe you missed something important,” Carlo insisted. 

Daniel flipped through the pages of the encyclopedia. “Here’s the part about 
killing the Grool,” he said. “Let’s see what it says.” 

He started reading: “The Grool cannot be killed—by force or by any violent 
means. ” 

“That’s it?” I demanded. “There’s nothing else?” 

Daniel slammed the book shut. “Nothing else,” he replied sadly. “Kat, it 
really can’t be killed. It’s the most evil creature in the world and it can’t be 
killed. Not by force. Not by violence. Not by anything.” 

“Not by force,” I repeated, thinking hard. “Not by violence.” 

I stared at the throbbing, purple creature. 

“Hmmmm.” I couldn’t help but smile. 

“Kat? What’s your problem?” Daniel demanded. “Are you totally losing it? 
Why are you smiling?” 

“Because the Grool can be killed,” I announced. “And I’ve just figured out 
how to do it.” 

“Huh?” Carlo cried. “You’ve really figured it out?” 

“What are you going to do?” Daniel demanded. “You can’t kill it. It always 
conies back to life.” 

I shook my head. “We’ll see,” I replied. 

I wanted to think my plan through before I explained it to them. 

Actually, it turned out to be pretty simple. 

27 

Much as I hated to, I picked up the throbbing Grool from the sink and held it 
gently in my hands. 

I patted the disgusting creature tenderly on its wrinkled head. Then I sang to 
it sweetly: 

“Lullaby and good night, little Grool, I love you. Please sleep tight, little 
Grool, la la la, la la la.” 

“Kat, I’m worried about you,” Daniel groaned. “Stop it, okay? You’re a 
little messed up. You need to lie down.” 

But I just kept singing as sweetly as I could. 

“What is she doing?” Daniel asked Carlo. “Do you get it?” 

Carlo shook his head. 

I didn’t pay any attention to them. 

I had to concentrate. 

I forced myself to stroke the Grool lovingly. I hugged the slimy thing and 
cuddled it in my arms—as I would a soft puppy. 

I cooed in its ear: 

“Little Grool, cute Grool, you are so nice, so sweet, so wonderful. I love 
you, Grool.” 

“Kat, please stop,” Daniel begged. “You’re upsetting me. I’m really worried 
about you, Kat.” 

“How can you pet the thing?” Carlo demanded. “It’s so gross!” 

“Sweet, Grool,” I whispered. “So sweet.” I cuddled it tenderly and stroked 
its wrinkled skin. 

If this doesn’t work, I told myself, nothing will. 

“I’m going to get Mom and Dad,” Daniel threatened. He started backing 
toward the kitchen door. 

“Ssshhh.” I raised a finger to my lips. Then I pointed down at the Grool 
cradled in my arms. “Look, guys.” 

The Grool’s violent throbbing had slowed to a gentle pulse. 

I sang some more, softly, gently, sweetly. 

And we all watched in amazement as the Grool’s color faded. From red to 



pink, and—finally—back to its ordinary dull brown color. 

“Wow!” Daniel whistled. 

“Keep watching,” I said, hugging the Grool closely. I sang another lullaby. 

The Grool let out a low sigh. I could see it shrinking, see it drying up in my 
arms. 

Its eyes closed. The dry, brown skin covered them up. 

“It—it’s getting weaker, Kat,” Daniel whispered excitedly. 

“Keep watching,” I told him. Then I cooed to the Grool, “There, there little 
Grool. What a sweet Grool.” I rocked it like a baby. 

The Grool’s breathing slowed—slowed—then stopped. 

The Grool slumped lifelessly in my hand. Not a sound. Not a throb. Not a 
twitch. 

“Now, check this out!” I announced to Daniel and Carlo. 

I raised the wrinkled sponge to my face—and planted a big fat kiss on it. 

28 

The two boys made disgusted faces. 

But I knew what I was doing. 

I lowered the Grool from my face and studied it carefully. 

“Aaaaaaaah. ” The sponge let out a long, slow sigh—and shrank into a tiny 

ball. 

I took a deep breath and blew. 

The tiny ball flew apart. Dry, brown puffs floated into the air. 

I watched the feathery puffs float to the floor. Then I wiped my hands off on 
a towel. “All done.” 

“It—it’s gone!” Carlo declared. 

“But how?” Daniel demanded. 

“Well, you helped give me the idea,” I told him. 

“I did?” 

“Yes,” I replied. “When you read that part of the encyclopedia that said the 
Grool can’t be killed by force or violence.” 

I smiled. “I kept going over that in my mind. And finally, it hit me.” 

“What hit you?” Carlo asked. 

“I knew the Grool couldn’t be killed by force or violence,” I explained. 
“But what about the opposite? I guessed that no one had ever tried being nice to 
it before.” 

Both boys stared at me in rapt silence. “That gave me the idea that being 
kind was the secret to destroying the Grool,” I continued. “And it worked. The 
Grool was so evil that it couldn’t stand being loved.” 

“Wow!” Carlo breathed. 

“Excellent!” Daniel exclaimed. “I’m glad I came up with it.” 

“Yeah, it’s great to have a genius in the family,” I said sarcastically. 

I reached into my back pocket and pulled out the twelve dollars my 
grandma had sent for my birthday. “What do you say we celebrate with ice¬ 
cream?” I suggested with a grin. 

“Excellent!” the two boys cried happily. 

“Maybe our luck will change now,” I told Daniel. “I bet we become the 

luckiest family on the block.” 

Then I heard it. That familiar, terrifying, breathing sound again. 

I swung around and faced the door. 

“What’s that?” I cried, my heart sinking. “Do you hear it, too?” 

Yes. We all heard it. 

My throat felt dry. Cold chills ran down my back. The breathing grew 
louder. Closer. “I didn’t kill it,” I moaned. “It’s back. It’s back!” 

29 

Daniel grabbed my hand. I could see the fear on his face. 

Carlo took a step back from the door. He backed up till he bumped against 
the kitchen counter. 

We huddled together in the kitchen, afraid to move. Afraid to go look. 

“We have no choice,” I choked out finally. “If it’s back, we have to let it 

in.” 

I took a deep breath. My legs didn’t want to carry me. They felt as if they 
were made of lead. 

But I forced myself to the back door. 

My entire body trembled as I reached for the doorknob. And yanked the 
door open. 

“Oh!” I let out a startled cry. 

Killer gazed up at me, breathing noisily, his stub of a tail wagging furiously. 

“Killer!” I yelled joyfully. “You’re back!” I bent down to hug him. But the 
dog ran past me, into the kitchen. 

Daniel let out a happy cry and pulled the wiggling dog into his arms. Killer 
covered Daniel’s face with wet licks. 

“Our luck has changed!” I declared. 

I looked outside. 

Wow! Healthy green grass covered the ground. The flowers lifted their 
drooping heads and burst back into dazzling color as I watched. 

All of the Grool’s evil seemed to be disappearing. 

I grabbed Killer and hugged him hard. “Killer, Killer,” I crooned. “We got 
rid of the Grool.” 

“Come on,” Daniel cried. “Ice-cream time!” 

I set Killer back on the floor and kissed him on the head. “We’ll be back 
soon, boy,” I said. 

“To the ice-cream parlor!” Daniel shouted as he dashed outside. “Race 
you!” he cried as he ran down the street. “The winner gets a triple-decker 
sundae!” 

Carlo and I took off after Daniel. I pumped my legs hard and pulled out in 
front. 

But at the last minute, Daniel pushed past me and tagged the door of the 
restaurant. “I won!” Daniel cried happily. 

We hurried into the ice-cream parlor. “Table for three,” Daniel said with a 
grin. The waitress seated us, handed out menus, and wiped the table with a... 
sponge! 

“Yuck! Get that thing out of here!” Daniel shrieked. 

The waitress didn’t understand. But we all laughed—for the first time in 
weeks. 

“Don’t mind my brother,” I said. “He’s got a thing about sponges.” He 
kicked me under the table, and I pinched him back hard. 

The waitress rolled her eyes. Then she took our orders. 

As we shoveled down our sundaes, I realized how hungry I was—and how 
happy I was. 

The Grool was gone—forever. 

We were so full that we practically rolled back home. 

“Killer. Here, boy!” I pushed the back door open and stepped into the 
kitchen. 

“Hey—Killer? Come here! Aren’t you glad to see us?” 

Killer didn’t turn around. 

He stood at the sink, growling and wagging his tail. He had his nose pressed 
up against the cabinet door, trying to push it open. 

“All right, Killer. We had our ice-cream. Now it’s time for your treat,” I 

said. 

I put down a fresh bowl of dog food—and added a few small pieces of last 
night’s turkey. 

“Come on Killer. Dinnertime,” I called. 

He growled at the cabinet underneath the sink. 

What’s going on? This dog never walks away from a meal, I thought. 
“Killer,” Daniel said, “what are you doing under there? Killer?” 

I bent down and petted the dog’s back. “Killer, there’s nothing in there. The 
Grool is gone.” 

But Killer kept growling. 

“Okay, okay.” I yanked the cabinet door open for the dog. “See?” 

Killer shoved his head inside. 

I grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and pulled him out. He carried 

something in his teeth. 

“What is that, boy?” Daniel asked. 

Killer dropped his find on the floor, then gazed up at me. 

I picked it up. Hmmm. Something hard. Lumpy. 

“What is it?” Daniel asked, stepping close. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. “No problem. It’s only a potato.” 
I started to hand it to Daniel. 

But something sharp pricked my finger. 

“Ow!” I cried, startled. 

I rolled the potato over in my hand. 

It felt warm. I could feel it breathing. 

“Daniel, I don’t like the looks of this,” I murmured. 

The potato had a mouth full of teeth. 



NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY II 

1 

My name is Amy Kramer, and every Thursday night I feel a little dumb. That’s 
because Thursday is “Family Sharing Night” at my house. 

Sara and Jed think it’s dumb, too. But Mom and Dad won’t listen to our 
complaints. “It’s the most important night of the week,” Dad says. 

“It’s a family tradition,” Mom adds. “It’s something you kids will always 
remember.” 

Right, Mom. It’s something I’ll always remember as really painful and 
embarrassing. 

You’ve probably guessed that on Family Sharing Night, every member of 
the Kramer family—except for George, our cat—has to share something with the 
rest of the family. 

It isn’t so bad for my sister, Sara. Sara is fourteen—two years older than me 
—and she’s a genius painter. Really. One of her paintings was chosen for a show 
at the art museum downtown. Sara may go to a special arts high school next 
year. 

So Sara always shares some sketches she’s working on. Or a new painting. 

And Family Sharing Night isn’t so bad for Jed, either. My ten-year-old 
brother is such a total goof. He doesn’t care what he shares. One Thursday night, 
he burped really loud and explained that he was sharing his dinner. 

Jed laughed like a lunatic. 

But Mom and Dad didn’t think it was funny. They gave Jed a stern lecture 
about taking Family Sharing Night more seriously. 

The next Thursday night, my obnoxious brother shared a note that David 
Miller, a kid at my school, had written to me. A very personal note! Jed found 
the note in my room and decided to share it with everyone. 

Nice? 

I wanted to die. I really did. 

Jed just thinks he’s so cute and adorable, he can get away with anything. He 
thinks he’s really special. 

I think it’s because he’s the only redhead in the family. Sara and I both have 
straight black hair, dark green eyes, and very tan skin. With his pale skin, 
freckled face, and curly red hair, Jed looks like he comes from another family! 

And sometimes Sara and I both wish he did. 

Anyway, I’m the one with the most problems on Family Sharing Night. 
Because I’m not really talented the way Sara is. And I’m not a total goof like 
Jed. 

So I never really know what to share. 

I mean, I have a seashell collection, which I keep in a jar on my dresser. But 
it’s really kind of boring to hold up shells and talk about them. And we haven’t 
been to the ocean for nearly two years. So my shells are kind of old, and 
everyone has already seen them. 

I also have a really good collection of CDs. But no one else in my family is 
into Bob Marley and reggae music. If I start to share some music with them, they 
all hold their ears and complain till I shut it off. 

So I usually make up some kind of a story—an adventure story about a girl 
who survives danger after danger. Or a wild fairy tale about princesses who turn 
into tigers. 

After my last story, Dad had a big smile on his face. “Amy is going to be a 
famous writer,” he announced. “She’s so good at making up stories.” Dad gazed 
around the room, still smiling. “We have such a talented family!” he exclaimed. 

I knew he was just saying that to be a good parent. To “encourage” me. Sara 
is the real talent in our family. Everyone knows that. 

Tonight, Jed was the first to share. Mom and Dad sat on the living room 
couch. Dad had taken out a tissue and was squinting as he cleaned his glasses. 
Dad can’t stand to have the tiniest speck of dust on his glasses. He cleans them 
about twenty times a day. 

I settled in the big brown armchair against the wall. Sara sat cross-legged 
on the carpet beside my chair. 

“What are you going to share tonight?” Mom asked Jed. “And I hope it isn’t 
another horrible burp.” 

“That was so gross!” Sara moaned. 

“Your face is gross!” Jed shot back. He stuck out his tongue at Sara. 

“Jed, please—give us a break tonight,” Dad muttered, slipping his glasses 
back on, adjusting them on his nose. “Don’t cause trouble.” 

“She started it,” Jed insisted, pointing at Sara. 

“Just share something,” I told Jed, sighing. 

“I’m going to share your freckles,” Sara told him. “I’m going to pull them 
off one by one and feed them to George.” 

Sara and I laughed. George didn’t glance up. He was curled up, napping on 
the carpet beside the couch. 

“That’s not funny, girls,” Mom snapped. “Stop being mean to your brother.” 

“This is supposed to be a family night,” Dad wailed. “Why can’t we be a 
family?” 

“We are!” Jed insisted. 

Dad frowned and shook his head. He looks like an owl when he does that. 
“Jed, are you going to share something?” he demanded weakly. 

Jed nodded. “Yeah.” He stood in the center of the room and shoved his 
hands into his jeans pockets. He wears loose, baggy jeans about ten sizes too big. 
They always look as if they’re about to fall down. Jed thinks that’s cool. 

“I... uh... learned to whistle through my fingers,” he announced. 

“Wow,” Sara muttered sarcastically. 

Jed ignored her. He pulled his hands from his pockets. Then he stuck his 
two little fingers into the sides of his mouth—and let out a long, shrill whistle. 

He whistled through his fingers two more times. Then he took a deep bow. 
The whole family burst into loud applause. 

Jed, grinning, took another low bow. 

“Such a talented family!” Dad declared. This time, he meant it as a joke. 

Jed dropped down on the floor beside George, startling the poor cat awake. 

“Your turn next, Amy,” Mom said, turning to me. “Are you going to tell us 
another story?” 

“Her stories are too long!” Jed complained. 

George climbed unsteadily to his feet and moved a few feet away from Jed. 
Yawning, the cat dropped on to his stomach beside Mom’s feet. 

“I’m not going to tell a story tonight,” I announced. I picked up Dennis 
from behind my armchair. 

Sara and Jed both groaned. 

“Hey—give me a break!” I shouted. I settled back on the edge of the chair, 
fixing my dummy on my lap. “I thought I’d talk to Dennis tonight,” I told Mom 
and Dad. 

They had half-smiles on their faces. I didn’t care. I’d been practicing with 
Dennis all week. And I wanted to try out my new comedy routine with him. 

“Amy is a lousy ventriloquist,” Jed chimed in. “You can see her lips move.” 

“Be quiet, Jed. I think Dennis is funny,” Sara said. She scooted toward the 
couch so she could see better. 

I balanced Dennis on my left knee and wrapped my fingers around the 
string in his back that worked his mouth. Dennis is a very old ventriloquist’s 
dummy. The paint on his face is faded. One eye is almost completely white. His 
turtle-neck sweater is torn and tattered. 

But I have a lot of fun with him. When my five-year-old cousins come to 
visit, I like to entertain them with Dennis. They squeal and laugh. They think 
I’m a riot. 

I think I’m getting much better with Dennis. Despite Jed’s complaints. 

I took a deep breath, glanced at Mom and Dad, and began my act. 

“How are you tonight, Dennis?” I asked. 

“Not too well,” I made the dummy reply in a high, shrill voice. Dennis’ 
voice. 

“Really, Dennis? What’s wrong?” 

“I think I caught a bug. ” 

“You mean you have the flu?” I asked him. 

“No. Termites!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. Sara smiled. Jed groaned loudly. 

I turned back to Dennis. “Well, have you been to a doctor?” I asked him. 

“No. A carpenter! ” 

Mom and Dad smiled at that one, but didn’t laugh. Jed groaned again. Sara 
stuck her finger down her throat, pretending to puke. 

“No one liked that joke, Dennis,” I told him. 

“Who’s joking?” I made Dennis reply. 

“This is lame,” I heard Jed mutter to Sara. She nodded her head in 
agreement. 

“Let’s change the subject, Dennis,” I said, shifting the dummy to my other 
knee. “Do you have a girlfriend?” 

I leaned Dennis forward, trying to make him nod his head yes. But his head 
rolled right off his shoulders. 

The wooden head hit the floor with a thud and bounced over to George. The 
cat leaped up and scampered away. 

Sara and Jed collapsed in laughter, slapping each other high fives. 

I jumped angrily to my feet. “Dad!” I screamed. “You promised you’d buy 
me a new dummy!” 

Jed scurried over to the rug and picked up Dennis’ head. He pulled the 
string, making the dummy’s mouth move. “Amy reeks! Amy reeks!” Jed made 

the dummy repeat over and over. 

“Give me that!” I grabbed the head angrily from Jed’s hand. 

“Amy reeks! Amy reeks!” Jed continued chanting. 

“That’s enough!” Mom shouted, jumping up off the couch. 

Jed retreated back to the wall. 

“I’ve been checking the stores for a new dummy,” Dad told me, pulling off 
his glasses again and examining them closely. “But they’re all so expensive.” 

“Well, how am I ever going to get better at this?” I demanded. “Dennis’ 
head falls off every time I use him!” 

“Do your best,” Mom said. 

What did that mean? I always hated it when she said that. 

“Instead of Family Sharing Night, we should call this the Thursday Night 
Fights,” Sara declared. 

Jed raised his fists. “Want to fight?” he asked Sara. 

“It’s your turn, Sara,” Mom replied, narrowing her eyes at Jed. “What are 
you sharing tonight?” 

“I have a new painting,” Sara announced. “It’s a watercolor.” 

“Of what?” Dad asked, settling his glasses back on his face. 

“Remember that cabin we had in Maine a few summers ago?” Sara replied, 
tossing back her straight black hair. “The one overlooking the dark rock cliff? I 
found a snapshot of it, and I tried to paint it.” 

I suddenly felt really angry and upset. I admit it. I was jealous of Sara. 

Here she was, about to share another beautiful watercolor. And here I was, 
rolling a stupid wooden dummy head in my lap. 

It just wasn’t fair! 

“You’ll have to come to my room to see it,” Sara was saying. “It’s still 
wet.” 

We all stood up and trooped to Sara’s room. 

My family lives in a long, one-story ranch-style house. My room and Jed’s 
room are at the end of one hallway. The living room, dining room, and kitchen 
are in the middle. Sara’s room and my parents’ room are down the other hall, 
way at the other end of the house. 

I led the way down the hall. Behind me, Sara was going on and on about all 
the trouble she’d had with the painting and how she’d solved the problems. 

“I remember that cabin so well,” Dad said. 

“I can’t wait to see the painting,” Mom added. 

I stepped into Sara’s room and clicked on the light. 

Then I turned to the easel by the window that held the painting—and let out 
a scream of horror. 

2 

My mouth dropped open in shock. I stared at the painting, unable to speak. 

When Sara saw it, she let out a shriek. “I—I don’t believe it!” she screamed. 
“Who did that?” 

Someone had painted a yellow-and-black smile face in the corner of her 
painting. Right in the middle of the black rock cliff. Mom and Dad stepped up to 
the easel, fretful expressions on their faces. They studied the smile face, then 
turned to Jed. 

Jed burst out laughing. “Do you like it?” he asked innocently. 

“Jed—how could you!” Sara exploded. “I’ll kill you! I really will!” 

“The painting was too dark,” Jed explained with a shrug. “I wanted to 
brighten it up.” 

“But... but... but...” my sister sputtered. She balled her hands into fists, 
shook them at Jed, and uttered a loud cry of rage. 

“Jed—what were you doing in Sara’s room?” Mom demanded. 

Sara doesn’t like for anyone to go into her precious room without a written 
invitation! 

“Young man, you know you’re never allowed to touch your sister’s 
paintings,” Dad scolded. 

“I can paint, too,” Jed replied. “I’m a good painter.” 

“Then do your own paintings!” Sara snapped. “Don’t sneak in here and 
mess up my work!” 

“I didn’t sneak,” Jed insisted. He sneered at Sara. “I was just trying to 
help.” 

“You were not!” Sara screamed, angrily tossing her black hair over her 
shoulder. “You ruined my painting!” 

“Your painting reeks!” Jed shot back. 

“Enough!” Mom shouted. She grabbed Jed by both shoulders. “Jed—look 
at me! You don’t seem to see how serious this is. This is the worst thing you’ve 
ever done!” 

Jed’s smile finally faded. 

I took another glance at the ugly smile face he had slopped on to Sara’s 
watercolor. Since he’s the baby in the family, Jed thinks he can get away with 

anything. 

But I knew that this time he had gone too far. 

After all, Sara is the star of the family. She’s the talented one. The one with 
the painting that hung in a museum. Messing with Sara’s precious painting was 
bound to get Jed in major trouble. 

Sara is so stuck-up about her paintings. A few times, I even thought about 
painting something funny on one of them. But of course I only thought it. I 
would never do anything that horrible. 

“You don’t have to be jealous of your sister’s work,” Dad was telling Jed. 
“We’re all talented in this family.” 

“Oh, sure,” Jed muttered. He has this weird habit. Whenever he’s in trouble, 
he doesn’t say he’s sorry. Instead, he gets really angry. “What’s your talent, 
Dad?” Jed demanded, sneering. 

Dad’s jaw tightened. He narrowed his eyes at Jed. “We’re not discussing 
me,” he said in a low voice. “But I’ll tell you. My talent is my Chinese cooking. 
You see, there are all kinds of talents, Jed.” 

Dad considers himself a Master of the Wok. Once or twice a week, he 
chops a ton of vegetables into little pieces and fries them up in the electric wok 
Mom got him for Christmas. 

We pretend it tastes great. 

No point in hurting Dad’s feelings. 

“Is Jed going to be punished or not?” Sara demanded in a shrill voice. 

She had opened her box of watercolor paints and was rolling a brush in the 
black. Then she began painting over the smile face with quick, furious strokes. 

“Yes, Jed is going to be punished,” Mom replied, glaring at him. Jed 
lowered his eyes to the floor. “First he’s going to apologize to Sara.” 

We all waited. 

It took Jed a while. But he finally managed to mutter, “Sorry, Sara.” 

He started to leave the room, but Mom grabbed his shoulders again and 
pulled him back. “Not so fast, Jed,” she told him. “Your punishment is you can’t 
go to the movies with Josh and Matt on Saturday. And... no video games for a 
week.” 

“Mom—give me a break!” Jed whined. 

“What you did was really bad,” Mom said sternly. “Maybe this punishment 
will make you realize how horrible it was.” 

“But I have to go to the movies!” Jed protested. 

“You can’t,” Mom replied softly. “And no arguing, or I’ll add on to your 
punishment. Now go to your room.” 

“I don’t think it’s enough punishment,” Sara said, dabbing away at her 
painting. 

“Keep out of it, Sara,” Mom snapped. 

“Yeah. Keep out of it,” Jed muttered. He stomped out of the room and down 
the long hall to his room. 

Dad sighed. He swept a hand back over his bald head. “Family Sharing 
Night is over,” he said sadly. 

* * * 

I stayed in Sara’s room and watched her repair the painting for a while. She kept 
tsk-tsking and shaking her head. 

“I have to make the rocks much darker, or the paint won’t cover the stupid 
smile face,” she explained unhappily. “But if I make the rocks darker, I have to 
change the sky. The whole balance is ruined.” 

“I think it looks pretty good,” I told her, trying to cheer her up. 

“How could Jed do that?” Sara demanded, dipping her brush in the water 
jar. “How could he sneak in here and totally destroy a work of art?” 

I was feeling sorry for Sara. But that remark made me lose all sympathy. I 
mean, why couldn’t she just call it a watercolor painting? Why did she have to 
call it “a work of art”? 

Sometimes she is so stuck-up and so in love with herself, it makes me sick. 

I turned and left the room. She didn’t even notice. 

I went down the hall to my room and called my friend Margo. We talked for 
a while about stuff. And we made plans to get together the next day. 

As I talked on the phone, I could hear Jed in his room next door. He was 
pacing back and forth, tossing things around, making a lot of noise. 

Sometimes I spell the word “Jed” B-R-A-T. 

Margo’s dad made her get off the phone. He’s real strict. He never lets her 
talk for more than ten or fifteen minutes. 

I wandered into the kitchen and made myself a bowl of Frosted Flakes. My 
favorite late snack. When I was a little kid, I used to have a bowl of cereal every 
night before bed. And I just never got out of the habit. 

I rinsed out the bowl. Then I said good night to Mom and Dad and went to 

bed. 

It was a warm spring night. A soft breeze fluttered the curtains over the 
window. Pale light from a big half-moon filled the window and spilled on to the 
floor. 

I fell into a deep sleep as soon as my head hit the pillow. 

A short while later, something woke me up. I’m not sure what. 

Still half asleep, I blinked my eyes open and raised myself on my pillow. I 
struggled to see clearly. 

The curtains flapped over the window. 

I felt as if I were still asleep, dreaming. 

But what I saw in the window snapped me awake. 

The curtains billowed, then lifted away. 

And in the silvery light, I saw a face. 

An ugly, grinning face in my bedroom window. Staring through the 
darkness at me. 

3 

The curtains flapped again. 

The face didn’t move. 

“Who—?” I choked out, squeezing the sheet up to my chin. 

The eyes stared in at me. Cold, unblinking eyes. 

Dummy eyes. 

Dennis. 

Dennis stared blankly at me, his white eye catching the glow of the 
moonlight. 

I let out an angry roar, tossed off the sheet, and bolted out of bed. To the 
window. 

I pushed away the billowing curtains and grabbed Dennis’ head off the 
window ledge. “Who put you there?” I demanded, holding the head between my 
hands. “Who did it, Dennis?” 

I heard soft laughter behind me. From the hallway. 

I flew across the room, the head still in my hands. I pulled open my 
bedroom door. 

Jed held his hand over his mouth, muffling his laughter. “Gotcha!” he 
whispered gleefully. 

“Jed—you creep!” I cried. I let the dummy head drop to the floor. Then I 
grabbed Jed’s pajama pants with both hands and jerked them up as high as I 
could—nearly to his chin! 

He let out a gasp of pain and stumbled back against the wall. 

“Why did you do that?” I demanded in an angry whisper. “Why did you put 
the dummy head on my window ledge?” 

Jed tugged his pajama pants back into place. “To pay you back,” he 
muttered. 

“Huh? Me?” I shrieked. “I didn’t do anything to you. What did I do?” 

“You didn’t stick up for me,” he grumbled, scratching his red curly hair. His 
eyes narrowed at me. “You didn’t say anything to help me out. You know. About 
Sara’s painting.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “How could I help you out? What could I say?” 

“You could have said it was no big deal,” Jed replied. 

“But it was a big deal!” I told him. “You know how seriously Sara takes her 
paintings.” I shook my head. “I’m sorry, Jed. But you deserve to be punished. 
You really do.” 

He stared at me across the dim hallway, thinking about what I’d said. Then 
an evil smile spread slowly over his freckled face. “Hope I didn’t scare you too 
much, Amy.” He snickered. Then he picked Dennis’ head up off the carpet and 
tossed it at me. 

I caught it in one hand. “Go to sleep, Jed,” I told him. “And don’t mess with 
Dennis again!” 

I stepped back into my room and closed the door. I tossed Dennis’ head 
onto a pile of clothes on my desk chair. Then I climbed wearily back into bed. 

So much trouble around here tonight, I thought, shutting my eyes, trying to 
relax. 

So much trouble... 

Two days later, Dad brought home a present for me. A new ventriloquist’s 
dummy. That’s when the real trouble began. 

4 

Margo came over the next afternoon. Margo is real tiny, sort of like a mini¬ 
person. She has a tiny face, and is very pretty, with bright blue eyes, and delicate 
features. 

Her blond hair is very light and very fine. She let it grow this year. It’s just 
about down to her tiny little waist. 

She’s nearly a foot shorter than me, even though we both turned twelve in 
February. She’s very smart and very popular. But the boys like to make fun of 
her soft, whispery voice. 

Today she was wearing a bright blue tank top tucked into white tennis 
shorts. “I bought the new Beatles collection,” she told me as she stepped into the 
house. She held up a CD box. 

Margo loves the Beatles. She doesn’t listen to any of the new groups. In her 
room, she has an entire shelf of Beatles CDs and tapes. And she has Beatles 
posters on her walls. 

We went to my room and put on the CD. Margo settled on the bed. I 
sprawled on the carpet across from her. 

“My dad almost didn’t let me come over,” Margo told me, pushing her long 
hair behind her shoulder. “He thought he might need me to work at the 
restaurant.” 

Margo’s dad owns a huge restaurant downtown called The Party House. It’s 
not really a restaurant. It’s a big, old house filled with enormous rooms where 
people can hold parties. 

A lot of kids have birthday parties there. And there are bar mitzvahs and 
confirmations and wedding receptions there, too. Sometimes there are six parties 
going on at once! 

One Beatles song ended. The next song, “Love Me Do”, started up. 

“I love this song!” Margo exclaimed. She sang along with it for a while. I 
tried singing with her, but I’m totally tone deaf. As my dad says, I can’t carry a 
tune in a wheelbarrow. 

“Well, I’m glad you didn’t have to work today,” I told Margo. 

“Me, too,” Margo sighed. “Dad always gives me the worst jobs. You know. 
Clearing tables. Or putting away dishes. Or wrapping up garbage bags. Yuck.” 

She started singing again—and then stopped. She sat up on the bed. “Amy, 
I almost forgot. Dad may have a job for you.” 

“Excuse me?” I replied. “Wrapping up garbage bags? I don’t think so, 
Margo.” 

“No. No. Listen,” Margo pleaded excitedly in her mouselike voice. “It’s a 
good job. Dad has a bunch of birthday parties coming up. For teeny tiny kids. 
You know. Two-year-olds. Maybe three- or four-year-olds. And he thought you 
could entertain them.” 

“Huh?” I stared at my friend. I still didn’t understand. “You mean, sing or 
something?” 

“No. With Dennis,” Margo explained. She twisted a lock of hair around in 
her fingers and bobbed her head in time to the music as she talked. “Dad saw 
you with Dennis at the sixth-grade talent night. He was really impressed.” 

“He was? I was terrible that night!” I replied. 

“Well, Dad didn’t think so. He wonders if you’d like to come to the 
birthday parties and put on a show with Dennis. The little kids will love it. Dad 
said he’d even pay you.” 

“Wow! That’s cool!” I replied. What an exciting idea. 

Then I remembered something. 

I jumped to my feet, crossed the room to the chair, and held up Dennis’ 
head. “One small problem,” I groaned. 

Margo let go of her hair and made a sick face. “His head? Why did you take 
off his head?” 

“I didn’t,” I replied. “It fell off. Every time I use Dennis, his head falls off.” 

“Oh.” Margo uttered a disappointed sigh. “The head looks weird all by 
itself. I don’t think little kids would like it if it fell off.” 

“I don’t think so,” I agreed. 

“It might frighten them or something,” Margo said. “You know. Give them 
nightmares. Make them think their own head might fall off.” 

“Dennis is totally wrecked. Dad promised me a new dummy. But he hasn’t 
been able to find one.” 

“Too bad,” Margo replied. “You’d have fun performing for the kids.” 

We listened to more Beatles music. Then Margo had to go home. 

A few minutes after she left, I heard the front door slam. 

“Hey, Amy! Amy—are you home?” I heard Dad call from the living room. 

“Coming!” I called. I made my way to the front of the house. Dad stood in 

the entryway, a long carton under his arm, a smile on his face. 

He handed the carton to me. “Happy Un-birthday!” he exclaimed. 

“Dad! Is it—?” I cried. I tore open the carton. “Yes!” Anew dummy! 

I lifted him carefully out of the carton. 

The dummy had wavy brown hair painted on top of his wooden head. I 
studied his face. It was kind of strange. Kind of intense. His eyes were bright 
blue—not faded like Dennis’. He had bright red painted lips, curved up into an 
eerie smile. His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the 
other lip. 

As I pulled him from the box, the dummy appeared to stare into my eyes. 
The eyes sparkled. The grin grew wider. 

I felt a sudden chill. Why does this dummy seem to be laughing at me? I 
wondered. 

I held him up, examining him carefully. He wore a gray, double-breasted 
suit over a white shirt collar. The collar was stapled to his neck. He didn’t have a 
shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 

Big, black leather shoes were attached to the ends of his thin, dangling legs. 

“Dad—he’s great!” I exclaimed. 

“I found him in a pawnshop,” Dad said, picking up the dummy’s hand and 
pretending to shake hands with it. “How do you do, Slappy.” 

“Slappy? Is that his name?” 

“That’s what the man in the store said,” Dad replied. He lifted Slappy’s 
arms, examining his suit. “I don’t know why he sold Slappy so cheaply. He 
practically gave the dummy away!” 

I turned the dummy around and looked for the string in his back that made 
the mouth open and close. “He’s excellent, Dad,” I said. I kissed my dad on the 
cheek. “Thanks.” 

“Do you really like him?” Dad asked. 

Slappy grinned up at me. His blue eyes stared into mine. He seemed to be 
waiting for an answer, too. 

“Yes. He’s awesome!” I said. “I like his serious eyes. They look so real.” 

“The eyes move,” Dad said. “They’re not painted on like Dennis’. They 
don’t blink, but they move from side to side.” 

I reached my hand inside the dummy’s back. “How do you make his eyes 
move?” I asked. 

“The man showed me,” Dad said. “It’s not hard. First you grab the string 

that works the mouth.” 

“I’ve got that,” I told him. 

“Then you move your hand up into the dummy’s head. There is a little lever 
up there. Do you feel it? Push on it. The eyes will move in the direction you 
push.” 

“Okay. I’ll try,” I said. 

Slowly I moved my hand up inside the dummy’s back. Through the neck. 
And into his head. 

I stopped and let out a startled cry as my hand hit something soft. 

Something soft and warm. 

His brain! 

5 

“Ohhh.” I uttered a sick moan and jerked my hand out as fast as I could. 

I could still feel the soft, warm mush on my fingers. 

“Amy—what’s wrong?” Dad cried. 

“His—his brains—!” I choked out, feeling my stomach lurch. 

“Huh? What are you talking about?” Dad grabbed the dummy from my 
hands. He turned it over and reached into the back. 

I covered my mouth with both hands and watched him reach into the head. 
His eyes widened in surprise. 

He struggled with something. Then pulled his hand out. 

“Yuck!” I groaned. “What’s that!” 

Dad stared down at the mushy, green and purple and brown object in his 
hand. “Looks like someone left a sandwich in there!” he exclaimed. 

Dad’s whole face twisted in disgust. “It’s all moldy and rotten. Must have 
been in there for months!” 

“Yuck!” I repeated, holding my nose. “It really stinks! Why would someone 
leave a sandwich in a dummy’s head?” 

“Beats me,” Dad replied, shaking his head. “And it looks like there are 
wormholes in it!” 

“Yuuuuuck!” we both cried in unison. 

Dad handed Slappy back to me. Then he hurried into the kitchen to get rid 
of the rotted, moldy sandwich. 

I heard him run the garbage disposal. Then I heard water running as he 
washed his hands. A few seconds later, Dad returned to the living room, drying 
his hands on a dish towel. 

“Maybe we’d better examine Slappy closely,” he suggested. “We don’t 
want any more surprises —do we?” 

I carried Slappy into the kitchen, and we stretched him out on the counter. 
Dad examined the dummy’s shoes carefully. They were attached to the legs and 
didn’t come off. 

I put my finger on the dummy’s chin and moved the mouth up and down. 
Then I checked out his wooden hands. 

I unbuttoned the gray suit jacket and studied the dummy’s painted shirt. 

Patches of the white paint had chipped and cracked. But it was okay. 

“Everything looks fine, Dad,” I reported. 

He nodded. Then he smelled his fingers. I guess he hadn’t washed away all 
of the stink from the rotted sandwich. 

“We’d better spray the inside of his head with disinfectant or perfume or 
something,” Dad said. 

Then, as I was buttoning up the jacket, something caught my eye. 

Something yellow. A slip of paper poking up from the jacket pocket. 

It’s probably a sales receipt, I thought. 

But when I pulled out the small square of yellow paper, I found strange 
writing on it. Weird words in a language I’d never seen before. 

I squinted hard at the paper and slowly read the words out loud: 

“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 

I wonder what that means? I thought. 

And then I glanced down at Slappy’s face. 

And saw his red lips twitch. 

And saw one eye slowly close in a wink. 

6 

“D-d-dad!” I stuttered. “He—moved!” 

“Huh?” Dad had gone back to the sink to wash his hands for a third time. 
“What’s wrong with the dummy?” 

“He moved!” I cried. “He winked at me!” 

Dad came over to the counter, wiping his hands. “I told you, Amy—he 
can’t blink. The eyes only move from side to side.” 

“No!” I insisted. “He winked. His lips twitched, and he winked.” 

Dad frowned and picked up the dummy head in both hands. He raised it to 
examine it. “Well... maybe the eyelids are loose,” he said. “I’ll see if I can 
tighten them up. Maybe if I take a screwdriver I can—” 

Dad didn’t finish his sentence. 

Because the dummy swung his wooden hand up and hit Dad on the side of 
the head. 

“Ow!” Dad cried, dropping the dummy back onto the counter. Dad grabbed 
his cheek. “Hey—stop it, Amy! That hurt!” 

“Me?” I shrieked. “I didn’t do it!” 

Dad glared at me, rubbing his cheek. It had turned bright red. 

“The dummy did it!” I insisted. “I didn’t touch him, Dad! I didn’t move his 
hand!” 

“Not funny,” Dad muttered. “You know I don’t like practical jokes.” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but no words came out. I decided I’d better 
just shut up. 

Of course Dad wouldn’t believe that the dummy had slapped him. 

I didn’t believe it myself. 

Dad must have pulled too hard when he was examining the head. Dad 
jerked the hand up without realizing it. 

That’s how I explained it to myself. 

What other explanation could there be? 

I apologized to Dad. Then we washed Slappy’s face with a damp sponge. We 
cleaned him up and sprayed disinfectant inside his head. 

He was starting to look pretty good. 

I thanked Dad again and hurried to my room. I set Slappy down on the chair 
beside Dennis. Then I phoned Margo. 

“I got a new dummy,” I told her excitedly. “I can perform for the kids’ 
birthday parties. At The Party House.” 

“That’s great, Amy!” Margo exclaimed. “Now all you need is an act.” 

She was right. 

I needed jokes. A lot of jokes. If I was going to perform with Slappy in 
front of dozens of kids, I needed a long comedy act. 

The next day after school, I hurried to the library. I took out every joke 
book I could find. I carried them home and studied them. I wrote down all the 
jokes I thought I could use with Slappy. 

After dinner, I should have been doing my homework. Instead, I practiced 
with Slappy. I sat in front of the mirror and watched myself with him. 

I tried hard to speak clearly but not move my lips. And I tried hard to move 
Slappy’s mouth so that it really looked as if he were talking. 

Working his mouth and moving his eyes at the same time was pretty hard. 
But after a while, it became easier. 

I tried some knock-knock jokes with Slappy. I thought little kids might like 
those. 

“Knock knock,” I made Slappy say. 

“Who’s there?” I asked him, staring into his eyes as if I were really talking 
to him. 

“Jane,” Slappy said. 

“Jane who?” 

“Jane jer clothes. You stink!” 

I practiced each joke over and over, watching myself in the mirror. I wanted 
to be a really good ventriloquist. I wanted to be excellent. I wanted to be as good 
with Slappy as Sara is with her paints. 

I practiced some more knock-knock jokes and some jokes about animals. 
Jokes I thought little kids would find funny. 

I’ll try them out on Family Sharing Night, I decided. It will make Dad 
happy to see how hard I’m working with Slappy. At least I know Slappy’s head 
won’t fall off. 

I glanced across the room at Dennis. He looked so sad and forlorn, 
crumpled in the chair, his head tilted nearly sideways on his shoulders. 

Then I propped Slappy up and turned back to the mirror. 

“Knock knock.” 

“Who’s there?” 

“Wayne.” 

“Wayne who?” 

“Wayne wayne, go away! Come again another day!” 

On Thursday night, I was actually eager to finish dinner so that Sharing Night 
could begin. I couldn’t wait to show my family my new act with Slappy. 

We had spaghetti for dinner. I like spaghetti, but Jed always ruins it. 

He’s so gross. He sat across the table from me, and he kept opening his 
mouth wide, showing me a mouth full of chewed-up spaghetti. 

Then he’d laugh because he cracks himself up. And spaghetti sauce would 
run down his chin. 

By the time dinner was over, Jed had spaghetti sauce smeared all over his 
face and all over the tablecloth around his plate. 

No one seemed to notice. Mom and Dad were too busy listening to Sara 
brag about her grades. For a change. 

Report cards were being handed out tomorrow. Sara was sure she was 
getting all A’s. 

I was sure, too. Sure I wasn’t getting all A’s! 

I’d be lucky to get a C in math. I really messed up the last two tests. And I 
probably wasn’t going to do real well in science, either. My weather balloon 
project fell apart, so I hadn’t handed it in yet. 

I finished my spaghetti and mopped up some of the leftover sauce on my 
plate with a chunk of bread. 

When I glanced up, Jed had stuck two carrot sticks in his nose. “Amy, 
check this out. I’m a walrus!” he cried, grinning. He let out a few urk urks and 
clapped his hands together like a walrus. 

“Jed—stop that!” Mom cried sharply. She made a disgusted face. “Get 
those out of your nose.” 

“Make him eat them, Mom!” I cried. 

Jed stuck his tongue out at me. It was orange from the spaghetti sauce. 

“Look at you. You’re a mess!” Mom shouted at Jed. “Go get cleaned up. 
Now! Hurry! Wash all that sauce off your face.” 

Jed groaned. But he climbed to his feet and headed to the bathroom. 

“Did he eat anything? Or did he just rub it all over himself?” Dad asked, 
rolling his eyes. Dad had some sauce on his chin, too, but I didn’t say anything. 

“You interrupted me,” Sara said impatiently. “I was telling you about the 
State Art Contest. Remember? I sent my flower painting in for that?” 

“Oh, yes,” Mom replied. “Have you heard from the judges?” 

I didn’t listen to Sara’s reply. My mind wandered. I started thinking again 
about how bad my report card was going to be. I had to force myself to stop 
thinking about it. 

“Uh... I’ll clear the dishes,” I announced. 

I started to stand up. 

But I stopped with a startled cry when I saw the short figure creep into the 
living room. 

A dummy! 

My dummy. 

He was crawling across the room! 

7 

I let out another cry. I pointed to the living room with a trembling finger. “M- 
mom! Dad!” I stammered. 

Sara was still talking about the art competition. But she turned to see what 
everyone was gaping at. 

The dummy’s head popped out from behind the armchair. 

“It’s Dennis!” I cried. 

I heard muffled laughter. Jed’s muffled laughter. 

The dummy reached up both hands and pulled off his own head. And Jed’s 
head popped up through the green turtleneck. He still had spaghetti sauce 
smeared on his cheeks. He was laughing hard. 

Everyone else started to laugh, too. Everyone but me. 

Jed had really frightened me. 

He had pulled the neck of his sweater way up over his head. Then he had 
tucked Dennis’ wooden head inside the turtleneck. 

Jed was so short and thin. It really looked as if Dennis were creeping into 
the room. 

“Stop laughing!” I shouted at my family. “It isn’t funny!” 

“I think it’s very funny!” Mom cried. “What a crazy thing to think of!” 

“Very clever,” Dad added. 

“It’s not clever,” I insisted. I glared furiously at my brother. “I always knew 
you were a dummy!” I screamed at him. 

“Amy, you really were scared,” Sara accused. “You nearly dropped your 
teeth!” 

“Not true!” I sputtered. “I knew it was Dennis—I mean—Jed!” 

Now everyone started laughing at me! I could feel my face getting hot, and 
I knew I was blushing. 

That made them all laugh even harder. 

Nice family, huh? 

I climbed to my feet, walked around the table, and took Dennis’ head away 
from Jed. “Don’t go in my room,” I told him through clenched teeth. “And don’t 
mess with my stuff.” I stomped away to put the dummy head back in my room. 

“It was just a joke, Amy,” I heard Sara call after me. 

“Yeah. It was just a joke,” Jed repeated nastily. 

“Ha-ha!” I shouted back at them. “What a riot!” 

My anger had faded away by the time we started Family Sharing Night. We 
settled in the living room, taking our usual places. 

Mom volunteered to go first. She told a funny story about something that 
had happened at work. 

Mom works in a fancy women’s clothing store downtown. She told us 
about a really big woman who came into the store and insisted on trying on only 
tiny sizes. 

The woman ripped every piece of clothing she tried on—and then bought 
them all! “They’re not for me,” the woman explained. “They’re for my sister!” 

We all laughed. But I was surprised Mom told that story. Because Mom is 
pretty chubby. And she’s very sensitive about it. 

About as sensitive as Dad is about being bald. 

Dad was the next to share. He brought out his guitar, and we all groaned. 
Dad thinks he’s a great singer. But he’s nearly as tone deaf as I am. 

He loves singing all these old folk songs from the sixties. There’s supposed 
to be some kind of message in them. But Sara, Jed, and I have no idea what he’s 
singing about. 

Dad strummed away and sang something about not working on Maggie’s 
farm anymore. At least, I think that’s what he was saying. 

We all clapped and cheered. But Dad knew we didn’t really mean it. 

It was Jed’s turn next. But he insisted that he had already shared. “Dressing 
up like Dennis—that was it,” he said. 

No one wanted to argue with him. “Your turn, Amy,” Mom said, leaning 
against Dad on the couch. Dad fiddled with his glasses, then settled back. 

I picked up Slappy and arranged him on my lap. I was feeling a little 
nervous. I wanted to do a good job and impress them with my new comedy act. 

I’d been practicing all week, and I knew the jokes by heart. But as I slipped 
my hand into Slappy’s back and found the string, my stomach felt all fluttery. 

I cleared my throat and began. 

“This is Slappy, everyone,” I said. “Slappy, say hi to my family.” 

“Hi to my family! ” I made Slappy say. I made his eyes slide back and forth. 

They all chuckled. 

“This dummy is much better!” Mom commented. 

“But it’s the same old ventriloquist,” Sara said cruelly. 

I glared at her. 

“Just joking! Just joking!” my sister insisted. 

“I think that dummy reeks,” Jed chimed in. 

“Give Amy a break,” Dad said sharply. “Go ahead, Amy.” 

I cleared my throat again. It suddenly felt very dry. “Slappy and I are going 
to tell some knock-knock jokes,” I announced. I turned to face Slappy and made 
him turn his head to me. “Knock knock,” I said. 

“Knock it off! ” came the harsh reply. 

Slappy spun around to face my Mom. “Hey — don’t break the sofa, fatso!” 
he rasped. “Why don’t you skip the French fries and have a salad once in a 
while?” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped in shock. “Amy—” 

“Amy, that’s not funny!” Dad cried angrily. 

“What’s your problem, baldy?” Slappy shouted. “Is that your head—or are 
you hatching an ostrich egg on your neck?” 

“That’s enough, Amy!” Dad cried, jumping to his feet. “Stop it—right 
now!” 

“But—but—Dad—!” I sputtered. 

“Why don’t you put an extra hole in your head and use it for a bowling 
ball?” Slappy screamed at Dad. 

“Your jokes are horrible!” Mom exclaimed. “They’re hurtful and insulting.” 

“It’s not funny, Amy!” Dad fumed. “It’s not funny to hurt people’s 
feelings.” 

“But, Dad—” I replied. “I didn’t say any of that! It wasn’t me! It was 
Slappy! Really! I wasn’t saying it! I wasn’t!” 

Slappy raised his head. His red-lipped grin appeared to spread. His blue 
eyes sparkled. “Did I mention you are all ugly?” he asked. 

8 

Everyone started shouting at once. 

I stood up and dropped Slappy facedown on the armchair. 

My legs were trembling. My entire body was shaking. 

What’s going on here? I asked myself. I didn’t say those things. I really 
didn’t. 

But Slappy can’t be talking on his own —can he? 

Of course not, I realized. 

But what did that mean? Did that mean I was saying those horrible, 
insulting things to my parents without even knowing it? 

Mom and Dad stood side by side, staring at me angrily, demanding to know 
why I insulted them. 

“Did you really think that was funny?” Mom asked. “Didn’t you think it 
would hurt my feelings to call me fatso?” 

Meanwhile, Jed was sprawled on his back in the middle of the floor, 
giggling like a moron. He thought the whole thing was a riot. 

Sara sat cross-legged against the wall, shaking her head, her black hair 
falling over her face. “You’re in major trouble,” she muttered. “What’s your 
problem, Amy?” 

I turned to Mom and Dad. My hands were balled into tight fists. I couldn’t 
stop shaking. 

“You’ve got to believe me!” I shrieked. “I didn’t say those things! I really 
didn’t!” 

“Yeah. Right. Slappy is a baaad dude!” Jed chimed in, grinning. 

“Everybody, just be quiet!” Dad screamed. His face turned bright red. 

Mom squeezed his arm. She didn’t like it when he got too angry or excited. 
I guess she worried he might totally explode or something. 

Dad crossed his arms in front of his chest. I saw that he had a sweat stain on 
the chest of his polo shirt. His face was still red. 

The room suddenly fell silent. 

“Amy, we’re not going to believe you,” Dad said softly. 

“But—but—but—” 

He raised a hand to silence me. 

“You’re a wonderful storyteller, Amy,” Dad continued. “You make up 
wonderful fantasies and fairy tales. But we’re not going to believe this one. I’m 
sorry. We’re not going to believe that your dummy spoke up on his own.” 

“But he did! ” I screamed. I felt like bursting out in sobs. I bit my lip hard, 
trying to force them back. 

Dad shook his head. “No, Slappy didn’t insult us. You said those things, 
Amy. You did. And now I want you to apologize to your mother and me. Then I 
want you to take your dummy and go to your room.” 

There was no way they’d ever believe me. No way. I wasn’t sure I believed 
it myself. 

“Sorry,” I muttered, still holding back the tears. “Really. I’m sorry.” 

With an unhappy sigh, I lifted Slappy off the chair. I carried him around the 
waist so that his arms and legs dangled toward the floor. “Good night,” I said. I 
walked slowly toward my room. 

“What about my turn?” I heard Sara ask. 

“Sharing Night is over,” Dad replied grumpily. “You two—get lost. Leave 
your mom and me alone.” 

Dad sounded really upset. 

I didn’t blame him. 

I stepped into my room and closed the door behind me. Then I lifted Slappy 
up, holding him under the shoulders. I raised his face to mine. 

His eyes seemed to stare into my face. 

Such cold blue eyes, I thought. 

His bright red lips curled up into that smirking grin. The smile suddenly 
seemed evil. Mocking. 

As if Slappy were laughing at me. 

But of course that was impossible. My wild imagination was playing tricks 
on me, I decided. 

Frightening tricks. 

Slappy was just a dummy, after all. Just a hunk of painted wood. 

I stared hard into those cold blue eyes. “Slappy, look at all the trouble you 
caused me tonight,” I told him. 

Thursday night had been awful. Totally awful. 

But Friday turned out to be much worse. 

9 

First I dropped my tray in the lunchroom. The trays were all wet, and mine just 
slipped out of my hand. 

The plates clattered on the floor, and my lunch spilled all over my new 
white sneakers. Everyone in the lunchroom clapped and cheered. 

Was I embarrassed? Take three guesses. 

Later that afternoon, report cards were handed out. 

Sara came home grinning and singing. Nothing makes her more happy than 
being perfect. And her report card was perfect. All A’s. 

She insisted on showing it to me three times. She showed it to Jed three 
times, too. And we both had to tell her how wonderful she was each time. 

I’m being unfair to Sara. 

She was happy and excited. And she had a right to be. Her report card was 
perfect— and her flower painting won the blue ribbon in the State Art Contest. 

So I shouldn’t blame her for dancing around the house and singing at the 
top of her lungs. 

She wasn’t trying to rub it in. She wasn’t trying to make me feel like a 
lowly slug because my report card had two C’s. One in math and one in science. 

It wasn’t Sara’s fault that I had received my worst report card ever. 

So I tried to hold back my jealous feelings and not strangle her the tenth 
time she told me about the art prize. But it wasn’t easy. 

The worst part of my report card wasn’t the two C’s. It was the little note 
Miss Carson wrote at the bottom. 

It said: Amy isn’t working to the best of her ability. If she worked harder, she 
could do much better than this. 

I don’t think teachers should be allowed to write notes on report cards. I 
think getting grades is bad enough. 

I tried to make up some kind of story to explain the two C’s to my parents. I 
planned to tell them that everyone in the class got C’s in math and science. “Miss 
Carson didn’t have time to grade our papers. So she gave us all C’s—just to be 
fair.” 

It was a good story. But not a great story. 

No way Mom and Dad would buy that one. 

I paced back and forth in my room, trying to think of a better story. After a 
while, I noticed Slappy staring at me. 

He sat in the chair beside Dennis, grinning and staring. 

Slappy’s eyes weren’t following me as I paced—were they? 

I felt a chill run down my back. 

It really seemed as if the eyes were watching me, moving as I moved. 

I darted to the chair and turned Slappy so that his back was to me. I didn’t 
have time to think about a stupid dummy. My parents would be home from work 
any minute. And I needed a good story to explain my awful report card. 

Did I come up with one? No. 

Were my parents upset? Yes. 

Mom said she would help me get better organized. Dad said he would help 
me understand my math problems. The last time Dad helped me with my math, I 
nearly flunked! 

Even Jed—the total goof-off—got a better report card than me. They don’t 
give grades in the lower school. The teacher just writes a report about you. 

And Jed’s report said that he was a great kid and a really good student. That 
teacher must be sick! 

I stared at Jed across the dinner table. He opened his mouth wide to show 
me a mouth full of chewed-up peas. 

Sick! 

“You reek,” he said to me. For no reason at all. 

Sometimes I wonder why families were invented. 

Saturday morning, I called Margo. “I can’t come over,” I told her with a sigh. 
“My parents won’t let me.” 

“My report card wasn’t too good, either,” Margo replied. “Miss Carson 
wrote a note at the bottom. She said I talk too much in class.” 

“Miss Carson talks too much,” I said bitterly. 

As I chatted with Margo, I stared at myself in the dresser mirror. I look too 
much like Sara, I thought. Why do I have to look like her twin? Maybe I’ll cut 
my hair really short. Or get a tattoo. 

I wasn’t thinking too clearly. 

I was too angry that my parents weren’t allowing me to go over to Margo’s 
house. 

“This is bad news,” Margo said. “I wanted to talk to you about performing 

with Slappy at my dad’s place.” 

“I know,” I replied sadly. “But they’re not letting me go anywhere until my 
science project is finished.” 

“You still haven’t turned that in?” Margo demanded. 

“I kind of forgot about it,” I confessed. “I did the project part—for the 
second time. I just have to write the report.” 

“Well, I told you, Daddy has a birthday party for a dozen three-year-olds 
next Saturday,” Margo said. “And he wants you and Slappy to entertain them.” 

“As soon as I finish the science report, I’m going to start rehearsing,” I 
promised. “Tell your dad not to worry, Margo. Tell him I’ll be great.” 

We chatted for a few more minutes. Then my mom shouted for me to get 
off the phone. I talked for a little while longer—until Mom shouted a second 
time. Then I said good-bye to Margo and hung up. 

I slaved over my computer all morning and most of the afternoon. And I 
finished the science report. 

It wasn’t easy. Jed kept coming into my room, begging me to play a 
Nintendo game with him. “Just one! ” And I had to keep tossing him out. 

When I finally finished writing the paper, I printed it out and read it one 
more time. I thought it was pretty good. 

What it needs is a really great-looking cover, I decided. 

I wanted to get a bunch of colored markers and do a really bright cover. But 
my markers were all dried up. 

I tossed them into the trash and made my way to Sara’s room. I knew that 
she had an entire drawer filled with colored markers. 

Sara was at the mall with a bunch of her friends. Miss Perfect could go out 
and spend Saturday doing whatever she wanted. Because she was perfect. 

I knew she wouldn’t mind if I borrowed a few markers. 

Jed stopped me outside her door. “One game of Battle Chess!” he pleaded. 
“Just one game!” 

“No way,” I told him. I placed my hand on top of his head. His red, curly 
hair felt so soft. I pushed him out of my way. “You always murder me at Battle 
Chess. And I’m not finished with my work yet.” 

“Why are you going in Sara’s room?” he demanded. 

“None of your business,” I told him. 

“You reek,” he said. “You double reek, Amy.” 

I ignored him and made my way into Sara’s room to borrow the markers. 

I spent nearly an hour making the cover. I filled it with molecules and 
atoms, all in different colors. Miss Carson will be impressed, I decided. 

Sara returned home just as I finished. She was carrying a big shopping bag 
filled with clothes she’d bought at Banana Republic. 

She started to her room with the bag. “Mom—come see what I bought,” she 
called. 

Mom appeared, carrying a stack of freshly laundered towels. 

“Can I see, too?” I called. I followed them to Sara’s room. 

But Sara stopped at her door. 

The bag fell from her hand. 

And she let out a scream. 

Mom and I crowded behind her. We peered into the bedroom. 

What a mess! 

Someone had overturned about a dozen jars of paint. Reds, yellows, blues. 
The paint had spread over Sara’s white carpet, like a big, colorful mud puddle. 

I gasped and blinked several times. It was unreal! 

“I don’t believe it!” Sara kept shrieking. “I don’t believe it!” 

“The carpet is ruined!” Mom exclaimed, taking one step into the room. 

The emptied paint jars were on their sides, strewn around the room. 

“Jed!” Mom shouted angrily. “Jed—get in here! Now!” 

We turned to see Jed right behind us in the hall. “You don’t have to shout,” 
he said softly. 

Mom narrowed her eyes angrily at my brother. “Jed—how could you?” she 
demanded through clenched teeth. 

“Excuse me?” He gazed up at her innocently. 

“Jed—don’t lie!” Sara screamed. “Did you do this? Did you go in my room 
again?” 

“No way!” Jed protested, shaking his head. “I didn’t go in your room today, 
Sara. Not once. But I saw Amy go in. And she wouldn’t tell me why.” 

10 

Sara and Mom both turned accusing eyes on me. 

“How could you?” Sara screamed, walking around the big paint puddle. 
“How could you?” 

“Whoa! Wait! I didn’t! I didn’t!” I cried frantically. 

“I asked Amy why she was going in here,” Jed chimed in. “And she said it 
was none of my business.” 

“Amy!” Mom cried. “I’m horrified. I’m truly horrified. This—this is sick!” 

“Yes, it’s sick,” Sara repeated, shaking her head. “All of my poster paint. 
All of it. What a mess. I know why you did it. It’s because you’re jealous of my 
perfect report card.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I wailed. “I didn’t! I didn’t! I didn’t!” 

“Amy—no one else could have,” Mom replied. “If Jed didn’t do it, then—” 

“But I only came in here to borrow markers!” 

I cried in a trembling voice. “That’s all. I needed markers.” 

“Amy—” Mom started, pointing to the huge paint puddle. 

“I’ll show you!” I cried. “I’ll show you what I borrowed.” 

I ran to my room. My hands were shaking as I scooped Sara’s markers off 
my desk. My heart pounded. 

How could they accuse me of something so terrible? I asked myself. 

Is that what everyone thinks of me? That I’m such a monster? 

That I’m so jealous of my sister, I’d pour out all her paints and ruin her rug? 

Do they really think I’m crazy? 

I ran back to Sara’s room, carrying the markers in both hands. Jed sat on 
Sara’s bed, staring down at the thick red, blue, and yellow puddle. 

Mom and Sara stood over it, gazing down and shaking their heads. Mom 
kept making clucking noises with her tongue. She kept pressing her hands 
against her cheeks. 

“Here! See?” I cried. I shoved the markers toward them. “That’s why I 
came in here. I’m not lying!” 

Some of the markers fell out of my hands. I bent to pick them up. 

“Amy, there were only three of us home this afternoon,” Mom said. She 

was trying to keep her voice low and calm. But she spoke through gritted teeth. 
“You, me, and Jed.” 

“I know—” I started. 

Mom raised a hand to silence me. “I certainly didn’t do this horrible thing,” 
Mom continued. “And Jed says that he didn’t do it. So...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Mom—I’m not a sicko!” I shrieked. “I’m not!” 

“You’ll feel better if you confess,” Mom said. “Then we can talk about this 
calmly, and—” 

“But I didn’t do it! ” I raged. 

With a cry of anger, I flung the markers to the floor. Then I spun around, 
bolted from Sara’s room, and ran down the long hall to my room. 

I slammed the door and threw myself facedown onto my bed. I started 
sobbing loudly. I don’t know how long I cried. 

Finally, I stood up. My face was sopping wet, and my nose was running. I 
started to the dresser to get a tissue. 

But something caught my eye. 

Hadn’t I turned Slappy around so that his back was turned to me? 

Now he was sitting facing me, staring up at me, his red-lipped grin wider 
than ever. 

Did I turn him back around? Did I? 

I didn’t remember. 

And what did I see on Slappy’s shoes? 

I wiped the tears from my eyes with the backs of my hands. Then I took a 
few steps toward the dummy, squinting hard at his big leather shoes. 

What was that on his shoes? 

Red and blue and yellow... paint? 

Yes. 

With a startled gasp, I grabbed both shoes by the heels and raised them 
close to my face. 

Yes. 

Drips of paint on Slappy’s shoes. 

“Slappy—what is going on here?” I asked out loud. “What is going on?” 

11 

When Dad came home and saw Sara’s room, he nearly exploded. 

I was actually worried about him. His face turned as red as a tomato. His 
chest started heaving in and out. And horrible gurgling noises came up from his 
throat. 

The whole family gathered in the living room. We took our Sharing Night 
places. Only, this wasn’t Family Sharing Night. This was What Are We Going 
To Do About Amy Night. 

“Amy, first you have to tell us the truth,” Mom said. She sat stiffly on the 
couch, squeezing her hands together in her lap. 

Dad sat on the other end of the couch, tapping one hand nervously against 
the couch arm, chewing his lower lip. Jed and Sara sat on the floor against the 
wall. 

“I am telling the truth,” I insisted shrilly. I slumped in the armchair across 
from them. My hair fell over my forehead, but I didn’t bother to brush it back. 
My white T-shirt had tear stains on the front, still damp. “If you would only 
listen to me,” I pleaded. 

“Okay, we’re listening,” Mom replied. 

“When I went into my room,” I started, “there were splashes of paint on 
Slappy’s shoes. And—” 

“Enough!” Dad cried, jumping to his feet. 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“Enough!” he insisted. He pointed a finger at me. “No more wild stories, 
young lady. Storytime is over. We don’t want to hear about paint stains on 
Slappy. We want an explanation for the crime that was committed in Sara’s room 
today.” 

“But I am giving an explanation!” I wailed. “Why did Slappy have paint on 
his shoes? Why?” 

Dad dropped back onto the couch with a sigh. He whispered something to 
Mom. She whispered back. 

I thought I heard them mention the word “doctor”. 

“Are you—are you going to take me to a psychiatrist?” I asked timidly. 

“Do you think you need one?” Mom replied, staring hard at me. 

I shook my head. “No.” 

“Your father and I will talk about this,” Mom said. “We will figure out the 
best thing to do.” 

The best thing to do? 

They grounded me for two weeks. No movies. 

No friends over. No trips to the mall. No trips anywhere. 

I heard them talking about finding me a counselor. But they didn’t say 
anything about it to me. 

All week, I could feel them watching me. Studying me as if I were some 
kind of alien creature. 

Sara was pretty cold to me. Her room had to be emptied out and a new rug 
installed. She wasn’t happy about it. 

Even Jed treated me differently. He kind of tiptoed around me and kept his 
distance, as if I had a bad cold or something. He didn’t tease me, or tell me that I 
reek, or call me names. 

I really missed it. No kidding. 

How did I feel? I felt miserable. 

I wanted to get sick. I wanted to catch a really bad stomach flu or 
something so they’d all feel sorry for me and stop treating me like a criminal. 

One good thing: They said I could perform with Slappy at The Party House 
on Saturday. 

Whenever I picked Slappy up, I felt a little weird. I remembered the paint 
on his shoes and the mess in my sister’s room. 

But I couldn’t come up with one single explanation. So I practiced with 
Slappy every night. 

I had put a lot of good jokes together. Silly jokes I thought little three-year- 
olds would find funny. 

And I studied myself in the mirror. I was getting better at not moving my 
lips. And it was getting easier to make Slappy’s mouth and eyes move correctly. 

“Knock knock,” I made Slappy say. 

“Who’s there?” I asked. 

“Eddie.” 

“Eddie who?” I asked. 

“Eddie-body got a tissue? I hab a teddible cold!” 

And then I pulled back Slappy’s head, opened his mouth really wide, and 

jerked his whole body as I made him sneeze and sneeze and sneeze. 

I thought that would really crack up the three-year-olds. 

Every night, I worked and worked on our comedy act. I worked so hard. 

I didn’t know that the act would never go on. 

On Saturday afternoon, Mom dropped me off at The Party House. “Have a good 
show!” she called as she drove away. 

I carried Slappy carefully in my arms. Margo met me at the door. She 
greeted me with an excited smile. 

“Just in time!” she cried. “The kids are almost all here. They’re total 
animals!” 

“Oh, great!” I muttered, rolling my eyes. 

“They’re total animals, but they’re so cute!” Margo added. 

She led me through the twisting hallway to the party room in back. Clusters 
of red and yellow balloons covered the ceiling. I saw a brightly decorated table, 
all yellow and red. A balloon on a string floated up from each chair around the 
table. Each balloon had the name of a guest on it. 

The kids really were cute. They were dressed mostly in jeans and bright T- 
shirts. Two of the girls wore frilly party dresses. 

I counted ten of them, all running wildly, chasing each other in the huge 
room. 

Their mothers were grouped around a long table against the back wall. 
Some of them were sitting down. Some were standing, huddled together, 
chatting. Some were calling to their kids to stop being so wild. 

“I’m helping out, pouring the punch and stuff,” Margo told me. “Dad wants 
you to do your act first thing. You know. To quiet the kids down.” 

I swallowed hard. “First thing, huh?” 

I had been excited. I could barely choke down my tuna fish sandwich at 
lunch. But now I began to feel nervous. I had major fluttering in my stomach. 

Margo led me to the front of the room. I saw a low wooden platform there, 
painted bright blue. That was the stage. 

Seeing the stage made my heart start to pound. My mouth suddenly felt 
very dry. 

Could I really step up on that stage and do my act in front of all these 
people? Kids and mothers? 

I had forgotten that the mothers would all be there. Seeing adults in the 

audience made me even more nervous. 

“Here is the birthday girl,” a woman’s voice said. 

I turned to see a smiling mother. She held the hand of a beautiful little girl. 
The girl gazed up at me with sparkling blue eyes. She had straight black hair, a 
lot like mine, only silkier and finer. She had a bright yellow ribbon in her hair. It 
matched her short yellow party dress and yellow sneakers. 

“This is Alicia,” the mother announced. 

“Hi. I’m Amy,” I replied. 

“Alicia would like to meet your dummy,” the woman said. 

“Is he real?” Alicia asked. 

I didn’t know how to answer that question. “He’s a real dummy,” I told 
Alicia. 

I propped Slappy up in my arms and slipped my hand into his back. “This is 
Slappy,” I told the little girl. “Slappy, this is Alicia.” 

“How do you do?” I made Slappy say. 

Alicia and her mother both laughed. Alicia stared up at the dummy with her 
sparkling blue eyes. 

“How old are you?” I made Slappy say. 

Alicia held up three fingers. “I’m fffree,” she told him. 

“Would you like to shake hands with Slappy?” I asked. 

Alicia nodded. 

I lowered the dummy a little. I pushed forward Slappy’s right hand. “Go 
ahead,” I urged Alicia. “Take his hand.” 

Alicia reached up and grabbed Slappy’s hand. She giggled. 

“Happy Birthday,” Slappy said. 

Alicia shook his hand gently. Then she started to back away. 

“We can’t wait to see your show,” Alicia’s mother said to me. “I know the 
kids are going to love it.” 

“I hope so!” I replied. My stomach fluttered again. I was still really 
nervous. 

“Let go!” Alicia cried. She tugged at Slappy’s hand. She giggled. “He won’t 
let go!” 

Alicia’s mom laughed. “What a funny dummy!” She grabbed Alicia’s other 
hand. “Let go of the dummy, honey. We have to get everyone in their seats for 
the show.” 

Alicia tugged a little harder. “But he won’t let go of me, Mommy!” she 

cried. “He wants to shake hands!” 

Alicia gave a hard tug. But her tiny hand was still wrapped up inside 
Slappy’s. She giggled. “He likes me. He won’t let go.” 

“Oh, look,” her mother said, glancing to the door. “Phoebe and Jennifer just 
arrived. Let’s go say hi.” 

Alicia tried to follow her mom, but Slappy held tight to her hand. Alicia’s 
smile faded. “Let go!” she insisted. 

I saw that several kids had gathered around. They watched Alicia tug at 
Slappy’s hand. 

“Let go! Let me go!” Alicia cried angrily. 

I leaned over to examine Slappy’s hand. To my surprise, it appeared that his 
hand had clenched tightly around hers. 

Alicia gave a hard tug. “Ow! He’s hurting me, Mommy!” 

More kids came over to watch. Some of them were laughing. Two little 
dark-haired boys exchanged frightened glances. 

“Please—make him let go!” Alicia wailed. She tugged again and again. 

I froze in panic. My mind whirred. I tried to think of what to do. 

Had Alicia gotten her hand caught somehow? 

Slappy’s hand couldn’t really close around hers—could it? 

Alicia’s mother was staring at me angrily. “Please let Alicia’s hand out,” 
she said impatiently. 

“He’s hurting me!” Alicia cried. “Ow! He’s squeezing my hand!” 

The room grew very quiet. The other kids were all watching now. Their 
eyes wide. Their expressions confused. 

I didn’t know what to do. I had no control for Slappy’s hands. 

My heart pounded in my chest. I tried to make a joke of it. “Slappy really 
likes you!” I told Alicia. 

But the little girl was sobbing now. Little tears rolled down her cheeks. 
“Mommy—make him stop!” 

I pulled my hand out from Slappy’s back. I grabbed his wooden hand 
between my hands. “Let go of her, Slappy!” I demanded. 

I tried pulling the fingers open. 

But I couldn’t budge them. 

“What is wrong?” Alicia’s mother was screaming. “Is her hand caught? 
What are you doing to her?” 

“He’s hurting me!” Alicia wailed. “Owwww! He’s squeezing me!” 

Several kids were crying now. Mothers rushed across the room to comfort 
them. 

Alicia’s sobs rose up over the frightened cries of the other three-year-olds. 
The harder she tugged, the tighter the wooden hand squeezed. 

“Let go, Slappy!” I shrieked, pulling his fingers. “Let go! Let go!” 

“I don’t understand!” Alicia’s mother cried. She began frantically tugging 
my arm. “What are you doing? Let her go! Let her go!” 

“Owwwww!” Alicia uttered a high, heartbreaking wail. “Make him stop! It 
hurts! It hurts!” 

And then Slappy suddenly tilted his head back. His eyes opened wide, and 
his mouth opened in a long, evil laugh. 

12 

I burst into the house and let the screen door slam behind me. I had taken the city 
bus to Logan Street. Then I had run the six blocks to my house with Slappy 
hanging over my shoulder. 

“Amy, how did it go?” Mom called from the kitchen. “Did you get a ride? I 
thought we were supposed to come pick you up.” 

I didn’t answer her. I was sobbing too hard. I ran down the hall to my room 
and slammed the door. 

I hoisted Slappy off my shoulder and tossed him into the closet. I never 
wanted to see him again. Never. 

I caught a glimpse of myself in the dresser mirror. My cheeks were swollen 
and puffy from crying. My eyes were red. My hair was wet and tangled, and 
matted to my forehead. 

I took several deep breaths and tried to stop crying. 

I kept hearing that poor little girl’s screams in my ears. Slappy finally let go 
of her after he uttered his ugly laugh. 

But Alicia couldn’t stop crying. She was so frightened! And her little hand 
was red and swollen. 

The other kids were all screaming and crying, too. 

Alicia’s mother was furious. She called Margo’s dad out from the kitchen. 
She was shaking and sputtering with anger. She said she was going to sue The 
Party House. 

Margo’s dad quietly asked me to leave. He led me to the front door. He said 
it wasn’t my fault. But he said the kids were too frightened of Slappy now. There 
was no way I could do my show. 

I saw Margo hurrying over to me. But I turned and ran out the door. 

I had never been so upset. I didn’t know what to do. A light rain had started 
to come down. I watched rainwater flow down the curb and into the sewer drain. 
I wanted to flow away with it. 

Now I threw myself onto my bed. 

I kept picturing little Alicia, screaming and crying, trying to twist out of 
Slappy’s grasp. 

Mom knocked hard on my bedroom door. “Amy? Amy—what are you 

doing? What’s wrong?” 

“Go away!” I wailed. “Just go away.” 

But she opened the door and stepped into the room. Sara came in behind 
her, a confused expression on her face. 

“Amy—the show didn’t go well?” Mom asked softly. 

“Go away!” I sobbed. “Please!” 

“Amy, you’ll do better next time,” Sara said, stepping up to the bed. She put 
a hand on my trembling shoulder. 

“Shut up!” I cried. “Shut up, Miss Perfect!” 

I didn’t mean to sound so angry. I was out of control. 

Sara stepped back, hurt. 

“Tell us what happened,” Mom insisted. “You’ll feel better if you tell us.” 

I pulled myself up until I was sitting on the edge of the bed. I wiped my 
eyes and brushed my wet hair off my face. 

And then, suddenly, the whole story burst out of me. 

I told how Slappy grabbed Alicia’s hand and wouldn’t let go. And how all 
the kids were crying. And the parents were all screaming and making a fuss. And 
how I had to leave without doing my act. 

And then I leaped to my feet, threw my arms around my mom, and started 
to sob again. 

She petted my hair, the way she used to do when I was a little girl. She kept 
whispering, “Ssshh shhhh shhhh.” 

Slowly, I began to calm down. 

“This is so weird,” Sara murmured, shaking her head. 

“I’m a little worried about you,” Mom said, holding my hands. “The little 
girl got her hand caught. That’s all. You don’t really believe that the dummy 
grabbed her hand—do you?” 

Mom stared at me hard, studying me. 

She thinks I’m crazy, I realized. She thinks I’m totally messed up. 

She doesn’t believe me. 

I decided I’d better not insist that my story was true. I shook my head. 
“Yeah. I guess her hand got caught,” I said, lowering my eyes to the floor. 

“Maybe you should put Slappy away for a while,” Mom suggested, biting 
her bottom lip. 

“Yeah. You’re right,” I agreed. I pointed. “I already put him in the closet.” 

“Good idea,” Mom replied. “Leave him in there for a while. I think you’ve 

been spending too much time with that dummy.” 

“Yeah. You need a new hobby,” Sara chimed in. 

“It wasn’t a hobby!” I snapped. 

“Well, leave him in the closet for a few days—okay, Amy?” Mom said. 

I nodded. “I never want to see him again,” I muttered. 

I thought I heard a sigh from inside the closet. But, of course, that was my 
imagination. 

“Get yourself cleaned up,” Mom instructed. “Wash your face. Then come to 
the kitchen and I’ll make you a snack.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

Sara followed Mom out the door. “Weird,” I heard Sara mutter. “Amy is 
getting so weird.” 

Margo called after dinner. She said she felt terrible about what had happened. 
She said her dad didn’t blame me. “He wants to give you another chance,” 
Margo told me. “Maybe with older kids.” 

“Thanks,” I replied. “But I put Slappy away for a while. I don’t know if I 
want to be a ventriloquist anymore.” 

“At the party today—what happened?” Margo asked. “What went wrong?” 
“I don’t really know,” I said. “I don’t really know.” 

That night, I went to bed early. Before I turned out the light, I glanced at the 
closet door. It was closed tightly. 

Having Slappy shut up in the closet made me feel safer. 

I fell asleep quickly. I slept a deep, dreamless sleep. 

When I awoke the next morning, I sat up and rubbed my eyes. 

Then I heard Sara’s angry screams down the hall. 

“Mom! Dad! Mom! Hurry!” Sara was shouting. “Come see what Amy did 
now!” 

13 

I shut my eyes, listening to my sister’s screams. 

What now? I thought with a shudder. What now? 

“Ohh!” I let out a low cry when I saw that my closet door was open a crack. 
My heart pounding, I climbed out of bed and began running down the hall 
to Sara’s room. Mom, Dad, and Jed were already on their way. 

“Mom! Dad! Look what she did!” Sara screamed. 

“Oh, no!” I heard Mom and Dad shriek. 

I stopped in the doorway, peered in—and gasped. 

Sara’s bedroom walls! They were smeared with red paint! 

Someone had taken a thick paintbrush and had scrawled AMY AMY AMY 
AMY in huge red letters all over Sara’s walls. 

“Noooo!” I moaned. I covered my mouth with both hands to stop the sound. 
My eyes darted from wall to wall, reading my name over and over. 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

Why my name? 

I suddenly felt sick. I swallowed hard, trying to force back my nausea. 

I blinked several times, trying to blink the ugly red scrawls away. 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

“Why?” Sara asked me in a trembling voice. She adjusted her nightshirt and 
leaned against her dresser. “Why, Amy?” 

I suddenly realized that everyone was staring at me. 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. 

“Amy, this cannot continue,” Dad said solemnly. His expression wasn’t 
angry. It was sad. 

“We’ll get you some help, dear,” Mom said. She had tears in her eyes. Her 
chin trembled. 

Jed stood silently with his arms crossed in front of his pajama shirt. 

“Why, Amy?” Sara demanded again. 

“But—I didn’t!” I finally choked out. 

“Amy—no stories,” Mom said softly. 

“But, Mom—I didn’t do it!” I insisted shrilly. 

“This is serious,” Dad murmured, rubbing his whiskery chin. “Amy, do you 
realize how serious this is?” 

Jed reached out two fingers and rubbed them over one of the red paint 
scrawls. “Dry,” he reported. 

“That means it was done early in the night,” Dad said, his eyes locked on 
me. “Do you realize how bad this is? This isn’t just mischief.” 

I took a deep breath. My whole body was shaking. “Slappy did it!” I blurted 
out. “I’m not crazy, Dad! I’m not! You’ve got to believe me! Slappy did it!” 
“Amy, please—” Mom said softly. 

“Come with me!” I cried. “I’ll prove it. I’ll prove that Slappy did it. Come 

on!” 

I didn’t wait for them to reply. I turned and bolted from the room. 

I flew down the hall. They all followed silently behind me. 

“Is Amy sick or something?” I heard Jed ask my parents. 

I didn’t hear the answer. 

I burst into my room. They hurried close behind. 

I stepped up to the closet and pulled the door open. 

“See?” I cried, pointing to Slappy. “See? That proves it! Slappy did it!” 

14 

I pointed triumphantly at Slappy. “See? See?” 

The dummy sat crossed-legged on the closet floor. His head stood erect on 
his narrow shoulders. He appeared to grin up at us. 

Slappy’s left hand rested on the closet floor. His right hand was in his lap. 

And in his right hand he clutched a fat paintbrush. 

The bristles on the brush were caked with red paint. 

“I told you Slappy did it!” I cried, stepping back so the others could get a 
better view. 

But everyone remained silent. Mom and Dad frowned and shook their 
heads. 

Jed’s giggle broke the silence. “This is dumb,” he told Sara. 

Sara lowered her eyes and didn’t reply. 

“Oh, Amy,” Mom said, sighing. “Did you really think you could blame it 
on the dummy by putting the paintbrush in his hand?” 

“Huh?” I cried. I didn’t understand what Mom was saying. 

“Did you really expect us to believe this?” Dad asked softly. His eyes stared 
hard into mine. 

“Did you think you could put the brush into Slappy’s hand, and make us 
think he painted your name on Sara’s walls?” 

“But I didn’t /” I shrieked. 

“When did he learn how to spell?” Jed chimed in. 

“Be quiet, Jed,” Dad said sharply. “This is serious. It isn’t a joke.” 

“Sara, take Jed out of here,” Mom instructed. “The two of you go to the 
kitchen and get breakfast started.” 

Sara began to guide Jed to the door. But he pulled away. “I want to stay!” 
he cried. “I want to see how you punish Amy.” 

“Get!” Mom cried, shooing him away with both hands. 

Sara tugged him out of the room. 

I was shaking all over. I narrowed my eyes at Slappy. Had his grin grown 
even wider? 

I stared at the paintbrush in his hand. The red paint on the bristles blurred, 

blurred until I saw only red. 

I blinked several times and turned back to my parents. “You really don’t 
believe me?” I asked softly, my voice trembling. 

They shook their heads. “How can we believe you, dear?” Mom replied. 

“We can’t believe that a wooden dummy has been doing these horrible 
things in Sara’s room,” Dad added. “Why don’t you tell us the truth, Amy?” 

“But I am!” I protested. 

How could I prove it to them? How? 

I let out an angry cry and slammed the closet door shut. 

“Let’s try to calm down,” Mom urged quietly. “Let’s all get dressed and 
have some breakfast. We can talk about this when we’re feeling better.” 

“Good idea,” Dad replied, still squinting at me through his glasses. He was 
studying me as if he’d never seen me before. 

He scratched his bald head. “Guess I’ll have to call a painter for Sara’s 
room. It’ll take at least two coats to cover up the red.” 

They turned and made their way slowly from my room, talking about how 
much it was going to cost to have my sister’s room painted. 

I stood in the center of the room and shut my eyes. Every time I closed 
them, I saw red. All over Sara’s wall: 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried out loud. 

My heart pounding, I spun around. I grabbed the knob and jerked open the 
closet door. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders of his gray jacket and pulled him up from 
the floor. 

The paintbrush fell from his hand. It landed with a thud beside my bare 

foot. 

I shook the dummy angrily. Shook him so hard that his arms and legs 
swung back and forth, and his head snapped back. 

Then I lifted him so that we were eye to eye. 

“Admit it!” I screamed, glaring into his grinning face. “Go ahead! Admit 
that you did it! Tell me that you did it!” 

The glassy blue eyes gazed up at me. 

Lifelessly. 

Blankly. 

Neither of us moved. 

And then, to my horror, the wooden lips parted. The red mouth slowly 
opened. 

And Slappy let out a soft, evil, “Hee hee hee. ” 

15 

“I can’t come over,” I told Margo glumly. I was sprawled on top of my bed, the 
phone pressed against my ear. “I’m not allowed out of my room all day.” 

“Huh? Why?” Margo demanded. 

I sighed. “If I told you, Margo, you wouldn’t believe me.” 

“Try me,” she replied. 

I decided not to tell her. I mean, my whole family thought I was crazy. Why 
should my best friend think it, too? 

“Maybe I’ll tell you about it when I see you,” I said. 

Silence at the other end. 

Then Margo uttered, “Wow.” 

“Wow? What does wow mean?” I cried. 

“Wow. It must be pretty bad if you can’t talk about it, Amy.” 

“It—it’s just weird,” I stammered. “Can we change the subject?” 

Another silence. “Daddy has a birthday party for six-year-olds coming up, 
Amy. And he wondered—” 

“No. Sorry,” I broke in quickly. “I put Slappy away.” 

“Excuse me?” Margo reacted with surprise. 

“I put the dummy away,” I told her. “I’m finished with that. I’m not going 
to be a ventriloquist anymore.” 

“But, Amy—” Margo protested. “You loved playing with those dummies. 
And you said you wanted to make some money, remember? So Daddy—” 

“No,” I repeated firmly. “I changed my mind, Margo. I’m sorry. Tell your 
dad I’m sorry. I—I’ll tell you about it when I see you.” 

I swallowed hard. And added: “If l ever see you.” 

“You sound terrible,” Margo replied softly. “Should I come over to your 
house? I think I could get my dad to drop me off.” 

“I’m totally grounded,” I said unhappily. “No visitors.” 

I heard footsteps in the hall. Probably Mom or Dad checking up on me. I 
wasn’t allowed to be on the phone, either. 

“Got to go. Bye, Margo,” I whispered. I hung up the phone. 

Mom knocked on my bedroom door. I recognized her knock. “Amy, want to 

talk?” she called in. 

“Not really,” I replied glumly. 

“As soon as you tell the truth, you can come out,” Mom said. 

“I know,” I muttered. 

“Why don’t you just tell the truth now? It’s such a beautiful day,” Mom 
called in. “Don’t waste the whole day in your room.” 

“I—I don’t feel like talking now,” I told her. 

She didn’t say anything else. But I could hear her standing out there. Finally 
I heard her footsteps padding back down the hall. 

I grabbed my pillow and buried my face in it. 

I wanted to shut out the world. And think. 

Think. Think. Think. 

I wasn’t going to confess to a crime I didn’t do. No way. 

I was going to find a way to prove to them that Slappy was the culprit. And 
I was going to prove to them that I wasn’t crazy. 

I had to show them that Slappy wasn’t an ordinary dummy. 

He was alive. And he was evil. 

But how could I prove it? 

I climbed to my feet and began pacing back and forth. I stopped at the 
window and gazed out at the front yard. 

It was a beautiful spring day. Bright yellow tulips bobbed in the flower 
patch in front of my window. The sky was a solid blue. The twin maple trees in 
the center of the yard were starting to unfurl fresh leaves. 

I took a deep breath. The air smelled so fresh and sweet. 

I saw Jed and a couple of his friends. They were Rollerblading down the 
sidewalk. Laughing. Having a good time. 

And I was a prisoner. A prisoner in my room. 

All because of Slappy. 

I spun away from the window and stared at the closet door. I had shoved 
Slappy into the back of the closet and shut the door tightly. 

I’m going to catch you in the act, Slappy, I decided. 

That’s how I’m going to prove I’m not crazy. 

I’m going to stay up all night. I’m going to stay up every night. And the 
first time you creep out of that closet, I’ll be awake. And I’ll follow you. 

And I’ll make sure that everyone sees what you are doing. 

I’ll make sure that everyone sees that you are the evil one in this house. 

I felt so upset. I knew I wasn’t really thinking clearly. 

But having a plan made me feel a little better. 

Taking one last glance at the closet door, I crossed the room to my desk and 
started to do my homework. 

* * * 

Mom and Dad let me come out for dinner. 

Dad had grilled hamburgers in the backyard, the first barbecue of spring. I 
loved grilled hamburgers, especially when they’re charred real black. But I could 
barely taste my food. 

I guess I felt too excited and nervous about trapping Slappy. 

No one talked much. 

Mom kept chattering to Dad about the vegetable garden and what she 
wanted to plant. Sara talked a little about the mural she had started to paint in her 
room. Jed kept complaining about how he wrecked his knee Rollerblading. 

No one spoke to me. They kept glancing over the table at me. Studying me 
like I was some kind of zoo animal. 

I asked to be excused before dessert. 

I usually stay up till ten. But a little after nine, I decided to go to bed. 

I was wide awake. Eager to trap Slappy. 

I turned out the light and tucked myself in. Then I lay staring up at the 
shifting shadows on the bedroom ceiling, waiting, waiting... 

Waiting for Slappy to come creeping out of the closet. 

I must have fallen asleep. 

I tried not to. But I must have drifted off anyway. 

I was startled awake by sounds in the room. 

I raised my head, instantly alert. And listened. 

The scrape of feet on my carpet. A soft rustling. 

A shiver of fear ran down my back. I felt goose-bumps up and down my 
arms. 

Another low sound. So near my bed. 

I reached forward quickly. Clicked on the bed table lamp. 

And cried out. 

16 

“Jed—what are you doing in here?” I shrieked. 

He stood blinking at me in the center of the room. One leg of his blue 
pajama pants had rolled up. His red hair was matted against one side of his head. 

“What are you doing in my room?” I demanded breathlessly. 

He squinted at me. “Huh? Why are you yelling at me? You called me, 
Amy.” 

“I—I what?” I sputtered. 

“You called me. I heard you.” He rubbed his eyes with his fingers and 
yawned. “I was asleep. You woke me up.” 

I lowered my feet to the floor and stood up. My legs felt shaky and weak. 
Jed had really scared me. 

“I was asleep, too,” I told him. “I didn’t call you.” 

“Yes, you did,” he insisted. “You told me to come to your room.” He bent to 
pull down the pajama leg. 

“Jed, you just woke me up,” I replied. “So how could I call you?” 

He scratched his hair. He yawned again. “You mean I dreamed it?” 

I studied his face. “Jed—did you sneak into my room to play some kind of 
prank?” I demanded sternly. 

He wrinkled his face up, tried to appear innocent. 

“Did you?” I demanded. “Were you going into the closet to do something 
with Slappy?” 

“No way!” he protested. He started to back out of the room. “I’m telling the 
truth, Amy. I thought you called me. That’s all.” 

I squinted hard at him, trying to decide if he was telling the truth. I let my 
eyes wander around the room. Everything seemed okay. Dennis lay in the 
armchair, his head in his lap. 

The closet door remained closed. 

“It was a dream, that’s all,” Jed repeated. “Good night, Amy.” 

I said good night. “Sorry I got upset, Jed. It’s been a bad day.” 

I listened to him pad back to his room. 

The cat poked his head into my room, his eyes gleaming like gold. “Go to 

sleep, George,” I whispered. “You go to sleep, too, okay?” He obediently turned 
and disappeared. 

I clicked off the bed table lamp and settled back into bed. 

Jed was telling the truth, I decided. He seemed as confused as I was. 

My eyes suddenly felt heavy. As if there were hundred-pound weights over 
them. I let out a loud yawn. 

I felt so sleepy. And the pillow felt so soft and warm. 

But I couldn’t let myself fall back to sleep. 

I had to stay awake. Had to wait for Slappy to make his move. 

Did I drift back to sleep? I’m not sure. 

Aloud click made my eyes shoot open wide. 

I raised my head in time to see the closet door start to open. 

The room lay in darkness. No light washed in from the window. The door 
was a black shadow, sliding slowly, slowly. 

My heart began to pound. My mouth suddenly felt dry as cotton. 

The closet door slid slowly, silently. 

A low creak. 

And then a shadow stepped out from behind the dark door. 

I squinted hard at it. Not moving a muscle. 

Another creak of the door. 

The figure took another silent step. Out of the closet. Another step. Another. 
Making its way past my bed, to the bedroom door. 

Slappy. 

Yes! 

Even in the night blackness I could see his large, rounded head. I watched 
his skinny arms dangle at his sides, the wooden hands bobbing as he moved. 

The heavy leather shoes slid over my carpet. The thin, boneless legs nearly 
collapsed with each shuffling step. 

Like a scarecrow, I thought, gripped with horror. 

He walks like a scarecrow. Because he has no bones. No bones at all. 

Up and down, his whole body bobbed as he crept away. 

I waited until he slithered and scraped out the door and into the hall. Then I 
jumped to my feet. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I tiptoed through the darkness after him. 

Here we go! I told myself. Here we go! 

17 

I stopped at the bedroom door and poked my head into the hall. Mom keeps a 
small night-light on all night just outside her bedroom door. It cast dim yellow 
light over the other end of the hall. 

Peering into the light, I watched Slappy pull himself silently toward Sara’s 
room. The big shoes shuffled along the carpet. Slappy’s body bobbed and bent. 
The big, wooden hands nearly dragged along the floor. 

When my chest started to ache, I realized I hadn’t taken a breath. As 
silently as I could, I let out a long whoosh of air. Then I took another deep breath 
and started to follow Slappy down the hall. 

I had a sudden impulse to shout: “Mom! Dad!” 

They would burst out of their room and see Slappy standing there in the 
middle of the hall. 

But, no. 

I didn’t want to shout for them now. I wanted to see where Slappy was 
heading. I wanted to see what he planned to do. 

I took a step. The floorboard creaked under my bare foot. 

Did he hear me? 

I pressed my back against the wall, tried to squeeze myself flat in the deep 
shadows. 

I peered through the dim yellow light at him. He kept bobbing silently 
along. His shoulders rode up and down with each shuffling step. 

He was just outside Sara’s room when he turned around. 

My heart stopped. 

I ducked low. Dropped back into the bathroom. 

Had he seen me? 

Had he turned around because he knew I was there? 

I shut my eyes. Waited. Listened. 

Listened for him to come scraping back. Listened for him to turn around 
and come back to get me. 

Silence. 

I swallowed hard. My mouth felt so dry. My legs were trembling. I grabbed 
the tile wall to steady myself. 

Still silent out there. 

I gathered up my courage and slowly, slowly poked my head out into the 

hall. 

Empty. 

I squinted toward Sara’s room in the yellow light. 

No one there. 

He’s in Sara’s room, I told myself. He’s doing something terrible in Sara’s 
room. Something I’ll be blamed for. 

Not this time, Slappy! I silently vowed. 

This time you’re going to be caught. 

Pressing against the wall, I crept down the hall. 

I stopped in Sara’s doorway. 

The night-light was plugged in across from Sara’s room. The light was 
brighter here. 

I squinted into her bedroom. I could see the mural she had started to paint. 
A beach scene. The ocean. A broad, yellow beach. Kites flying over the beach. 
Kids building a sand castle in one corner. The mural was tacked up, nearly 
covering the entire wall. 

Where was Slappy? 

I took a step into the room—and saw him. 

Standing at her paint table. 

I saw his big wooden hand fumble over the table of supplies. Then he 
grabbed a paintbrush in one hand. 

He raised and lowered the brush, as if pretending to paint the air. 

Then I saw him dip the paintbrush in a jar of paint. 

Slappy took a step toward the mural. Then another step. 

He stood for a moment, admiring the mural. 

He raised the paintbrush high. 

That’s when I burst into the room. 

I dove toward the dummy just as he raised the paintbrush to the mural. 

I grabbed the paintbrush with one hand. Wrapped my other hand around his 
waist. And tugged him back. 

The dummy kicked both legs and tried to punch me with his fists. 

“Hey—!” a startled voice shouted. 

The light clicked on. 

Slappy went limp on my arm. His head dropped. His arms and legs dangled 

to the floor. 

Sitting up in bed, Sara gaped at me in horror. 

I saw her eyes stop at the paintbrush in my hand. 

“Amy—what are you doing?” she cried. 

And, then, without waiting for an answer, Sara began to shout: “Mom! Dad! 
Hurry! She’s in here again!” 

18 

Dad came rumbling in first, adjusting his pajama pants. “What’s going on? 
What’s the problem?” 

Mom followed right behind him, blinking and yawning. 

“I—I took this from Slappy,” I stammered, holding up the paintbrush. “He 
—he was going to ruin the mural.” 

They stared at the paintbrush in my hand. 

“I heard Slappy sneak out of the closet,” I explained breathlessly. “I 
followed him into Sara’s room. I grabbed him just before—before he did 
something terrible.” 

I turned to Sara. “You saw Slappy—right? You saw him?” 

“Yeah,” Sara said, still in bed, her arms crossed over her chest. “I see 
Slappy. You’re carrying him on your arm.” 

The dummy hung over my arm, its head nearly hitting the floor. 

“No!” I cried to Sara. “You saw him sneak into your room—right? That’s 
why you turned on the light?” 

Sara rolled her eyes. “I saw you come into my room,” she replied. “You’re 
carrying the dummy, Amy. You’re holding the dummy—and the brush.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

My eyes darted from face to face. They ah stared back at me as if I had just 
landed on Earth in a flying saucer. 

No one in my family was going to believe me. No one. 

The next morning, Mom hung up the phone as I came down for breakfast. 
“You’re wearing shorts to school?” she asked, eyeing my outfit—olive-green 
shorts and a red, sleeveless T-shirt. 

“The radio said it’s going to be hot,” I replied. 

Jed and Sara were already at the table. They glanced up from their cereal 
bowls, but didn’t say anything. 

I poured myself a glass of grape juice. I’m the only one in my family who 
doesn’t like orange juice. I guess I am totally weird. 

“Who were you talking to on the phone?” I asked Mom. I took a long drink. 

“Uh... Dr. Palmer’s secretary,” she replied hesitantly. “You have purple 



above your lip,” she told me, pointing. 

I wiped the grape juice off with a napkin. “Dr. Palmer? Isn’t she a shrink?” 
I asked. 

Mom nodded. “I tried to get an appointment for today. But she can’t see 
you until Wednesday.” 

“But, Mom—!” I protested. 

Mom placed a finger over her mouth. “Sssshhh. No discussion.” 

“But, Mom—!” I repeated. 

“Ssshhh. Just talk to her once, Amy. You might enjoy it. You might think 
it’s helpful.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered. 

I turned to Sara and Jed. They stared down at their cereal bowls. 

I sighed and set the juice glass down in the sink. 

I knew what this meant. It meant that I had until Wednesday to prove to my 
family that I wasn’t a total wack job. 

In the lunchroom at school, Margo begged me to tell her what was going on with 
me. “Why were you locked up in your room all day yesterday?” she demanded. 
“Come on, Amy—spill.” 

“It’s no big deal,” I lied. 

No way I was going to tell her. 

I didn’t need the story going around school that Amy Kramer believes her 
ventriloquist dummy is alive. 

I didn’t need everyone whispering about me and staring at me the way 
everyone in my family did. 

“Dad wants to know if you’ll change your mind about the birthday party,” 
Margo said. “If you want to perform with Slappy, you can—” 

“No. Forget it!” I interrupted. “I put Slappy in the closet, and he’s staying 
there. Forever.” 

Margo’s eyes went wide. “Okay. Okay. Wow. You don’t have to bite my 
head off.” 

“Sorry,” I said quickly. “I’m a little stressed out these days. Here. Want 
this?” I handed her the brownie Mom had packed. 

“Thanks,” Margo replied, surprised. 

“Later,” I said. I crinkled up my lunch bag, tossed it in the trash, and 
hurried away. 



In my room that night, I couldn’t concentrate on my homework. I kept staring at 
the calendar. 

Monday night. I had only two nights to prove that I wasn’t crazy, that 
Slappy really was doing these horrible things. 

I slammed my history book shut. No way I could read about the firing on 
Fort Sumter tonight. 

I paced back and forth for a while. Thinking. Thinking hard. But getting 
nowhere. 

What could I do? 

What? 

After a while, my head felt about to split open. I reached up both hands and 
tugged at my hair. 

“Aaaaagh!” I let out a furious cry. Of anger. Of frustration. 

Maybe I’ll just get rid of Slappy, I decided. 

Maybe I’ll take him outside and toss him in the trash. 

And that will end the whole problem. 

The idea made me feel a little better. 

I turned and took two steps toward the closet. 

But I stopped with a gasp when I saw the doorknob slowly turn. 

As I stared in shock, the closet door swung open. 

Slappy stepped out. 

He slumped forward and stopped a few feet in front of me. 

His blue eyes glared up at me. His grin grew wider. 

“Amy,” he rasped, “it’s time you and I had a little talk.” 



19 


“Amy, now you are my slave,” Slappy said. His threat came out in a harsh, cold 
rasp. The eerie voice made me shiver. 

I stared back at him. I couldn’t reply. 

I gaped into those glassy blue eyes, that red-lipped smirk. 

“You read the ancient words that bring me to life,” the dummy whispered. 
“And now you will serve me. You will do everything I ask.” 

“No!” I finally managed to choke out. “No! Please—!” 

“Yes!” he cried. The grinning wooden head bobbed up and down, nodding. 
“Yes, Amy! You are my slave now! My slave forever!” 

“I w-won’t!” I stammered. “You can’t make me—” My voice caught in my 
throat. My legs wobbled like rubber. My knees buckled, and I nearly fell. 

Slappy raised one hand and grabbed my wrist. I felt the cold, wooden 
fingers tighten around me. 

“You will do as I tell you—from now on,” the dummy whispered. “Or 
else...” 

“Let go of me!” I cried. I struggled to tug my arm free. But his grasp was 
too tight. “Or else what?” I cried. 

“Or else I will destroy your sister’s mural,” Slappy replied. His painted grin 
grew wider. The cold eyes glared into mine. 

“Big deal,” I muttered. “Do you really think I’ll be your slave because you 
wreck her painting? You’ve already wrecked Sara’s room—haven’t you? That 
doesn’t mean I’ll be your slave!” 

“I’ll keep on destroying things,” Slappy replied, tightening his grip on my 
wrist, tugging me down toward him. “Maybe I’ll start wrecking your brother’s 
things, too. And you will be blamed, Amy. You will be blamed for it all.” 

“Stop—” I cried, trying to twist free. 

“Your parents are already worried about you—aren’t they, Amy?” the 
dummy rasped in that harsh, cold whispery voice. “Your parents already think 
you’re crazy!” 

“Stop! Please—!” I pleaded. 

“What do you think they’ll do when you start wrecking everything in the 
house?” Slappy demanded. “What do you think they’ll do to you, Amy?” 

“Listen to me!” I shrieked. “You can’t—” 

He jerked my arm hard. “They’ll send you away!” he rasped, his eyes 
flashing wildly. “That’s what your parents will do. They’ll send you away. And 
you’ll never see them again—except on visiting days!” 

He tilted back his wooden head and uttered a shrill laugh. 

A low moan escaped my throat. My entire body shuddered with terror. 

Slappy tugged me closer. “You will be an excellent slave,” he whispered in 
my ear. “You and I will have many good years together. You will devote your 
life to me.” 

“No!” I cried. “No, I won’t!” 

I sucked in a deep breath. Then I swung my arm hard, as hard as I could. 

I caught the dummy by surprise. 

Before he could let go of my wrist, I pulled him off balance. 

He let out a startled grunt as I lifted him off the floor. 

He’s just a dummy, I told myself. Just a dummy. I can handle him. I can 
beat him. 

His hand fell off my wrist. 

I ducked low. Grabbed his boneless arm with both hands. Swung my 
shoulder. Flipped him over my back. 

He landed hard on his stomach. His head made a loud clonk as it hit the 
floor. 

Breathing hard, my heart thudding wildly, I dove. 

I can handle him. I can beat him. 

I tried to pin him to the floor with my knees. 

But he spun away and scrambled up, faster than I could believe. 

I cried out as he swung his wooden fist. 

I tried to dodge away. But he was too fast. 

The heavy fist hit me square in the forehead. 

My face felt as if it had exploded. Pain shot down my body. 

Everything went bright red. 

And, holding both sides of my head, I crumpled to the floor. 

20 

I can handle him. I can beat him. 

The words repeated in my mind. 

I blinked my eyes. Raised my head. 

I refused to give up. 

Through the haze of red, I reached up with both hands. 

I grabbed Slappy by the waist and pulled him down. 

Ignoring my throbbing forehead, I wrestled him to the ground. He kicked 
both feet and thrashed his arms wildly. He swung at me, trying to land another 
blow. 

But I dug my knee into his middle. Then I wrapped my hands around his 
thrashing arms and pinned them to the floor. 

“Let go, slave!” he squealed. “I command you—let go!” He struggled and 
squirmed. 

But I held tight. 

His eyes darted frantically from side to side. 

His wooden jaw clicked open and shut, open and shut, as he strained to 
squirm free. 

“I command you to let go, slave! You have no choice! You must obey me!” 

I ignored his shrill cries and swung his arms behind his back. Holding them 
tightly in place, I climbed to my feet. 

He tried to kick me with both shoes. But I let go of the arms and grabbed 
his legs. 

I swung him upside down. Once again, his head hit the floor with a clonk. 

It didn’t seem to hurt him a bit. 

“Let go! Let go, slave! You will pay! You will pay dearly for this!” He 
screamed and protested, squirming and swinging his arms. 

Breathing hard, I dragged him across the rug—and swung him into the open 
closet. 

He dove quickly, trying to escape. 

But I slammed the door in his face. And turned the lock. 

With a sigh, I leaned my back against the closet door and struggled to catch 

my breath. 

“Let me out! You can’t keep me in here!” Slappy raged. 

He began pounding on the door. Then he kicked the door. 

“ITl break it down! I really will!” he threatened. He pounded even harder. 
The big wooden hands thudded against the wooden door. 

I turned and saw the door start to give. 

He’s going to break it open! I realized. 

What can I do? What can I do now? I tried to fight back my panic, 
struggled to think clearly. 

Slappy furiously kicked at the door. 

I need help, I decided. 

I bolted into the hall. Mom and Dad had their bedroom door closed, I saw. 
Should I wake them up? 

No. They wouldn’t believe me. 

I’d drag them into my room. Slappy would be slumped lifelessly on the 
closet floor. Mom and Dad would be even more upset about me. 

Sara, I thought. Maybe I can convince Sara. Maybe Sara will listen to me. 

Her door was open. I burst into her bedroom. 

She stood at the mural, brush in hand, dabbing yellow paint on the beach. 

She turned as I ran in, and her face tightened in anger. “Amy—what do you 
want?” she demanded. 

“You—you’ve got to believe me!” I sputtered. “I need your help! It wasn’t 
me who did those horrible things. It really wasn’t, Sara. It was Slappy. Please— 
believe me! It was Slappy!” 

“Yes. I know,” Sara replied calmly. 

21 

“Huh?” My mouth dropped open. I stared at her in surprise. “What did you say?” 

Sara set down the paintbrush. She wiped her hands on her gray smock. 
“Amy—I know it’s Slappy,” she repeated in a whisper. 

“I—I—” I was so stunned, I couldn’t speak. “But, Sara—you—” 

“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry!” she cried with emotion. She rushed forward and 
threw her arms around me. She hugged me tightly. 

I still didn’t believe what she had said. My head was spinning. 

I gently pushed her away. “You knew all this time? You knew it was Slappy 
and not me?” 

Sara nodded. “The other night, I woke up. I heard someone in my room. I 
pretended to be asleep. But I had my eyes open partway.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“I saw Slappy,” Sara confessed, lowering her eyes. “I saw him carrying a 
red paintbrush. I saw him painting AMY AMY AMY AMY all over my walls.” 

“But you didn’t tell Mom and Dad?” I cried. “You made them think it was 
me? And the whole time, you knew the truth?” 

Sara kept her eyes on the floor. Her black hair fell over her face. She 
brushed it back with a quick, nervous sweep of one hand. 

“I—I didn’t want to believe it,” she confessed. “I didn’t want to believe that 
a dummy could walk on its own, that it could be... alive.” 

I glared at her. “And, so—?” 

“So I accused you,” Sara said with a sob. “I guess the truth was just too 
scary. I was too frightened, Amy. I wanted to believe it was you doing those 
horrible things. I wanted to pretend it wasn’t the dummy.” 

“You wanted to get me in trouble,” I accused. “That’s why you did it, Sara. 
That’s why you lied to Mom and Dad. You wanted to get me in trouble.” 

She finally raised her face to me. I saw two tears trailing down her cheeks. 
“Yeah, I guess,” she murmured. 

She wiped the tears off with her hands. Her green eyes locked on mine. “I 
—I guess I’m a little jealous of you,” she said. 

“Huh?” My sister had stunned me again. I squinted at her, trying to make 
sense of her words. “You?” I cried. “You’re jealous of me?” 

She nodded. “Yeah. I guess. Everything is easy for you. You’re so relaxed. 
Everyone likes your sense of humor. It’s not like that for me,” Sara explained. “I 
have to paint to impress people.” 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. 

This had to be the biggest surprise of all. Sara jealous of me? 

Didn’t she know how jealous I was of her? 

I suddenly had a funny feeling in my chest. My eyes brimmed with tears. 
Strong emotion swept over me like an ocean wave. 

I rushed forward and hugged Sara. 

For some reason, we both started laughing. I can’t explain it. We stood there 
in the middle of her room, laughing like lunatics. 

I guess we were just so glad that the truth was out. 

Then Slappy’s painted face flashed back into my mind. And I remembered 
with a chill why I had burst into my sister’s room. 

“You have to help me,” I told her. “Right now.” 

Sara’s smile vanished. “Help you do what?” she demanded. 

“We have to get rid of Slappy,” I told her. “We have to get rid of him for 
good.” 

I tugged her hand. She followed me down the hall. 

“But—how?” she asked. 

Stepping into my room, we both cried out at once. 

We heard a final kick—and the closet door swung open. 

Slappy burst out, his eyes wild with rage. 

“Guess what, slaves?” he rasped. “Slappy wins!” 

22 

“Grab him!” I cried to my sister. 

I reached out both arms and made a frantic dive for the dummy. But he 
scampered to the side and slipped away from my tackle. 

His blue eyes flashed excitedly. His red lips twisted in an ugly grin. 

“Give up, slaves!” he rasped. “You cannot win!” 

Sara held back, hands against the door frame. I could see the fear in her 

eyes. 

I made another grab for Slappy. Missed again. 

“Sara—help me!” I pleaded. 

Sara took a step into the room. 

I leaped at Slappy, grabbed one boneless ankle. 

With a grunt, he pulled out of my grasp. He darted toward the door—and 
ran right into Sara. 

The collision stunned them both. 

Sara staggered back. 

Slappy teetered off balance. 

I threw myself at him, caught his arms, and pulled them behind his back. 

He squirmed and twisted. He kicked out furiously. 

But Sara grabbed both of his big leather shoes. “Tie him in a knot!” she 
cried breathlessly. 

He kicked and thrashed. 

But we held tight. 

I twisted his arms behind him. Twisted them around each other. Twisted. 
Twisted. Then tied them in as tight a knot as I could. 

Slappy squirmed and bucked, grunting loudly, his wooden jaws clicking. 
When I glanced up from my work on the arms, I saw that Sara had wrapped 
his legs in a knot, too. 

Slappy tilted back his head and uttered a roar of rage. His eyes slid up into 
his head so that only the whites showed. “Put me down, slaves! Put me down at 
once!” 

With one hand, I grabbed a wad of tissues from my bed table and jammed it 

into Slappy’s mouth. 

He uttered a grunt of protest, then went silent. 

“Now what?” Sara cried breathlessly. “Where should we put him?” 

My eyes shot around the room. No, I decided. I don’t want him in my room. 
I don’t want him in the house. 

“Outside,” I instructed my sister, holding on to the knotted arms with both 
of my hands. “Let’s get him outside.” 

Struggling to hold on to the bucking legs, Sara glanced at the clock. “It’s 
after eleven. What if Mom and Dad hear us?” 

“I don’t care!” I cried. “Hurry! I want him out of here! I never want to see 
him again!” 

We dragged Slappy out into the hall. Mom and Dad’s door remained closed. 

Good, I thought. They hadn’t heard our struggle. 

Sara carried him by the knotted legs. I held on to the arms. 

Slappy had stopped struggling and squirming. I think he was waiting to see 
what we were going to do with him. The wad of tissues had silenced his cries. 

I didn’t know where to take him. I only knew I wanted him out of the 
house. 

We carried him through the darkened living room and out the front door. 
We stepped into a hot, sticky night, more like summer than spring. A pale sliver 
of a moon hovered low in a blue-black sky. 

There was no breeze. No sounds of any kind. Nothing moved. 

Sara and I carried the dummy to the driveway. “Should we take him 
somewhere on our bikes?” she suggested. 

“How will we balance him?” I asked. “Besides, it’s too dark. Too 
dangerous. Let’s just carry him a few blocks and dump him somewhere.” 

“You mean in a trash can or something?” Sara asked. 

I nodded. “That’s where he belongs. In the trash.” 

Luckily, the dummy didn’t weigh much at all. We made our way to the 
sidewalk, then carried him to the end of the block. 

Slappy remained limp, his eyes rolled up in his head. 

At the corner, I spotted two circles of white light approaching. Car 
headlights. “Quick—!” I whispered to Sara. 

We slipped behind a hedge just in time. The car rolled by without slowing. 

We waited for the glow of red taillights to disappear in the darkness. Then 
we continued down the next block, carrying the dummy between us. 

“Hey—how about those?” Sara asked, pointing with her free hand. 

I squinted to see what she had spotted. A row of metal trash cans lined up at 
the curb in front of a dark house across the street. 

“Looks good,” I said. “Let’s shove him in and clamp down the lid. Maybe 
the trash guys will haul him away tomorrow.” 

I led the way across the street—and then stopped. “Sara—wait,” I 
whispered. “I have a better idea.” 

I dragged the dummy toward the corner. I motioned to the metal drain down 
at the curb. 

“The sewer?” Sara whispered. 

I nodded. “It’s perfect.” Through the narrow opening at the curb, I could 
hear running water far down below. “Come on. Shove him in.” 

Slappy still didn’t move or protest in any way. 

I lowered his head to the drain opening. Then Sara and I pushed him in 
headfirst. 

I heard a splash and a hard thud as he hit the sewer floor. 

We both listened. Silence. Then the soft trickle of water. 

Sara and I grinned at each other. 

We hurried home. I was so happy, I skipped most of the way. 

The next morning, Sara and I came to the kitchen for breakfast together. Mom 
turned from the counter, where she was pouring herself a cup of coffee. 

Jed was already at the table, eating his Frosted Flakes. “What’s he doing 
down here?” Jed asked. 

He pointed across the table. 

At Slappy. Sitting in the chair. 

23 

Sara and I both gasped. 

“Yes. Why is that dummy down here?” Mom asked me. “I found him sitting 
there when I came in this morning. And why is he so dirty? Where has he been, 
Amy?” 

I could barely choke out a word. “I... uh... I guess he fell or something,” I 
finally mumbled. 

“Well, take him back upstairs,” Mom ordered. “He’s supposed to be kept in 
the closet—remember?” 

“Uh... yeah. I remember,” I said, sighing. 

“You’ll have to clean him up later,” Mom said, stirring her coffee. “He 
looks as if he’s been wallowing in the mud.” 

“Okay,” I replied weakly. 

I hoisted Slappy up and slung him over my shoulder. Then I started to my 
room. 

“I—I’ll come with you,” Sara stammered. 

“What for?” Mom demanded. “Sit down, Sara, and eat your breakfast. 
You’re both going to be late.” 

Sara obediently sat down across from Jed. I made my way down the hall. 

I was halfway to my room when Slappy raised his head and whispered in 
my ear, “Good morning, slave. Did you sleep well?” 

I tossed him into the closet and locked the door. I could hear him laughing 
inside the closet. The evil laugh made me shake all over. 

What am I going to do now? I asked myself. What can I do to get rid of this 
creature ? 

The day dragged by. I don’t think I heard a word my teacher said. 

I couldn’t get Slappy’s evil, grinning face out of my mind. His raspy voice 
rattled in my ears. 

I won’t be your slave! I silently vowed. I’ll get you out of my house—out of 
my life—if it’s the last thing I do! 

That night, I lay wide awake in my bed. How could I sleep, knowing that evil 

dummy sat in the closet a few feet away? 

The night was hot and steamy. I had pushed the window open all the way, 
but there was no breeze. A fly buzzed by my head, the first fly of spring. 

Staring up at the twisting shadows on the ceiling, I brushed the fly away 
with one hand. As soon as the buzzing vanished, another sound took its place. 

A click. A low squeak. 

The sound of the closet door opening. 

I raised myself up off the pillow. Squinting into the darkness, I saw Slappy 
creep out of the closet. 

He took a few shuffling steps, his big shoes sliding silently over my carpet. 
He turned. 

Was he coming toward my bed? 

No. 

His head and shoulders bobbed as he pulled himself to the door. Then out 
into the hall. 

He’s going to Sara’s room, I knew. 

But what was he going to do there? Did he plan to pay us back for what we 
did to him last night? 

What new horror was he going to create? 

I lowered my feet to the floor, climbed out of bed, and followed him out 
into the hall. 

24 

My eyes adjusted quickly to the dim yellow light from the night-light at the other 
end of the hall. I watched Slappy slither toward my sister’s room. He moved as 
silently as a shadow. 

I held my breath and kept my back against the wall as I followed behind 
him. When he turned into Sara’s room, I stepped away from the wall and started 
to run. 

I reached the bedroom doorway in time to see Slappy pick up a wide 
paintbrush from Sara’s supply table. He took a step toward the mural on the wall. 

One step. 

And then another small figure leaped out of the darkness. 

The lights flashed on. 

“Dennis!” I cried. 

“Stand back!” Dennis ordered in a high, shrill voice. He lowered his 
wooden head and charged at Slappy. 

Sara sat up in her bed and uttered a frightened cry. 

I could see the stunned expression on Slappy’s face. 

Dennis flew at Slappy. He slammed his head into Slappy’s middle. 

Slappy let out a loud “Oooof!” He staggered back. Fell. 

A loud thud rang through the room as the back of Slappy’s head hit Sara’s 
iron bedpost. 

I raised both hands to my cheeks and gasped as Slappy’s head cracked 
open. 

The wooden head split down the middle. 

I watched the evil face crack apart. The wide, shocked eyes slid in different 
directions. The red lips cracked and fell away. 

The head dropped to the floor in two pieces. And then the body collapsed in 
a heap beside them. 

My hands still pressed against my face, my heart pounding, I took a few 
steps into the room. 

Dennis ran past me, out to the hall. 

But my eyes were locked on the two pieces of Slappy’s head. I stared in 
horror as an enormous white worm crawled out of one of the pieces. The fat 

worm slithered and curled to the wall—and vanished into a crack in the molding. 

Sara climbed out of bed, breathing hard, her face bright red from the 
excitement. 

The closet door swung open. Mom and Dad came bursting out. 

“Girls—are you okay?” Dad cried. 

We nodded. 

“We saw the whole thing!” Mom exclaimed. She threw her arms around 
me. “Amy, I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry. We should have believed you. I’m so sorry 
we didn’t believe you.” 

“We believe you now!” Dad declared, staring down at Slappy’s broken 
head, his crumpled body. “We saw everything!” 

It was all planned. Sara and I had worked it out before dinner. 

Sara convinced Mom and Dad to hide in the closet. Mom and Dad were 
really creeped out by the way I was acting. They were willing to do anything. 

So Sara pretended to go to sleep. Mom and Dad hid in the closet. 

I left the closet door unlocked to make it easier for Slappy to get out. 

I knew Slappy would creep into Sara’s room. I knew Mom and Dad would 
finally see that I’m not crazy. 

And then Jed burst out dressed as Dennis, with Dennis’ head propped up on 
top of his turtleneck sweater. 

We knew that would shock Slappy. We knew it would give us a chance to 
grab him. 

We didn’t know what a great job Jed would do. We didn’t know that Jed 
would actually destroy the evil dummy. We didn’t know that Slappy’s head 
would crack apart. That was just good luck. 

“Hey—where is Jed?” I asked, my eyes searching the room. 

“Jed? Jed?” Mom called. “Where are you? You did a great job!” 

No reply. 

No sign of my brother. 

“Weird,” Sara muttered, shaking her head. 

We all trooped down the hall into Jed’s room. 

We found him in bed, sound asleep. He groggily raised his head from the 
pillow and squinted at us. “What time is it?” he asked sleepily. 

“It’s nearly eleven,” Dad replied. 

“Oh, no!” Jed cried, sitting up. “I’m sorry! I forgot to wake up! I forgot I 
was supposed to dress up like Dennis!” 

I felt a shiver run down my back. I turned to my parents. “Then who fought 
Slappy?” I asked. “Who fought Slappy?” 

THE BARKING GHOST 

1 

For the zillionth time that night, I threw the covers off my legs and bolted up 
from the bed. 

I definitely heard something that time. 

And it wasn’t the wind, either. I’m always hearing things. But no matter 
what I hear, Mom says, “It’s just the wind, Cooper. Just the wind.” 

But the wind doesn’t sound like heavy footsteps crunching through the 
leaves. And that’s what I heard this time. Definitely. 

I stood next to my bedroom window. Then I leaned over and peered out. It 
sure was spooky out there. 

I squinted to see better in the dark. Don’t lean over too far, I thought. Don’t 
let whoever or whatever is out there see you. 

My eyes searched the backyard. I lifted my head—and spotted them. A few 
feet away. Huge, black, gnarly arms. Reaching out toward the window. 

Ready to grab me. 

No. It was only the branches of the old oak tree. 

Well, give me a break. I said it was dark out! 

My eyes swept over the yard again. The sound. There it was! 

I ducked. My legs trembled as I crouched beneath the window. I broke out 
into a cold sweat. 

Crunch. Crunch. 

Even louder than before. 

I swallowed hard and took another peek. Something moved in the shadows. 
Under the oak tree. I held my breath. 

Crunch. Crunch, crunch. 

A gust of wind blew the tree branches furiously. 

Crunch, crunch, crunch. 

The frightening sounds grew louder. Closer to the house. 

As I peered out, two eyes suddenly flashed in the dark. My throat went dry. 
I couldn’t cry out. 

The eyes flashed again. They were even closer to the house this time. Right 
outside my window. 

Staring at me. 

Moving toward me. 

The creature’s dark shape began to take form. It was a— 

—bunny rabbit?? 

I let out a long sigh. 

The first night in my new house—and I was already shaking in terror. 

I shuffled into the bathroom for a towel. As I mopped the sweat from my 
forehead, I stared at my reflection in the medicine chest mirror. 

Whenever I’m scared, my freckles really stand out. There they were. 
Millions of them. 

I ran my fingers through my hair. I wear it long. To help cover my big, 
droopy ears. 

I’ve had these huge ears my whole life. Mom keeps telling me not to worry. 
She says I’ll grow into them. But I’m twelve now, and nothing has changed. My 
ears are still huge. Huge and droopy. 

I wear a cap most of the time to help hide them. It’s my favorite cap from 
my favorite baseball team—the Red Sox. So I don’t mind wearing it. 

A bunny rabbit, I mumbled as I stared at myself in the mirror. Scared by a 
bunny rabbit. 

I’d made it through the entire day without being scared once. That’s pretty 
good for me. 

Back where I used to live—in Boston, Massachusetts—my best friends, 
Gary and Todd, always made fun of me. 

“Cooper,” they’d say, “you probably scare yourself on Halloween!” 

They were right. I get scared a lot. Some people just scare easier than 
others. I’m an easy scarer. 

Take last summer at camp. I got lost in the woods on my way to the 
bathroom cabin. What did I do? 

Nothing. I just stood there. 

When the kids from my bunk finally found me, I was shaking all over. 
Practically in tears. Turns out I was standing a few feet from the dining hall the 
whole time. 

So, okay. I admit it. When it comes to bravery, I’m not exactly Indiana 
Jones! 

When my parents announced we were moving from the city into a house in 
the woods, I was a little tense. 

Maybe even scared. 

Scared to leave the apartment I’d lived in my entire life. 

Scared of a house in the woods. 

And then I learned that our new house was deep in the woods, somewhere 
in Maine. Miles from the nearest town. 

The only two scary books I’d ever read took place in Maine. In the woods. 

But I had no choice. We were moving. Mom’s new job landed us in Maine, 
and there was nothing I could do about it. 

I left the bathroom and crept back to my bed. The floorboards creaked and 
cracked with each step. It was going to be hard getting used to that. 

It was also going to be hard getting used to all the other strange noises this 
old house made. The rattling pipes. The scraping shutters. And some weird noise 
that thumped really loudly every hour. 

At dinner, Mom said that the thumping noise was only the house “settling”. 

Whatever that means. 

At least she didn’t say, “It’s just the wind, Cooper.” 

I jumped into bed and pulled the covers up to my chin. Then I fluffed my 
pillows two or three times, trying hard to get comfortable. I felt a little safer in 
bed. 

I love my bed. Mom wanted to trash it when we moved. She said I needed a 
new one. But I said no way. It had taken me years to break this bed in. The 
mattress had just the right amount of lumps, and they were in all the right spots. 

In the dark, I glanced around my new room. It was so weird seeing all my 
things in this strange place. When the movers carried my stuff in here this 
morning, I had them put the furniture exactly the way it was in my old room. 

Across from my bed, my dad built a really cool bookcase for all my snow 
domes. It has a light in it and everything. 

I can’t wait to unpack my snow domes. I have seventy-seven of them from 
all over the world—even Australia and Hong Kong. I guess you could call me a 
snow dome collector. 

Anyway, I was finally beginning to relax, thinking about my snow domes— 
when I heard another noise. 

Not a bunch of little crunches like before—but one long, drawn-out crunch. 

I shot straight up in bed. This time I was sure. One hundred percent sure. 
Someone—or something—was creeping around out there. Right outside my 
window! 

I threw off the covers. Then I dropped to the floor on my hands and knees. 
Moving slowly, I crawled to the window. Then I carefully pulled myself up and 
peered outside. 

What was it? 

A snake? 

I flung open the window. I grabbed a softball from the floor and tossed it at 
the snake. Then I fell back down to my knees and listened. 

Silence. No crunching. No slithering. 

A direct hit. Great! 

I stood and leaned carefully out the window. I was feeling pretty proud of 
myself. After all, I had just saved my family from a deadly— 

—garden hose! 

I let out a disappointed sigh and shook my head. Get a grip, Cooper. 

If Gary and Todd were here, they would never let me hear the end of this. 
They’d be laughing their heads off. 

“Nice going, Coop!” Gary would say. “Saved your family from a poisonous 
garden hose!” 

“Yeah. Super Cooper strikes again!” Todd would say. Back in bed again, I 
fluffed up my pillows one more time. Then I closed my eyes as tightly as I 
could. 

That’s it, I said to myself. I am not getting up again. I don’t care what I hear 

next. 

I will not get up from this bed again. No matter what. 

And then I heard another noise. A different kind of noise. A sound that 
made my heart pound right through my chest. 

Breathing. 

Deep, heavy breathing. 

In my room. 

Under my bed! 

2 

I didn’t move. 

I couldn’t move. 

I stared at the ceiling. Listening. Listening to the raspy breathing under my 

bed. 

Okay, Cooper, I told myself. Calm down. It’s probably your imagination. 
Playing tricks on you again. 

The breathing grew louder. Raspier. 

I covered my ears and shut my eyes tight. 

It’s nothing. It’s nothing. It’s nothing. 

It’s an old house, I thought, still covering my ears. Old houses have to 
breathe—don’t they? 

Or, what was it that Mom said? Settling? Yeah, that’s what it must be. The 
house settling. 

Or maybe it’s the pipes. We had pipes in our apartment in Boston, and they 
made crazy noises all the time. I’ll bet that’s what it is—the pipes. 

I lowered my hands. 

Silence now. No settling. No pipes. No breathing. 

I must be losing my mind. 

If I told Gary and Todd about this one, they’d really laugh their heads off. 
And then the breathing started again. Raspy and wet. Hoarse breathing. 
Like a sick animal. 

I couldn’t just lie there. I had to see what it was. 

I swung my legs out of bed. I took a deep breath. Then I lowered myself to 
the floor. 

Carefully, I lifted the blanket from the bottom of the bed. Then carefully, 
carefully, I lowered my head and peeked under the bed. 

That’s when the hands darted out—and grabbed me. Two strong, cold 
hands. Slowly tightening their grip around my throat. 

3 

I screamed. 

So loudly, I surprised myself. 

My attacker must have been surprised, too. He quickly let go of my neck. I 
clutched my throat and sputtered for air. 

“Cooper, will you keep it down?” a voice whispered. “You’ll wake Mom 
and Dad!” 

Huh? 

Oh, man. 

It was Mickey. My totally obnoxious older brother. 

“Mickey! You jerk!” I cried. “You scared me to death!” 

Mickey slid out from under the bed and wiped some dust off his pajamas. 
“No big challenge,” he muttered. 

“Shut up,” I snapped, rubbing my sore neck. In the mirror I could see where 
Mickey’s hands had grabbed my throat. Dark red blotches circled my neck. 

“Look what you did!” I cried. “You know I bruise easily!” 

“Oh, don’t be such a baby! I got you, man!” Mickey cried, grinning. 

I stared furiously at my idiot brother. I wished I could wipe that grin off his 
face. And not get in trouble for it. 

“You’re a jerk!” was all I could think to say. 

“Grow up!” Mickey shot back. He headed for the door, then turned around. 
“Would Cooper like a little night-light next to his bed?” he asked in a tiny baby 
voice. 

That’s when I lost it. 

I leaped on to his back and pounded his head with my fists. 

“Hey!” he screamed, trying to shake me off. “What do you think you’re 
doing? Get off me!” 

Mickey’s legs buckled under him, and he fell to the floor. I clung to his 
back. I kept pounding him with my fists. 

Mickey is three years older than me, and he’s a lot bigger. But I had him in 
the right position, and landed a few good punches. 

Then he shifted to the right. 

And started pounding me back. Luckily, he got in only one really good 
wallop before Mom and Dad ran in to break it up. 

“Cooper! Mickey! What’s going on in here?” 

“He started it!” I called out, trying to duck Mickey’s fists. 

My father reached down and pulled Mickey off me. “I don’t care who 
started it!” he said angrily. “This is no way to act on the first night in your new 
house. Mickey, get back to your room!” 

“But, Dad, he—” 

“Never mind who started it. This behavior had better stop—now! Because 
if there is a next time, you’ll both start off the new school year grounded!” 

Grumbling, Mickey stomped out of the room. But not before sticking his 
tongue out at me. Mickey was the baby. Not me. 

“Really, Dad, Mickey started it,” I said when he was gone. 

“And you’re totally innocent, right?” my father asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Yes!” I insisted. 

Dad just shook his head. “Go to sleep, Cooper.” 

When my parents left the room, I paced back and forth, rubbing my neck. 

I was so steamed! 

It wasn’t the first time Mickey’s pulled something like this. For as long as I 
can remember, Mickey has played tricks on me, trying to terrify me. 

He usually succeeds, too. 

Once, when Mom and Dad went away for a weekend, he hid a tape recorder 
in my room. It played horrifying screams all night long. 

And another time, he didn’t come to get me after Little League practice. He 
left me standing there, all alone on the playground, while he hid out and watched 
me panic. 

But hiding under my bed tonight was the worst. He has to be one of the 
biggest jerks alive. 

I climbed back into bed and stared up at the ceiling. I had to think of a way 
to get Mickey back. 

What could I do? Hide outside his window and scream? 

Jump out from behind the shower curtain when he’s brushing his teeth? 

No. Too dumb. It would have to be something totally excellent. Something 
so creepy it would scare me. Even though I was the one doing it. 

I watched the spooky shadows move along my walls and ceiling. And 
listened to the frightening noises of my new house—noises I would have to hear 

for the rest of my life. 

The pipes rattling. The dogs barking. 

Wait a minute. 

Dogs? 

I sat up. We don’t have a dog. And there isn’t another house around here for 
miles. 

But I definitely heard a barking dog. 

I listened closely. The dog barked again. Then started to howl. 

I sighed and pulled off the covers again. I started to climb out of bed. Then 
it hit me. 

Mickey! 

This had to be another one of my brother’s stupid tricks. He was an 
excellent dog-barker. He practiced it all the time. 

Smiling, I settled back on my pillow. I wouldn’t get up. I wouldn’t go to the 
window. 

He wasn’t going to get me this time. No way. 

I lay there listening to Mickey make a fool of himself. Howling and barking 
like a big old dog. 

What a jerk. 

Then, suddenly, I sat up again. Whoa. I heard two dogs howling now. 

Even Mickey couldn’t pull that off. 

The howling turned to piercing cries. So close. Right under my window. 

As I said, I made it through a whole day without being scared. But, boy, 
was I making up for it tonight! 

For the zillionth and third time, I slowly crept to the window. I could hear 
them clearly. Two dogs. Wailing and howling. 

For the zillionth and third time, I gazed out the window. 

But for the first time, I couldn’t believe what I saw. 

4 

I didn’t see anything. 

Nothing at all. No dogs. Not one. 

I squinted into the yard. Empty. 

How could they have vanished so quickly? 

I stood at the window for a few more seconds, but no dogs appeared. 

I shivered. I’ll never sleep again, I thought. Not as long as I have to live 

here. 

I crept back to bed. I pulled the covers up to my chin. And counted the 
green and blue squigglies on the wallpaper by my head. 

I guess I finally fell asleep. When I opened my eyes, light streamed in 
through my window. 

Yawning, I glanced at the clock. Six-thirty. I’m usually an early bird. I like 
to start my day as soon as possible. 

I leaped out of bed and checked the yard. It didn’t seem half as scary in the 
morning light. 

I smiled when I noticed the jungle gym in the far corner. The last owners of 
the house built it. It had a slide and really high monkey bars. Yesterday, Dad 
hung a rope and tire from one of its beams, so now it had a swing, too. 

Behind the jungle gym, the woods stretched all around. Woods thick with 
all different kinds of trees and shrubs and weeds. The woods surrounded our 
house on three sides. It seemed to go on forever. 

I changed quickly, pulling a clean Red Sox T-shirt over my jeans. Grabbing 
my baseball cap, I flew through the house and ran outside. 

A great summer day! Sunny and warm. If I were back home in Boston, I 
would hop on my bike and ride over to Gary’s or Todd’s house. Then we would 
spend the day outdoors, playing softball at the playground. Or just messing 
around. 

But I’m not in Boston anymore. Better get used to that, I told myself. 

I hoped some cool kids lived in this neighborhood. When we drove up to 
our house yesterday, I didn’t see any other houses around. I guessed I’d have to 
spend the next few days alone—until school started next week. 

I wandered over to the jungle gym. I swung on the tire swing for a little 

while. Back and forth. Back and forth. Staring at my bedroom window from the 
outside. Back and forth. Back and forth. Remembering last night. 

Remembering just how brave Super Cooper had been. Yuck! 

Back and forth. Back and forth. 

Remembering the dogs. 

Hey. That’s weird, I thought. Those dogs I heard should have left paw prints 
all over the yard. But I couldn’t see a single one. 

I hopped off the swing and searched the ground all around the house. No 
sign of any dogs. 

That’s funny. I knew there were dogs out here last night. 

I glanced up at the edge of the woods. Maybe those dogs were lost, I 
thought. Maybe they came to the house last night searching for help. 

Maybe I should go track them down. 

I bit my lower lip. A kid could lose his way—forever—in those woods, I 
thought nervously. 

Well, I’m going in, I decided. Today is the first day of the new me. Super 
Cooper—for real. I wanted to find those dogs. To prove to myself that I wasn’t 
going crazy. 

Who knows? If I find the dogs, maybe Dad will let me keep one, I decided. 
It might be fun to have a dog. 

I’d always wanted a puppy. But Mom said the fur made her sneeze. Maybe 
she’d change her mind. 

I took one long, deep breath. Then I stepped into the woods. I saw some 
amazing trees. I saw beautiful old birch trees with smooth, white trunks. And I 
saw sassafras and maple trees. Their trunks were gnarled and thick. 

They could be over a hundred years old, I thought. Awesome. 

Maybe Dad can build a tree house back here, I told myself excitedly. That 
would be so cool. Then when Gary and Todd came to visit, we could hang out in 
it. 

I kept my eyes on the ground as I walked, searching for any sign of dogs. 

Nothing. No prints. No broken branches. 

How weird. I definitely heard dogs last night. 

Or maybe I just thought I’d heard those dogs. It was kind of late, and I was 
pretty sleepy. Maybe it was my imagination. 

Or maybe it was Mickey after all. 

Maybe he tape-recorded another dog and barked along with it. 

He would do something like that. 

He’s that sneaky. 

I really had to pay him back. Something way creepy. Maybe I could do 
something out here in the woods. 

I made my way through the thick trees and tall weeds, the whole time 
thinking of how to scare Mickey. 

I suddenly realized I hadn’t been paying attention to where I was going. 

I spun around and peered through the thick trunks. 

My house! I couldn’t see it! 

Okay, Cooper, keep cool. You can’t be that far away, I told myself. 

But my palms began to sweat. 

I swallowed hard, then tried to remember which way I’d come. 

Definitely the left. 

No, wait. Maybe right. 

I hung my head and moaned. It’s no use, I thought. 

I’m lost. Hopelessly lost. 

5 

I really didn’t want to cry. 

Who needed Mickey seeing me with wet, red eyes? 

I’d never hear the end of it. 

Besides, today was the first day of the new me. The new Super Cooper. 

I took a really deep breath and tried to calm down. 

I decided to walk a little to my right. If I didn’t see my house, I’d turn and 
double back to the left. 

It was worth a try. 

What did I have to lose? I was lost anyway. 

I turned to the right. I tried to take the straightest path possible. 

The snapping of branches behind me made me spin around. 

No one there. 

It’s just a harmless squirrel or something, I told myself. Just keep going. 

I returned to my straight path again. But with my first step, I heard leaves 
mstling behind me. 

I didn’t turn around. I quickened my pace. 

And I heard it again. 

Twigs snapping. Leaves rustling. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Don’t panic. Don’t panic. “Wh-who’s there?” I 
croaked. 

No answer. 

I turned back. 

Whoa! Which way had I been walking? My head began to spin. I suddenly 
felt dizzy. Too dizzy to remember where I had been. 

Snap. Snap. Crack. Crunch. 

“Who is there?” I called out again. My voice didn’t sound all that steady for 
Super Cooper. 

“Mickey, is that you? This isn’t funny! Mickey?” 

Then I felt something horrible scrape my cheek. Something cold. And 
sharp. 

I couldn’t help it. I started to scream. 

6 

A leaf. A dumb leaf. 

Come on, Cooper! Get a grip! 

I sat down on the ground for a second. I checked my watch. It was almost 
eight. 

Dad would be out in the yard soon. He planned to set up the new barbecue 
grill first thing this morning. I figured I could just wait for the hammering to 
start, then walk in the direction of the noise. 

I’d just sit here. And wait. Wait for the hammering. Good idea, I thought. 

I heard something rustle behind me. 

Just the leaves, I told myself. The dumb leaves. 

I stole a glance up at the trees. I tilted my head way back—and someone 
grabbed my arm. 

I jerked away. Sprang up. Started to run. 

And tripped over my own feet. 

Scrambling up, I gasped in surprise. 

A girl. 

She was about my age and had really long, red hair. It was frizzy, and it 
stuck out in a million directions. She had big green eyes. She wore a bright red 
T-shirt and red shorts. She reminded me of a rag doll Todd’s little sister used to 
carry around. 

“You okay?” she asked, her hands on her waist. 

“Yeah, sure. Fine,” I muttered. 

“Didn’t mean to scare you,” she said. 

“I wasn’t scared,” I lied. 

“Really,” she said. “I would have been scared, too, if someone grabbed me 
like that. I really didn’t mean to.” 

“I told you,” I said sharply, “I wasn’t scared.” 

“Okay. Sorry.” 

“What are you sorry about?” I asked. This had to be the weirdest girl I’d 
ever met. 

“I don’t know,” she replied, shrugging. “I’m just sorry.” 

“Well, you can stop apologizing,” I told her. I brushed the dirt off my 
clothes and picked up my baseball cap. I quickly set it back on my head. To 
cover my ears. 

The girl stared at me. She stood there and stared. Without saying a word. 
Was she staring at my ears? 

“Who are you?” I finally asked. 

“Margaret Ferguson,” she replied. “But people call me Fergie. Like the 
duchess.” 

I didn’t know what duchess she was talking about. But I pretended I did. 

“I live through the woods that way,” she said, pointing behind her. 

“I thought no one lived around here for miles,” I said. 

“Yeah. There are some houses around here, Cooper,” she replied. “They’re 
pretty spread out.” 

“Hey! How did you know my name?” I asked suspiciously. 

Margaret, or Fergie, or whatever her name was, turned beet-red. 

“I, uh, watched you move in yesterday,” she confessed. 

“I didn’t see you,” I replied. 

“That’s because I hid in the woods,” she said. “I heard your father call you 
Cooper. And I know your last name, too. It’s Holmes. I saw it written on all the 
boxes in the moving van. And I know you have a brother, Mickey,” she added. 
“He’s a jerk.” 

I laughed. “You got that right!” I exclaimed. “So how long have you lived 
around here?” 

She didn’t answer. She kept her eyes on the ground. 

“I said, how long have—” 

Suddenly, her head jerked up and she gazed into my eyes. 

“Wh-what’s wrong?” I asked when I saw her frightened face. 

Her face tightened, as if she were in pain. Her lips trembled. 

“Margaret!” I cried. “What? What is it?” 

She opened her mouth, but no words came out. She breathed deeply, 
gulping air. Finally, she clutched my shoulders and shoved her face right up 
close to mine. 

“Dogs,” she whispered. Then she let go of me and darted away. 

I froze for a moment. Then I chased after her. 

She made it to a big tree stump before I caught up. I grabbed hold of the 
back of her T-shirt and spun her around. 

“Margaret, what do you mean ‘dogs’?” I asked. 

“No! No!” she cried. “Just let me go! Let me go!” 

I held her tightly. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” she cried again. 

“Margaret, what did you mean back there?” I repeated. “This is important. 
Why did you say ‘dogs’?” 

“Dogs?” Her eyes grew wide. “I don’t remember saying that.” 

My jaw fell open. “You did!” I insisted. “You looked straight at me and 
said, ‘dogs’! I heard you!” 

She shook her head. “No, I don’t remember that,” she replied thoughtfully. 

Now I’ve met weird kids in my life, but Margaret here takes the cake. She 
almost makes Mickey seem normal. 

Almost. 

“Okay,” I said, trying to sound calm, “here’s what happened. You freaked 
out. Then you grabbed me. Then you said, ‘Dogs’. Then you freaked out again.” 

“Don’t remember,” she replied softly, shaking her head from side to side. 
“Why would I say that?” 

“I don’t know!” I screamed, starting to lose it. “I’m not the one who said 
it!” 

She gazed around in all directions, then focused those green, crazy eyes on 
me. 

“Listen to me, Cooper,” she whispered mysteriously. “Get away from here.” 

“Huh?” 

“I’m warning you, Cooper! Tell your parents they must leave at once!” She 
glanced nervously behind her, then turned back to me. 

“Please—listen to me. Get away from here! As fast as you can!” 

7 

Fergie let go of my shoulders and ran. 

For a few seconds, I stared after her, too shocked to move. Then I decided 
I’d better not let her get away. 

“Fergie!” I called out. “Wait up!” 

For a girl, Fergie ran pretty fast. Actually, most girls I know are fast 
mnners. 

Whoever said they were slower than boys in the first place? It isn’t true. 
Lots of girls in my class last year could beat any guy in a race. 

Anyway, / happen to be a very fast runner. When you’re afraid of 
everything, you learn to run—fast! 

“Fergie!” I called again. “Please! Tell me what’s going on!” But I couldn’t 
catch up. 

Then, to my surprise, she stopped and turned back to me. “Listen, Cooper,” 
she said, calmer than before. “The woods are haunted. Your house is probably 
haunted, too. Go home. Go home and tell your parents to move back to wherever 
you came from.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“It’s too dangerous here,” Fergie warned. “Get away, Cooper. As fast as you 
can!” 

With that, she turned and walked away in the direction of her house. 

I didn’t follow her this time. 

I should have. I totally forgot that I was lost. 

I turned around. My house is probably in the opposite direction, I decided. 

She disappeared through the trees. Fine with me, I thought angrily. It would 
be fine with me if I never saw her again. 

Why did she tell me all that? 

Why did she say the woods were haunted? 

Because it was tme? 

Leave it to my parents to buy a haunted house in haunted woods! 

I continued on, unable to shake the creepy feeling I had. I felt as if a 
hundred eyes were stalking me through the trees. 

I wished Fergie had kept her mouth shut. 

The longer I walked, the more frightened I became. Now I was positive that 
the woods were haunted. Haunted by ghosts tracking every step I made. 

Then, in the distance, I heard a faint banging. It startled me at first. When I 
realized it was Dad working on the grill, I shrieked with joy. 

“All right! I’m almost home!” My plan had worked. 

I followed the hammering sounds. 

Something rustled the branches above my head and made me jump. 

I gazed up. 

Just a bird. 

Staring up at the trees, I nearly fell headfirst into a stream. 

The water lapped quietly against the grassy shore. It reflected the pale blue 
morning sky above it. 

Funny, I hadn’t seen this stream here before. 

I bent down to touch the water. Cold. 

This is awesome! I thought. Areal stream, practically in my own backyard. 
Then I remembered that it wouldn’t be my backyard for long. As soon as I 
told my parents what Fergie had said, we’d pack up and move back to Boston. 

As I dried my hand on my shirt, I had that creepy feeling again. The feeling 
of eyes watching me. My head jerked up, and I gasped. 

There were eyes watching me. 

Four dark eyes glared at me from across the stream. 

The eyes of two enormous black Labradors. 

One dog panted loudly, its tongue hanging out. The other dog flashed its 
teeth at me. Ugly, yellow teeth. 

They both uttered low, menacing growls. 

Not friendly. Not friendly at all. 

Run! I urged myself. Run! 

But my legs wouldn’t budge. 

Growling, the dogs eyed me hungrily. 

Then they attacked. 

8 

Their heavy paws thudded the ground as they came bounding toward me. Their 
eyes glowed with excitement. Their large heads bobbed up and down. 

With a terrified cry, I turned and ran. 

If only I could fly! 

“Helllllp!” Was that me letting out that frightened wail? 

Yes. I think it was. 

Suddenly, I caught a glimpse of light through the trees. Sunlight glistening 
off the jungle gym slide! 

Yes! 

Almost home. 

The two black Labs ran at my heels. I could feel their hot breath on the 
backs of my legs. I felt a pair of sharp teeth scrape my ankle. 

With one last gasp of speed, I burst through the trees and out of the woods. 
“Dad!” I yelled, racing toward my father. 

“Help me!” I shrieked. “The dogs! The dogs!” I threw my arms around his 
waist and held on. 

“Cooper, calm down! What’s gotten into you?” my father asked, grabbing 
me by the shoulders. 

“The dogs!” I wailed, refusing to let go of him. 

“Cooper, what dogs?” Dad demanded. 

I blinked at him in confusion. Didn’t he hear them? Couldn’t he see them? 

I let go of him and pointed toward the woods. 

“Wild dogs. Big, black Labs, I think. They chased me, and—” 

I scanned the yard frantically. Dad and I were alone. 

No barking. 

No snarling. 

The sunlight glistened off the slide. 

The tire swung lazily from its rope. 

The dogs had vanished. 

9 

“Cooper, this is a joke—right?” Dad asked, shaking his head. 

“Huh? No way!” I cried. “They were right behind me. One almost bit me, 
and—” 

“And then they disappeared into thin air!” Dad declared. 

“Come into the woods with me,” I pleaded. “They’ve got to be there.” I ran 
to the edge of the woods, desperately searching for some sign of the dogs. Dad 
followed right behind. 

But there was nothing to see. 

I turned and slunk back to the house. 

Dad didn’t say anything until we were back in the yard. He sat down on the 
jungle gym slide. His eyes studied me. 

“Cooper, tell me what’s wrong,” Dad said in a low voice. I could tell he 
thought I had made all this up. 

“I told you, Dad. Two dogs chased me through the woods. They were 
inches from me! One tried to tear my leg off!” 

Dad continued to stare up at me, his expression thoughtful. 

“Dad, listen,” I pleaded. “We have to move. We can’t live here!” 

He climbed to his feet. “What are you talking about, Cooper?” 

“We have to move back to Boston,” I insisted. “We can’t stay here!” 

“Why not?” Dad asked. 

“It’s this house!” I shouted, my voice cracking. “It’s haunted!” 

“Now, Cooper—” 

“Dad! Listen to me,” I begged. “The woods... this house... they’re all 
haunted. Everybody around here knows it already! We never should have moved 
here!” 

“Cooper, you’re not making any sense,” Dad replied, keeping his voice low 
and calm. “You know, walking in the woods by yourself can be scary. Why don’t 
you come inside and calm down? Mom made a big breakfast. Have some French 
toast. You’ll feel better.” He put his arm around my shoulders. 

Now I really felt upset. My own father didn’t believe me. 

“But, Dad, it’s true!” I insisted. “The woods are haunted, and this weird girl 
I met warned me to move out! She—” 

“Cooper, I know you’re unhappy about the move,” Dad said. “But these 
wild stories aren’t going to change anything. This is where we live now.” 

“But—” 

“When school starts, you’ll make some new friends and everything will be 
fine. So come on in and have breakfast. You’ll feel better. You’ll see.” 

He led me back to the house. 

As Dad held the door open for me, I glanced back and took one last look at 
the woods. 

Two big black dogs stared at me from the trees. 

10 

When I blinked, the dogs vanished. 

Shaking my head, I made my way into the kitchen. 

Mickey had already finished half his breakfast when Dad and I entered the 
room. He leaned over his cereal bowl, snickering about something. I ignored 
him. 

“Cooper, have some French toast,” Mom said. “It’s on your plate, waiting 
for you.” 

I sat across from Mickey, trying hard not to look at his dumb face. I was 
still really steamed at him. 

“Mom, do you know who our neighbors are?” I asked, pouring maple syrup 
over the toast. 

“Why, sure,” Mom answered. “Your father and I met some of them a few 
weeks ago when we came to see the house.” 

“Did you meet the Fergusons?” I asked. 

Mom squinted her eyes, thinking. Then she shook her head. “No, I don’t 
think we met them. We met the Martells. Joel and Shirley. Very nice people.” 
Then she asked, “Who are the Fergusons?” 

I didn’t answer. I pressed on. “Did the Martells tell you our house was 
haunted?” 

Mom laughed. “No, Cooper, they didn’t. It must have slipped their minds,” 
she joked. 

“Ha-ha. It’s nothing to laugh about,” I insisted. “Our house is haunted. And 
so are the woods!” 

“Cooper, what are you talking about?” my mother demanded. 

“Enough, Cooper,” my father warned. “Eat your breakfast.” 

“Yeah,” Mickey said with a snort. “Eat your breakfast, Drooper.” 

I could feel my face turn red. I hated when Mickey called me Drooper. He 
called me that because of my big droopy ears. 

“Shut up, Sickey, ” I replied. 

“Cut it out, you two,” Dad snapped. 

I dug my fork into the French toast. How could they not believe me? Did 
they really think I made this story up? 

I lifted a chunk of toast to my mouth and stuffed it in. 

“Aghhhh!” 

Choking and coughing, I spit the food out on my plate. 

“Gross!” Mickey cried, grinning. “Gross! A guy could lose his appetite 
around here.” 

My eyes teared, and I coughed a few more times. 

“You okay, Cooper?” Mom asked. 

“Somebody dumped salt on my French toast!” I exclaimed angrily. 

Mickey started to laugh. 

That creep. 

My father climbed up from the table. Without saying a word, he stomped 
out of the room. 

That’s how my Dad acts when he’s angry. He gets all quiet, then just walks 
away. Punishments come later. 

I gulped down a glass of milk, trying to wash the salt out of my mouth. 
Mom returned to the stove to make another batch of French toast for me. 

“Mickey,” she said, sighing, “you know that wasn’t funny. Now apologize 
to your brother.” 

“Apologize? But it was just a joke!” Mickey complained. 

“We’re all cracking up,” I muttered bitterly, gulping down a second glass of 
milk. “You’re a real riot.” 

“Apologize!” my mother insisted again. 

Mickey hung his head and stared at the floor. 

I folded my arms across my chest. “I’m waiting!” I sang happily. 

Mickey made an ugly face at me. When Mom turned around, he changed 
his expression to an innocent smile. 

“I’m so sorry, Cooper,” Mickey oozed. “It won’t happen again.” He blinked 
innocently. 

Satisfied, Mom turned back to the stove. 

As soon as she did, Mickey pulled on his ears, trying to stretch them as big 
as mine. 

I’d had it with Mickey. I pushed my chair away from the table and hurried 
out of the room. I didn’t want to get into another fight with my stupid brother 
now. 

I had more important things to do. I had to talk to Dad about the dogs. I had 
to make him believe me. 

Dad sat in his favorite chair, which just didn’t look right in our new living 
room. Even he seemed to notice. He kept shifting uncomfortably. 

“Maybe it’s time for a new chair,” he muttered. 

“Dad, can I talk to you for a second?” I asked. 

“What is it, Cooper?” he asked as he moved Great-grandma’s lamp closer 
to the chair. 

“It’s about the dogs,” I said. 

Dad sighed. “Really, Cooper. Aren’t you making too big a deal about this? 
So what if you saw dogs in the woods? They could belong to anybody!” 

“But they chased me!” I replied, getting all worked up again. “And then 
they disappeared into thin air! And after that girl told me the woods were 
haunted—” 

“What girl?” my dad demanded. 

“She said her name was Margaret Ferguson,” I told him. “She said her 
family lived next door.” 

Dad rubbed his chin. “That’s strange,” he said. “The real estate broker 
never mentioned the Fergusons.” 

“Well, I met her this morning, and she told me everyone around here knows 
that our house is haunted!” 

“Maybe that’s why we got such a good deal on the house,” Dad muttered, 
chuckling. 

I didn’t see what was so funny. 

He stopped laughing and stared at me seriously. “Forget about the dogs for 
now, Cooper. We’ll deal with it if you see them again. In the meantime, I’ll ask 
around in town if anyone knows who owns them. Okay?” 

“But what about the house?” I asked. “Margaret said we should move as 
fast as we can.” 

“French toast is ready!” Mom called out, interrupting me. “Come on, 
Cooper. Before it gets cold.” 

“Go eat,” my father urged. “And please. Not another word about dogs or 
the house being haunted.” 

With a sigh, I headed back to the kitchen. As I stepped through the door, 
Mickey jumped in my face and let out a roar. 

Naturally, it scared me to death. 

“Mom!” I cried. 

“Mickey, enough!” my mother screamed. “Stop teasing Cooper. He’s 

having a hard time adjusting to the new house.” 

“No, I’m not!” I yelled at her. Why wasn’t anybody taking me seriously? 
“This house is haunted. You’ll be sorry you didn’t listen to me. You’ll be sorry!” 

Then I stormed out and stomped off to my room. I collapsed on my bed and 
gazed around. Same old stuff, but the room didn’t feel like my own. 

I stayed in there all day. I didn’t want to see Mickey. I didn’t want to see 
Mom and Dad. And I really didn’t want to see those dogs again. 

By dinnertime, I’d unpacked most of my things. The room felt a little better. 
More like my old bedroom back in Boston. 

After dinner, I lugged all seventy-seven snow domes into the bathroom and 
washed them, one by one. People don’t realize that you have to take care of 
snow domes and keep them clean and filled with water or they’ll dry out. 

When they were all sparkling clean, I arranged them carefully on my new 
bookcase. 

They looked awesome! 

I tried to organize them in some sort of size order, but that didn’t work. 
Instead, I alphabetized them—from Annapolis to Washington, D.C. Of course, I 
placed my absolute favorite dome—a Boston Red Sox snow dome—on the 
middle shelf, front and center. 

I finished at eleven, then got ready for bed. All that unpacking had tired me 

out. 

I had closed my eyes and was just drifting off to sleep when I heard it. 

Loud and clear. 

Barking. 

And growling. 

Outside my window. 

I bolted straight up in bed. 

I waited for my parents and Mickey to come running in. This time, they 
must have heard the dogs, too. 

I waited. And waited. 

The barking grew louder. 

No one else in the house stirred. 

I lowered one foot to the floor, then the other. I stood up, listening hard. 
Listening to the two dogs barking. 

And to my horror, I realized that this time the barking wasn’t outside my 
window. 

This time it was coming from inside my house! 

11 

Frantically, I searched for a weapon. Something to protect me from the barking 
dogs. 

I found my aluminum baseball bat in the closet. I gripped it tightly and 
crept across the room to my bedroom door. 

I pushed it open. And listened. 

Yes. 

The barking was definitely coming from inside the house. From the living 
room, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and slipped into the hallway. Where were my parents? 
Their bedroom is directly over the living room on the second floor. They had to 
hear this. 

Why hadn’t they come running out? 

Mickey’s room was on the first floor down the hall from mine. I peered 
down the hall and saw that his bedroom door was closed. 

What’s his problem? I wondered. Where is everyone? 

I crept quietly down the hall, inching my way to the living room. I could 
hear the dogs racing around in there. 

I gasped when I heard a loud crash. 

Something clattered to the floor. Great-grandma’s lamp, I guessed. 

I stared up at the ceiling—to my parents’ bedroom. Were they deaf or 
something? 

Holding the bat in front of me, I jumped into the living room and snapped 
on the ceiling light. 

The dogs were... 

The dogs were... 

NOT THERE! 

The room stood empty. 

“Huh?” I blinked a few times from the sudden brightness of the light, then 
stared around the room. 

No dogs. 

No growling. No barking. 

But, wait! Great-grandma’s lamp lay on its side on the floor. 

I took a step over to the sofa. Something crunched under my bare feet. 
Potato chips? 

Yes. Potato chips. Scattered across the room. 

I spotted the potato chip bag—ripped to shreds on the floor. 

My heart thumped so hard, I thought it might burst out of my chest. 

As I bent to pick up the torn bag, a shadow fell over me. 

I heard heavy breathing. 

And I felt a gust of hot, smelly breath shoot across my neck. 

12 

“Drooper, what are you doing?” 

I straightened up and spun around. 

“Mickey!” 

“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out,” he replied. 

“Mickey! Did you hear them? Did you?” 

Mickey glanced around the room. “Hear who?” he asked. Then, before I 
could answer, he snapped, “Cooper, you jerk, why did you throw potato chips 
around the living room?” 

“The dogs!” I cried. “The dogs did it! Did you hear them?” 

Mickey shook his head. “No way. I didn’t hear anything.” 

I was stunned. “You didn’t hear wild dogs mnning around the room a few 
minutes ago?” 

Mickey rolled his eyes and whistled. “You’re losing it, Cooper. Hearing 
invisible dogs is one thing. But feeding them potato chips? You’re really messed 
up, man.” 

“I didn’t do this!” I said angrily. “I told you. The dogs did.” 

Mickey shook his head. “Just promise me one thing,” he said seriously. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Promise me when school starts next week, you won’t tell anybody you’re 
related to me.” 

I wanted to throw something at him. I wished I had Great-grandma’s lamp 
in my hand, but I didn’t. So I threw what I did have—the empty potato chip bag. 

It flew about three inches, then dropped at my feet. 

“You’re pathetic!” Mickey laughed. “I know why you’re doing this, too. 
You’re trying to make Mom and Dad think the house is haunted. So then they’ll 
move back to Boston, and you can see your dweeby little friends Gary and Todd 
again.” 

He made a face at me. “Dumb, Drooper. Really dumb.” 

He shuffled away, shaking his head. 

Just you wait, Mickey, I thought. I’m going to get even with you. Just you 

wait. 

And I’m going to make everyone believe me about the dogs. I’m going to 
make everyone believe that I’m telling the truth. 

But how? I wondered, gazing around the empty, silent living room. 

How? 

13 

Sunday morning I woke up early as usual. I had only a few more things to 
unpack, and I knew I could finish before breakfast. 

I unrolled my Red Sox poster and tacked it to the wall, over my bed. Same 
place I’d hung it in Boston. 

Then I rummaged through a box, searching for my lucky pair of red socks. 
As I was slipping them on my feet, I heard the doorbell ring. 

“Cooper!” my mother called to me a few seconds later. “There’s someone 
here to see you!” 

Who could it be? I didn’t know anybody here. 

Then I had a thought. Maybe Gary asked his dad to drive him and Todd up 
to Maine to surprise me! 

Wow! What a great surprise! 

I closed the box and charged out of my room, down the hall, and to the 
front door. I was so excited! 

But no Gary and Todd. 

Fergie stared at me from the front doorway. I could see at first glance that 
she was kind of nervous. She kept shifting her weight from one foot to the other. 
And she twirled a lock of her bright red hair between her fingers. 

“Oh. Hi,” I mumbled, unable to hide my disappointment. 

“I need to talk to you,” she said. “Right away.” 

“Okay, sure,” I replied. 

“Not here,” she said, nudging her head toward the den where my mom and 
dad were reading the newspaper. 

I sighed. “Okay, wait a sec.” I ran back to my room and pulled on a pair of 
sneakers. 

“Let’s go out back,” I suggested. She nodded solemnly and followed me 
outside. 

I swung on the tire and listened to Fergie. “It was all your brother’s idea!” 
she blurted out. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“I don’t know why I agreed to do it, but it was really all his idea. Every bit 
of it.” 

“What was?” I asked. 

“Everything I told you yesterday. About your house. And the woods.” 

“You mean they’re not haunted?” I asked, confused. 

Fergie shook her head. “Of course not.” 

“But why did you tell me they were?” I asked. 

“I told you, it was all Mickey’s idea. I met Mickey the day you moved in,” 
Fergie explained. “He told me it would be funny if I played this trick on you.” 

“He what?” I cried. 

“He told me the two of you always played all kinds of tricks on each other,” 
Fergie replied. “He said you would think it was a riot.” 

“A joke?” I asked. “It was all one of Mickey’s jokes?” I couldn’t believe it. 

Fergie bit her bottom lip and nodded. “Mickey said to tell you the woods 
were haunted. He said to tell you the house was haunted, too.” Fergie sighed. 
“So I did it. But when I saw how scared you were, I felt really bad about it. I 
wished I hadn’t listened to your brother.” 

Mickey. That jerk. 

“But how did you know about the dogs?” I asked. 

Fergie stared blankly at me. “Dogs? What dogs?” 

“That’s the word you whispered to me,” I explained. “Dogs.” 

Fergie twisted her face, thinking hard. “No, I don’t remember saying that. 
Are you sure I said ‘dogs’?” 

I nodded. “Definitely. That was all you said. Dogs. And, then, after you ran 
off, two mean-looking black Fabradors chased me through the woods.” 

“Really?” 

I nodded. “They chased me all the way home. Then they just vanished.” 

“Weird,” Fergie mumbled. 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

“Where did you first see the dogs?” Fergie asked me. 

I pointed into the woods. “Back there. Near a stream.” 

“That’s the stream that leads to the Martells’ house,” Fergie said. “They’re 
friends of my parents. They don’t own any dogs, Cooper.” 

I shrugged, then batted a fly that buzzed in my ear. “Well, someone around 
here must have dogs,” I told her. 

“I’m scared of dogs,” Fergie admitted. “I’m glad I didn’t see them 
yesterday.” 

“They weren’t nice dogs,” I muttered. “You wouldn’t like them.” 

“Hey, did you see a big rock in the shape of an arrowhead when you were 
near the stream?” she asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I didn’t.” 

“It’s really cool,” she gushed. “You should check it out. I go there all the 
time. It’s a great rock for climbing.” 

“Let’s check it out now,” I suggested. I still thought the woods were scary 
—haunted or not. But I didn’t feel like hanging around the house. 

I hopped off the tire and followed Fergie into the woods. I spotted a long, 
thick stick and picked it up. “In case the dogs come back,” I told Fergie. 

We walked a little while until we reached the stream. Fergie searched 
around for her rock. 

“I know it’s here somewhere,” she said, turning to me. “I can never—” 

She stopped short when her eyes met mine. 

“Cooper!” she whispered. “What is it?” 

I stumbled backwards. My hand trembled as I pointed to the trees directly 
behind Fergie. 

“Mar—Margaret!” I whispered in terror. “The dogs! Look out! They’re 
coming! They’re coming right at us!” 

14 

Fergie spun around. She let out a frightened cry. 

“Here they come!” I shrieked. 

Fergie froze in terror. “Oh, no! Help me, Cooper! I told you! I’m afraid of 
dogs!” 

“Run!” I shouted at her. “Run!” 

In a flash, Fergie dashed past me. I’ve never seen anyone run so fast. 

She ran about ten steps. Then her hands flew up as she tripped over a rock. 

She uttered a shrill cry of panic and went sprawling on the ground. 

I had to laugh. “Got you back!” I cried gleefully. 

“Huh?” Fergie lifted her head. 

“I got you back,” I repeated. “For playing that mean trick on me. For 
helping Mickey.” 

I watched as the color slowly returned to Fergie’s face. “You scared me to 
death,” she muttered. “How could you play such a horrible joke?” 

“Easy,” I replied, still grinning. 

Fergie growled at me. “I told you, it wasn’t totally my fault. Your brother 
said you played tricks on each other all the time.” Then she stood up and shook 
her head. “That was mean, Cooper. Really mean.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I know. But now we’re even.” 

Fergie brushed some dirt off her jeans and examined a scrape on her elbow. 
“You know, we should both get back at Mickey,” she said. 

“I’ve been thinking about that all morning,” I told her. “And yesterday, too. 
Mickey’s been playing really mean tricks on me since we moved here. And I 
have to get back at him. But it has to be something totally awesome.” 

We walked along the stream a while longer, trying to figure out how to get 
back at Mickey. Then Fergie found the arrowhead rock. 

She climbed up first, and I followed. It was a big, craggy rock, great for 
climbing. 

We hung out on the rock, thinking up ways to get Mickey back. Fergie 
wanted to drag him deep into the woods blindfolded and leave him stranded. But 
I didn’t think that would scare Mickey one bit. 

I jumped off the rock and began circling it. Sometimes I think better on my 

feet. 

On my third trip around, I got my foot caught in a thick, leafy plant. I 
glanced down—and cried out. “Oh, perfect! I’m standing in poison ivy!” 

Fergie laughed. “It only looks like poison ivy,” she assured me. “My 
science teacher checked it out last year. She told us it’s a harmless weed.” 

I smiled a really evil smile. 

“I think I have a great idea. What if we pulled out a bunch of this stuff? 
What if it somehow ended up in Mickey’s bed? Would he freak—or what?” 

“He might,” Fergie agreed, grinning down at me. 

We gathered a bunch of the weeds. They grew all along the stream. So we 
picked some more as we walked slowly back to my house. 

Just past the stream, Fergie showed me a clearing in the trees I hadn’t 
noticed before. A small clearing filled with wildflowers. 

I knew right away Mom would flip out if she saw them. She always bought 
flowers at the Faneuil Hall market back in Boston. I started to pick some for her. 

I reached down for a few pretty violet and yellow flowers when something 
moving through the trees caught my eye. I glanced up just in time to see Mickey 
stagger into the clearing. 

Fergie and I both cried out when we spotted him. 

Mickey’s clothes were ripped and shredded. 

Dark scratches covered his face and arms. And bright red blood trickled 
down his neck. 

“Cooper,” he croaked weakly, barely able to talk. “Cooper—the dogs—” 

Those were the last words he spoke before he crumpled to the ground. 

15 

“Mickey!” I screamed in horror. 

I dropped the wildflowers and weeds and ran to his side. 

Fergie and I knelt down beside him. “Is he okay?” she asked, her voice 
barely above a whisper. 

I leaned over him and, with both hands, tugged on his tattered shirt. But I 
couldn’t pull him up. With each try, his limp body slumped back to the ground. 

“Mickey! Mickey!” I cried his name again and again. “Are you all right? 
The dogs! Did they—?” 

As I leaned in closer, Mickey’s arms shot up and clamped around my neck. 
He yanked me to the ground. Then he jumped up and sat on top of me. 

He was giggling like an idiot. 

“Oh, Mickey! Mickey!” he shrieked in a high voice. “Mickey! Are you all 
right?” 

I started to sputter, but no words came out. 

“What a wimp!” he teased. “Do you have to fall for the fake blood every 
single time?” He let out another long, high-pitched giggle. 

I shut my eyes and prayed that I’d disappear. I couldn’t believe my brother 
had tricked me again. In front of Fergie. 

My face grew hot. “I’ll pound you for this!” I shouted, struggling to push 
him off me. 

“Ooooh! I’m shaking!” Mickey snorted. 

“Don’t you have anything better to do than to try and scare me?” I yelled. 

“I don’t even have to try,” Mickey replied, grinning. 

Fergie stood over us, her arms crossed in front of her. 

“Were you in on this little joke, too?” I demanded angrily. 

“No! No way!” Fergie insisted. 

Mickey pinned my arms to the ground. “Say ‘Uncle’, wimp.” 

I’d never been so embarrassed in my life. 

Never. 

And that includes the time Mickey locked me out of the house in my 
underwear. 

“You’re dead meat!” I shouted in his face. 

“What are you going to do, Drooper? Knock me out with your bouquet of 
violets?” 

He threw his head back and laughed at his stupid joke. Lucky for me, it 
gave me a chance to bite his arm. 

“Ow! You mutant! Look what you did! I’m bleeding!” 

He jumped up and examined the bite mark on his arm. Then he growled at 
me, turned, and trotted away. 

I wanted to chase after him. But Margaret held me back. 

“Let him go,” she said, clutching my shirt. “He’s a creep. Really.” 

Grumbling to myself, I brushed off my clothes. Then I picked up the 
flowers for Mom. I couldn’t face Fergie. 

“Are you going home?” she asked. 

“Uh-huh,” I grunted. 

“Will I see you in school tomorrow?” 

I shrugged. I wished she would leave me alone. I wanted to be by myself. 

I grunted again. I think she got the message. 

“Well, guess I’ll head home now. Don’t worry, Cooper,” she said, starting in 
the direction of her house. “We’ll come up with a plan to get him back. I 
promise.” 

I didn’t answer. 

“See you tomorrow!” she called out, waving. 

I didn’t bother to wave back. I watched her leave. Then I made my way 
over to the stream to take a drink of cold water. The sight of Mickey all bloody 
had made my throat dry. And it was from screaming. 

I leaned over the sparkling, cool water and lowered my hand. I scooped 
some water up to my mouth and drank. 

But when I saw my reflection in the stream, I choked. 

It wasn’t me. 

The face staring back at me in the water was the face of a black dog! 

I jerked my head up. 

No dogs on the shore. 

No dogs anywhere in sight. 

“Whoa!” I cried aloud. 

I leaned over the stream again and peered into the water. 

The dog stared up at me from beneath the surface. 

I raised my head again. No dog on the shore. 

So how could I see a dog’s reflection in the water? 

Once again, I squinted into the clear stream. The dog appeared to ripple 
with the water. 

And as I gaped at the eerie reflection in horror, it pulled back its thin lips 
and bared its ugly yellow teeth in a silent growl. 

16 

I raced home without glancing back. 

I crashed through the front door and charged straight for the bathroom. I 
had to check myself out in the mirror. 

I don’t know what I thought I’d see. 

A dog face staring back at me? 

Even I know how stupid that sounds. 

But I couldn’t explain the dog reflection in the water. I should have seen my 
face in that stream—not the growling face of a black Lab. 

Stepping into the bathroom, I approached the mirror slowly. I peeked in. 
And I saw—my own freckled face. 

Did it make me feel better? 

Not much. 

I didn’t speak to anyone in my family for the rest of the afternoon. And at 
dinnertime, I nibbled a few bites, then asked to be excused. 

“Are you feeling okay, Cooper?” Mom asked, frowning. “Liver and onions 
is your favorite. I’ve never seen you leave liver and onions on your plate.” 

She walked over and felt my forehead. That’s what she always does 
whenever I act a little strange. Leels my forehead. 

“I’m fine, Mom,” I replied. “I’m just not very hungry. That’s all.” 

“Cooper is probably a little nervous about tomorrow. His first day in a new 
school,” Dad said to Mom. He turned to me. “Am I right?” 

“Yeah, that’s it,” I agreed. No sense in bringing up the dogs again. No one 
would believe me, anyway. 

“Aw. Poor little Drooper. Scared of his new school,” Mickey teased. 

Mom and Dad shot Mickey a warning glance. “Mickey—not tonight,” Dad 
muttered. 

I ignored my dumb brother. I climbed up from my chair and headed for my 
room. 

I couldn’t fall asleep that night. Every time I closed my eyes, I saw the face of 
the angry black dog, rippling in the stream. 

I finally dozed off after midnight. 

I awoke to Mom’s impatient cries. “Cooper. Cooper. You’ve overslept. 
Time to get up!” 

I couldn’t believe it. I’m always up early. I never oversleep. 

I’m going to be late for my first day of school! I thought unhappily. And it’s 
all because of those creepy dogs. 

I threw my T-shirt and jeans on and rushed down the hall to the kitchen. No 
time for a big breakfast. I gulped down a glass of milk. Then I opened the fridge 
and reached for the peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich for lunch. 

As I spread the peanut butter on the bread, I heard whimpering behind me. 

“Cut it out, Mickey,” I said without turning around. 

The whimpering grew louder. 

“Mickey! Quit it! Stop being such a—” 

They sprang out of nowhere. The dogs. 

They were in the kitchen! 

17 

Their jaws hung loose. They drooled hungrily. Thick yellow drool. 

My knees buckled. I clutched for the counter to steady myself. 

Their dark, furry bodies shimmered under the bright kitchen lights. 
Growling, their teeth bared, they stepped side by side away from the wall. 

I moved back slowly. One small step. 

Their dark eyes tracked my move. 

One more step back. Slowly. Then another. 

Their steady gaze followed me. 

The back door stood inches away. If I reached back, I could touch the 
doorknob now. 

I reached back. Slowly. Very slowly. 

My hand fumbled. Then I found it. The small round knob... 

Too late! 

They jumped. 

I screamed as their dark bodies hurtled toward me. 

I shut my eyes. 

I heard the sound of snapping jaws. 

I opened my eyes in time to see one of the dogs snatch my lunch from the 
counter. 

Then they disappeared. 

Through the kitchen door. They dove right through the wooden door. 
Breathing hard, I sank into a kitchen chair. 

I held my head tightly. I shut my eyes and tried to calm myself. 

I had just seen two dogs run right through a door. How could that be? 

Mom raced into the room. Dad followed. 

“Cooper, what’s wrong?” Mom cried. “What was that horrible scream we 
heard?” 

I had to tell them what happened. I had to. This was too weird. Too scary 
and too weird. 

Sol told them the whole story. 

“Two black dogs—they jumped through the wall. Into the kitchen. One of 

them grabbed my lunch. Then they dove through the door.” 

Big mistake. 

Mom and Dad gave me a lecture about the stress of moving. I think I heard 
them mention the word psychiatrist. 

They didn’t believe a word of it. 

I didn’t have the strength to argue. I shuffled out the door and headed for 
school. 

No way I could stop thinking about those dogs. Dogs that only I could see. Dogs 
that stole lunches. Dogs that could walk through doors. 

I didn’t see them again that week. But every morning I’d hear them barking 
somewhere around the house. Nobody else heard them. 

On Friday, I met Fergie after school and we walked home together. She 
talked nonstop about our math teacher, but I wasn’t really paying attention. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about the dogs. 

“What?” I asked Fergie. She’d just asked me something about math 
homework. 

“I said,” she repeated impatiently, “that we can do our math homework 
together this weekend.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah, whatever.” 

Fergie was going to stay at our house Saturday night. Her parents had to go 
to Vermont for the weekend. 

We had become pretty good friends this past week. So had our parents. 
Mom and Dad invited the Fergusons over for dinner on Tuesday, and the 
Fergusons had us over on Wednesday. 

Maybe having Fergie sleep over will be fun, I thought. If I can shut those 
dogs out of my mind. 

“We still have to come up with a trick to play on Mickey,” Fergie pointed 
out. “I’ve been thinking—” 

“Listen, Fergie,” I said, interrupting her. “There’s something I’ve been 
meaning to tell you all week.” 

She waited for me to begin. 

I took a deep breath, then blurted out the whole story. About the dog 
reflection in the stream. And the dogs in the kitchen. 

“I’ve been hearing them all week,” I confessed. “Sometimes outside the 
house, sometimes inside. It’s been a nightmare.” 

Fergie’s jaw dropped open. “How come you didn’t tell me before?” she 
asked. 

I sighed. “Because no one in my family believes me,” I said. “I thought you 
wouldn’t, either.” 

“I believe you, Cooper,” she replied solemnly. 

I smiled. “Thanks, Fergie. That means a lot.” 

Fergie’s expression turned thoughtful. “Well, maybe we’ll both hear them 
on Saturday night. Your parents will have to believe both of us.” 

I nodded. Fergie was right. Mom and Dad couldn’t think the two of us 
needed to see a doctor. I started to feel a little more cheerful. 

“Now about the get-back-at-Mickey plan,” Fergie said. “I have another 
idea.” 

I tried to listen to Fergie’s plan—it had something to do with rats and a rope 
—but I couldn’t concentrate on what she was saying. I could only think about 
the dogs. 

Would they turn up again this weekend? 

18 

I watched each minute tick away on the alarm clock near my bed. Finally— 
midnight. Time to get moving. 

I tiptoed down the hall to the guest room where Fergie slept. I knocked on 
the door. 

“Fergie,” I whispered. “Fergie, get up!” 

She appeared at the door in an instant, fully dressed. “The dogs? Are the 
dogs here?” she asked, eyes wide with fright. 

She seemed really spooked. And she had awful pillow-hair static. 

“No, dope.” I whispered. “It’s time to scare Mickey.” 

Fergie rubbed her eyes. “Oh, yeah, right.” 

Without saying another word, she slid under the bed and came out with a 
shoe box and some string. 

“Let me see it again,” I said eagerly. 

Fergie smiled, then opened the box. Inside sat a huge, hairy, totally gross, 
disgusting black rat. 

A fake, of course. But it looked so real! Real enough to fool another rat. A 
rat like Mickey. 

I lifted the rat from the box and shook it in Fergie’s face. 

She backed away and let out a yelp, even though she knew it was made of 
mbber or something. 

I tied the string around the rat’s neck and waved at Fergie to follow me. We 
crept silently into the hall and headed for Mickey’s room. 

This was going to be totally awesome! I couldn’t wait to see the look on 
Mickey’s face when our hairy rat slithered across his bed! 

We stopped in the hall outside Mickey’s room. His door stood slightly open. 
I poked my head in and checked out his bedroom. 

By the dim light in the hallway, I could see Mickey in bed, all covered up, 
fast asleep. Mickey never sleeps with a pillow. He always tosses it on the floor 
when he climbs into bed. There it was, next to his shoes. 

I stepped back from the door and pulled Fergie aside. 

“Okay, here’s the plan,” I whispered. “When we’re inside the room, go to 
the left. That’s where the closet is. I’ll tiptoe over to the bed and put the rat on 

Mickey. Then I’ll meet you in the closet.” 

“Check,” Fergie whispered solemnly. 

“And, remember,” I warned her, “be quiet!” 

“Check,” Fergie said again. 

With the rat in one hand, I carefully made my way into Mickey’s room. I 
glimpsed Fergie heading left to the closet. I headed right. 

I had nearly reached Mickey’s bed when I heard a loud crack. 

My heart jumped to my throat. I spun around and stared at Fergie in horror. 

I saw instantly what had happened. She had stepped on Mickey’s 
skateboard. 

We both turned to the bed. 

Mickey didn’t move a muscle. 

He hadn’t heard the noise. 

I let out a quiet sigh of relief, then shot Fergie a warning glance. 

She nodded nervously. 

I watched as she opened the closet door and ducked inside. 

I held the rat out in front of me and edged closer to Mickey’s bed. My hand 
shook, but I gripped the hairy creature tightly. 

I stared down at Mickey under the covers. He slept soundly. 

I crept closer. 

Bundled under the blankets, it was impossible to tell where Mickey’s body 
started. I set the rat down gently, near his stomach, I think. 

Then I tiptoed to the closet. Inside, I knelt next to Fergie and gave her a 
thumbs-up sign. 

Operation “Scare Mickey” was in effect. 

And I couldn’t be more excited. 

It served him right. 

I quietly pulled the closet door toward me, leaving it open just a crack. I 
held tightly onto the end of the string. 

“Ready?” I whispered. 

“Ready,” she whispered back. 

“Okay,” I said. “On three. One... two... uh, Fergie, stop kicking me.” 

“I’m not touching you,” she whispered sharply. 

“You are, too. Stop it, okay?” 

“No way. My feet are all the way over here,” Fergie protested. 

“Ow! You kicked me again!” I whispered. 

She raised her voice. “I did not!” 

I clamped my hand over her mouth. 

We both froze. 

I heard breathing. 

Heavy breathing. 

Not my breathing. Not Fergie’s breathing. 

I swallowed hard. 

“F-Fergie,” I stammered. “We’re not alone in here!” 

19 

A low, steady growl proved me right. 

Someone—or something —was hiding in the closet with us. 

We listened to the low growls for another second or two. 

Then we both flew out of the closet, screaming in horror. 

I only made it a few feet. I tripped over Mickey’s skateboard. Went 
sprawling headfirst. Landed flat on my face. 

As I struggled to my feet, I saw a dark figure step out of the closet. 

“You!” I screamed in a hoarse, frightened voice. 

Mickey grinned back at Fergie and me. “Oooohhh! Ooooooohhh! Look at 
me!” he cried. “I’m a killer poodle!” 

Fergie and I stared at him in disbelief. He had been in the closet the entire 

time. 

I dove to the bed and pulled down the blanket. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out when I saw a bunch of rolled up sheets and towels. 
“But how did you know?” Fergie asked him. “How did you know we were 
coming?” 

Mickey flashed us both a smug smirk. “When you showed up this morning 
clutching that dumb box and whispering to Cooper, I knew something was up. 
I’ve been spying on you two jerks all day.” 

“You sneak!” I cried. 

“A sneak? Me?” Mickey replied innocently. “What do you call what you’re 
doing, prowling around my room and hiding in my closet?” 

I was so angry. So disappointed. Our great revenge plan—totally ruined. 

I grabbed Fergie by the arm. “Come on. Let’s get out of here.” 

“That’s right!” Mickey called gleefully after us. “Running away with your 
tails between your legs!” Then he howled and barked some more. 

Great guy—huh? 

Fergie and I sat in the hall outside my room. We had really wanted to give 
Mickey a good scare. So he could see how it felt. 

But we had messed up. Totally. 

“We’ll get him next time,” Fergie offered. “We’ll come up with an even 

better plan. Maybe something with knives and fake blood.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to wait. I wanted to scare Mickey out of his skin 
— tonight! 

Not much chance of that. 

Fergie and I yawned at the same time. Then we both stood up. “Guess we 
should go back to bed. Maybe—” 

“Did you hear that?” I asked, cutting Fergie off. 

She nodded. “Yeah. I hear it. Barking.” 

“That’s not my brother,” I whispered. “It’s definitely the dogs!” 

20 

“I don’t get it!” Fergie cried in a trembling voice. “Where are your parents? 
Where’s Mickey?” 

I led her down the hall, in the direction of the barking. 

“I told you,” I whispered. “They can’t hear the dogs. I don’t know why. No 
one can hear them but us!” 

We turned into the living room and gasped. 

Two sets of red eyes glowed in the dark. 

I reached for Great-grandma’s lamp, but knocked it over. It crashed loudly 
to the floor. 

The dogs barked. 

Fergie clutched my shoulder. Her hand trembled. “Turn on the lights! 
Please!” she pleaded. 

But before I could reach the switch, the lights snapped on. 

We spun around. And there stood Mom on the stairway, glaring down at us. 
“Cooper! Margaret! What on earth are you two doing?” 

“It’s the dogs, Mom!” I cried. “See? They’re—” 

“What dogs?” Mom called. I spun around. 

No glaring red eyes. No dogs. Except for Fergie and me, the room stood 
empty. 

“Wow, your mom sure was upset,” Fergie whispered as we trudged back down 
the hall to our rooms. 

“But now you believe me, right, Fergie?” I asked. “You heard the dogs 
yourself!” 

Fergie nodded. “For sure. There were definitely dogs here.” 

“Go to sleep!” Mom called sternly. “Immediately!” 

“Okay, Mom!” I called back. I turned to Fergie. “We’ll check out the woods 
in the morning,” I told her. “Those dogs have to be somewhere!” 

“Good idea,” Fergie agreed. “See you in the morning.” 

Back in my room, I couldn’t fall asleep. I sat on my bed and tossed a 
baseball into the air. I watched the numbers slowly click by on my alarm clock. 

I thought about the dogs. They were definitely here tonight. Fergie had 
heard them, too. 

But how do they get in and out of my house? I wondered. 

And how do they vanish into thin air like that? 

And why do they keep bothering me? Why? 

I tossed down the baseball and crept into the hall. 

I knocked softly on Fergie’s door. “It’s me. Can I come in?” 

“What’s wrong?” she whispered, opening the door. 

“Listen,” I said. “I don’t think I can wait until tomorrow. Let’s search for 
those dogs now. ” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. “It—it might be dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“I don’t care,” I told her. “Let’s go.” 

21 

A few minutes later, Fergie and I skulked around the backyard with our 
flashlights. 

No moon tonight. No stars. A chilly mist hung in the air. 

We both shivered. 

I pointed my flashlight at the ground and searched for paw prints. 

None. As usual. 

“How come they never leave prints?” I muttered under my breath. 

Fergie shrugged, but didn’t answer. I could tell she was as scared as I was. 
She stuck close by my side. 

The beam of my flashlight fell on the jungle gym. As I stared down at the 
ground ahead of me, something suddenly grabbed my ankle. 

“Hey!” I yelled, tumbling in the dirt. 

I twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. “Help!” 

Fergie rushed over to help. Why was she laughing? 

“What a klutz! You’re all tangled up in the lawn sprinkler!” she exclaimed. 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. I was glad she couldn’t see me blush in the 
darkness. “I could have broken my leg or something!” 

Fergie bent down to help free me. Then she stopped. “Did you hear that?” 
she asked. 

“Hear what?” 

“Listen.” 

We waited silently in the dark. Hardly breathing. 

Then I heard it, too. A soft creaking coming from the house. It sounded like 
an old door swinging open and shut. 

We carefully made our way toward the sound. To my surprise, we found a 
small window low to the ground. I’d never noticed it before. 

The window was open, swinging back and forth, making the creaking noise. 

“It leads to the basement,” I said, poking my head in. “Do you think this is 
how the dogs get into the house?” 

Fergie didn’t answer me. 

“Fergie?” I called. 

No reply. 

A chill of fear shot down my back. 

I spun around. 

In time to see a dark form come charging at me. 

Startled, I stumbled. The back of my head hit the house with a hard thwack. 
The dark creature leaped on top of me. 

Pinned me to the ground. 

A sour smell filled my nostrils as I struggled to get up. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The creature panted. Its jaws opened wide. Hot saliva dripped on to my 

face. 

The big dog held me prisoner. 

What did it plan to do next? 

22 

“Get off me!” I choked out. 

I reached up both hands—and shoved with all my might. 

To my surprise, the big dog toppled off. 

I jumped to my feet, my heart pounding. Spinning around, I saw Fergie. 
Trapped. Backed up against the house by the other dog. 

“Go home!” she cried meekly to the dog. “Go home!” 

The dog didn’t budge. 

I picked up a stick. I waved it furiously in front of me to keep the dogs a 
good distance away. 

As I approached the animals, Fergie shook her arms wildly at them. 

They lowered their heads and growled softly. 

Then, one of them came running at me. The stick didn’t seem to bother him 
at all. 

I lost my balance and crashed into Fergie. 

Both dogs curled their lips into fierce, ugly snarls. 

My legs were shaking so hard, I could barely stand. 

Growling and snapping their jaws, the dogs backed Fergie and me against 
the house. 

“Now what?” Fergie cried, grabbing my arm. 

“G-good question,” I stammered as the dogs lowered their heads and moved 
closer. 

23 

I shut my eyes. 

I had this crazy idea that if I made them disappear, I’d disappear, too. 

Guess what? It didn’t work. 

I felt a sudden burst of hot, sour dog breath on my face. 

Then I felt tugging. On my sweatpants. 

I opened my eyes. The dog pulled furiously at my sweats. Not biting. 
Tugging. 

Fergie appeared as confused as I was. The other dog tugged at the hem of 
her T-shirt. 

“What do they want?” Fergie whispered. 

“I... I... I don’t know,” I answered. “They—they’re not biting or 
attacking!” 

“Cooper, I think they want us to go with them,” Fergie said. 

“That’s crazy!” I cried. The dog tugged harder on my sweatpants. “I saw 
this on a Lassie show once!” 

“I don’t think it’s crazy, Cooper,” Fergie said. “Watch.” She stepped 
forward slowly, and the dog’s tail began to wag. “See? They want us to go with 
them!” 

I hesitated. It seemed ridiculous. 

But when I edged forward, the dog that had been tugging on my pants 
began wagging his tail, too. 

“See?” Fergie whispered. 

Sorry, but I wasn’t buying it. I turned and started to run. 

“Cooper, don’t!” Fergie cried. 

Too late. 

The big creature took off after me. Leaped high. And knocked me to the 
ground. 

When I climbed to my feet, he started tugging again. 

“Come on. Let’s see what they want,” Fergie pleaded with me. “We don’t 
have much of a choice, anyway. They’re not going to leave us alone.” 

We followed the dogs through the woods. They stayed close by, never 

getting too far ahead. And always glancing back. 

I pointed my flashlight along the path. The dim light didn’t help very much 
at all. I had no idea where we were going. All I knew was that it was very dark 
out—and we were headed deeper and deeper into the woods. 

“I hope we can find our way back, ” I muttered to myself. 

Then, without warning, the dogs sped up. Their big paws trod heavily on 
the soft ground. 

A few seconds later, they began barking and scratching wildly at something 
between the trees. 

I lifted my flashlight and aimed it in their direction. 

In the center of a small clearing stood a broken-down wooden shack. The 
dogs clawed at the door. When they had pushed it open, they came back for us. 
They began tugging again, pulling us toward the shack. 

“Wha—what is this place?” I cried. “Where are we?” 

“I don’t know,” Fergie whispered. “I’ve never seen this shack before.” 

The dogs tugged—furiously now. They really wanted us to go in there. 

“What can be inside?” I whispered to Fergie. 

Fergie swallowed hard. “I don’t know,” she whispered back. “But I think 
we’re going to find out!” 

24 

“Fergie, I don’t like this,” I whispered. “Let’s get away from here—fast!” 

I felt the dog clamp its jaw tighter on my ankle. 

Had he understood what I’d said? 

“They’re not going to let us get away,” Fergie said softly. 

Snarling and growling, the dogs backed us up against the door to the shack. 
“Whoa!” I cried out as the dogs leaped at the side of the shack. 

“I don’t believe it!” Fergie screamed. 

The dogs jumped right through the wooden wall. They disappeared inside. 
“That’s impossible!” Fergie cried. 

“Tell that to the dogs,” I murmured. 

I had seen them do it before—in my own kitchen. 

“They’re ghosts or something!” Fergie cried. 

I grabbed her arm. “Let’s get out of here! Whatever happens... we can’t go 
in that shack!” 

We’d taken only a few steps when the dogs came tearing out through the 
shack wall. 

They edged in close, pressing us up against the shack again. Before we 
could struggle or try to get away, the dogs rose up on their hind legs. 

Standing up, they were taller than us! Fergie and I exchanged terrified 
glances. 

The dogs staggered forward. Pressed their front paws against our chests. 
And shoved us backwards into the shack. 

We screamed as we started to fall. 

The shack had no floor. 

We fell, hurtling down. Tumbling as we fell. 

Down, down, down. 

Into a deep, black hole. 

A deep, black hole that didn’t seem to end. 

25 

I landed softly on my feet. I didn’t even feel it. 

Had we fallen into some kind of well? Or a tunnel dug deep under the 
shack? 

I couldn’t tell. 

I took a deep breath and gazed around the heavy blackness. “Fergie—are 
you okay?” I called. My voice came out tiny and shrill. 

“I—I guess,” she replied after a few seconds. “Cooper— look!” 

I started to reply that it was too dark to see anything. But then I glimpsed 
the two pairs of red eyes, glaring at us through the darkness. 

I gasped. 

“Don ’t move! ” instructed a dry whisper of a voice. 

“Who are you?” I managed to choke out. “What do you want?” 

“Why did you dogs bring us here?” Fergie demanded. 

“We are not dogs,” the voice growled. “We are people.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Silence!” the voice commanded. “Silence while you are in the Changing 
Room.” 

“The what?” I cried. 

The red eyes flared. 

“Centuries ago, my friend and I had an evil spell cast upon us,” the voice 
continued, ignoring my question. “The spell forced us to roam these woods as 
dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Too bad,” I muttered. “But what do you want us for?” 

The dogs snickered. It sounded more like dry coughing than laughter. 

“You are in the Changing Room,” the voice told us. “For nearly a hundred 
years, we have tried to get two people in here. And now we have succeeded.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“We’re going to change places with you,” the voice said casually. 

“Excuse me?” Fergie cried. “You’re going to what?” 

“We will take your places,” the voice repeated. “And you shall take ours. 
You will be the ghost dogs. You will roam these woods as we did—forever!” 

“No way!” I cried. I wanted to run. 

But where? 

I was surrounded by heavy blackness on all sides. 

“Fergie—” I started. 

But I heard her gasp. And then I began to feel warm. As if someone had 
covered me with a heavy blanket. 

The warmth swept over my body. 

Simmering heat. As if I were in an oven. 

Warmer. Warmer. Until sweat dripped down my face, and I was panting in 
the heat. 

I can’t stand it anymore! I thought. I’m going to melt! 

I opened my mouth to scream. But the sounds that escaped my throat 
weren’t mine. 

In fact, they didn’t sound human at all. 

26 

I opened my eyes to bright sunshine. 

The woods around me appeared fuzzy. I struggled to focus. 

I yawned. Then I stretched my entire body and shook myself awake. 

Yes! That stretch felt good. 

I sniffed the air and shook myself again. Wow! Something smelled 
delicious. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized I must be starving. 

Still trying to focus, I took two steps and fell on my face. 

I stood again, feeling unsteady. What’s wrong? I wondered. 

I gazed around the woods. Why were the trees suddenly all black and 
white? Why was the sky gray? The grass gray? 

What had happened to all the color? 

Was this a dream? 

I heard a gruff sound behind me. Someone clearing his throat. 

I turned—and saw a black Labrador. 

I started to cry out—but hoarse barks escaped my throat. 

Startled, I glanced down at my own body. My own fur-covered body. 
“Ohhhh.” I dug my front paws into the dirt. I shook myself hard, trying to shake 
the dog body off. Trying to shake it away so I could see my real body. Cooper’s 
body. 

And as I shook, I jerked my head back. And saw a long, black tail! 

My tail! 

I let out a startled yip. I’m a dog, too, I realized. 

The ghosts in the Changing Room weren’t kidding around. They changed 
places with us. Fergie and I are dogs. 

Fergie whimpered. 

Trembling, we both began to trot, our tails hanging between our legs. 
Fergie’s whimpers turned into mournful howls. 

What was that? Strange! I thought Fergie said something. 

“I did say something,” she insisted. “Well, actually, I thought something. I 
think we can read each other’s thoughts, Cooper.” 

Okay, Fergie, then what am I thinking now? 

“You’re thinking of that leftover fried liver from last night that your mom 
put in the fridge,” Fergie thought. 

That’s right! 

We could read each other’s mind! Cool! 

I licked my lips a few times, thinking about the liver. I loved liver so much, 
Mom made it for me once a week. Man, did I want that liver now! 

Then I remembered I had other things to worry about. 

“Fergie, what are we going to do? We’re dogs!” 

“I can see that, Cooper,” she replied, swatting a fly from behind her floppy, 
black ear. 

“Well, we’ve got to do something!” I cried. “We can’t trot around like this 
forever. Those ghost dogs stole our bodies! They’re probably fooling my parents 
this very minute!” 

Fergie didn’t reply. Instead, she ran around in circles, chasing her tail. 
“Hey! This is fun!” 

“Fergie! Quit messing around! We’re in major trouble!” 

“Okay, okay! I’m sorry! I’m upset about this, too, you know!” 

Fergie dropped to the dirt. She buried her snout in her front paws. Deep in 
thought. “You know what, Cooper?” 

“What?” I asked as I paced back and forth, trying to think of a way to get us 
out of this mess. 

“Your droopy ears look pretty good—now that you’re a dog.” 

“Fergie! Get serious!” I growled. 

Then it hit me. 

“I know!” I cried. “I know what we can do. We have to drag those ghosts 
back to the shack and trade places with them again!” 

“Oh, sure, Cooper. No problem,” Fergie barked. “And how do you suppose 
we do that? Walk up to them and say, ‘Uh, excuse me, but can you come back to 
the shack with us? It’ll only be for a second.’” 

I stared at Fergie. She had become a dog. But her personality hadn’t 
changed one bit! 

“I heard that,” she mumbled. 

I sighed. “Well, do you have a better plan?” I asked, scratching furiously at 
my neck. 

“I’m thinking, I’m thinking,” Fergie answered with a yawn. “I’m really so 

tired. Maybe after a nap—” 

“No! No naps! We have to do something—now! Listen to me. We’ll get my 
parents to help. All we have to do is convince them that we’re the real Cooper 
and Margaret, and that those kids in the house are imposters.” 

“And how are we going to do that?” Fergie asked. 

Good question. Real good question. 

27 

Fergie and I trotted through the woods. I sniffed the ground. Sniffed the weeds. 
So many great smells! 

We stopped at the edge of the woods behind my house. I heard laughing, 
shouting voices. Then I saw my parents. In the backyard. Throwing a Frisbee 
around with Fergie and Cooper! 

Those fakes! 

I growled with anger. 

I bared my teeth. Prepared to attack. 

“Whoa!” Fergie cried. “Cooper, wait! You can’t just barge over there and 
attack them!” 

Fergie was right. That wouldn’t solve anything. 

I watched my dad send the Frisbee flying across the yard. 

I had a strong urge to jump up and go for that Frisbee. 

But I stopped myself. This was no time for playing. 

Then I had an idea. The greatest idea. The idea of a lifetime. 

“Come on!” I urged Fergie. I began loping toward the side of my house. 

“Cooper, where are you going?” she asked. 

I didn’t answer. I stopped outside the wall to Mickey’s room. “This will just 
take a second,” I told Fergie. 

She read my mind. She knew what I planned to do. 

Side by side, we leaped through the wall of the house. 

And burst into Mickey’s room. 

He was standing in his underwear. Leaning over his dresser, sorting out his 
T-shirts. He cried out and spun around as Fergie and I started to growl. 

My brother uttered a short, terrified whimper. He started backing up, his 
eyes wide with fright. 

Fergie and I began barking and jumping up on our hind legs. 

“How—how did you—?” Mickey stammered. 

Those were the only words he could choke out. 

Then he let out another whimper, stumbled past us, and bolted out through 
the bedroom door. “Mommy! Daddy! Help!” I heard him scream. “Mommy! 

Daddy!” 

Fergie and I didn’t want to miss seeing him run through the yard in his 
underwear. We trotted through the wall and watched until he disappeared around 
the garage. 

“Did you see his face?” I yelped happily. “Was that awesome?!” 

“Man, that was excellent!” Fergie cheered. 

“Hey, you two!” a stern voice called. 

I turned around. 

Dad! 

“How did you dogs get in this yard?” my father demanded sharply. “Come 
on. Out! Out!” 

“But, wait! Dad! It’s me, Cooper!” I tried to yell. But all that came out was 
Woof! Woof! Woof! 

“Out! Out!” Dad repeated angrily. 

“Dad! Wait! It’s really me! Listen! You’ve got to listen!” 

“Woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof!” 

My father armed himself with a broom and waved it wildly at Fergie and 
me. ♦Out!^ he cried, shaking the broom at us. 

“What’s going on?” Mom called from the doorway. 

“Mom! It’s me. Cooper!” I barked furiously. 

“Oh, Sam. Please get rid of those animals! You know I’m allergic to dogs!” 

“But, Mom!” I cried. “Can’t you tell it’s me?” 

Woof, woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof, woof! 

“Please, Sam! Call the pound! These dogs look dangerous. They might 
have to be put to sleep! Call the pound. They’ll know what to do.” 

I watched in horror as my dad picked up the phone and dialed. 

28 

Fergie and I bolted into the woods as fast as we could. Even as a dog, Fergie ran 
faster than I did. 

We hid among the trees and watched my parents and the fake Cooper and 
Fergie toss the Frisbee around in the backyard. 

The guys from the pound never showed up. But things still looked pretty 
bad. My parents thought we were stray dogs. And I couldn’t tell them who I was. 

All I could do was bark. 

Hey. Wait a minute. Maybe I could do more than bark. 

“Fergie, I have another idea!” I said, wagging my tail. “Follow me!” 

Fergie and I sneaked around the side of the house and stepped through the 
wall into the living room. I sniffed around, searching for a pen and some paper. 

“I’ll write them a note,” I explained to Fergie. “Mom will definitely 
recognize my handwriting.” 

I found a pen lying on the coffee table, next to some notepaper. 

I tried to lift the pen. 

It slipped out from under my paw. I couldn’t wrap my paw around it. 

Fergie tried to help me. She nosed the pen in my direction, but I still 
couldn’t pick it up. 

Impossible. Dogs can’t hold pens. 

I felt so disappointed. I pushed the pen away, then ripped the paper to 
shreds. That’s when my dad burst in. 

“Hey! I thought I told you two dogs to beat it!” my father yelled. 

My mother and the two phonies came running into the room. 

I started barking, trying to communicate with Dad. But that seemed to 
annoy him even more. 

“Stand up on your hind legs!” I instructed Fergie. “Maybe he’ll think we’re 
trying to tell him something!” 

I hopped up, trying to balance on my back legs. But I wasn’t very good at it. 
I mean, give me a break. I’d only been a dog for a few hours. 

I toppled over onto my stomach. 

I must have looked pretty stupid, because everyone started laughing. 

“Weird dogs,” the Cooper imposter said. 

Fergie and I hopped up again and again. But nobody understood what we 
were doing. And after a while, they grew bored with our little act. Dad picked up 
the broom again. 

I probably could have yanked that stupid broom right out of his hands and 
pinned him to the ground. But what would that prove? 

Dad chased Fergie and me out the back door and into the woods. 

“You’re right,” I told her when we were safely hidden by the trees. “We’re 
going to be dogs for the rest of our lives. And not even real dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Don’t worry, Cooper,” Fergie replied, reading my mind. “We’ll convince 
them. There’s got to be a way to show them who we are.” 

I sighed, then rolled on to my back. 

If only Gary and Todd were here. They’d know what to do. 

I rolled back again. And, suddenly, I felt hot. Burning hot. I sprang up on all 
fours. 

“What is it?” Fergie cried out. “What’s wrong?” 

I shook violently from head to tail. Out of control. I couldn’t stop shaking. 
Something had taken over my body. 

29 

“Fleas!” I shrieked. 

There must have been thousands of them! Clinging all over my body! And I 
couldn’t reach them. 

“My back!” I cried helplessly. “My back!” 

Fergie lifted her front paws and scratched the part of my back I couldn’t 
reach. 

“Higher,” I pleaded. “Higher. Aaaaahhhhh, that’s it!” 

My ears drooped low, and I sighed with relief. 

Fergie found us a nice spot under a tall birch tree. I stretched out my body 
and rested my face on my paws. Fergie curled up into a tight ball. It was time to 
think up another plan. 

And time to nap. I couldn’t believe how tired I’d suddenly become. 

The day passed slowly. I think we both dozed off once or twice. 

Around lunchtime, we ran to the stream in the woods for water. Some fleas 
still nipped at my skin. And I thought a cool dip in the stream might help. 

We returned to our spot under the shady birch. Now we were both starving. 

“Maybe we can find some scraps of food at my house—in the garbage,” I 
suggested. 

“Yuck! I’m not eating garbage,” Fergie wailed. “No way.” But she knew we 
had no choice. 

We returned to my house and quietly made our way to the side door, where 
Dad stored the garbage pails. 

As we sniffed around for some food, Mickey and my parents opened the 
back door and stepped out into the yard. 

“I’m telling you, Mom!” Mickey cried. “They’re ghost dogs! They walked 
right through my bedroom wall! They’re not normal!” 

“Save your jokes for Cooper,” my father snapped. 

“Hey, Fergie, maybe Mickey can help us,” I suggested, watching my 
brother. “He’s the only one who believes we’re not normal dogs. Maybe we can 
find a way to tell him who we are.” 

Fergie sighed. “For sure,” she said sarcastically. “Then what? Can you see 
your parents’ faces when Mickey tells them the two dogs hanging around their 

house are really Cooper and Margaret Ferguson?” 

I hung my head. Fergie was right. They’d never believe Mickey, either. 

“Well, we have to do something!” I said, scratching behind my ear. “These 
fleas are driving me crazy! I can’t live like this!” 

“Maybe we can get you a flea collar,” Fergie suggested. 

“Oh, right. I’ll just trot into the Main Street drugstore, put five dollars on 
the counter, and ask for a flea collar. Nobody will think that’s weird.” I rolled my 
eyes. 

Fergie snapped at me. “Well, excuse me, Cooper. I was only trying to help!” 

Fergie and I spent the rest of the day snapping at each other, getting on each 
other’s nerves. 

When dinnertime rolled around, my stomach rumbled loudly. Then I 
smelled the most wonderful smell. 

I raised my nose high in the air and sniffed excitedly. 

I’d know that aroma anywhere. 

Liver! The leftover liver from last night! 

“Come on!” I barked to Fergie. “I’ve got to get some of that liver!” 

We trotted over to the back door and peered inside. My whole family had 
gathered around the table, ready to eat. 

“You’re drooling,” Fergie said to me in disgust. “Gross.” 

Like I cared. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the plate of liver Mom carried to the table. I 
watched hungrily as she placed a big slab on my father’s plate. 

Then she served some to Mickey. Mickey seemed edgy, nervous. I hoped he 
was still upset from my little trick this morning. 

Then Mom placed a piece of liver on the phony Cooper’s plate. He jumped 
from his seat. “Yuck!” he cried out in disgust. “I hate liver!” 

Mom’s jaw dropped. “Cooper! What are you saying? You love liver!” 

The phony Cooper began to stutter. 

“Oh, uh, did I say I hated it? Oh, no. I’m, uh, just joking, Mom. I love liver. 
Everyone knows that!” 

Mom stared at him suspiciously. “Really, Cooper. You haven’t been 
yourself all day!” 

My eyes widened. 

This was my chance! 

Now was the perfect time to show Mom he wasn’t himself! He was a total 

phony! 

“I’m going in!” I told Fergie. 

I burst through the kitchen door and headed straight for the plate of liver. 
I’ll show Mom who the real Cooper is, I thought happily. The Cooper who loves 
liver. She’ll know it’s me instantly! 

This has got to work. 

It’s our last chance, I knew. Our only chance. 

30 

Panting excitedly, I charged into the kitchen and leaped up at the table. 

Mom screamed and dropped the plate of liver on the floor. 

In a flash, I bent down and began lapping it up. Delicious! 

“See, Mom? Look, it’s me! Your son, Cooper!” I yelped in between bites. 

“Sam! Do something! That animal is eating our dinner!” 

Huh? Animal? “No, Mom! It’s me! Your son! Look, I love liver!” 

But it was no use. 

All Mom heard was, “Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof, 
woof, woof! ” 

Dad shoved his chair away from the table and grabbed a newspaper from 
the counter. He rolled it up, then swatted my nose. 

“Ow!” 

That hurt! 

“I’ll see if the line to the pound is still busy,” Mom said, picking up the 
phone. “Try to chase the dogs into the pantry and lock the door. We’ll hold them 
in there until the pound can come get them.” 

The fake Cooper and Margaret helped Dad back us toward the pantry. “Bad 
dogs! Bad!” the phony Margaret shouted. 

“Dad, do you think the pound will use a tranquilizer gun on them?” the 
phony Cooper asked. 

“Maybe,” Dad replied. 

I glanced over at Fergie. 

Tranquilizer guns? No thank you! 

I never ran so fast in all my life. I even ran faster than Fergie. 

“Got any other bright ideas, fleabag?” she asked when we were safely in the 
woods. 

I growled at her and turned away. The sun was setting over the trees. The 
air felt cool. It would be dark soon. 

“And thanks for saving some of that liver for me,” Fergie snapped. “I’m 
hungry, too, you know!” 

I ignored her. 

I gazed longingly through the trees. Through the window of my house as 
Mom and Dad washed the dishes. 

I couldn’t help myself. I felt so bad. I started whimpering. 

If only I could be inside my warm, comfortable house right now. In a short 
while, it would be dark. I didn’t want to spend a night in the woods. 

Think, Cooper! Think! I urged myself. There must be a way to get our 
human bodies back. 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I cried. “I just thought of something!” 

Fergie awoke from a nap. “What?” she asked lazily. 

“We’re dogs, right?” 

“Right.” 

“So we should act like dogs!” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes. “Cooper, what are you talking about?” 

I took a deep breath. “Okay, listen,” I explained. “Remember how those 
ghost dogs got us out to the shack?” 

Fergie nodded. 

“That’s what we should do! We should pull those kids back there, the way 
they pulled us! That’s what dogs would do!” 

Fergie raised her head. Her ears perked up. “Not bad! Not bad at all!” 

“We’re dogs,” I continued. “We have sharp teeth, right? Very sharp teeth. 
We’ll drag them into the woods and into the Changing Room—and before you 
know it, we’ll be Cooper and Fergie again!” 

Fergie bounced up and began panting happily and wagging her tail. 
“Excellent!” she cried. 

“Okay, here’s the plan.” With my paw, I drew a diagram in the dirt. “The 
phonies are here, in the den. We’ll walk through the wall and haul them out 
through the kitchen door. It’s okay if Mom and Dad follow. We can outrun 
them.” 

“I’m ready. Let’s do it!” Fergie exclaimed. 

We trotted to the house and pushed through the wall, as planned. 

Inside, the fake Cooper and Fergie were watching MTV on the den TV. We 
burst through the den wall and surprised them. 

“Mom!” the fake Cooper screamed at the top of his lungs. “Dad! Help! It’s 
the dogs!” 

Fergie and I moved in on them, snarling as ferociously as we knew how. 

I clamped on to the fake Cooper’s ankle just as my parents and Mickey 
burst into the room. I motioned to Fergie to get on with it. In a flash, she leaped 
on to the phony Fergie and clamped her jaws around her wrist. 

Then we tugged. 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” the phony Cooper yelled. 

“Mr. Holmes!” the phony Fergie cried. “Do something! They’re attacking 

us!” 

Mom ran for the broom. But before Dad could swing into action, Fergie and 
I had dragged the imposters through the kitchen. 

I caught a glimpse of Mickey as I tugged. He was hiding in the corner, 
shaking all over. 

Too bad I didn’t have time to enjoy that picture. 

We were out the door now. Everything was working perfectly. Fergie and I 
would be back to normal in no time. 

The phonies knew where we were taking them. But there was nothing they 
could do about it. Fergie and I were too strong, too ferocious. 

“Dad! Help!” the fake Cooper cried again. 

“Don’t worry!” Dad called out to him. “The dogs don’t seem to want to hurt 
you! I think they want us to follow them!” 

Way to go, Dad! 

A short while later, I spotted the clearing where the old shack stood. It 
won’t be long now, I thought happily. In a few minutes, Fergie and I will walk 
home with my parents. On two legs. No more fleas. No more food from garbage 
pails. I couldn’t wait! 

We panted wildly as the struggling imposters attempted to break free. But 
Fergie and I held on to them for dear life, tugging them, tugging with all our 
canine strength. 

And, then, finally, we were there. The old shack. We pushed the phonies up 
against the door. 

I released the fake Cooper from my grip for a second. I had no choice. I had 
to scratch a flea. 

The phony tried to make a run for it. 

“Cooper! He’s getting away!” Fergie barked. 

“No way!” I barked back. I bounded off after him and clamped my jaws 
down on the hem of his shirt. Then I dragged him back to the shack. 

The fake Fergie screamed with all her might. “No! No! Not in there again!” 

I glared up at her. 

“Hold on, Margaret,” I heard Mom call. “Don’t be afraid. Let’s see what the 
dogs are trying to show us.” 

It was time. Time to make the switch. 

“Now!” I yelped. 

Fergie and I jumped on the imposters and sent them tumbling into the 
shack. Then we leaped in after them. 

All four of us fell down, down, down. Down into the solid blackness. 

Once again, I felt dizzy and warm. 

Warmer. Warmer. As if the warm blanket were being pulled over me. 

I could feel myself changing. Changing in the darkness, in the sweltering 

heat. 

I gazed above my head. A glowing shadow hovered over me. A shadow 
with tiny red eyes. 

My body shuddered. I began to shake. 

And all at once I knew. Something wasn’t right. 

“Fergie!” I cried out in a harsh whisper. “It’s not working! Something is 
wrong! Something is very wrong!” 

31 

“Cooper!” my mom cried happily, running toward the shack with outstretched 
arms. “Are you okay?” 

“Margaret, what happened in there?” Dad called. “What happened to the 
dogs?” 

“We’re okay,” Margaret muttered. “It’s just an empty shack. That’s all.” 

“I’m going to call the pound again as soon as we get home,” Mom 
announced. “Those dogs shouldn’t be allowed to roam free. They’re dangerous!” 

“Let’s just get out of here, okay, Dad?” Cooper said. 

Fergie nodded in agreement. “We’re okay, Let’s go home.” 

“What an adventure!” Mom sighed. 

“At least it isn’t boring up here in our new home,” Dad added. 

“For sure,” Cooper agreed. 

* * * 

“What happened?” I asked, rubbing my eyes. 

I watched my parents walking away from the shack, their arms around two 

kids. 

“Hey! Those kids!” I cried. “They’re not us!” 

The door to the shack opened, and two black Labs stumbled out in a daze. 
Their eyes met, then they bolted away, barking frantically. 

What’s their problem? I wondered. 

I watched the dogs disappear into the trees. 

What’s going on? I asked myself, totally confused. 

I’m not a kid—and I’m not a dog, either! 

“Hey, Fergie? Fergie?” 

Where was she? 

When she popped up next to me, we both gasped. 

“Oh, no! Please—no! No! No! Noooo!” she wailed. 

Her head cocked to one side, and her little brown nose twitched furiously. 
“Tell me we’re not!” I begged her. “Please, Fergie—tell me we’re not...” 

“We are!” Fergie squeaked. “We... we’re chipmunks !” 

We both squeaked and chittered our surprise. 

Fergie gazed down at her furry little body. “How did this happen, Cooper? 
How did this happen?” 

“The woods are filled with chipmunks,” I sighed. “Two of them must have 
wandered into the Changing Room. And we—” 

“We switched with the chipmunks—not the kids!” Fergie cried. Her bushy 
tail thumped furiously on the ground. 

I examined my tiny black paws. I moved my teeny little fingers. I twitched 
my button nose. 

Cute. I was so cute! 

“Now what?” Fergie wailed. “What do we do now?” 

“Uh... hunt for acorns?” I suggested. 

Fergie’s beady little eyes squinted into mine. “Excuse me?” 

“Let’s hunt for acorns!” I said. “I’m starving!” 
\

THE HORROR AT 
CAMP JELLY JAM 

1 

Mom pointed excitedly out the car window. “Look! A cow!” 

My brother, Elliot, and I both groaned. We had been driving through 
farmland for four hours, and Mom had pointed out every single cow and horse. 

“Look out your side, Wendy!” Mom cried from the front seat. “Sheep!” 

I stared out the window and saw about a dozen gray sheep—fat, woolly 
ones—grazing on a grassy green hill. “Nice sheep, Mom,” I said, rolling my 
eyes. 

“There’s a cow!” Elliot exclaimed. 

Now he was doing it! 

I reached across the backseat and gave him a hard shove. “Mom, is it 
possible to explode from boredom?” I moaned. 

“BOOOOOOM!” Elliot shouted. The kid is a riot, isn’t he? 

“I told you,” Dad muttered to Mom. “A twelve-year-old is too old to go on 
a long car trip.” 

“So is an eleven-year-old!” Elliot protested. 

I’m twelve. Elliot is eleven. 

“How can you two be bored?” Mom asked. “Look—horses!” 

Dad sped up to pass a huge yellow truck. The road curved through high, 
sloping hills. In the far distance, I could see gray mountains, rising up in a heavy 
mist. 

“There’s so much beautiful scenery to admire,” Mom gushed. 

“After a while, it all looks like some boring old calendar,” I complained. 

Elliot pointed out of his window. “Look! No horses!” 

He doubled over, laughing. He thought that was the funniest thing anyone 
had ever said. Elliot really cracks himself up. 

Mom turned in the front seat. She narrowed her eyes at my brother. “Are 
you making fun of me?” she demanded. 

“Yes!” Elliot replied. 

“Of course not,” I chimed in. “Who would ever make fun of you, Mom?” 

“When do you ever stop?” Mom complained. 

“We’re leaving Idaho,” Dad announced. “That’s Wyoming up ahead. We’ll 

be up in those mountains soon.” 

“Maybe we’ll see Mountain Cows!” I exclaimed sarcastically. 

Elliot laughed. 

Mom sighed. “Go ahead. Ruin our first family vacation in three years.” 

We hit a bump. I heard the trailer bounce behind us. Dad had hooked one of 
those big, old-fashioned trailers to the back of our car. We had dragged it all over 
the West. 

The trailer was actually kind of fun. It had four narrow beds built into the 
sides. And it had a table we could sit around to eat or play cards. It even had a 
small kitchen. 

At night, we’d pull into a trailer camp. Dad would hook the trailer up to 
water and electricity. And we spent the night inside, in our own private little 
house. 

We hit another bump. I heard the trailer bounce behind us again. The car 
lurched forward as we started to climb into the mountains. 

“Mom, how do I know if I’m getting carsick or not?” Elliot asked. 

Mom turned back to us, frowning. “Elliot, you never get carsick,” she said 
in a low voice. “Did you forget?” 

“Oh. Right,” Elliot replied. “I just thought it might be something to do.” 

“Elliot!” Mom screamed. “If you’re so bored, take a nap!” 

“That’s boring,” my brother muttered. 

I could see Mom’s face turning an angry red. Mom doesn’t look like Dad, 
Elliot, and me. She is blond and has blue eyes and very fair skin, which turns red 
very easily. And she’s kind of plump. 

My dad, brother, and I are skinny and sort of dark. The three of us have 
brown hair and brown eyes. 

“You kids don’t know how lucky you are,” Dad said. “You’re getting to see 
some amazing sights.” 

“Bobby Harrison got to go to baseball camp,” Elliot grumbled. “And Jay 
Thurman went to sleepaway camp for eight weeks!” 

“I wanted to go to sleepaway camp, too!” I protested. 

“You’ll go to camp next summer,” Mom replied sharply. “This is the chance 
of a lifetime!” 

“But the chance of a lifetime is so boring!” Elliot complained. 

“Wendy, entertain your brother,” Dad ordered. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “How am I supposed to entertain him?” 

“Play Car Geography,” Mom suggested. 

“Oh, no! Not again!” Elliot wailed. 

“Go ahead. I’ll start,” Mom said. “Atlanta.” 

Atlanta ends with an A. So I had to think of a city that starts with an A. 
“Albany,” I said. “Your turn, Elliot.” 

“Hmmmmm. A city that starts with a Y...” My brother thought for a 
moment. Then he twisted up his face. “I quit!” 

My brother is such a bad sport. He takes games too seriously, and he really 
hates to lose. Sometimes he gets so intense when he’s playing soccer or softball, 
I really worry about him. 

Sometimes when he thinks he can’t win, he just quits. Like now. 

“What about Youngstown?” Mom asked. 

“What about it?” Elliot grumbled. 

“I have an idea!” I said. “How about letting Elliot and me ride in the trailer 
for a while?” 

“Yeah! Cool!” Elliot cried. 

“I don’t think so,” Mom replied. She turned to Dad. “It’s against the law to 
ride in a trailer, isn’t it?” 

“I don’t know,” Dad said, slowing the car. We were climbing through thick 
pine woods now. The air smelled so fresh and sweet. 

“Let us!” Elliot pleaded. “Come on—let us!” 

“I don’t see any harm in letting them ride back there for a while,” Dad told 
Mom. “As long as they’re careful.” 

“We’ll be careful!” Elliot promised. 

“Are you sure it’s safe?” Mom asked Dad. 

Dad nodded. “What could happen?” 

He pulled the car to the side of the highway. Elliot and I slid out. We ran to 
the trailer, pulled open the door, and hurried inside. 

A few seconds later, the car pulled back onto the highway. We bounced 
along behind it in the big trailer. 

“This is so cool!” Elliot declared, making his way to the back window. 

“Do I have good ideas or what?” I asked, following him. He slapped me a 
high five. 

We stared out the back window. The highway seemed to tilt down as we 
headed up to the mountains. 

The trailer bounced and swayed as the car tugged it. 

The road tilted up steeper. And steeper. 
And that’s when all our troubles began. 

2 

“I win!” Elliot cried. He jumped up and raised both fists in triumph. 

“Three out of five!” I demanded, rubbing my wrist. “Come on—three out of 
five. Unless you’re chicken.” 

I knew that would get him. Elliot can’t stand to be called a chicken. He 
settled back in the seat. 

We leaned over the narrow table and clasped hands. We had been arm 
wrestling for about ten minutes. It was kind of fun because the table bounced 
every time the trailer rolled over a bump in the road. 

I am as strong as Elliot. But he’s more determined. A lot more determined. 
You never saw anyone groan and sweat and strain so much in arm wrestling! 

To me, a game is just a game. But to Elliot, every game is life or death. 

He had won two out of three about five times. 

My wrist was sore, and my hand ached. But I really wanted to beat him in 
this final match. 

I leaned over the table and squeezed his hand harder. I gritted my teeth and 
stared menacingly into his dark brown eyes. 

“Go!” he cried. 

We both strained against each other. I pushed hard. Elliot’s hand started to 
bend back. 

I pushed harder. I nearly had him. Just a little harder. 

He let out a groan and pushed back. He shut his eyes. His face turned beet- 
red. I could see the veins push out at the sides of his neck. 

My brother just can’t stand to lose. 

SLAM! 

The back of my hand hit the table hard. 

Elliot had won again. 

Actually, I let him win. I didn’t want to see his whole head explode because 
of a stupid arm-wrestling match. 

He jumped up and pumped his fists, cheering for himself. 

“Hey—!” he cried out as the trailer swayed hard, and he went crashing into 
the wall. 

The trailer lurched again. I grabbed the table to keep from falling off my 
seat. “What’s going on?” 

“We changed direction. We’re heading down now,” Elliot replied. He edged 
his way back toward the table. 

But we bumped hard, and he toppled to the floor. “Hey—we’re going 
backwards!” 

“I’ll bet Mom’s driving,” I said, holding on to the table edge with both 
hands. 

Mom always drives like a crazy person. When you warn her that she’s 
going eighty, she always says, “That can’t be right. It feels as if I’m going thirty- 
five!” 

The trailer was bouncing and bumping, rolling downhill. Elliot and I were 
bouncing and bumping with the trailer. 

“What is their problem?” Elliot cried, grabbing on to one of the beds, 
struggling to keep his balance. “Are they backing up? Why are we going 
backwards?” 

The trailer roared downhill. I pushed myself up from the table and stumbled 
to the front to see the car. Shoving aside the red plaid curtain, I peered out 
through the small window. 

“Uh... Elliot...” I choked out. “We’ve got a problem.” 

“Huh? A problem?” he replied, bouncing harder as the trailer picked up 
speed. 

“Mom and Dad aren’t pulling us anymore,” I told him. “The car is gone.” 

3

Elliot’s face filled with confusion. He didn’t understand me. Or maybe he didn’t 
believe me! 

“The trailer has come loose!” I screamed, staring out the bouncing window. 
“We’re rolling downhill—on our own!” 

“N-n-n-no!” Elliot chattered. He wasn’t stuttering. He was bouncing so 
hard, he could barely speak. His sneakers hopped so hard on the trailer floor, he 
seemed to be tap dancing. 

“OW!” I let out a pained shriek as my head bounced against the ceiling. 
Elliot and I stumbled to the back. Gripping the windowsill tightly, I struggled to 
see where we were heading. 

The road curved steeply downhill, through thick pine woods on both sides. 
The trees were a bouncing blur of greens and browns as we hurtled past. 

Picking up speed. Bouncing and tumbling. 

Faster. 

Faster. 

The tires roared beneath us. The trailer tilted and dipped. 

I fell to the floor. Landed hard on my knees. Reached to pull myself up. But 
the trailer swayed, and I went sprawling on my back. 

Pulling myself to my knees, I saw Elliot bouncing around on the floor like a 
soccer ball. I threw myself at the back of the trailer and peered out the window. 

The trailer bumped hard. The road curved sharply—but we didn’t curve 
with it! 

We shot off the side of the road. Swerved into the trees. 

“Elliot!” I shrieked. “We’re going to crash!” 

4 

The trailer jolted hard. I heard a cracking sound. 

It’s going to break in half! I thought. 

I pressed both hands against the front and stared out the window. Dark trees 
flew past. 

A hard bump sent me sprawling to the floor. 

I heard Elliot calling my name. “Wendy! Wendy! Wendy!” 

I shut my eyes and tensed every muscle. And waited for the crash. 

Waited... 

Waited... 

Silence. 

I opened my eyes. It took me a few seconds to realize that we were no 
longer moving. I took a deep breath and climbed to my feet. 

“Wendy?” I heard Elliot’s weak cry from the back of the trailer. 

My legs were trembling as I turned around. My whole body felt weird. As if 
we were still bouncing. “Elliot—are you okay?” 

He had been thrown into one of the bottom bunks. “Yeah. I guess,” he 
replied. He lowered his feet to the floor and shook his head. “I’m kind of dizzy.” 

“Me, too,” I confessed. “What a ride!” 

“Better than Space Mountain!” Elliot exclaimed. He climbed to his feet. 
“Let’s get out of this thing!” 

We both started to the door at the front. It was an uphill climb. The trailer 
tilted up. 

I reached the door first. I grabbed the handle. 

A loud knock on the door made me jump back. “Hey... !” I cried. 

Three more knocks. 

“It’s Mom and Dad!” Elliot cried. “They found us! Open it up! Hurry!” 

He didn’t have to tell me to hurry. My heart skipped. I was so glad to see 
them! 

I turned the handle, pushed open the trailer door— 

—and gasped. 

5 

I stared into the face of a blond-haired man. His blue eyes sparkled in the bright 
sunlight. 

He was dressed all in white. He wore a crisp white T-shirt tucked into 
baggy white shorts. A small round button pinned to his T-shirt read ONLY THE 
BEST in bold black letters. 

“Uh... hi,” I finally managed to choke out. 

He flashed me a gleaming smile. He seemed to have about two thousand 
teeth. “Hey, guys—everyone okay in there?” he asked. His blue eyes sparkled 
even brighter. 

“Yeah. We’re okay,” I told him. “A little shaken up, but—” 

“Who are you?” Elliot cried, poking his head out the door. 

The guy’s smile didn’t fade. “My name is Buddy.” 

“I’m Wendy. He’s Elliot. We thought you were our parents,” I explained. I 
hopped down to the ground. 

Elliot followed me. “Where are Mom and Dad?” he asked, frowning. 

“I haven’t seen anyone, guy,” Buddy told him. He studied the trailer. “What 
happened here? You came unhitched?” 

I nodded, brushing my dark hair off my face. “Yeah. On the steep hills, I 
guess.” 

“Dangerous,” Buddy muttered. “You must have been really scared.” 

“Not me!” Elliot declared. 

What a kid. First, he’s shaking in terror and calling out my name over and 
over. Now he’s Mister Macho. 

“I’ve never been so scared in all my life!” I admitted. 

I took a few steps away from the trailer and searched the woods. The trees 
creaked and swayed in a light breeze. The sun beamed down brightly. I shielded 
my eyes with one hand as I peered around. 

No sign of Mom and Dad. I couldn’t see the highway through the thick 
trees. 

I could see the tire tracks our trailer had made through the soft dirt. 
Somehow we had shot through a clear path between the trees. The trailer had 
come to rest at the foot of a sharp, sloping hill. 

“Wow. We were lucky,” I muttered. 

“You’re very lucky,” Buddy declared cheerfully. He stepped up beside me, 
placed his hands on my shoulders, and turned me around. “Check it out. Look 
where you guys landed!” 

Gazing up the hill, I saw a wide clearing between the trees. And then I saw 
a huge, red-and-white banner, stretched high on two poles. I had to squint to read 
the words on the banner. 

Elliot read them aloud: “King Jellyjam’s Sports Camp.” 

“The, camp is on the other side of the hill,” Buddy told us, flashing us both 
a friendly smile. “Come on! Follow me!” 

“But—but—” my brother sputtered. “We have to find our parents!” 

“Hey—no problem, guy. You can wait for them at the camp,” Buddy 
assured him. 

“But how will they know where to find us?” I protested. “Should we leave a 
note?” 

Buddy flashed me another dazzling smile. “No. I’ll take care of it,” he told 
me. “No problem.” 

He stepped past the trailer and started up the hill. His white T-shirt and 
white shorts gleamed in the sunlight. I saw that his socks and high-tops were 
sparkling white, too. 

That’s his uniform. He must work at the camp, I decided. 

Buddy turned back. “You guys coming?” He motioned with both hands. 
“Come on. You’re going to like it!” 

Elliot and I hurried to catch up to him. My legs trembled as I ran. I could 
still feel the trailer floor bouncing and jolting beneath me. I wondered if I would 
ever feel normal again. 

As we made our way up the grassy hill, the red-and-white banner came into 
clearer view. “King Jellyjam’s Sports Camp,” I read the words aloud. 

A funny, purple cartoon character had been drawn beside the words on the 
banner. He looked like a blob of grape bubble gum. He had a big smile on his 
face. He wore a gold crown on his head. 

“Who’s that?” I asked Buddy. 

Buddy glanced up at the banner. “That’s King Jellyjam,” he replied. “He’s 
our little mascot.” 

“Weird-looking mascot for a sports camp,” I declared, staring up at the 
purple, blobby king. 

Buddy didn’t reply. 

“Do you work at the camp?” Elliot asked. 

Buddy nodded. “It’s a great place to work. I’m the head counselor, guys. So 
—welcome!” 

“But we can’t go to your camp,” I protested. “We have to find our parents. 
We have to...” 

Buddy put a hand on my shoulder and a hand on Elliot’s shoulder. He 
guided us up the hill. “You guys have had a close call. You might as well stay 
and have some fun. Enjoy the camp. Until I can hook up with your parents.” 

As we neared the top of the hill, I heard voices. Kids’ voices. Shouting and 
laughing. 

The clearing narrowed. Tall pine trees, birch trees, and maples clustered 
over the hill. 

“What kind of sports camp is it?” Elliot asked Buddy. 

“We play all kinds of sports,” Buddy replied. “From Ping-Pong to football. 
From croquet to soccer. We have swimming. We have tennis. We have archery. 
We even have a marbles tournament!” 

“Sounds like a cool place!” my brother declared, grinning at me. 

“Only the best!” Buddy said, slapping Elliot on the shoulder. 

I reached the top of the hill first and peered down through the trees to the 
camp. It seemed to stretch for miles! 

I could see two long, white, two-story buildings on either side. Between 
them, I saw several playing fields, a baseball diamond, a long row of tennis 
courts, and two enormous swimming pools. 

“Those long, white buildings are the dorms,” Buddy explained, pointing. 
“That’s the girls’ dorm, and that’s the boys’. You guys can stay in them while 
you’re here.” 

“Wow! It looks awesome!” Elliot exclaimed. “Two swimming pools!” 

“Olympic size,” Buddy told him. “We have diving competitions, too. Are 
you into diving?” 

“Only inside the trailer!” I joked. 

“Wendy is into swimming,” Elliot told Buddy. 

“I think there’s a four-lap swim race this afternoon,” Buddy told me. “I’ll 
check the schedule for you.” 

The sun beamed on us as we followed the path down the hill. The back of 
my neck started to prickle. A cool swim sounded pretty good to me. 

“Can anyone sign up for baseball?” Elliot asked Buddy. “I mean, do you 
have to be on a team or something?” 

“You can play any sport you want,” Buddy told him. “The only rule at King 
Jellyjam’s Sports Camp is to try hard.” Buddy tapped the button on his T-shirt. 
“Only The Best,” he said. 

The breeze blew my hair back over my face. I knew I should have had it cut 
before vacation! I decided I’d have to find something to tie it back with as soon 
as I got into the dorm. 

A soccer match was under way on the nearest field. Whistles blew. Kids 
shouted. I saw a long row of archery targets at the far end of the soccer field. 

Buddy started jogging toward the field. Elliot stepped up beside me. “Hey 
—we wanted to go to camp, right?” he said, grinning. “Well? We made it!” 

Before I could reply, he trotted after Buddy. 

I brushed back my hair one more time, then followed. But I stopped when I 
saw a little girl poke her head out from behind a wide tree trunk. 

She appeared to be about six or seven. She had bright red hair and a face 
full of freckles. She wore a pale blue T-shirt pulled down over black tights. 

“Hey—” she called in a loud whisper. “Hey—!” 

I turned toward her, startled. 

“Don’t come in!” she called. “Run away! Don’t come in!” 

6 

Buddy turned back quickly. “What’s the problem, Wendy?” he called. 

When I returned my eyes to the tree, the red-haired girl had vanished. I 
blinked a couple of times. No trace of her. 

What was that girl doing out here? I wondered. Did she hide behind that 
tree just to scare people? 

“Uh... no problem,” I called to Buddy. I followed Elliot and the counselor 
into the camp. 

I quickly forgot all about the girl as we made our way around the soccer 
field and past a long row of fenced-in tennis courts. The thwack of tennis balls 
followed us as we turned on to the main path that led through the camp. 

So many sports! So much activity! 

We pushed our way through kids of all ages, eagerly hurrying to the 
swimming pools, to the baseball diamond, to the bowling lanes! 

“Awesome!” Elliot kept repeating. “Totally awesome!” 

And for once, he was right. 

We passed several other camp counselors. They were all young men and 
women, dressed completely in white, all of them good-looking and smiling 
cheerfully. 

And we passed dozens of little triangular signs showing the purple, blobby 
face of King Jellyjam, smiling out from under his shiny gold crown. Under each 
face was the camp slogan: Only The Best. 

He’s kind of cute, I decided. I realized I was starting to like everything 
about this amazing sports camp. 

And I have to confess I found myself secretly hoping that Mom and Dad 
wouldn’t be able to find Elliot and me for at least a day or two. 

Isn’t that terrible? 

I felt really guilty about it. But I couldn’t help thinking it. This camp was 
just too exciting. Especially after days of riding in the backseat of the car, staring 
out at cows! 

We dropped my brother off at the boys’ dorm first. Another counselor, a 
tall, dark-haired guy named Scooter, greeted Elliot and took my brother off to 
find a dorm room. 

Then Buddy led me to the girls’ dorm on the other side of the camp. We 
passed a gymnastics competition being held in an outdoor arena. Beyond that, 
one of the swimming pools was jammed with kids watching a diving contest off 
the high board. 

Buddy and I chatted as we walked. I told him about my school and about 
how my favorite sports are swimming and biking. 

We stopped at the white double-door entrance to the dorm. “Where are you 
from?” I asked him. 

Buddy stared back at me. He had such a confused expression on his face. 
For a moment, I thought he didn’t understand the question. 

“Do you come from around here?” I asked. 

He swallowed hard. He squinted his blue eyes. “Weird...” he muttered 
finally. 

“What’s weird?” I demanded. 

“I... I don’t remember,” he stammered. “I don’t remember where I’m from. 
Is that weird or what?” He raised his right hand to his mouth and nibbled his 
pointer finger. 

“Hey, I forget stuff all the time,” I told him, seeing how upset he was. 

I didn’t get a chance to say anything else. A young woman counselor with 
very short, straight black hair and bright purple-lipsticked lips came trotting up 
to us. “Hello. I’m Holly. Are you ready for some sports?” 

“I guess,” I replied uncertainly. 

“This is Wendy,” Buddy told her, his expression still troubled. “She needs a 
room.” 

“No problem!” Holly declared cheerfully. “Only The Best!” 

“Only The Best,” Buddy repeated quietly. He flashed me a smile. But I 
could see he was still struggling to remember where his home was. Weird, huh? 

Holly led the way into the dorm. I followed her down a long, white-tiled 
hall. Several girls came running past, on their way to different sports. They were 
all shouting and laughing excitedly. 

I peeked into some of the open rooms as we passed by them. Wow! I 
thought. This place is so modern and luxurious! It’s not exactly your basic, rustic 
summer camp. 

“We don’t stay in the rooms much at all,” Holly told me. “Everyone is 
always outdoors, competing.” 

She pushed open a white door and motioned for me to step in. Bright 

sunlight flooded the room from a wide window on the opposite wall. 

I saw two bright blue bunk beds against each wall. A sleek white dresser 
between them. Two white leather armchairs. 

The walls were white. They were bare except for a small, framed drawing 
of King Jellyjam above the dresser. 

“Nice room!” I exclaimed, squinting against the bright sunlight. 

Holly smiled. Her bright purple lips made the rest of her features seem to 
disappear. “Glad you like it, Wendy. You can take that bottom bunk over there.” 
She pointed. She had purple fingernails that matched her lipstick. 

“Do I have roommates?” I asked. 

Holly nodded. “You’ll meet them soon. They’ll get you started with some 
activities. I think they’re playing soccer on the lower field. I’m not sure.” 

She started out of the room, but turned at the doorway. “You’ll like Dierdre. 
I think she’s about your age.” 

“Thanks,” I said, gazing around the room. 

“Catch you later,” Holly replied. She vanished into the hall. 

I stood in the center of the sunlit room, thinking hard. What am I supposed 
to do for clothes? I wondered. What about swimsuits? Sweats? 

A11 I had were the denim short-shorts and pink-and-blue-striped T-shirt I 
was wearing. 

And why didn’t Holly tell me where to go next? I asked myself. Why did 
she just leave me by myself in this empty room? 

I didn’t have long to ask myself questions. 

I started to cross to the window when I heard voices. Whispered voices 
outside the door. 

I turned to the door. Were my roommates returning? 

I listened to the excited buzz of whispers. 

Then I heard a girl loudly instruct the others. “Come on. We’ve got her 
trapped in there. Let’s get her!” 

7 

I gasped and searched frantically for a place to hide. 

No time. 

Three girls burst into the room, their eyes narrowed, their mouths twisted 
into menacing sneers. They formed a line and moved toward me quickly. 

“Whoa! Wait!” I cried. I raised both hands as if to shield myself from their 
attack. 

The tall girl with streaky blond hair was the first to laugh. Then the other 
two joined in. 

“Gotcha,” the blond girl declared, tossing back her long hair triumphantly. 

I glared back at her, my mouth hanging open. 

“Did you really think we were going to attack?” one of the others asked. 
She was thin and wiry, with very short black hair cut into bangs. She wore gray 
sweats and a torn gray T-shirt. 

“Well...” I started. I could feel my face growing hot. Their little joke had 
really fooled me. I felt like a total jerk. 

“Don’t look at me,” the third girl said, shaking her head. She had frizzy 
blond hair tumbling out from beneath a blue and red Chicago Cubs cap. “It was 
all Dierdre’s idea.” She pointed to the girl with streaky blond hair. 

“Don’t feel bad,” Dierdre told me, grinning. Her green eyes flashed. 
“You’re the third girl this week.” 

The other two snickered. 

“And did the others think you were attacking?” I asked. 

Dierdre nodded, very pleased with herself. “It’s kind of a mean joke,” she 
admitted. “But it’s funny.” 

This time I joined in the laughter. 

“I have a younger brother. I’m used to dumb jokes,” I told Dierdre. 

She swept back her hair again. Rummaged around on the dresser top. Found 
a hair scrunchy to hold it back. “This is Jan and this is Ivy,” she said, motioning 
to the other girls. 

Jan was the one with the short black bangs. She slumped on to a lower 
bunk. “I’m whipped,” she sighed. “What a workout. Look at me. I’m sweating 
like a pig.” 

“Ever hear of deodorant?” Ivy cracked. 

Jan stuck out her tongue at Ivy in reply. 

“Get changed,” Dierdre instructed them both. “We’ve only got ten 
minutes.” 

“Ten minutes till what?” Jan demanded, bending down and rubbing her calf 
muscles. 

“Did you forget the four-lap race?” Dierdre replied. 

“Oh, wow!” Jan cried, jumping up. “I did forget.” She hurried to the 
dresser. “Where’s my swimsuit?” 

Ivy followed her. They began frantically sifting through the drawers. 

Dierdre turned to me. “Do you want to enter the race?” she asked. 

“I—I don’t have a swimsuit,” I replied. 

She shrugged. “No problem. I have about a dozen.” She studied me. “We’re 
about the same size. I’m just a little taller.” 

“Well, I’d love a swim,” I told her. “Maybe I’ll just go to the pool and 
splash around for a while.” 

“Huh? Not compete?” Dierdre cried. 

All three girls turned to me, stunned expressions on their faces. 

“I’ll do some sports later,” I said. “Right now, I just want to dive in and 
swim a little. You know. Cool off.” 

“But—you can’t!” Jan cried. She gaped at me as if I had suddenly grown a 
second head. 

“No way,” Ivy said, shaking her head. 

“You have to compete,” Dierdre added. “You can’t just swim.” 

“Only The Best,” Ivy recited. 

“Right. Only The Best,” Jan agreed. 

I felt totally confused. “What do you mean?” I demanded. “Why do you 
keep saying that?” 

Dierdre tossed me a blue swimsuit. “Put it on. We’re going to be late.” 
“But... but—” I sputtered. 

The three girls hurried to get into their swimsuits. 

I saw that I had no choice. I went into the bathroom and started to change. 
But my questions repeated in my mind. I really wanted them answered. 

Why did I have to compete in the race? Why couldn’t I just have a swim? 
And why did everyone keep repeating “Only The Best”? 

What did they mean? 

8 

The enormous blue pool sparkled under the bright sunlight. The sun hovered 
high overhead. The concrete burned the soles of my bare feet. I couldn’t wait to 
get into the water. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I searched for Elliot. But I couldn’t find 
him in the crowd of kids who were waiting to watch the race. 

Elliot has probably already played three sports, I told myself. This had to be 
the perfect camp for my brother! 

I gazed down the line of girls waiting to compete in the four-lap race. We 
all stood on the edge of the deep end of the pool, waiting to jump in. 

I silently counted. There were at least two dozen girls in this race. And the 
pool was wide enough for all of us to have a lane to swim in. 

“Hey, you look terrific in my suit,” Dierdre said. Her green eyes studied me. 
“You should have tied your hair back, Wendy. It’s going to slow you down.” 

Wow, I thought. Dierdre really cares about winning. 

“Are you a good swimmer?” I asked her. 

She swatted a fly on the back of her calf. “The best,” she replied, grinning. 
“How about you?” 

“I’ve never really raced,” I told her. 

The pool counselors were all young women. They wore white two-piece 
swimsuits. Across the pool, I saw Holly sitting on the edge of the diving board, 
talking to another counselor. 

A tall, red-haired counselor moved to the edge of the pool and blew her 
whistle. “Everyone ready?” she called. 

We all shouted back that we were ready. Then the long line of girls grew 
silent. We turned to the pool, leaned forward, and prepared to dive in. 

The water shimmered beneath me. The sun burned down on my back and 
shoulders. I felt about to melt. I couldn’t wait to jump in. 

The whistle blew. I sprang forward and hit the water hard. 

I gasped from the shock of the cold against my hot skin. My arms churned 
hard as I pulled myself forward. 

The splash of thrashing arms and kicking feet sounded like the roar of a 
waterfall. I dipped my face into the water, feeling the refreshing coldness. 

Turning my head, I glimpsed Dierdre a few lengths behind me. She swam 
in a steady rhythm, her arms and legs moving smoothly, gracefully. 

I’m ahead of everyone, I realized, glancing across the pool. I’m winning the 

race! 

With a hard kick, I reached the other end of the pool. I made a sharp turn 
and pushed off. As I started back to the deep end, the other girls were still 
approaching the shallow end wall. 

I pulled myself harder. My heart started to pound. 

I knew I’d win the first lap easily. Then there were three laps to go. 

Three laps... 

I suddenly realized how dumb I was. The other girls were pacing 
themselves. They weren’t swimming full speed because they knew it was a four- 
lap race. 

If I kept swimming this hard, I wouldn’t survive two laps! 

I sucked in a deep breath, then let it out slowly. 

Slowly... slowly... 

That was the word of the day. 

I slowed my kicking. Shot my arms out and pulled them back slowly. Took 
long breaths. Long, slow breaths. 

As I made my turn and started the second lap, several other swimmers had 
moved beside me. I caught Dierdre’s eye as she swam past. 

She never broke her steady rhythm. Stroke. Stroke. Breath. Stroke. 

On the other side of Dierdre, I saw Jan swimming comfortably, easily. Jan 
was so small and light. She seemed to float over the water. 

Into the third lap. I kept a few lengths behind Dierdre. I had to concentrate 
on keeping a slow, even pace. I pretended I was a robot, programmed to swim 
slowly. 

Dierdre turned into the fourth lap a few seconds ahead of me. I saw her 
expression change as she made her turn. She narrowed her eyes. Her entire face 
grew tight and tense. 

Dierdre really wants to win, I saw. 

I wondered if I could catch her. I wondered if I could beat her. 

I made my turn and put on the speed. 

I ignored the aching in my arms. 

I ignored the cramp in my left foot. 

I thrust myself forward, kicking hard from the waist. My hands cut through 

the water. 

Faster. 

I glimpsed Jan fall behind. I saw the disappointment on her face as I passed 

by. 

Pounding, thrusting arms and legs churned the water to froth. The splashing 
became a roar. The roar nearly drowned out the cheers of the kids watching from 
around the pool. 

My heart thudded so hard, I thought my chest might explode. 

My arms ached. They felt as if they each weighed a thousand pounds. 

Faster... 

I pulled up beside Dierdre. Close. So close, I could hear her gasping 
breaths. 

I glimpsed her face, tight with concentration. 

She’s just like Elliot, I decided. She wants to win so badly. 

Lots of times I let Elliot win a game. Because he cared about it so much 
more than I did. And so did Dierdre. 

As we neared the wall at the deep end, I let Dierdre pull ahead. 

I saw how much it meant to her. I saw how desperate she was to finish first. 

What the heck, I thought. There’s nothing wrong with coming in second. 

I heard the cheers ring out as Dierdre won the race. 

I touched the wall, then dipped below the surface. I pulled myself up and 
grabbed the wall. 

My entire body ached and throbbed. I gasped in breath after breath. I shut 
my eyes and pulled my hair back with both hands, squeezing the water out of it. 

My arms were so tired, I could barely pull myself out of the pool. I was one 
of the last swimmers out. 

The others had all formed a circle around Dierdre. I pushed my way into the 
crowd of girls to see what was happening. 

My eyes burned. I brushed water out of them. 

I saw the red-haired counselor hand something to Dierdre. Something gold 
and shiny. 

Everyone cheered. Then the circle broke, and the girls all headed in 
different directions. 

I made my way up to Dierdre. “Way to go!” I exclaimed. “I came close. But 
you’re really fast.” 

“I’m on the swim team at school,” she replied. She held up the gold object 

the counselor had given her. 

I could see it clearly now. A shiny gold coin. It had a smiling King Jellyjam 
engraved on it. I couldn’t read the words around the edge of the coin. But I could 
guess what they were. 

“It’s my fifth King Coin!” Dierdre declared proudly. 

Why is she so excited about it? I wondered. It wasn’t a real coin. It 
probably wasn’t even real gold! 

“What’s a King Coin?” I asked. The coin gleamed in the sunlight. 

“If I win one more King Coin, I can walk in the Winners Walk,” Dierdre 
explained. 

I started to ask what the Winners Walk was. But Jan and Ivy came running 
up to congratulate Dierdre. And the three of them all started talking at once. 

I suddenly remembered my brother. Where is Elliot? I wondered. What has 
he been doing? 

I turned away from Dierdre and the other girls and started toward the pool 
exit. But I had only taken a few steps when I heard someone calling my name. 

I spun around to see Holly jogging toward me. Her purple-lipsticked lips 
were knotted in a fretful expression. “Wendy, you’d better come with me,” the 
counselor told me. 

My heart skipped. “Huh? What’s wrong?” I asked. 

“I’m afraid there’s a problem,” Holly said softly. 

9 

Something happened to Mom and Dad! 

That’s the first thought that burst into my head. 

“What’s wrong?” I cried. “My parents! Are they okay? Are they—” 

“We haven’t found your parents yet,” Holly said. She wrapped a towel 
around my trembling shoulders. Then she led me to a bench at the side of the 
pool. 

“Is it Elliot?” I cried, dropping down beside her. “What is wrong?” 

Holly kept one arm around my shoulders. She leaned close. Her brown eyes 
stared into mine. 

“Wendy, the problem is that you didn’t really try very hard to win the race,” 
she said. 

I swallowed hard. “Excuse me?” 

“I watched you,” Holly continued. “I saw you slow your strokes in the last 
lap. I don’t think you tried your best to win.” 

“But—but—I—” I sputtered. 

Holly continued to stare at me without blinking. “Am I right?” she 
demanded softly. 

“I—I’m not used to swimming that far,” I stammered. “It was my first race. 
I didn’t think—” 

“I know you’re new at camp,” Holly said, brushing a fly off my leg. “But 
you know the camp slogan, right?” 

“For sure,” I replied. “It’s everywhere I look! But what does it mean? ‘Only 
The Best!”’ 

“I guess it’s kind of a warning,” Holly replied thoughtfully. “That’s why I 
decided to talk to you now, Wendy.” 

“A warning?” I cried. I felt more confused than ever. “A warning about 
what?” 

Holly didn’t reply. She forced a smile to her face and stood up. “Catch you 
later, okay?” 

She turned and hurried away. 

I wrapped the towel tighter around my shoulders and started back to the dorm to 

change. As I walked past the tennis courts, I thought hard about Holly’s warning. 

Why was it so important for me to win the race? 

So that I could be awarded, one of those gold coins with the blobby purple 
king on it? 

Why should I care about winning coins? Why couldn’t I just play some 
games, make new friends, and have fun? 

Why did Holly say she was giving me a warning? A warning about what? 

I shook my head, trying to shake away all these puzzling questions. I’d 
heard about sports camps from some of my friends back home. Some camps, 
they said, were really tough. The kids were all serious jock types who wanted to 
win, win, win. 

I guessed this was one of those camps. 

Oh, well, I thought, sighing. I don’t have to love this camp. Mom and Dad 
will be here soon to take Elliot and me away. 

I glanced up—and saw Elliot. 

Sprawled face down on the ground. His arms and legs spread out 
awkwardly. His eyes closed. 

Unconscious. 

10 

“Ooooh!” I let out a frightened wail. 

“Elliot! Elliot!” I dropped down beside him. 

He sat up and grinned at me. “How many times are you going to fall for 
that?” he asked. He started to laugh. 

I slugged him in the shoulder as hard as I could. “You creep!” 

That made him laugh even harder. It really cracks him up when he makes 
me look like a jerk. 

Why do I always fall for the stupid joke? Elliot pulls it on me all the time. 
And I always believe he’s been knocked out cold. 

“I’m never falling for that again. Never!” I cried. 

Elliot pulled himself to his feet. “Come watch me play Ping-Pong,” he said, 
tugging my hand. “I’m in the tournament. I’m beating this kid Jeff. He thinks 
he’s good because he puts a spin on his serve. But he’s pitiful.” 

“I can’t,” I replied. I pulled out of his grasp. “I’m dripping wet. I have to 
change.” 

“Come watch,” he insisted. “It won’t take long. I’ll beat him really fast, 
okay?” 

“Elliot—” He certainly was excited. 

“If I beat Jeff, I win a King Coin,” he announced. “Then I’m going to win 
five more. I want to win six so I can walk in the Winners Walk before Mom and 
Dad come for us.” 

“Good luck,” I mumbled, rubbing my wet hair with the towel. 

“Were you in a swim race? Did you win?” Elliot asked, tugging my hand 
again. 

“No. I came in second,” I told him. 

He snickered. “You’re a loser. Come watch me beat this kid.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Okay, okay.” 

Elliot pulled me to a row of outdoor Ping-Pong tables. They were shielded 
from the sun by a broad, white canvas awning. 

He hurried up to the table on the end. Jeff was waiting for him there, softly 
bouncing a Ping-Pong ball in the air with his paddle. 

I had pictured a little shrimpy guy that Elliot could beat easily. But Jeff was 

a big, red-faced, blond kid with bulging muscles. He had to be twice the size of 
my brother! 

I took a seat on a white wooden bench across from the tables. Elliot can’t 
beat this big guy, I thought. My poor brother is in for a major defeat. 

As they started to play, Buddy came walking over and sat down beside me. 
He flashed me a smile. “No word from your parents yet,” he said. “But we’ll 
find them.” 

We watched the Ping-Pong match. Jeff did his serve with the special spin. 
Elliot slammed it back at him. 

To my surprise, the match was really even. I think Jeff was surprised, too. 
His returns became more and more wild. And a lot of his special serves missed 
the table entirely! 

They had already played two games, Buddy told me. Jeff had won the first, 
Elliot the second. This was the third and deciding match. 

The game was a tie at sixteen, then a tie at seventeen and eighteen. 

I watched Elliot become more and more intense. He wanted desperately to 
win. He leaned stiffly over the table, gripping the paddle so tightly, his hand was 
white. 

Sweat poured off his forehead. He began ducking and dodging, groaning 
with each hit, trying to slam every ball. 

The more frantic and wild Elliot became, the calmer Jeff appeared. 

The game was a tie at nineteen. 

Elliot missed a shot and angrily slammed his paddle against the table. 

I could see that he was losing it. I’d seen this happen to my brother many 
times before. He could never win if he stayed this intense. 

As he held the ball and prepared to serve, I raised two fingers to the sides of 
my mouth and blew hard. He lowered the paddle when he heard my loud 
whistle. 

That was my signal. I’d used it many times before. It meant, “Cool it, 
Elliot. Calm down.” 

Elliot turned and gave me a quick thumbs-up. 

I saw him take a deep breath. Then another. 

My whistle signal always helped him. 

He raised the ball and served it to Jeff. Jeff sent back a weak return. Elliot 
smacked it back into the right corner. Jeff swung off balance and missed. 

Jeff served the next one. Elliot backhanded it. Very soft. The ball tipped 

over the net and dribbled several times on Jeff’s side. 

Elliot had won! 

He let out a gleeful cheer and raised his fists in victory. 

Jeff angrily heaved his paddle to the ground and stomped away. 

“Your brother is good,” Buddy said, climbing to his feet. “I like his style. 
He’s intense.” 

“For sure,” I muttered. 

Buddy hurried over to award Elliot his King Coin. “Hey, guy—you only 
need five more,” Buddy said, slapping Elliot a high five, then a low five. 

“No problem,” Elliot bragged. He held the coin up so I could see it. King 
Jellyjam smiled out at me, engraved on the coin. 

Why did the camp pick this silly little blob for a mascot? I wondered again. 
He looked like a fat hunk of pudding wearing a crown. 

“I’ve got to get changed,” I told Elliot. 

He slid the gold coin into the pocket of his shorts. “I’m going to find 
another sport!” he declared. “I want to win another King Coin before tonight!” 

I waved good-bye, then started toward the dorm. 

I had walked only a few steps when I heard a low rumbling. 

Then the ground started to shake. 

I froze. Every muscle in my body locked as the rumbling grew louder. 
“Earthquake!” I cried. 

11 

The ground shook hard. The awning over the Ping-Pong tables shook. The tables 
bounced on the ground. 

My knees buckled. I struggled to stay on my feet. 

“Earthquake!” I choked out again. 

“It’s okay!” Buddy called, running toward me. 

He was right. The rumbling sound faded quickly. The ground stopped 
shaking. 

“That happens sometimes,” Buddy explained. “It’s no problem.” 

My heart still thudded in my chest. My legs wobbled as if they were rubber 
bands. “No problem?” 

“See?” Buddy motioned around the crowded camp. “No one pays any 
attention. It lasts only a few seconds.” 

I gazed around quickly. Buddy was right again. The kids in the chess 
tournament in front of the lodge didn’t glance up from their chessboards. The 
kickball game on the field across from the pool continued without a pause. 

“It usually happens once or twice a day,” Buddy told me. 

“But what causes it?” I demanded. 

He shrugged. “Beats me.” 

“But—everything shook so hard! Isn’t it dangerous?” I asked. 

Buddy didn’t hear me. He was already jogging over to watch the kickball 
game. 

I turned and started walking to the dorm. I felt kind of shaky. I could still 
hear that strange rumbling sound in my ears. 

As I pulled open the door to the dorm, I bumped into Jan and Ivy. They 
both had changed into white tennis outfits, and they both carried tennis rackets 
over their shoulders. 

“What sports have you been playing?” 

“Did you win a King Coin?” 

“Wasn’t that a great swim race?” 

“Are you having fun, Wendy?” 

“Do you play tennis?” 

They both talked at once and shot out half a dozen questions. They seemed 
really excited. They didn’t give me a chance to answer. 

“We need more girls for the tennis tournament,” Ivy said. “We’re having a 
two-day tournament. Come to the courts after lunch, okay?” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “I’m not that good, but—” 

“See you later!” Jan cried. They both hurried away. 

Actually, I am a pretty good tennis player. I have a decent serve. And I do 
all right with my two-handed backhand. 

But I’m not great. 

Back home, my friend Allison and I always play for fun. We don’t try to 
kill each other. Sometimes we just keep volleying back and forth. We don’t even 
keep score. 

I’ll enter the tennis tournament, I decided. And if I lose in the first round, 
it’s no big deal. 

Besides, I told myself, Mom and Dad will be here any minute. And Elliot 
and I will have to leave. 

Mom and Dad... their faces flashed into my mind. 

They must be frantic, I realized. They must be worried sick. I hoped they 
were okay. 

I suddenly had an idea. 

I’ll call home, I decided. I should have thought of this before. I’ll call home 
and leave a message on our answering machine. I’ll tell Mom and Dad on the 
machine where Elliot and I are. 

No matter where he goes, Dad checks for phone messages every hour. Mom 
always makes fun of him for being so nervous about missing a call. 

But they’ll both be glad to get this message! I told myself. 

What a good idea! I congratulated myself. 

Now all I needed was a phone. 

There have to be phones in the dorm, I decided. I searched the small front 
lobby. But I didn’t see any pay phones. 

No one at the front desk. No one I could ask. 

I peered down a long hallway. Rooms on both sides. No phones. 

I tried the other hallway. No pay phones there, either. 

Eager to make my call, I turned and hurried back outside. I let out a long 
sigh of relief when I spotted two pay phones beside the long white dorm 
building. 

My heart pounding, I jogged over to them. 

I picked up the phone closest to me. And I started to raise the receiver to 
ear— 

—when two strong hands grabbed me from behind. 

“Get off the phone!” a voice demanded. 

12 

“Huh?” I shrieked in surprise and dropped the phone. It spun crazily on its cord. 

I turned around. “Dierdre! You scared me to death!” I cried. 

Her green eyes flashed excitedly. “Sorry, Wendy. I just had to tell you my 
news! Look!” 

She held out her hand. I saw a stack of gold King Coins. 

“I just won my sixth coin!” Dierdre declared breathlessly. “Isn’t that 
awesome?” 

“I—I guess,” I replied uncertainly. I still couldn’t figure out why it was 
such a big deal. 

“I’ll be in the Winners Walk tonight!” Dierdre exclaimed. “I can’t believe I 
made it!” 

“That’s great,” I told her. “Congratulations.” 

“Have you won any King Coins yet?” Dierdre asked, still holding out her 
hand. 

“Uh... not yet,” I replied. 

“Well, get going!” Dierdre urged. “Show them what you’ve got, Wendy. 
Only The Best!” She flashed me a thumbs-up with her free hand. 

“Right. Only The Best,” I repeated. 

“We’ll have a party,” Dierdre continued. “In our room. Right after the 
Winners Walk. Okay? We’ll celebrate.” 

“Great!” I replied. “Maybe we can get a pizza from the mess hall or 
something.” 

“Tell Jan and Ivy,” Dierdre instructed. “Or I’ll tell them. Whoever sees 
them first! See you later!” 

She ran off, holding the six gold coins tightly in her fist. 

I realized I was smiling. Dierdre had been so excited, she’d gotten me 
excited. So excited, I forgot about my phone call. 

I have to give this camp a chance, I decided. I have to get into the spirit of 
things and start having some fun. Only The Best! I’m going to win that tennis 
tournament! 

We all ate dinner at long wooden tables in the huge mess hall inside the main 

camp lodge. The long, high-ceilinged room seemed to stretch on forever. 

Loud voices and laughter echoed off the walls over the clatter of plates and 
silverware. Everyone had a story to tell. Everyone wanted to talk about the 
games of the day. 

After dinner, the counselors led us all to the running track. I searched for 
Elliot. But I couldn’t find him in the crowd. 

It was a warm, clear night. A pale sliver of a moon floated low over the 
darkening trees. As the sun set, the sky faded from pink to purple to gray. 

When darkness fell, I saw two flickering yellow lights at the far end of the 
track, moving toward me. As they came near, I could see that they were torches, 
carried by two counselors. 

A blaring trumpet fanfare made us all grow quiet. 

I stepped closer to Jan, who stood at my side. “They sure make a big deal of 
this,” I whispered. 

“It is a big deal,” Jan replied, her eyes straight ahead as the torches 
approached. 

“Do we have any food for the party later?” I whispered. 

Jan raised a finger to her lips. “Ssshhhh.” 

Several more torches had been lit. The yellow balls of light glowed like tiny 

suns. 

I heard a drumroll. Then a loud march blared from the loudspeaker, all 
trumpets and pounding drums. 

We stood in silence as the parade of torches passed by. And, then, in the 
flickering yellow light, I saw faces. The smiling faces of the kids who had won 
their sixth King Coin that day. 

I counted eight kids. Five boys and three girls. 

Their gold coins had been strung as necklaces around their necks. The coins 
caught the light of the torches and made the faces of the winners appear to glow 
as they marched by. 

Dierdre marched second in line. She seemed so happy and excited! Her 
coins jangled at her throat. Her smile never faded. 

Jan and I waved and called to her, but she marched right past. 

A counselor’s voice suddenly boomed over the loudspeaker: “Let’s hear it 
for our winners who are taking the Winners Walk tonight!” 

A deafening cheer rose up from the kids watching the parade. We all 
clapped and shouted and whistled until the winners had marched past and the 

final torches had floated out of sight. 

“Only The Best!” the voice shouted over the loudspeaker. 

“Only The Best!” we all chanted back. “Only The Best!” 

That ended the Winners Walk parade. The lights came on. We all scrambled 
toward the dorms. The boys ran in one direction, the girls in the other. 

“The torches were really cool,” I said to Jan as we followed the crowd of 
girls down the path to the dorm. 

“I only need two more King Coins,” Jan replied. 

“Maybe I can win them tomorrow. Are you playing in the softball 
tournament?” 

“No. Tennis,” I told her. 

“There are too many good tennis players,” Jan replied. “It’ll be too hard to 
win a coin. You should play softball, too.” 

“Well... maybe,” I replied. 

Ivy was already waiting for us in the room. “Where’s Dierdre?” she 
demanded as Jan and I entered. 

“We didn’t see her,” Jan replied. 

“Probably hanging out with the other winners,” I added. 

“I found two bags of tortilla chips, but I couldn’t find any salsa,” Ivy 
reported, holding up the bags. 

“Do we have anything to drink?” I asked. 

Ivy held up two cans of diet Coke. 

“Wow! Great party!” Jan exclaimed, laughing. 

“Maybe we should invite some girls in from other rooms,” I suggested. 

“No way! Then we’d have to share the Cokes!” Jan protested. 

We all laughed. 

The three of us joked and kidded around for about half an hour, waiting for 
Dierdre. We sat down on the floor and opened one of the bags of tortilla chips. 

Without realizing it, we finished off the whole bag. Then we passed around 
one of the cans of soda. 

“Where is she?” Jan demanded, glancing at her watch. 

“It’s nearly time for lights-out,” Ivy sighed. “We won’t have much time for 
a party.” 

“Maybe Dierdre forgot we were having a party,” I suggested, crinkling up 
the tortilla chip bag and tossing it toward the trash basket. 

I missed. Basketball is definitely not my sport. 

“But the party was her idea!” Ivy replied. She climbed to her feet and 
started pacing back and forth. “Where can she be? Everyone is inside by now.” 

“Let’s go find her,” I said. The words just popped out of my mouth. That 
happens to me sometimes. I get a bright idea before I know what I’m saying. 

“Yes! Let’s go!” Ivy eagerly agreed. 

“Whoa. Hold it,” Jan said, stepping in front of us, blocking our way to the 
door. “We’re not allowed. You know the rules, Ivy. We’re not allowed outside 
after ten.” 

“We’ll sneak out, find Dierdre, and sneak back in,” Ivy replied. “Come on, 
Jan. What could happen?” 

“Right. What could happen?” I chimed in. 

Jan was outnumbered. “Okay, okay. But I hope we don’t get caught,” she 
muttered. She followed Ivy and me to the door. 

“What could happen?” I asked myself, leading the way into the empty hall. 

“What could happen?” I repeated as we sneaked out the door, into the night. 

“What could happen?” 

I didn’t know it. But the answer to the question was: A LOT! 

13 

The night had grown warmer. And steamier. As I crept out the door, I felt as if I 
were stepping into a hot shower. 

A mosquito buzzed around my head. I tried to clap it between my hands. 
Missed. 

Jan, Ivy, and I edged our way around the side of the building. My shoes slid 
on the dew-wet grass. Bright spotlights shone down from the trees, lighting the 
path. 

We crept in the shadows. 

“Where should we look first?” Ivy whispered. 

“Let’s start at the lodge,” I suggested. “Maybe all of tonight’s winners are 
partying there.” 

“I don’t hear any partying,” Jan whispered. “It’s so quiet out here!” 

She was right. The only sounds I could hear were the steady chirp of 
crickets and the whisper of the warm wind through the trees. 

Keeping in the shadows, we followed the path toward the lodge. We passed 
the swimming pool, empty and silent. The water shimmered like silver under the 
bright spotlights. 

It was such a hot, wet night, I imagined myself jumping into the pool with 
all of my clothes on. 

But we were on a mission: To find Dierdre. No time to think about late- 
night swims. 

Staying close together, we passed the row of Ping-Pong tables. They made 
me think of Elliot. I wondered what he was doing. Probably tucked into bed. 

Like any sensible person. 

We were approaching the first row of tennis courts when Ivy suddenly cried 
out, “Whoa! Get back!” She grabbed me and shoved me hard against the fence. 

I heard soft footsteps on the path. Someone humming. 

The three of us held our breath as a counselor walked past. He had curly 
black hair and wore dark blue sunglasses even though it was night. He wore the 
white T-shirt and white shorts that made up the counselor’s uniform. 

We pressed our backs against the tennis court fence. “That’s Billy,” Jan 
whispered. “He’s kind of cute. He’s always so happy.” 

“He won’t be too happy if he catches us,” Ivy whispered. “We’ll be in 
major trouble.” 

Humming to himself, snapping his fingers, Billy walked past us. The path 
curved around the other side of the tennis courts. I watched him until he 
disappeared. 

I took a deep breath. I hadn’t been breathing the whole time! 

“Where’s he going?” Ivy wondered. 

“Maybe he’s going to the party at the lodge,” I suggested. 

“Why don’t we ask him?” Jan joked. 

“For sure,” I muttered. 

We checked out the path in both directions. Then we started walking again. 

We made our way past the tennis courts. The spotlights in the trees cast 
long shadows across the path. The shadows shifted and moved as the tree limbs 
bobbed in the wind. They looked like dark creatures crawling and slithering over 
the ground. 

Despite the heat of the night, I shivered. 

It was kind of creepy walking over these moving shadows. I had the feeling 
one of them might reach up, grab me, and pull me down. 

Weird thought, huh? 

I turned back in time to see the lights in the dorm windows start to go out. 
Lights-out. 

I tapped Jan on the shoulder. She turned and watched the dorm, too. As the 
lights all went out, the building seemed to disappear in front of our eyes. It faded 
into the black of the night sky. 

“M-maybe this wasn’t such a good idea,” I whispered. 

Ivy didn’t reply. She bit her lower lip. Her eyes were darting around the 
darkness. 

Jan laughed. “Don’t wimp out now,” she scolded. “We’re almost to the 
lodge.” 

We cut through the soccer field. The main lodge stood on a low, sloping 
hill, hidden by wide, old maple and sassafras trees. 

We didn’t have to climb very far up the hill to see that the lodge was as dark 
as the dorm. 

“No party up there,” I whispered. 

Ivy sighed, disappointed. “Well, where could Dierdre be?” 

“We could try the boys’ dorm!” I joked. 

They both laughed. 

Our laughter was cut short by a loud fluttering sound, very close by. 

“What’s that?” Ivy cried. 

“Ohhh!” I let out a low moan as I raised my eyes and saw them. 

The sky was thick with bats. Dozens of black bats. 

Fluttering over the spotlights in the old trees. And, then—swooping down 
to get us! 

14 

I couldn’t help myself. I let out a scream. Then I shielded my face with both 
hands. 

I heard Jan and Ivy gasp. 

The fluttering grew louder. Closer. 

I could feel the bats’ hot breath on the back of my neck. Then I could feel 
them clawing at my hair, tearing at my face. 

I’ve got a real good imagination when it comes to bats. 

“Wendy, it’s okay,” Jan whispered. She tugged my hands from my face. She 
pointed. “Look.” 

I followed her gaze up to the fluttering black wings. The bats were 
swooping low. But they weren’t swooping at us. They were swooping down and 
landing on the swimming pool at the bottom of the hill. 

In the bright spotlights, I could see them dart into the water—for less than a 
second. Then sweep back up to the sky. 

“I—I don’t like bats,” I whispered. 

“Neither do I,” Ivy confessed. “I know they’re supposed to be good. I know 
they eat insects and stuff. But I still think they’re creepy.” 

“Well, they won’t bother us,” Jan said. “They’re just taking a drink.” She 
gave Ivy and me a push to get us started down the hill. 

We were lucky. Nobody had heard me scream. But we had walked only a 
few steps when we spotted another counselor coming down the path. I 
recognized her. She had straight white-blond hair that tumbled down to her waist 
from under a blue baseball cap. 

Without making a sound, all three of us dove behind a tall evergreen shrub 
and crouched down. 

Did she see us? 

I held my breath again. 

She kept walking. 

“Where are these counselors going?” Ivy whispered. 

“Let’s follow her,” I suggested. 

“Stay far back,” Jan instructed. 

We slowly climbed back to our feet. And stepped out from behind the 

shrub. 

And stopped when we heard the low, rumbling sound. 

As the rumbling grew louder, the ground began to shake. 

I caught the frightened expressions on my two friends’ faces. Ivy and Jan 
were just as scared as I was. 

The ground shook harder, so hard that we dropped to our knees. I leaned on 
all fours, holding on to the grass. The ground trembled and shook. The rumbling 
became a roar. 

I shut my eyes. 

The sound slowly faded. 

The ground gave a final tremble, then remained still. 

I opened my eyes and turned to Ivy and Jan. They started to stand. Slowly. 

“I hate when that happens!” Jan muttered. 

“What is it?” I whispered. I stood up on shaky legs. 

“Nobody knows,” Jan replied, brushing grass stains off her knees. “It just 
happens. A few times a day.” 

“I think we should give up on Dierdre,” Ivy said quietly. “I want to go back. 
To the dorm.” 

“Yeah. I’m with you,” I replied wearily. “We can have our celebration with 
Dierdre tomorrow.” 

“She can tell us all about where she was tonight and what she did,” Jan 

said. 

“This was a crazy idea,” I muttered. 

“It was your idea!” Jan exclaimed. 

“Most of my ideas are crazy!” I replied. 

Hiding in the shadows, we made our way down to the path. I gazed toward 
the pool. The bats had disappeared. Maybe the rumbling sound had scared them 
back into the woods. 

The crickets had stopped chirping. The air remained hot, but silent and still. 

The only sound was the scrape of our sneakers on the soft dirt path. 

And, then—before we could move or hide—we heard someone else’s 
footsteps. 

Rapid footsteps. Running hard. Running toward us. 

I stopped short when I heard a girl’s desperate cry. “Help me! Please— 
somebody! Help me!” 

15 

A hot gust of wind shook the trees, making their eerie dark shadows dance. 

I leaped back, startled by the girl’s terrified cries. 

“Help me! Please—!” 

She came running around from the side of the tennis courts. She wore tight 
blue short-shorts and a magenta midriff top. 

Her arms were stretched out in front of her. Her long hair flew wildly 
behind her head. 

I recognized her as soon as she burst into view. 

The little red-haired girl with all the freckles. The one who had hidden in 
the woods and warned Elliot and me not to come into the camp. 

“Help me!” 

She ran right into me, sobbing hard. I threw my arms around her tiny 
shoulders and held her. “You’re okay,” I whispered. “You’re okay.” 

“No!” she shrieked. She tugged away from me. 

“What’s wrong?” Jan demanded. “Why are you out here?” 

“Why aren’t you in bed?” Ivy added, stepping up beside me. 

The little girl didn’t answer. Her entire body trembled. 

She grabbed my hand and pulled me behind the bushes beside the path. Jan 
and Ivy followed. 

“I’m not okay,” she started, wiping the tears off her freckled cheeks with 
both hands. “I’m not. I—I—” 

“What’s your name?” Jan asked in a whisper. 

“Why are you out here?” Ivy repeated. 

I heard the flutter of bat wings again, low overhead. But I stared at the little 
girl and forced myself to ignore them. 

“My name—it’s Alicia,” the girl replied, sobbing. “We’ve got to go. Fast!” 

“Huh?” I cried. “Take a deep breath, Alicia. You’re okay. Really.” 

“No!” she cried again, shaking her head. 

“You’re safe now. You’re with us,” I insisted. 

“We’re not safe,” she cried. “No one. No one here. I tried to warn people. I 
tried to tell you...” Her words were cut off once again by her loud sobs. 

“What is it?” Ivy demanded. 

“What did you try to warn us about?” Jan asked, leaning down to the crying 

girl. 

“I—I saw something terrible !” Alicia stammered. “I—” 

“What did you see?” I asked impatiently. 

“I followed them,” Alicia replied. “And I saw it. Something horrible. I—I 
can’t talk about it. We just have to run. We have to tell the others. Everyone. We 
have to run. We have to get away from here!” 

She let out a long breath. Her entire body trembled again. 

“But why do we have to run?” I asked, placing my hands gently on her 
shoulders. 

I felt so bad. I wanted to calm her. I wanted to tell her that everything would 
be okay. But I didn’t know how to convince her. 

What had she seen? What had frightened her so much? 

Had she had a bad dream? 

“We have to go now!” she repeated shrilly. Her red hair was matted to her 
face by her tears. She grabbed my arm and pulled hard. “Hurry! We’ve got to 
mn! I saw it!” 

“Saw what?” I cried. 

Alicia had no time to reply. 

A dark-haired counselor stepped up in front of the bushes. “Caught you!” 
he cried. 

16 

I froze. My entire body went cold. 

The counselor’s dark eyes flashed in the light of a spotlight. “What are you 
doing out here?” he demanded. 

I sucked in a deep breath and started to answer. 

But another voice replied before I could. “Kind of nosy, aren’t you?” It was 
another counselor. A woman with short, black hair. 

Breathing hard, trying not to make a sound, I ducked lower behind the 
bushes. My two friends dropped to their knees. 

“You aren’t following me—are you?” the first counselor teased. 

“Why would I follow you? Maybe you’re following me!” the woman teased 
back. 

They didn’t see us, I realized happily. We were two feet away from them. 
But they didn’t see us behind the bushes. 

A few seconds later, the two counselors strolled off together. My friends 
and I waited a long while, listening hard until we could no longer hear their 
voices. Then we climbed slowly to our feet. 

“Alicia?” I asked. “Are you okay?” 

“Alicia?” Ivy and Jan cried. 

The little girl had vanished. 

We sneaked back into the dorm through a side door. Luckily, there were no 
counselors patrolling the halls. No one in sight. 

“Dierdre—are you back?” Jan called as we stepped into our room. 

No reply. 

I clicked on the light. Dierdre’s bunk remained empty. 

“Better turn off the light,” Ivy warned. “It’s after lights-out.” 

I clicked the light back off. Then I stumbled toward my bunk, waiting for 
my eyes to adjust to the darkness. 

“Where is Dierdre?” Ivy asked. “I’m a little worried about her. Maybe we 
should tell a counselor that she’s missing.” 

“What counselor?” Jan asked, slumping onto her bed. “There’s no one 
around. The counselors are all out somewhere.” 

“I’m sure she’s partying somewhere and forgot all about us,” I said, 
yawning. I bent to pull down the covers on my bed. 

“What do you think that little girl saw?” Ivy asked, peering out the window. 

“Alicia? I think she had a bad dream,” I replied. 

“But she was so frightened!” Jan said, shaking her head. “And what was 
she doing outside?” 

“And why did she run away from us like that?” Ivy added. 

“Weird,” I mumbled. 

“Weird is right,” Jan agreed. Weird is the word of the night. She made her 
way to the dresser. “I’m getting changed for bed. Big day tomorrow. I’ve got to 
win two more King Coins.” 

“Me, too,” Ivy said, yawning. 

Jan pulled out a dresser drawer. “Oh, no!” she shrieked. “No! I don’t 
believe it!” 

17 

“Jan—what is it?” I cried. 

Ivy and I tore across the room to the dresser. 

Jan continued to stare down into the open drawer. “It’s so dark,” she said. “I 
opened Dierdre’s drawer by mistake. And—and—it’s empty !” 

“Huh?” Ivy and I both uttered our surprise. 

Squinting through the dim gray light, I studied the dresser drawer. Totally 
empty. “Check the closet,” I suggested. 

Ivy crossed the room in three or four quick strides. She pulled open the 
closet door. 

“Dierdre’s stuff—it’s all gone!” Ivy declared. 

“Weird,” I muttered. It was still the word of the night. 

“Why would she move out and not tell us?” Jan demanded. 

“Where did she go?” Ivy added. 

Good question, I thought, staring at the empty closet. 

Where did Dierdre go? 

* * * 

Breakfast was the noisiest meal of the day. Spoons clattered against cereal 
bowls. Orange juice pitchers banged on the long wooden tables. 

Voices rang out as if someone had turned up the volume all the way. 
Everyone talked excitedly about the sports they planned to play today, the games 
they planned to win. 

I had taken the last shower. So Jan and Ivy were already eating breakfast 
when I made my way into the mess hall. 

As I pushed through the narrow aisle between the tables, I searched for 
Dierdre. No sign of her. 

I hadn’t slept very well, even though I was really tired. I kept thinking 
about Dierdre—and about Alicia. And I kept wondering what was taking Mom 
and Dad so long to get in touch with us. 

I spotted Elliot at the end of a table filled with boys about his age. He had a 
stack of waffles in front of him, and he was pouring dark syrup over them. 

“Elliot—what’s up?” I called, squeezing through the aisle to get over to 

him. 

My brother didn’t bother saying good morning. “I’ve got a one-on-one 
tournament this morning,” he reported excitedly. “I could win my third King 
Coin!” 

“Thrills and chills,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “You haven’t heard anything 
about Mom and Dad, have you?” 

He stared at me as if he didn’t remember who they were. Then he shook his 
head. “Not yet. Isn’t this a great camp? Did we luck out, or what?” 

I didn’t reply. My eyes were on the next table. I thought I had spotted 
Dierdre. But it was just another girl with streaky blond hair. 

“Have you won any coins yet?” Elliot asked. He had a mouth full of waffle. 
Syrup dripped down his chin. 

“Not yet,” I replied. 

He snickered. “They should change the camp slogan for you, Wendy. Only 
The Worst!” 

Elliot laughed. The other boys at the table laughed, too. 

As I said, Elliot really cracks himself up. 

I wasn’t in the mood for his lame jokes. My mind was still on Dierdre. 
“Catch you later,” I said. 

I squeezed past the table and headed toward the girls’ side of the room. 
Cheers and laughter rang out at a table near the wall. A scrambled-egg tossing 
battle had broken out. Three counselors rushed to stop it. 

Jan and Ivy’s table was full. I found an empty space at the next table. I 
poured myself a glass of juice and a bowl of cornflakes. But I didn’t feel too 
hungry. 

“Hey—!” I called out when I saw Buddy walk by. He didn’t hear me over 
the noise, so I jumped up and ran after him. 

“Hi. What’s up?” He greeted me with a smile. 

His blond hair was still wet from the shower. He smelled kind of flowery. 
Aftershave, I guessed. 

“Do you know where Dierdre went?” I demanded. 

He narrowed his eyes in surprise. “Dierdre?” 

“A girl in my dorm room,” I explained. “She didn’t come back to the room 
last night. Her closet is empty.” 

“Dierdre,” he repeated, thinking hard. He raised his clipboard to his face 

and ran his finger down it slowly. “Oh, yeah. She’s gone.” His cheeks turned 
bright pink. 

“Excuse me?” I stared up at him. “Dierdre is gone? Where did she go? 
Home?” 

He studied the sheet on his clipboard. “I guess. It just says she’s gone.” His 
cheeks darkened from pink to red. 

“That’s so weird,” I told him. “She didn’t say good-bye or anything.” 

Buddy shrugged. A smile spread over his face. “Have a nice day!” 

He started toward the counselors’ table at the front of the huge room. But I 
ran after him. I grabbed his arm. 

“Buddy, one more question,” I said. “Do you know where I can find a little 
girl named Alicia?” 

Buddy waved to some boys across the room. “Go get ’em, guys! Only The 
Best!” he shouted to them. Then he turned back to me. “Alicia?” 

“I don’t know her last name. She’s probably six or seven,” I told him. “She 
has beautiful, long red hair and a face full of freckles.” 

“Alicia...” He chewed his bottom lip. Then he raised the clipboard again. 

I watched as he ran his finger down the list of names. When his finger 
stopped, his cheeks turned pink again. 

“Oh, yeah. Alicia,” he said, lowering the clipboard. He grinned at me. A 
strange grin. A chilling grin. “She’s gone, too.” 

18 

“Jan! Ivy!” I saw them hurrying from the mess hall, and I chased after them. 
“We’ve got to talk!” I cried breathlessly. 

“We can’t. We’re late.” Jan straightened her bangs with one hand. “If we 
don’t get to the volleyball nets in time, we can’t be in the tournament.” 

“But it’s important !” I called as they jogged to the doors. 

They didn’t seem to hear me. I watched them disappear into the morning 
sunlight. 

My heart pounded in my chest. I suddenly felt cold all over. 

I caught up with my brother, who was playfully boxing a tall, skinny boy 
with short blond hair. “Elliot—come here,” I instructed. “Just for a minute.” 

“I can’t,” he called. “Remember? My one-on-one contest?” 

The tall, skinny boy hurried out the door. I stepped in front of Elliot, 
blocking his path. 

“Give me a break!” he cried. “I don’t want to be late. I’m going against Jeff. 
Remember him? I can beat him. He’s big, but he’s real slow.” 

“Elliot, something strange is going on here,” I said, backing him against the 
wall. Kids were staring at us as they made their way outside. But I didn’t care. 

“You’re the only one who’s strange!” Elliot shot back. “Are you going to let 
me go to the basketball court or not?” 

He started to push past me. I pinned his shoulders to the wall with both 
hands. 

“Just give me one second!” I insisted. “There’s something wrong with this 
camp, Elliot.” I let go of him. 

“You mean the rumbling noises?” he asked, brushing back his dark hair 
with one hand. “That’s just gas under the ground or something. A counselor 
explained it to me.” 

“That’s not what I’m talking about,” I replied. “Kids are disappearing.” 

He laughed. “Invisible kids? You mean like a magic trick?” 

“Stop making fun of me!” I snapped. “It isn’t funny, Elliot. Kids are 
disappearing. Dierdre from my dorm room? She was in the Winners Walk last 
night. Then she didn’t come back to the room.” 

Elliot’s grin faded. 

“This morning, Buddy told me she was gone,” I continued. I snapped my 
fingers. “Just like that. And a little girl named Alicia—she disappeared, too.” 

Elliot’s brown eyes studied me. “Kids have to go home sometime ,” he 
insisted. “What’s the big deal?” 

“And what about Mom and Dad?” I demanded. “They couldn’t have driven 
very far before they realized the trailer had come loose. Why haven’t they found 
us? Why hasn’t the camp found them?” 

Elliot shrugged. “Beats me,” he replied casually. He dodged past me and 
started to the door. “Wendy, you’re just unhappy because you stink at sports. But 
I’m having a great time here. Don’t mess it up for me—okay?” 

“But—but—Elliot—!” I sputtered. 

Shaking his head, he pushed the door open with both hands and escaped 
into the sunlight. 

I balled both hands into tight fists. I really wanted to pound him. Why 
wouldn’t he listen to me? Couldn’t he see how upset and frightened I was? 

Elliot is the kind of kid who never worries about anything. Everything 
always seems to go his way. So why should he sweat it? 

But you’d think he’d be just a little worried about Mom and Dad. 

Mom and Dad... 

I had a heavy feeling in my stomach as I made my way slowly out the door. 
Had they been in a car accident or something? Is that why they hadn’t found 
Elliot and me yet? 

No. Stop making things worse, I scolded myself. Don’t let your imagination 
mn away with you, Wendy. 

I suddenly remembered my plan to call home. Yes, I decided, I will do that 
right now. I will call home and leave a message for Mom and Dad on the 
answering machine. 

I stopped in the middle of the path and searched for a pay phone. A group 
of girls carrying hockey sticks passed by. I heard a long whistle coming from the 
pool across from the tennis courts. Then I heard the splash of kids diving into the 
water. 

Everyone is having fun, I thought—except me. 

I decided to make the call, then find a sport to play. Something to take my 
mind off all my crazy worries. 

I returned to the row of blue and white pay phones at the side of the lodge. I 
ran full speed and picked up the nearest phone. 

I raised the receiver to my ear and started to punch in our number. 
Then I cried out in surprise. 

19 

“Hi there, Camper!” boomed a cheerful, deep voice. “Have a wonderful day at 
camp. This is King Jellyjam greeting you. Work hard. Play hard. And win. And 
always remember—Only The Best! ” 

“Oh, no!” I cried. “A stupid message—!” 

“Hi there, Camper! Have a wonderful day —” The tape started to repeat in 
my ear. 

I slammed the receiver down and picked up the next phone. 

“Hi there, Camper! Have a wonderful day at camp.” The same jolly, 
booming voice. The same recorded message. 

I tried every phone in the row. They all played the same message. None of 
the phones were real. 

Where are the real phones? I wondered. There have to be phones that 
actually work. 

I turned away from the lodge and wandered down the dirt path. As I passed 
the bushes where Jan, Ivy, and I had hid last night, I felt a chill. And thought 
about Alicia. 

Bright sunlight washed over the sloping, grassy hill. I shielded my eyes and 
watched a black-and-gold monarch butterfly. It fluttered toward a patch of red 
and pink geraniums. 

I walked aimlessly, searching for a telephone. All around, kids were 
shouting, laughing, playing hard. I didn’t really hear them. I was deep into my 
own troubled thoughts. 

“Hey! Hey! Hey!” 

My brother’s voice startled me into stopping. I blinked several times, 
struggling to focus. 

I saw that I had wandered down to the basketball court. Elliot and Jeff were 
having their one-on-one basketball competition. 

Jeff dribbled the ball. It thudded loudly on the asphalt court. My brother 
waved both arms in Jeff’s face. Made a grab for the ball. 

Missed. 

Jeff lowered his shoulder. Bumped Elliot out of the way. Dribbled to the 
basket—and shot. 

“Two points!” he cried, grinning. 

Elliot scowled and shook his head. “You fouled me.” 

Jeff pretended not to hear. He was twice as big as Elliot. A big hulk. He 
could push Elliot all over the court, if he wanted to. 

Whatever made Elliot think he could win? 

“What’s the score?” Jeff demanded, wiping sweat off his forehead with the 
back of one hand. 

“Eighteen to ten,” Elliot reported unhappily. I didn’t need twenty guesses to 
figure out that my brother was losing. 

The basketball court was closed off by a mesh-wire fence. I grabbed the 
fence with both hands, pressed my face up against it, and watched. 

Elliot dribbled, moving back, back, giving himself some space. Jeff moved 
with him, leaning forward, adjusting his basketball shorts with one hand as he 
moved. 

Suddenly, Elliot burst forward, his eyes on the basket. He started his jump, 
raised his right hand to shoot—and Jeff grabbed the ball away. 

Elliot jumped and shot nothing but air. 

Jeff dribbled twice. Put up a two-handed layup. 

Swish. The score was twenty to ten. 

Jeff won the game a few seconds later. He let out a cheer and slapped Elliot 
a high five. 

Elliot frowned and shook his head. “Lucky shots,” he muttered. 

“Yeah. For sure,” Jeff replied, using the front of his sleeveless blue T-shirt 
to mop his sweating face. “Hey, congratulate me, man. You’re my sixth victim!” 

“Huh?” Elliot stared at him, hands pressed against his knees, struggling to 
catch his breath. “You mean—?” 

“Yeah.” Jeff grinned. “My sixth King Coin. I get to march in the Winners 
Walk tonight!” 

“Wow. That’s cool,” Elliot replied without enthusiasm. “I still have three 
coins to go.” 

I had the sudden feeling that I was being watched. I let go of the wire fence 
and took a step back. 

Buddy had been staring at me from the path. His eyes were narrowed, and 
his mouth was set in a stern, unhappy expression. 

How long had he been standing there? 

Why did he look so unhappy? His grim expression gave me a chill. 

As I turned to him, he stepped forward. His blue eyes stared hard into mine. 
“I’m sorry, Wendy,” the counselor said softly. “But you have to go.” 

20 

“Excuse me?” I gaped at him. My mouth dropped open. 

What was he saying? Where did I have to go? 

Did he mean I had to go —like Dierdre and Alicia? 

“You have to go find a sport,” Buddy repeated, still speaking softly. His 
solemn expression didn’t change. “You can’t stand around watching other kids 
play. King Jellyjam would never approve of that.” 

I’d like to step on that ugly little blob! I thought angrily. What a stupid 
name. King Jellyjam. Yuck! 

Buddy had just scared me to death. Was he trying to frighten me? I 
wondered. 

No, I quickly decided. Buddy doesn’t know that I’m upset about things. 
How could he know? 

Buddy hurried on to the basketball court. He slapped Jeff on the back and 
handed him a gold King Coin. “Way to go, guy!” he cried, flashing Jeff a 
thumbs-up. “I’ll see you in the Winners Walk tonight. Only The Best!” 

Buddy said a few words to my brother. Elliot shrugged a few times. Then 
he said something that made Buddy laugh. I couldn’t hear their words. 

When Elliot trotted off to find his next sport, Buddy strode quickly back to 
me. He put an arm around my shoulders and guided me away from the 
basketball court. 

“I guess you’re just not a self-starter, Wendy,” he said. 

“I guess,” I replied. What was I supposed to say? 

“Well, I’m going to give you a schedule for today. See if you like it,” 
Buddy said. “First, I have a tennis match fined up for you. You play tennis, 
right?” 

“A little,” I told him. “I’m not that great, but—” 

“After tennis, come down to the softball diamond, okay?” Buddy 
continued. “We’ll get you on one of the softball teams.” 

He flashed me a warm smile. “I think you’ll have a lot more fun if you join 
in—don’t you?” 

“Yeah. Probably,” I replied. I wanted to sound more enthusiastic. But I just 
couldn’t. 

Buddy led me onto one of the back tennis courts. An African-American girl 
about my age was warming up by hitting a tennis ball against a backboard. 

She turned and greeted me as I approached. “How’s it going?” 

“Fine,” I replied. We introduced ourselves. 

Her name was Rose. She was tall and pretty. She wore a purple tank top 
over black shorts. I saw a silver ring dangling from one ear. 

Buddy handed me a racket. “Have fun,” he said. “And watch out, Wendy. 
Rose already has five King Coins!” 

“Are you a good tennis player?” I asked, twirling the racket in my hand. 

Rose nodded. “Yeah. Pretty good. How about you?” 

“I don’t know,” I told her honestly. “My friend and I always play just for 

fun.” 

Rose laughed. She had a deep, throaty laugh that I liked. It made me want 
to laugh, too. “I never play for fun!” she declared. 

She told the truth. 

We volleyed back and forth for a while, to get warmed up. Rose leaned 
forward, tensed her body, narrowed her dark eyes—then started slamming the 
ball back at me as if we were playing the final set of a championship! 

She played even harder once we started our match. 

I found out very quickly that I was no match for her. I was lucky to return a 
few of her serves! 

Rose was a good sport about it. I caught her snickering a few times at my 
two-handed backhand. But she didn’t make fun of my pitiful game. And she 
gave me some really helpful tips as the match continued. 

She won in straight sets. 

I congratulated her. She seemed really excited about winning her sixth King 
Coin. 

A woman counselor I hadn’t seen before appeared on the court and 
presented the coin to Rose. “See you at the Winners Walk tonight,” she said, 
grinning. 

Then the counselor turned to me. “The softball diamond is right over that 
hill, Wendy.” She pointed. 

I thanked her and began walking in that direction. “Don’t walk—run!” she 
called. “Let’s see some spirit! Only The Best!” 

I let out an unhappy groan. I don’t think she heard me. Then I obediently 
started to run. 

Why was everyone always rushing me around here? I complained silently. 
Why can’t I go lie down by the pool and work on my tan? 

As the softball diamond came into view, I started to cheer up a little. I 
actually like softball. I’m not much of a fielder. But I’m a pretty good slugger. 

The teams, I saw, had boys and girls on them. 

I recognized two of the girls from my breakfast table this morning. 

One of them tossed me a bat. “Hi. I’m Ronni. You can be on our team,” she 
said. “Can you pitch?” 

“I guess,” I replied, wrapping my hands around the bat. “Sometimes I pitch 
after school on the playground.” 

She nodded. “Okay. You can pitch the first couple of innings.” 

Ronni called the other kids together and we huddled. We went around the 
circle, giving our names. Then the kids who didn’t have fielding positions chose 
their spots. 

“If we win, do we all get King Coins?” a boy with a fake tattoo of an eagle 
on his shoulder asked. 

“Yes. All of us,” Ronni told him. 

Everyone cheered. 

“Don’t start cheering yet. We’ve got to win first!” Ronni exclaimed. 

She went around the circle, giving the batting order. Since I was the pitcher, 
I batted ninth. 

But since I had a bat, I decided to take a few practice swings. I stepped 
away from the others, behind the third base line. 

Easing my hands up on the bat, I took a soft swing. I like to choke up pretty 
high. I’m not very strong, and it gives me a harder swing. 

The bat felt pretty good. I took a few more soft swings. 

Then I pulled it behind my shoulder—and swung as hard as I could. 

I didn’t see Buddy standing there. 

The bat smacked him hard in the chest. 

It made a sickening thocccck as it crashed into his ribs. 

I let the bat fall from my hands. Then I staggered back. Stunned. Horrified. 

21 

Buddy’s smile faded. He narrowed his blue eyes at me. 

He raised a hand and pointed a finger at me. 

“I like the way you choke up,” he said. “But maybe we could find you a 
lighter bat.” 

“Huh?” My mouth hung open. I couldn’t move. I stood there, gaping at 
him. “Buddy—?” 

He picked up the bat from the ground. “Does it feel comfortable? Let me 
see you swing again, Wendy.” He handed the bat to me. 

My hands trembled as I took it from him. I kept my eyes on him. Waited for 
him to cry out. To grab his chest and collapse in a heap on the ground. 

“Some of the aluminum bats are lighter,” he said. He brushed back his 
blond hair with one hand. “Go ahead. Swing again.” 

I took a few shaky steps away from him. I wanted to make sure I didn’t hit 
him again. Then I choked up on the bat and swung. 

“How is it?” he asked. 

“F-fine,” I stammered. 

He flashed me a thumbs-up and went to talk to Ronni. 

Whoa! I thought. What is the story here? 

I swung that bat into his chest, hard enough to break a few ribs. Or at least 
knock his breath out. 

But Buddy didn’t even seem to notice! 

What is the story here? 

I told Jan and Ivy about it at dinner. 

Jan snickered. “I guess your swing isn’t as hard as you think.” 

“But it made a horrible sound! Like eggs breaking or something!” I 
exclaimed. “And he just went on smiling and talking.” 

“He probably waited until he was out of sight. Then he screamed his head 
off!” Ivy suggested. 

I forced myself to laugh along with my two friends. But I didn’t feel like 
laughing. 

It was all too strange. 

I mean, no one could take a blow like that right in the chest and not even 
say “Ouch!” 

Our team lost by ten points. But after that thocccck, who could think about 
the game? 

I glanced across the room to the counselors’ table. Buddy sat at one end, 
talking and laughing with Holly. He seemed perfectly okay. 

I kept glancing at him all through dinner. Again and again, I heard the 
sickening thocccck the bat made as it smashed into his chest. I just couldn’t get it 
out of my mind. 

I kept thinking about it as we trooped out to the track after dinner for the 
Winners Walk. It was a windy night. The torches flickered and nearly went out. 

The trees around the track shivered and bent. Their branches seemed to 
reach down for the ground. 

The marching music started, and the winners paraded by. Rose waved to me 
as she passed. I saw Jeff walking proudly near the back of the line, his gold coins 
jangling around his neck. 

After the ceremony, I hurried back to the room and climbed into bed. Too 
many troubling thoughts whirred around in my brain. I wanted to go to sleep and 
shut them out. 

The next morning at breakfast, Rose and Jeff were gone. 

22 

I searched for Rose and Jeff. And I searched for my brother all morning. I knew 
he’d be playing hard at one of the sports. But I walked from the soccer field at 
one end of the camp to the driving range at the other end, and I didn’t see him. 

Had Elliot disappeared, too? 

The frightening thought kept tugging at my mind. 

We’ve got to get out of this camp! 

I kept repeating those words to myself as I made my way along the 
crisscrossing dirt paths. 

King Jellyjam, the little purple blob, grinned at me from the signs posted 
everywhere. Even his cartoon smile gave me the creeps. 

Something was terribly wrong at King Jellyjam’s Sports Camp. And the 
more I walked, my eyes searching every face for my brother, the more frightened 
I became. 

Buddy caught up to me after lunch. He led me back to the Softball 
diamond. “Wendy, you can’t leave your team,” he said sternly. “Forget 
yesterday. You still have a chance. If you win today, you guys all win King 
Coins.” 

I didn’t want any King Coins. I wanted to see my parents. I wanted to see 
my brother. And I wanted to get out of there! 

I didn’t pitch today. I played left field, which gave me plenty of time to 
think. 

I planned our escape. 

It won’t be that hard, I decided. Elliot and I will sneak out after dinner when 
everyone is watching the Winners Walk. We’ll make our way down the hill, back 
to the highway. Then we’ll walk or hitchhike to the nearest town with a police 
station. 

I knew the police would find Mom and Dad for us easily. 

A simple plan, right? Now all I had to do was find Elliot. 

Our team lost the game seven to nine. 

I grounded out to end the game. The other kids were disappointed that the 
team lost, but I didn’t really care. 

I still hadn’t won a single King Coin. As we trotted toward our dorms, I saw 
Buddy watching me. He had a fretful expression on his face. 

“Wendy—what’s your next sport?” he called to me. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him and trotted away. 

My next sport is running, I thought unhappily. Running away from this 
horrible place. 

The ground began to rumble and shake as I passed the main lodge. This 
time, I ignored it and kept walking to the dorm. 

I didn’t find Elliot until after dinner. I saw him heading out the mess-hall door 
with two buddies. They were laughing, talking loudly, and bumping each other 
with their chests as they walked. 

“Elliot!” I called, chasing after him. “Hey, Elliot—wait up!” 

He turned away from his two friends. “Oh. Hi,” he said. “How’s it going?” 
“Did you forget you have a sister?” I demanded angrily. 

He narrowed his eyes at me. “Excuse me?” 

“Where have you been?” I asked. 

A grin spread over his face. “Winning these,” he said. He raised the chain 
around his neck to show off the gold King Coins he was wearing. “I’ve got five.” 
“Awesome,” I said sarcastically. “Elliot—we’ve got to get out of here!” 
“Huh? Get out?” He twisted up his face, confused. 

“Yes,” I insisted. “We have to get away from this camp—tonight!” 

“I can’t,” Elliot replied. “No way.” 

Kids pushed past us, on their way to watch the Winners Walk. I followed 
Elliot out the mess-hall door. Then I pulled him off the path, onto the grass at the 
side of the building. 

“You can’t leave? Why not?” I demanded. 

“Not till I win my sixth coin,” he said. He jangled the coin necklace in my 

face. 

“Elliot—this place is dangerous!” I cried. “And Mom and Dad must be—” 
“You’re just jealous,” he interrupted. He jangled the coins again. “You 
haven’t won any—have you!” 

I balled my hands into fists. I wanted to strangle him. I really did. 

He was such a competitive jerk. He always had to win everything. 

I took a deep breath and tried to speak calmly. “Elliot, aren’t you at all 
worried about Mom and Dad?” 

He lowered his eyes for a moment. “A little.” 

“Well, we have to get out of here and find them!” I declared. 

“Tomorrow,” he replied. “After the track meet in the morning. After I win 
my sixth coin.” 

I opened my mouth to argue with him. But what was the point? 

I knew how stubborn my brother can be. If he wanted to win that sixth coin, 
he wouldn’t leave till he won it. 

I couldn’t argue with him. And I couldn’t drag him away. “Right after the 
track meet tomorrow morning,” I told him, “we’re out of here! Whether you win 
or lose. Agreed?” 

He thought about it. “Okay. Agreed,” he said finally. Then he trotted off to 
find his friends. 

Four kids marched in the Winners Walk. As I watched from the sidelines, I 
thought about the kids I knew who had marched before. 

Dierdre. Rose. Jeff... 

Had they all gone home? Were they picked up by their parents? Were they 
back home now safe and sound? 

Maybe I’m frightening myself for no reason, I thought. 

Everyone else in camp seems to be having a great time. Why am I the only 
worrier? 

And then I remembered that I wasn ’t the only worrier. 

Alicia’s tear-stained face floated into my mind. 

What had Alicia seen that had frightened her so much? Why was she 
desperately trying to warn us to get away? 

I’ll probably never find out, I told myself. 

When the Winners Walk ceremony ended, I didn’t feel like going back to 
the dorm. I knew I couldn’t get to sleep. Too many thoughts troubled my mind. 

As the other kids made their way to their rooms, I ducked into the deep 
shadows. Then I sneaked along the path to the sloping hill that led up to the main 
lodge. 

Hiding behind a wide evergreen shrub, I dropped down onto the grass. It 
was a cool, cloudy night. The air felt heavy and damp. 

I raised my eyes to the sky. Clouds covered the stars and the moon. Far in 
the distance, I could see tiny red lights moving slowly against the blackness. An 
airplane. I wondered where it was headed. 

Crickets began to chirp. The wind rustled my hair. 

I gazed up at the starless sky. Trying to relax. Trying to calm myself down. 

After a few minutes, I heard voices. Footsteps. 

I pulled myself up to my knees and ducked low behind the shrub. 

The voices grew louder. A girl laughed. 

Carefully, I peered out from between the piney branches. I saw two 
counselors, walking rapidly along the path that led up the hill. 

Behind them, I spotted another group of counselors making their way 
quickly up the hill. They all seemed to be in a hurry. 

I lowered myself behind the shrub and hid in the darkness. 

They’re heading to the lodge, I decided. Must be some kind of counselors’ 
meeting. 

Their white shorts and T-shirts were easy to see, even on such a dark night. 
Keeping out of sight, I watched them make their way up the path. 

But to my surprise, they didn’t go to the lodge. Several yards from the 
lodge entrance, they turned off the path and ducked into the woods. 

Where were they going? 

I saw two more groups of counselors make their way into the trees. There 
must be a hundred counselors at this camp, I realized. And they’re all going into 
the woods tonight. 

I waited until I thought all of the counselors had passed by. Then I slowly 
pulled myself to my feet. 

I stared into the woods. But I could see only darkness. Shadows upon 
shadows. 

I ducked back down when I heard two more voices. 

Peering through the evergreen branches, I spied Holly and Buddy. They 
were taking long strides, walking side by side. 

I waited till they passed by. Then I jumped up. 

Creeping in the deep shadows, I followed them into the woods. 

I didn’t stop to worry about getting caught. I had to know where the 
counselors were all going. 

Buddy and Holly moved quickly through the woods, pushing tall weeds out 
of their way, stepping over fallen tree limbs. 

To my surprise, a low, white structure came into view. It appeared to glow 
dully in the dim light. 

The building was built low to the ground. The top was curved. 

I squinted at it through the trees. It looks like an igloo, I thought. 

What is this strange building? I wondered. Why is it hidden away in the 
trees? 

A dark opening had been cut into the side. Holly ducked into the low 
entrance. Buddy followed her in. 

I waited nearly a minute. Then I stepped up to the opening. 

My heart pounded. Such a strange, little building. Round and smooth as ice. 

I hesitated. I peered into the entrance, but couldn’t see anything inside. I 
didn’t hear any voices. 

What should I do? I asked myself. 

Should I go in? 

Yes. 

I took a deep breath and lowered myself into the opening. 

23 

Three steep steps led down to a dim entryway. A single red light down near the 
floor gave off the only light. 

I stepped into the dark red glow, then stopped and listened. 

I could hear voices speaking softly in the next room. 

Trailing my hand along the bare, concrete wall, I moved slowly toward the 
voices. An open doorway came up on my right. 

I stopped outside it. Then I slowly, carefully peered in. 

I stared into a large, square room. Four torches hanging at the front of the 
room sent out flickering orange light. 

The counselors sat on long wooden benches, facing a low stage. A purple 
banner hung over the stage. It proclaimed: ONLY THE BEST. 

It’s a little theater, I realized. Some kind of meeting hall. 

But why is it hidden away in the woods? And why are the counselors all 
meeting here tonight? 

I didn’t have to wait long for my answer. 

Buddy stepped on to the small stage. He walked quickly into the flickering 
orange torchlight. Then he turned to face the audience of counselors. 

I crept into the doorway. There were no torches in the back of the hall. It 
was pitch-black back there. 

Walking on tiptoe, I edged my way along the back wall. 

The door to a closet of some kind stood open. I ducked into it. 

Buddy raised both hands. The counselors instantly stopped talking. They all 
sat up straight and stared forward at him. 

“Time to refresh ourselves,” Buddy called out. His voice echoed off the 
concrete walls. 

The counselors sat stiffly. No one moved. No one made a sound. 

Buddy pulled a gold coin from his pocket. A King Coin, I figured. It 
dangled on a long gold chain. 

“Time to refresh our minds,” Buddy said. “Time to refresh our mission.” 

He raised the gold coin high. It glowed in the torchlight as he began to 
swing it. Back and forth. Slowly. 

“Clear your minds,” he instructed them, speaking softly now. “Clear your 
minds, as I have cleared mine.” 

The gleaming gold coin swung slowly back and forth. Back and forth. 

“Clear... clear... clear your minds,” Buddy chanted. 

He is hypnotizing them! I realized. 

Buddy is hypnotizing all the counselors. And he’s been hypnotized, too! 

I took a step forward. I couldn’t believe what I was seeing and hearing! 

“Clear your minds to serve the master!” Buddy declared. “For that is why 
we are here. To serve the master in all his glory!” 

“To serve the master!” the counselors all chanted back together. 

Who is the master? I asked myself. 

What are they talking about? 

Buddy continued chanting out slogans to the crowd of counselors. His eyes 
were wide. He never blinked. 

“We do not think!” he shouted. “We do not feel! We give ourselves up to 
serve the master!” 

And suddenly I had an answer to some of my questions. 

Now I knew why Buddy hadn’t cried out, hadn’t collapsed to the ground 
when I swung the bat into his chest. 

He had hypnotized away all feeling. 

He was in some kind of trance. He couldn’t feel the bat. He couldn’t feel 
anything. 

“Only The Best!” Buddy cried, raising both fists into the air. 

“Only The Best!” the counselors all repeated. Their unblinking faces 
appeared strange, frozen in the flickering orange light. 

“Only The Best! Only The Best!” 

They all chanted the slogan over and over. Their voices echoed loudly off 
the walls. Only their mouths moved. Like puppets. 

“Only The Best can serve the master!” Buddy shouted. 

“Only The Best!” the counselors chanted one more time. 

Buddy had been swinging the gold coin over his head during the entire 
performance. Now he lowered it back into the pocket of his shorts. 

The room grew silent. 

A heavy silence. An eerie silence. 

And then I sneezed. 

24 

I cupped my hand over my mouth. 

Too late. 

I sneezed again. 

Buddy’s mouth opened wide in surprise. He jabbed a finger in the air, 
pointing at me. 

Several counselors jumped to their feet and spun around. 

I turned to the door. Could I escape through it before one of them caught 

me? 

No. 

No way I could get over there. 

My legs were shaking. But I forced myself to move. I backed against the 

wall. 

Why had I stepped so far into the room? Why hadn’t I stayed in the safety 
of the doorway? 

“Who’s there?” I heard Buddy call. “It’s so dark. Who is it?” 

Good! I thought. He didn’t know it was me. 

But in seconds, they’d grab me and drag me into the light. 

I took another step back. Another. 

Darkness fell over me. 

I spun around. “Ohh!” I cried out when I saw that I had nearly toppled 
down a steep stairway. 

It wasn’t a closet after all. 

Black stone steps curved sharply down. Where did they lead? 

I couldn’t guess. But I had no choice. The steps were my only chance of 
escape. 

I leaned against the wall and plunged down the stairs. My shoes slid on the 
smooth stones. 

I nearly tripped and went sailing head first. But I grabbed the wall and 
steadied myself as I started to fall. 

The stairs curved down. Down. 

The air grew hot and sour. I held my breath. The air smelled like sour milk. 

A strange, deep moan rumbled up from down below. 

I stopped to catch my breath. 

Listened hard. 

The low moan rolled up the stairway again. A whiff of sour air invaded my 
nostrils. 

I turned back. Was I being followed? Had the counselors seen me escape 
through the open door? 

No. It had been too dark. I didn’t hear anyone on the stairs. They weren’t 
following me. 

What smelled so bad down below? 

I wanted to stop right there. I didn’t want to climb down any farther. 

But what choice did I have? I knew they’d be searching for me upstairs. 

Leaning a hand against the stone wall, I made my way down. 

The stairway led into a long, narrow tunnel. I could see pale light at the end 
of it. Another deep moan rumbled in the distance. The floor shook. 

I took a long breath and passed quickly through the tunnel. The air grew hot 
and damp. My shoes splashed through puddles on the tunnel floor. 

Where does this lead? I wondered. Will it take me back outside? 

As I neared the end of the tunnel, a whiff of sour air made me choke. I 
coughed and struggled to stop my stomach from heaving. 

What a disgusting smell! 

Like decayed meat and rotten eggs. Like garbage left out in the sun for days 
and days. 

I pressed both hands over my mouth. The odor was so strong, I could taste 
it! 

I gagged. Once. Twice. 

Don’t think about the smell! I ordered myself. Think about something else. 
Think about fresh flowers. Think about sweet-smelling perfume. 

Somehow, I calmed my stomach. 

Then, pinching two fingers over my nose to keep the odor out, I stumbled to 
the end of the tunnel. 

I stopped as the tunnel gave way to a huge, brightly lit chamber. 

I stopped and stared—at the ugliest, most frightening thing I had ever seen 
in my life! 

25 

Squinting into the bright light, I saw dozens of kids with mops, and buckets, and 
water hoses. 

At first, I thought they were cleaning off a giant, purple balloon. Bigger 
than any balloon in the Thanksgiving Day parade! 

But as the water sprayed over it and the mops soaped its sides, the balloon 
let out a loud groan. 

And I realized I wasn’t staring at a balloon. It was a creature. And the 
creature was alive. I was staring at a monster. 

I was staring at King Jellyjam. 

Not a cute little mascot. But a fat, gross, purple mound of slime, nearly as 
big as a house. Wearing a gold crown. 

Two enormous, watery yellow eyes rolled around in his head. He smacked 
his fat purple lips and groaned again. Hunks of thick, white goo dripped from his 
huge, hairy nostrils. 

The disgusting odor rolled off his body. Even holding my nose couldn’t 
keep out the sour stench. 

He smelled like dead fish, rotting garbage, sour milk, and burning rubber— 
all at once! 

The gold crown bounced on top of his slimy, wet head. His purple stomach 
heaved, as if an ocean wave was breaking inside him. And he let out a putrid 
burp that shook the walls. 

The kids—dozens of them—worked frantically. They circled the ugly 
monster. They hosed him down. Scrubbed his body with mops and sponges and 
brushes. 

And as they worked, little round objects rained down on them. Click. Click. 
Click. The little round things clattered to the floor. 

Snails! 

Snails popping out through King Jellyjam’s skin. 

I started to gag again when I realized the hideous creature was sweating 
snails ! 

I staggered back into the tunnel, pressing my hands over my mouth. 

How could those kids stand the horrible, sour stench? 

Why were they washing him? Why were they working so hard? 

I gasped when I recognized some of the kids. 

Alicia! 

She held a hose with both hands and sprayed King Jellyjam’s bulging, 
heaving stomach. Her red hair was soaked and matted to her forehead. She cried 
as she worked, bawling loudly. 

I saw Jeff. Rubbing a mop up and down on the monster’s side. 

I opened my mouth to call to Alicia and Jeff. But my breath caught in my 
throat, and no sound came out. 

And then someone came running toward me. Stumbling and staggering. 
Into the tunnel. Out of the bright light. 

Dierdre! 

A dripping sponge in one fist. Her streaky blond hair drenched. Her clothes 
wrinkled and soaked. 

“Dierdre!” I managed to choke out. 

“Get away from here!” she cried. “Wendy—run!” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. “What is happening? Why are you doing this?” 

Dierdre uttered a sob. “Only The Best!” she whispered. “Only The Best get 
to be King Jellyjam’s slaves!” 

“Huh?” I gaped at her as she trembled in front of me, shivering from the 
cold water that had drenched her. 

“Don’t you see?” Dierdre cried. “These are all winners. All six-coin 
winners. He gets the strongest kids. The best workers.” 

“But—why?” I demanded. 

Snails popped through the creature’s skin and clicked as they hit the hard 
floor. A wave of sour stench blew over us as another rumbling burp escaped his 
swollen lips. 

“Why are you all washing him?” I asked Dierdre. 

“He—he has to be washed all the time!” Dierdre exclaimed with a sob. “He 
has to be kept wet. And he can’t stand his own smell. So he gets the strongest 
kids down here. And makes us wash him night and day.” 

“But, Dierdre—” I started. 

“If we stop washing,” she continued. “If we try to take a rest, he—he’ll eat 
us!” Her entire body shook. “He—he ate three kids today!” 

“No!” I cried, gasping in horror. 

“He’s so disgusting!” Dierdre wailed. “Those horrible snails popping out of 

his body... that putrid smell.” 

She grabbed my arm. Her hand was wet and cold. “The counselors are all 
hypnotized,” she whispered. “King Jellyjam has total control over them.” 

“I—I know,” I told her. 

“Get out of here! Hurry!” Dierdre pleaded, squeezing my arm. “Get help, 
Wendy. Please—” 

An angry roar made us both jump. 

“Oh, no!” Dierdre wailed. “He’s seen us! It’s too late!” 

26 

The monster let out another roar. 

Dierdre loosened her grip on my arm. We both turned toward him, shaking 
with fright. 

He was bellowing at the ceiling, roaring just to keep everyone terrified. His 
watery yellow eyes were shut. He hadn’t seen Dierdre and me—yet. 

“Get help!” Dierdre whispered to me. Then she raised the sponge and ran 
back to her place at King Jellyjam’s side. 

I froze for a moment. Froze in horror. In disbelief. 

Another rumbling burp jolted me from my thoughts and sent me scurrying 
through the tunnel. At least now I knew why the camp ground shook so often! 

The sour stench followed me through the tunnel and back up the curving, 
stone steps. I wondered if I could ever get rid of it. I wondered if I could ever 
breathe freely again. 

How can I help those kids? I asked myself. What can I do? 

I was too terrified to think clearly. 

As I ran through the darkness, I could picture King Jellyjam smacking his 
gross purple lips. I could see him rolling his yellow eyes. And the ugly black 
snails squeezing out through his skin. 

I felt sick as I reached the top of the stairs. But I knew I didn’t have time to 
worry about myself. I had to save the kids who had been forced to be the 
monster’s slaves. And I had to save the rest of the kids in camp—before they 
became slaves, too. 

I poked my head out of the closet door. The four torches still burned at the 
front of the small theater. But the room was empty. 

Where were the counselors? Out searching for me? 

Probably. 

Where can I go? I asked myself. I can’t spend the night in this closet. I have 
to breathe some fresh air. I have to go somewhere where I can think. 

Carefully, I made my way out of the low igloo. Into the starless night. 
Hiding behind a wide tree trunk, my eyes searched the woods. 

Narrow beams of white light from flashlights darted through the trees, over 
the ground. 

Yes, I told myself. The counselors are searching for me. 

I backed up, away from the crisscrossing lights. Trying not to make a 
sound, I crept between the trees and tall weeds, toward the path that led to the 
lodge. 

Can I get to the dorms and warn everyone? I wondered. Will anyone believe 
me? Will there be counselors guarding the dorms? Waiting for me to show up? 

I heard voices on the path. I ducked behind a tree and let two counselors 
pass. Their flashlights made wide circles over the sloping hill. 

As soon as they were out of sight, I darted out from the trees. I ran down 
the hill. Keeping in deep shadows, I made my way past the swimming pool. Past 
the tennis courts. All dark and silent now. 

A clump of tall hedges beside the track would hide me from all sides, I 
realized. I ducked behind the hedges, gasping for breath. Dropping to my knees, 
I crawled into their shelter. 

I settled myself on the prickly pine needles beneath the hedges. And peered 
out. Only darkness now. 

I took a deep breath. Then another. Such sweet-smelling air. 

I’ve got to think, I told myself. Got to think... 

Shouting voices startled me awake. 

When had I fallen asleep? Where was I? 

I blinked several times. Sat up and stretched. 

My body felt stiff. My back ached. Every muscle ached. 

I gazed around. Discovered I was still hidden inside the hedges. A gray, 
cloudy morning. The sun trying to burn through the high clouds. 

And the voices? 

Cheers? 

I raised myself up and peered through the hedges. 

The track competition! It had just begun. I saw six boys in shorts and T- 
shirts, leaning forward as they ran around the track. A crowd of kids and 
counselors cheering them on. 

And in the lead? 

Elliot! 

“No!” I cried hoarsely, my voice still choked with sleep. 

I stepped out from the hedges. Made my way across the grass toward the 
track. 

I knew I had to stop him. I couldn’t let him win the race. I couldn’t let him 
win his sixth coin. If he did, they’d make Elliot a slave, too! 

He ran hard. He pulled far out in front of the other five. 

What could I do? What? 

In my panic, I remembered our signal. 

My two-fingered whistle. My signal for Elliot to take it easy. 

He’ll hear the whistle and slow down, I told myself. 

I raised two fingers to my mouth. I blew. 

No sound came out. My mouth was too dry. My heart thudded in my chest. 
I tried again. No. No whistle. 

Elliot turned into the last lap. There was no way to stop him from winning 

now. 

27 

No way to stop him—unless I beat him there! 

With a desperate cry, I plunged forward and started to run to the track. 

My shoes pounded the grass. I kept my eyes on Elliot and the finishing line 
as I ran. Faster. Faster. 

If only I could fly! 

Foud cheers rang out as Elliot neared the finish. The other five boys were 
miles behind! 

My shoes thudded onto the asphalt track. My chest felt about to burst. It 
hurt to breathe. My breath came in loud wheezes. 

Faster. Faster. 

I heard cries of surprise as I raced over the track. I plunged up behind 
Elliot, reached out both hands—and tackled him from behind. 

We both toppled in a heap, rolling over the hard track, onto the grass. The 
other boys raced past us to the finish line. 

“Wendy, you jerk!” Elliot screamed, jumping to his feet. 

“I—can’t explain now!” I shouted back, struggling to breathe, struggling to 
stop the aching in my chest. 

I scrambled to my feet and pulled Elliot up. He angrily tried to jerk free. 
“Why’d you do that, Wendy? Why?” 

I saw three counselors running toward me. 

“Hurry—!” I ordered my brother. I pulled him away. “Just hurry!” 

I think he saw the terror in my eyes. I think he realized that tackling him 
was a desperate act. I think he saw how serious I was. 

Elliot stopped protesting and started to run. 

I led him over the grass. Up the sloping hill by the lodge. Into the woods. 

“Where are we going?” he called breathlessly. “Tell me what’s happening!” 

“You’ll see in a minute!” I called back. “Get ready for a really bad smell!” 

“Huh? Wendy—have you totally lost it?” 

I didn’t answer. I kept running. I led the way into the woods. To the igloo¬ 
shaped building. 

At the low entrance, I turned back to see if we were being followed. I didn’t 

see anyone. 

Elliot followed me into the theater. The torches weren’t lit. It was pitch- 
black inside. 

Feeling my way along the back wall, I found the closet door. I pulled it 
open and led the way down the curving stairs. 

Halfway down, the sour odor floated up to greet us. Elliot cried out and 
cupped both hands over his nose and mouth. “It stinks!” His cry was muffled by 
his hands. 

“It gets worse,” I told him. “Try not to think about it.” 

We jogged side by side through the long tunnel. I wished I had time to warn 
Elliot. I wished I could tell him what he was about to see. 

But I was desperate to save Dierdre, Alicia, and the others. 

Gasping from the smell, I burst into King Jellyjam’s brightly lit chamber. 
Water from a dozen hoses splashed over the monster’s purple body. Kids 
scrubbed furiously as he sighed and groaned. 

I saw the startled horror on my brother’s face. But I couldn’t worry about 
Elliot now. 

“Hit the floor! ” I screamed at the top of my lungs, cupping my hands into a 
megaphone. “EVERYBODY—HIT THE FLOOR! NOW!” 

I had a plan. 

Would it work? 

28 

The monster’s watery yellow eyes grew wide with surprise. His bloated lips 
parted. I could see two pink tongues dart and coil inside his mouth. 

A few of the kids dropped their hoses and mops and flattened themselves on 
the floor. Others turned to stare at me. 

“Stop washing him!” I cried. “Put down your hoses and brushes! Stop 
working! And hit the floor!” 

Beside me, Elliot uttered gasping sounds. I glimpsed him struggling to keep 
the sick smell from overpowering him. 

King Jellyjam let out a furious roar as the rest of the kids obeyed my 
instructions. Thick, white slime dripped from his nose. His two tongues flicked 
out between his purple lips. 

“Get flat!” I screamed to the kids. “Stay down!” 

And then I saw the monster raise a fat purple arm. With a disgusting groan, 
he leaned over. His slimy flesh rippled all over his body as he reached out. 

Reached out to grab Alicia! 

“Help! He’s going to eat me!” Alicia shrieked. She started to get up. 

“No!” I shrieked. “Stay down! Stay flat!” 

With a terrified cry, Alicia dropped back to the floor. 

King Jellyjam swung his fat hand down. Fumbled it over her. Tried to lift 
the little girl up. Tried again. Again. 

But I had figured right! The monster’s fingers were too big, too clumsy to 
pick up anyone who lay flat on the floor. 

King Jellyjam tilted his head back and uttered a roar of disgust. 

I cupped my hand over my nose as the disgusting odor grew more intense. 
Snails pop-pop-popped out of his skin. Rolled down his slimy body. Bounced 
noisily onto the floor. 

The monster flailed his arms. He leaned down again and struggled to pick 
up some other kids. 

But they pressed themselves flat on the floor. He couldn’t lift them. 

He roared again, weaker this time. His eyes rolled wildly in his enormous 
head. 

The smell burned my eyes. It swirled around me, surrounded me in its sour 

stench. 

King Jellyjam grabbed for a hose. Couldn’t pick it up. He slammed his hand 
into a bucket. Struggled frantically to splash water on himself. 

I stood trembling. Watching every move. 

My plan was working. I knew it would work. It had to work! 

The stench grew even stronger. I could taste it. I could smell it on my skin. 

King Jellyjam flailed both arms. Frantically, he struggled to wash himself. 

His roars became groans. His body began to shake. 

I gasped as he narrowed his eyes at me. He raised a swollen purple finger 
and pointed. Accusing me! 

He leaned forward. Reached out. 

Swiped out his enormous hand. 

I couldn’t move. I was too stunned. 

I shuddered. 

His hand slid over me. And before I could struggle, he began to tighten his 
slimy, stinking fingers around my body. 

29 

“Ohhh.” I uttered a horrified moan. 

The fat, wet fingers tightened. Waves of odor rose up around me. 

I held my breath. But the smell was everywhere. 

The fingers wrapped themselves tighter. 

The monster began to lift me off the ground. Raise me toward his gaping 
mouth. The two tongues darted and flicked. 

And then the tongues drooped over his purple lips. 

The fingers loosened their grip. 

I slid free as King Jellyjam groaned and fell forward. Kids rolled quickly 
out of the way. King Jellyjam toppled over headfirst. 

The gold crown bounced away. The monster’s body made a loud splat as it 
spread over the floor. 

“Yes!” I choked out happily. I was still shaking, still trying to forget the 
slimy feel of his fingers against my skin. “Yes!” 

My plan had worked perfectly. 

The kids stopped washing—and King Jellyjam suffocated from his own 
foul smell! 

“Are you okay?” Elliot asked in a trembling voice. 

I nodded. “Yes. I think I’m going to be fine.” 

Elliot held his nose. “I’ll never complain about Dad’s garden fertilizer 
again!” he declared. 

Cheering and shouting, the other kids climbed to their feet. 

“Thank you!” Alicia cried, wrapping me in a hug. The others rushed 
forward to thank me, too. 

There were lots of hugs, lots of tears as we made our way up to the theater 
and then out into the woods. 

“We are out of here!” I cried happily to Elliot. 

But we all stopped at the edge of the woods when we saw the counselors. 

They all stood in front of us, dozens of them, side by side in their white 
shirts and shorts. They had formed a line along the path. 

And I could see from the hard expressions set on their faces that they had 

not come to welcome everyone back. 

As I stared from face to face, Buddy stepped forward. He gave a signal to 
the other counselors. “Don’t let them get away!” he cried. 

30 

The counselors stepped forward, moving in a line. Their expressions remained 
hard and threatening. They kept their arms at their sides. 

They moved stiffly. Like robots. In a trance. 

They took two more steps. 

Then a shrill whistle broke the silence. 

“Stop right there! Everybody freeze!” a man’s voice boomed. 

I heard another shrill whistle. 

I turned to see several blue-uniformed police officers running up the hill. 
The counselors shook their heads, blinked, uttered soft cries. They made no 
attempt to run. 

“Where are we?” I heard Holly mutter. 

“What’s happening?” another counselor asked. 

They all appeared dazed and confused. The police whistles seemed to have 
broken the trance that held them. 

The other kids and I all cheered happily as the officers swarmed up the hill. 
“How did you know we needed help?” I called. 

“We didn’t,” an officer replied. “A horrible smell floated into town. We 
wanted to find out what was causing it. We followed it here!” 

I had to laugh. The same smell that had killed the monster had actually 
saved us kids. 

“We didn’t know there was a problem at this camp,” an officer announced. 
“We’ll contact your parents as soon as we can.” 

Elliot and I led the way down the hill. We were so eager to see Mom and 

Dad! 

The counselors muttered to themselves, gazing around, trying to figure out 
what had happened. 

I turned to Buddy as Elliot and I walked past him. “Are you feeling better?” 
I asked. 

He narrowed his blue eyes at me and squinted hard. He didn’t seem to be 
able to focus. “Only The Best,” he murmured. “Only The Best.” 

Elliot and I were never so glad to be home! 

“What took you so long to find us?” Elliot demanded. 

Mom and Dad shook their heads. “The police checked everywhere, trying 
to find you two,” Dad replied. “They called the camp several times. The 
counselor who answered the phone told the police that you weren’t there.” 

“We were so worried,” Mom said, biting her bottom lip. “So terribly 
worried. When we found the trailer empty, we didn’t know what to think!” 

“Well, we’re home safe and sound now,” I replied with a grin. 

“Maybe you two would like to go away to a real camp next summer,” Dad 

said. 

“Uh... no way!” Elliot and I answered together. 

Two weeks later, we had a surprise visitor. 

I opened the door to find Buddy on the front stoop. His blond hair was 
neatly brushed. He wore chinos, a blue-and-white-striped sportshirt, and a dark 
blue tie. 

“I’m so sorry about what happened at camp,” Buddy said. 

I was still too shocked at seeing him to reply. I just held on to the door and 
gaped at him. 

“Is Elliot home?” Buddy asked. 

“Hi.” Elliot stepped up beside me. “Buddy! What’s up?” 

“I brought you this,” Buddy replied. He reached into his pants pocket and 
pulled out a gold coin. 

“It’s a King Coin,” he told Elliot. “You earned it, remember? You actually 
won the race.” 

Elliot reached out for it. Then stopped. His hand hung in midair. 

I knew what my brother was thinking. This would be his sixth King Coin. 
Should he take it? 

Finally, he grabbed it. “Thanks, Buddy,” Elliot said. 

Buddy said good-bye and gave us a wave. Elliot and I watched him get into 
a car and drive away. Then we closed the door behind us. 

“Are you sure you should’ve taken that?” I asked Elliot. 

“Why not?” he replied. “That purple monster is dead—right? What could 
happen?” 

Five minutes later, we both smelled the horrible odor at the same time. 
“Yuck!” Elliot groaned. He swallowed hard. “Wendy, wh-what’s that 

smell?” he stammered. 

“I—I don’t know,” I replied in a shaky voice. 

I heard Mom laugh behind us. We turned to see her standing in the doorway 
to the kitchen. “What’s wrong?” she asked. “I have a pot of brussels sprouts 
boiling on the stove!” 



REVENGE OF THE 
LAWN GNOMES 

1 

Clack, Clack, Clack. 

The Ping-Pong ball clattered over the basement floor. “Yes!” I cried as I 
watched Mindy chase after it. 

It was a hot, sticky June afternoon. The first Monday of summer vacation. 
And Joe Burton had just made another excellent shot. 

That’s me. Joe Burton. I’m twelve. And there is nothing I love better than 
slamming the ball in my older sister’s face and making her chase after it. 

I’m not a bad sport. I just like to show Mindy that she’s not as great as she 
thinks she is. 

You might guess that Mindy and I do not always agree on things. The fact 
is, I’m really not like anyone else in my family. 

Mindy, Mom, and Dad are all blond, skinny, and tall. I have brown hair. 
And I’m kind of pudgy and short. Mom says I haven’t had my growth spurt yet. 

So I’m a shrimp. And it’s hard for me to see over the Ping-Pong net. But I 
can still beat Mindy with one hand tied behind my back. 

As much as I love to win, Mindy hates to lose. And she doesn’t play fair at 
all. Every time I make a great move, she says it doesn’t count. 

“Joe, kicking the ball over the net is not legal,” she whined as she scooped 
out the ball from under the couch. 

“Give me a break!” I cried. “All the Ping-Pong champions do it. They call it 
the Soccer Slam.” 

Mindy rolled her huge green eyes. “Oh, puh-lease!” she muttered. “My 
serve.” 

Mindy is weird. She’s probably the weirdest fourteen-year-old in town. 

Why? I’ll tell you why. 

Take her room. Mindy arranges all her books in alphabetical order—by 
author. Do you believe it? 

And she fills out a card for each one. She files them in the top drawer of her 
desk. Her own private card catalog. 

If she could, she’d probably cut the tops off the books so they’d be all the 
same size. 

She is so organized. Her closet is organized by color. All the reds come 



first. Then the oranges. Then the yellows. Then come the greens, blues, and 
purples. She hangs her clothes in the same order as the rainbow. 

And at dinner, she eats around her plate clockwise. Really! I’ve watched 
her. First her mashed potatoes. Then all her peas. And then her meat loaf. If she 
finds one pea in her mashed potatoes, she totally loses it! 

Weird. Really weird. 

Me? I’m not organized. I’m cool. I’m not serious like my sister. I can be 
pretty funny. My friends think I’m a riot. Everyone does. Except Mindy. 

“Come on, serve already,” I called out. “Before the end of the century.” 

Mindy stood on her side of the table, carefully lining up her shot. She 
stands in exactly the same place every time. With her feet exactly the same space 
apart. Her footprints are worn into the carpet. 

“Ten-eight and serving,” Mindy finally called out. She always calls out the 
score before she serves. Then she swung her arm back. 

I held the paddle up to my mouth like a microphone. “She pulls her arm 
back,” I announced. “The crowd is hushed. It’s a tense moment.” 

“Joe, stop acting like a jerk,” she snapped. “I have to concentrate.” 

I love pretending I’m a sports announcer. It drives Mindy nuts. 

Mindy pulled her arm back again. She tossed the Ping-Pong ball up into the 
air. And... 

“A spider!” I screamed. “On your shoulder!” 

“Yaaaiiii!” Mindy dropped the paddle and began slapping her shoulder 
furiously. The ball clattered onto the table. 

“Gotcha!” I cried. “My point.” 

“No way!” Mindy shouted angrily. “You’re just a cheater, Joe.” She 
smoothed the shoulders of her pink T-shirt carefully. She picked up the ball and 
swatted it over the net. 

“At least I’m a funny cheater!” I replied. I twirled around in a complete 
circle and belted the ball. It bounced once on my side before sailing over the net. 

“Foul,” Mindy announced. “You’re always fouling.” 

I waved my paddle at her. “Get a life,” I said. “It’s a game. It’s supposed to 
be fun.” 

“I’m beating you,” Mindy replied. “That’s fun.” 

I shrugged. “Who cares? Winning isn’t everything.” 

“Where did you read that?” she asked. “In a bubble gum comic?” Then she 
rolled her eyes again. I think someday her eyes are going to roll right out of her 

head! 

I rolled my eyes, too—back into my head until only the whites showed. 
“Neat trick, huh?” 

“Cute, Joe,” Mindy muttered. “Really cute. You’d better watch out. One 
day your eyes might not come back down. Which would be an improvement!” 

“Lame joke,” I replied. “Very lame.” 

Mindy lined up her feet carefully again. 

“She’s in her serve position,” I spoke into my paddle. “She’s nervous. 
She’s...” 

“Joe!” Mindy whined. “Quit it!” 

She tossed the Ping-Pong ball into the air. She swung the paddle, and— 

“Gross!” I shouted. “What’s that big green glob hanging out of your nose?” 

Mindy ignored me this time. She tapped the ball over the net. 

I dove forward and whacked it with the tip of my paddle. It spun high over 
the net and landed in the corner of the basement. Between the washing machine 
and the dryer. 

Mindy jogged after the ball on her long, thin legs. “Hey, where’s Buster?” 
she called out. “Wasn’t he sleeping next to the dryer?” 

Buster is our dog. A giant black Rottweiler with a head the size of a 
basketball. He loves snoozing on the old sleeping bag we keep in the corner of 
the basement. Especially when we’re down here playing Ping-Pong. 

Everyone is afraid of Buster. For about three seconds. Then he starts licking 
them with his long, wet tongue. Or rolls onto his back and begs to have his belly 
scratched. 

“Where is he, Joe?” Mindy bit her lip. 

“He’s around here somewhere,” I replied. “Why are you always worrying 
about Buster? He weighs over a hundred pounds. He can take care of himself.” 

Mindy frowned. “Not if Mr. McCall catches him. Remember what he said 
the last time Buster chomped on his tomato plants?” 

Mr. McCall is our next-door neighbor. Buster loves the McCalls’ yard. He 
likes to nap under their huge, shady elm tree. 

And dig little holes all over their lawn. And sometimes big holes. 

And snack in their vegetable garden. 

Last year, Buster dug up every head of Mr. McCall’s lettuce. And ate his 
biggest zucchini plant for dessert. 

I guess that’s why Mr. McCall hates Buster. He said the next time he 

catches him in his garden, he’s going to turn him into fertilizer. 

My dad and Mr. McCall are the two best gardeners in town. They’re nuts 
about gardening. Totally nuts. 

I think working in a garden is kind of fun, too. But I don’t let that get 
around. My friends think gardening is for nerds. 

Dad and Mr. McCall are always battling it out at the annual garden show. 
Mr. McCall usually takes first place. But last year, Dad and I won the blue 
ribbon for our tomatoes. 

That drove Mr. McCall crazy. When Dad’s name was announced, Mr. 
McCall’s face turned as red as our tomatoes. 

So Mr. McCall is desperate to win this year. He started stocking up on plant 
food and bug spray months ago. 

And he planted something that nobody else in North Bay grows. Strange 
orange-green melons called casabas. 

Dad says that Mr. McCall has made a big mistake. He says the casabas will 
never grow any bigger than tennis balls. The growing season in Minnesota is too 
short. 

“McCall’s garden loses,” I declared. “Our tomatoes are definitely going to 
win again this year. And thanks to my special soil, they’ll grow as big as beach 
balls!” 

“So will your head,” Mindy shot back. 

I stuck out my tongue and crossed my eyes. It seemed like a good reply. 

“Whose serve is it?” I asked. Mindy was taking so long, I lost track. 

“It’s still my serve,” she replied, carefully placing her feet. 

We were interrupted by footsteps. Heavy, booming footsteps on the stairs 
behind Mindy. 

“Who is that?” Mindy cried. 

And then he appeared behind her. And my eyes nearly bulged right out of 
my head. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. “It’s... McCall!” 

2 

“Joe!” he roared. The floor shook as he stomped toward Mindy. 

All the color drained from Mindy’s face. Her hand grasped her paddle so 
tightly that her knuckles turned white. She tried to swing around to look behind 
her, but she couldn’t. Her feet were frozen in her Ping-Pong-ball footprints. 

McCall’s hands balled into two huge fists, and he looked really, really 
angry. 

“I’m going to get you. And this time I’m going to win. Throw me a 
paddle.” 

“You jerk!” Mindy sputtered. “I-I knew it wasn’t Mr. McCall. I knew it was 
Moose.” 

Moose is Mr. McCall’s son and my best friend. His real name is Michael, 
but everyone calls him Moose. Even his parents. 

Moose is the biggest kid in the whole sixth grade. And the strongest. His 
legs are as thick as tree trunks. And so is his neck. And he’s very, very loud. Just 
like his dad. 

Mindy can’t stand Moose. She says he’s a gross slob. 

I think he’s cool. 

“Yo, Joe!” Moose bellowed. “Where’s my paddle?” His big arm muscles 
bulged as he reached out to grab mine. 

I pulled my hand back. But his beefy hand slapped my shoulder so hard that 
my head nearly rolled off. 

“Whoaaa!” I yelped. 

Moose let out a deep laugh that shook the basement walls. And then he 
ended it with a burp. 

“Moose, you’re disgusting,” Mindy groaned. 

Moose scratched his dark brown crew cut. “Gee, thanks, Mindy.” 

“Thanks for what?” she demanded. 

“For this.” He reached out and snatched the paddle right out of her hand. 

Moose swung Mindy’s paddle around wildly in the air. He missed a 
hanging lamp by an inch. “Ready for a real game, Joe?” 

He threw the Ping-Pong ball into the air and drew his powerful arm back. 
Wham! The ball rocketed across the room. It bounced off two walls and flew 

back over the net toward me. 

“Foul!” Mindy cried. “That’s not allowed.” 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. I dove for the ball and missed. Moose has an amazing 
serve. 

Moose slammed the ball again. It shot over the net and whacked me in the 
chest. 

Thwock! 

“Hey!” I cried. I rubbed the stinging spot. 

“Good shot, huh?” He grinned. 

“Yeah. But you’re supposed to hit the table,” I told him. 

Moose pumped his fat fists into the air. “Super Moose!” he bellowed. 
“Strong as a superhero!” 

My friend Moose is a pretty wild guy. Mindy says he’s a total animal. I 
think he’s just got a lot of enthusiasm. 

I served while he was still throwing his arms around. 

“Hey! No fair!” he declared. Moose charged the table and clobbered the 
ball. And flattened it into a tiny white pancake. 

I groaned. “That’s ball number fifteen for this month,” I announced. 

I grabbed the little pancake and tossed it into a blue plastic milk crate on the 
floor. The crate was piled high with dozens of flattened Ping-Pong balls. 

“Hey! I think you broke your record!” I declared. 

“All right!” Moose exclaimed. He leaped on top of the Ping-Pong table and 
began jumping up and down. “Super Moose!” he yelled. 

“Stop it, you jerk!” Mindy screamed. “You’re going to break the table.” She 
covered her face with her hands. 

“Super Moose! Super Moose!” he chanted. 

The Ping-Pong table swayed. Then it sagged under his weight. He was even 
starting to get on my nerves now. “Moose, get off! Get off!” I wailed. 

“Who’s going to make me?” he demanded. 

Then we all heard a loud, sharp craaaaack. 

“You’re breaking it!” Mindy shrieked. “Get off!” 

Moose scrambled off the table. He lurched toward me, holding his hands 
straight out like the zombie monster we’d seen in Killer Zombie from Planet 
Zero on TV. “Now I’m going to destroy you!” 

Then he hurled himself at me. 

As he smashed into me, I staggered back and fell onto the dusty cement 

floor. 

Moose jumped onto my stomach and pinned me down. “Say ‘Moose’s 
tomatoes are the best!’ ” he ordered. He bounced up and down on my chest. 

“Moo... Moose’s,” I wheezed. “Tomat... I can’t... breathe... really... 
help.” 

“Say it!” Moose insisted. He placed his powerful hands around my neck. 
And squeezed. 

“Ugggggh,” I gagged. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. 

My head rolled to the side. 

“Moose!” I heard Mindy shriek. “Let him go! Let him go! What have you 
done to him?” 

3 

“M-Miiindy,” I moaned. 

Moose pulled his hands from my throat and lifted his powerful body off my 
chest. 

“What did you do to him—you big monster?” Mindy shrieked. She knelt 
down by my side and bent over me. She brushed my hair from my eyes. 

“Y-you’re a... a...” I stopped and coughed weakly. 

“What, Joe? What is it?” Mindy demanded softly. 

“You’re a SUCKER!” I exclaimed. And burst out laughing. 

Mindy jerked her head back. “You little weasel!” 

“Tricked you! Tricked you!” I cheered. 

“Way to go, dude!” Moose grinned. 

I scrambled to my feet and slapped Moose a high five. “Suc-ker! Suc-ker!” 
we chanted over and over. 

Mindy folded her skinny arms in front of her and glared at us. “Not funny,” 
she snapped. “I’m never going to believe another word you say! Never!” 

“Oh, I’m sooooo scared!” I said. I knocked my knees together. “See? My 
knees are trembling.” 

“I’m shaking, too,” Moose joined in, wiggling his whole body. 

“You guys are totally juvenile,” she announced. “I’m out of here.” 

She slid her hands into the pockets of her white shorts and stomped away. 
But then she suddenly stopped a few feet from the stairs. 

In front of the high basement window. 

The window that looked out onto Mr. McCall’s front yard. 

She stared up through the window’s sheer white curtain for a second. She 
squinted her eyes. Then she cried out, “No! Oh, no!” 

“Nice try,” I replied, flicking a dust ball from the carpet in her direction. 
“There’s nothing out there. I’m not falling for your lame trick!” 

“No! It’s Buster!” Mindy cried. “He’s next door again!” 

“Huh?” I sprinted to the window. And jumped onto a chair. I yanked the 
filmy curtain aside. 

Yes. There sat Buster. In the middle of the vegetable patch that covered Mr. 

McCall’s front yard. “Oh, wow. He’s in the garden again,” I murmured. 

“My garden! He’d better not be!” Moose declared, stomping up behind me. 
He shoved me off the chair to take a look. “If my dad catches Buster in his 
vegetables, he’ll turn that big mutt into mulch!” 

“Come on! Hurry!” Mindy pleaded, tugging on my arm. “We have to get 
Buster out of there. Right away. Before Moose’s dad catches him!” 

Moose, Mindy, and I raced upstairs and out the front door. We charged 
across our front lawn, toward the McCalls’ house. 

At the edge of our lawn, we leaped across the line of yellow and white 
petunias that Dad had planted. It separates our yard from the McCalls’ garden. 

Mindy squeezed her fingernails deep into my arm. “Buster’s digging!” she 
cried. “He’s going to destroy—the melons!” 

Buster’s powerful front paws worked hard. He scraped at the dirt and green 
plants. Mud and leaves flew everywhere. 

“Stop that, Buster!” Mindy pleaded. “Stop that—now!” 

Buster kept digging. 

Moose glanced at his plastic wristwatch. “You’d better get that dog out of 
there fast,” he warned. “It’s almost six o’clock. My dad comes out to water the 
garden at six sharp.” 

I’m terrified of Mr. McCall. I admit it. He’s so big, he makes Moose look 
like a shrimp! And he’s mean. 

“Buster, get over here!” I begged. Mindy and I both shouted to the dog. 

But Buster ignored our cries. 

“Don’t just stand there. Why don’t you pull that dumb mutt out of there?” 
Moose demanded. 

I shook my head. “We can’t! He’s too big. And stubborn. He won’t budge.” 

I reached under my T-shirt and searched for the shiny metal dog whistle I 
wear on a cord around my neck. I wear it day and night. Even under my 
pajamas. It’s the only thing Buster will obey. 

“It’s two minutes to six,” Moose warned, checking his watch. “Dad will be 
out here any second!” 

“Blow the whistle, Joe!” Mindy cried. 

I brought the whistle up to my mouth. And gave a long, hard blow. 

Moose snickered. “That whistle’s broken,” he said. “It didn’t make a 
sound.” 

“It’s a dog whistle,” Mindy replied in a superior tone. “It makes a really 

high-pitched sound. Dogs can hear them, but people can’t. See?” 

She pointed to Buster. He had lifted his nose out of the dirt and pricked up 
his ears. 

I blew the whistle again. Buster shook the dirt from his fur. 

“Thirty seconds and counting,” Moose told us. 

I blew the silent dog whistle one more time. 

Yes! 

Buster came trotting slowly toward us, wagging his stumpy tail. 

“Hurry, Buster!” I pleaded. “Hurry!” I held my arms open wide. 

“Buster—run—don’t trot!” Mindy begged. 

Too late. 

We heard a loud slam. 

Moose’s front door flew open. 

And Mr. McCall stepped out. 

4 

“Joe! Come over here. Now!” Moose’s dad barked at me. 

He lumbered toward his garden, his big belly bouncing in front of him 
under his blue T-shirt. “Get over here, boy—on the double!” 

Mr. McCall is retired from the army. He’s used to barking out orders. And 
having them obeyed. 

I obeyed. Buster trotted by my side. 

“Was that dog in my garden again?” Mr. McCall demanded, eyeing me 
coldly. His cold stare could make your blood freeze. 

“No, s-sir! ” I stammered. Buster settled down beside me with a loud yawn. 

I usually don’t tell lies. Except to Mindy. But Buster’s life was on the line. I 
had to save Buster. Didn’t I? 

Mr. McCall bounced up to his vegetable patch. He circled his tomatoes, his 
corn, his zucchini, his casaba melons. He examined each stalk and leaf carefully. 

Oh, wow, I thought. We’re in major trouble now. 

Finally, he gazed up at us. His eyes narrowed. “If that mutt wasn’t in here, 
why is the dirt all pawed up?” 

“Maybe it was the wind?” I replied softly. It was worth a try. Maybe he’d 
believe it. 

Moose stood silently next to me. The only time he’s quiet is when his dad is 
around. 

“Um, Mr. McCall,” Mindy began. “We’ll make sure Buster stays out of 
your yard. We promise!” Then she smiled her sweetest smile. 

Mr. McCall scowled. “All right. But if I catch him even sniffing at my 
melons, I’m calling the police and having that dog hauled off to the pound. And I 
mean it.” 

I gulped. I knew he meant it. Mr. McCall doesn’t kid around. 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall snapped. “Bring the hose out here and water these 
casabas! I told you they need to be watered at least five times a day.” 

“See you later,” Moose muttered. He ducked his head and ran toward the 
back of his house for the hose. 

Mr. McCall shot one more dark glance at us. Then he lumbered up his front 
steps and slammed the door. 

“Maybe it was the wind?” Mindy rolled her eyes again. “Wow, that was fast 
thinking, Joe!” She laughed. 

“Oh, yeah? Well, at least I had an answer,” I replied. “And remember, it 
was my whistle that saved Buster. All you did was smile that phony smile.” 

Mindy and I headed toward our house, arguing all the way. But we stopped 
when we heard a low moan. A frightening sound. Buster cocked his ears. 

“Who’s that?” I whispered. 

A second later, we found out. Dad lurched around the side of the house, 
carrying a big watering can. 

He was wearing his favorite gardening outfit—sneakers with holes in both 
toes, baggy plaid shorts, and a red T-shirt that said “I’m All Thumbs in the 
Garden.” 

And he was moaning and groaning. Which was really weird. Because Dad 
is always in an excellent mood when he’s gardening. Whistling. Smiling. 
Cracking lame jokes. 

But not today. 

Today something was wrong. Really wrong. 

“Kids... kids,” he moaned, staggering toward us. “I’ve been looking for 
you.” 

“Dad—what is it? What’s wrong?” Mindy demanded. 

Dad clutched his head and swayed from side to side. He took a deep breath. 
“I-I have something terrible to tell you.” 

5 

“What, Dad?” I cried. “Tell us.” 

Dad spoke in a hoarse whisper. “I found a... a fruit fly on our tomatoes! On 
our biggest tomato. The Red Queen!” 

He wiped his sweaty forehead. “How could this happen? I misted. I 
sprayed. I pruned. Twice this week alone.” 

Dad shook his head in sorrow. “My poor tomatoes. If that fruit fly ruins my 
Red Queen, I-IT1 have to pull out of the garden show!” 

Mindy and I glanced at each other. I knew we were thinking the same thing. 
The adults around here were getting a little weird. 

“Dad, it’s only one fruit fly,” I pointed out. 

“It only takes one, Joe. Just one fruit fly. And our chances for a blue ribbon 
—destroyed. We have to do something. Right away.” 

“What about that new bug spray?” I reminded him. “The stuff that came 
last week from the Green Thumb catalog.” 

Dad’s eyes lit up. He ran a hand through his flat, rumpled hair. “The Bug Be 
Gone!” he exclaimed. 

He jogged up the driveway to the garage. “Come on, kids!” he sang out. 
“Let’s give it a try!” Dad was cheering up. 

Mindy and I raced after him. 

Dad pulled out three spray cans from a carton in the back of the garage. The 
words “Wave Bye-Bye to Bugs with Bug Be Gone!” were printed on the labels. 
A drawing showed a tearful bug carrying a suitcase. Waving bye-bye. 

Dad handed one can to Mindy and one to me. “Let’s get that fruit fly!” he 
cried, as we headed back to our garden. 

We ripped the caps off the cans of Bug Be Gone. “One, two, three... spray!” 
Dad commanded. 

Dad and I showered the two dozen tomato plants tied to wooden stakes in 
the middle of the garden. 

Mindy hadn’t started yet. She was probably reading the ingredients on the 

can. 

“What’s all the fuss about?” my mother called, stepping out the back door. 
Mom was wearing one of her around-the-house outfits. A pair of Dad’s old 

baggy plaid shorts. And an old blue T-shirt he gave her when he came back from 
a business trip a few years ago. The T-shirt said “I Mist You!” One of Dad’s 
lame garden jokes. 

“Hi, honey,” Dad called. “We’re about to destroy a fruit fly. Want to 
watch?” 

Mom laughed, crinkling up the corners of her green eyes. “Pretty tempting. 
But I have to finish a greeting card design.” 

Mom is a graphic artist. She has an office on the second floor of our house. 
She can draw the most incredible pictures on her computer. Amazing sunsets, 
mountains, and flowers. 

“Dinner at seven-thirty, everybody. Okay?” 

“Sounds good,” Dad called as Mom disappeared into the house. “Okay, 
kids. Let’s finish spraying!” 

Dad and I showered the tomato plants one more time. We even sprayed the 
yellow squash plants nearby. Mindy squinted. Aimed the nozzle of her can 
directly at the Red Queen. And let out a single neat drizzle. 

One tiny fruit fly flapped its wings weakly and fell to the ground. Mindy 
smiled in satisfaction. 

“Good work!” Dad exclaimed. 

He clapped us both on the back. “I think this calls for a celebration!” he 
declared. “I have the perfect idea! A quick visit to Lawn Lovely!” 

“Oh, nooooo,” Mindy and I groaned together. 

Lawn Lovely is a store two blocks from our house. It’s the place where Dad 
buys his lawn ornaments. A lot of lawn ornaments. 

Dad is as nuts about lawn ornaments as he is about gardening. We have so 
many lawn ornaments in our front yard, it’s impossible to mow the lawn! 

What a crowd scene! We have two pink plastic flamingos. A cement angel 
with huge white wings. A chrome ball on a silver platform. A whole family of 
plaster skunks. A fountain with two kissing swans. A seal that balances a beach 
ball on its nose. And a chipped plaster deer. 

Weird, huh? 

But Dad really loves them. He thinks they’re art or something. 

And do you know what he does? He dresses them up on holidays. Pilgrim 
hats for the skunks on Thanksgiving. Pirate costumes for the flamingos on 
Halloween. Stove-pipe hats and little black beards for the swans on Lincoln’s 
birthday. 

Of course, neat and tidy Mindy can’t stand the lawn ornaments. Neither can 
Mom. Every time Dad brings a new one home, Mom threatens to toss it into the 
garbage. 

“Dad, these lawn ornaments are totally embarrassing!” Mindy complained. 
“People gawk from their cars and take pictures of our front yard. We’re a tourist 
attraction!” 

“Oh, please,” Dad groaned. “One person took a picture.” 

That was last Christmas. When Dad dressed all the ornaments as Santa’s 
helpers. 

“Yeah. And that picture ended up in the newspaper!” Mindy moaned. “It 
was soooo embarrassing.” 

“Well, I think the ornaments are cool,” I replied. Someone had to defend 
poor Dad. 

Mindy just wrinkled her nose in disgust. 

I know what really bugs Mindy about the ornaments. It’s the way Dad 
sticks them in the yard. Without any order. If Mindy had her way, they would be 
lined up like her shoes. In nice neat rows. 

“Come on, guys,” Dad urged, starting down the driveway. “Let’s go see if a 
new shipment of ornaments has come in.” 

We had no choice. 

Mindy and I trudged down the sidewalk after Dad. As we followed him, we 
thought—no big deal. It’s almost dinnertime. We’ll just glance over the 
ornaments at the store. Then we’ll go home. 

We had no idea we were about to start the most horrifying adventure of our 
lives. 

6 

“Can’t we drive, Dad?” Mindy complained as the three of us hiked up the steep 
Summit Avenue hill toward Lawn Lovely. “It’s too hot to walk.” 

“Oh, come on, Mindy. It’s only a couple of blocks. And it’s good exercise,” 
Dad replied, taking long, brisk strides. 

“But it’s sooooo hot,” Mindy whined. She brushed her bangs away from her 
face and blotted her forehead with her hand. 

Mindy was right. It was hot. But get serious. It was only a two-block walk. 

“I’m hotter than you are,” I teased. Then I leaned into Mindy and shook my 
sweaty head at her. “See?” 

A few small beads of sweat flew onto Mindy’s T-shirt. 

“You are so gross!” she shrieked, drawing back. “Dad! Tell him to stop 
being so disgusting.” 

“We’re almost there,” Dad replied. His voice sounded as if he were a 
million miles away. He was probably dreaming about buying his next lawn 
ornament. 

Just up the block, I spotted the tall, pointy roof of Lawn Lovely. It jutted 
into the sky, towering over all the houses around it. 

What a weird place, I thought. Lawn Lovely is in an old, raggedy three- 
story house, set back from the street. The whole building is painted pink. Bright 
pink. The windows are covered with brightly colored shutters. But none of the 
colors match. 

I think that’s another reason why Mindy hates this place. 

The old house is not in good shape. The wooden floorboards on the front 
porch are all sagging. And there is a hole in the porch where Mr. McCall fell 
through last summer. 

As we marched past the flagpole in the front yard, I spotted Mrs. Anderson 
in the driveway. She owns Lawn Lovely. She lives there, too. On the second and 
third floors. 

Mrs. Anderson kneeled over a flock of pink plastic flamingos. She was 
ripping off their plastic wrap and setting them in crooked rows on her lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson reminds me of a flamingo. She’s real skinny and wears pink 
all the time. Even her hair is sort of pink. Like cotton candy. 

Lawn ornaments are the only things Mrs. Anderson sells. Plaster squirrels. 
Kissing angels. Pink rabbits with wire whiskers. Long green worms wearing 
little black hats. A whole flock of white geese. She has hundreds of ornaments. 
Scattered all over her yard. Up the front steps to the porch. And right through the 
door into the entire first floor of the house. 

Mrs. Anderson carefully unwrapped another flamingo and set it down next 
to a deer. She studied this arrangement, then moved the deer about an inch to the 
left. 

“Hello, Lilah!” my dad called out. 

Mrs. Anderson didn’t answer. She’s a little hard of hearing. 

“Hello, Lilah!” Dad repeated, cupping his hands around his mouth like a 
megaphone. 

Mrs. Anderson raised her head from the flamingos. And beamed at my dad. 
“Jeffrey!” she cried. “How nice to see you.” 

Mrs. Anderson is always friendly to Dad. Mom says he’s her best customer. 

Maybe her only customer! 

“It’s nice to see you, too,” Dad replied. He rubbed his hands together 
eagerly and gazed around the lawn. 

Mrs. Anderson stuck one last flamingo into the ground. She made her way 
over to us, wiping her hands on her pink T-shirt. 

“Do you have something special in mind today?” she asked my father. 

“Our deer is a little lonesome,” he explained, shouting so that she could 
hear him. “I think it needs company.” 

“Really, Dad. We don’t need any more lawn ornaments,” Mindy begged. 
“Mom will be furious.” 

Mrs. Anderson smiled. “Oh, a Lawn Lovely lawn always has room for one 
more! Right, Jeffrey?” 

“Right!” Dad declared. 

Mindy pressed her lips together tightly. She rolled her eyes for the 
hundredth time that day. 

Dad hurried over to a herd of wide-eyed plaster deer, standing in the corner 
of the yard. We followed him. 

The deer stood about four feet tall. White spots dotted their reddish-brown 
bodies. 

Very lifelike. Very boring. 

He studied the deer for a few seconds. Then something caught his eye. 

Two squat gnomes standing in the middle of the lawn. 

“Well, well, what have we here?” Dad murmured, smiling. I could see his 
eyes light up. He bent down to examine the gnomes. 

Mrs. Anderson clapped her hands together. “Jeffrey, you have a wonderful 
eye for lawn ornaments!” she exclaimed. “I knew you’d appreciate the gnomes! 
They were carved in Europe. Very fine work.” 

I stared at the gnomes. They looked like little old men. They were about 
three feet tall and very chubby. With piercing red eyes and large pointy ears. 

Their mouths curved up in wide, silly grins. And coarse brown hair 
sprouted from their heads. 

Each gnome wore a bright green short-sleeved shirt, brown leggings, and a 
tall, pointy orange hat. Both wore black belts tied tightly around their chubby 
waists. 

“They’re terrific!” Dad gushed. “Oh, kids. Aren’t they wonderful?” 

“They’re okay, Dad,” I said. 

“Okay?” Mindy shouted. “They’re horrible ! They’re so gross! They look 
so... so evil. I hate them!” 

“Hey, you’re right, Mindy,” I said. “They are pretty gross. They look just 
like you!” 

“Joe, you are the biggest—” Mindy started. But Dad interrupted her. 

“We’ll take them!” he cried. 

“Dad—no!” Mindy howled. “They’re hideous! Buy a deer. Buy another 
flamingo. But not these ugly old gnomes. Look at the awful colors. Look at 
those evil grins. They’re too creepy!” 

“Oh, Mindy. Don’t be silly. They’re perfect!” Dad exclaimed. “We’ll have 
so much fun with them. We’ll dress them as ghosts for Halloween. In Santa suits 
at Christmas. They look just like Santa’s elves.” 

Dad pulled out his credit card. He and Mrs. Anderson started toward the 
pink house to complete the sale. “I’ll be back in a minute,” he called. 

“These are the ugliest yet,” Mindy groaned, turning to me. “They’re 
completely embarrassing. I’ll never be able to bring any of my friends over 
again.” 

Then she stomped off toward the sidewalk. 

I couldn’t take my eyes away from the gnomes. They were kind of ugly. 
And even though they were smiling, there was something unfriendly about their 
smiles. Something cold about their glassy red eyes. 

“Whoa! Mindy! Look!” I cried. “One of the gnomes just moved!” 

Mindy slowly turned to face me. 

My wrist was held tightly in the chubby hand. I twisted and squirmed. Tried 
to tug free. 

“Let go!” I squealed. “Let go of me! Mindy—hurry!” 

“I—I’m coming!” she cried. 

7 

Mindy came racing across the yard. 

She leaped over the flamingos and sprinted around the deer. 

“Hurry!” I moaned, stretching my left arm out toward her. “He’s hurting 

me!” 

But as my sister came near, her face twisted in fright, I couldn’t keep a 
straight face any longer. I burst out laughing. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha!” I shrieked. I danced away from the plaster gnome. 

Mindy swung around to slug me. Swung and missed. 

“Did you really believe that gnome grabbed me?” I cried. “Are you totally 
losing it?” 

She didn’t have time to reply. Dad came jogging down the pink porch steps. 
“Time to bring our little guys home,” he announced, grinning. 

He stopped and stared down happily at the ugly gnomes. “But let’s name 
them first.” Dad names all of our lawn ornaments. 

Mindy let out a loud groan. Dad ignored her. 

He patted one of the gnomes on the head. “Let’s call this one Hap. Because 
he looks so happy! I’ll carry Hap. You kids take...” 

He stopped and squinted at the other gnome. There was a small chip on the 
gnome’s front tooth. “Chip. Yep, we’ll call this one Chip.” 

Dad hoisted Hap into his arms. “Whoaaa. He’s an armful!” He made his 
way toward the driveway, staggering under the gnome’s weight. 

Mindy studied Chip. “You take the feet. I’ll grab the top,” she ordered. 
“Come on. One, two, three... lift!” 

I stooped down and grabbed the gnome by its legs. Its heavy red boot 
scraped my arm. I let out a cry. 

“Quit complaining,” Mindy ordered. “At least you don’t have this stupid 
pointy hat sticking in your face.” 

We struggled down the hill, following Dad. 

Mindy and I inched forward, struggling side by side. “Everyone in the 
neighborhood is gawking at us,” Mindy moaned. 

They were. Two girls from Mindy’s school, wheeling their bikes up the hill, 
stopped and stared. Then they burst out laughing. 

Mindy’s pale face grew as red as one of Dad’s tomatoes. “I’ll never live this 
down,” she grumbled. “Come on, Joe. Walk faster.” 

I jiggled Chip’s legs to make Mindy lose her grip. But the only thing she 
lost was her temper. “Quit it, Joe,” she snapped. “And hold your end up higher.” 

As we neared our house, Mr. McCall spotted us trudging up the block. He 
stopped pruning his shrubs to admire our little parade. 

“More lawn ornaments, Jeffrey?” he called out to Dad. I could hear him 
chuckling. 

Mr. McCall is mean to Mindy and me. But he and Dad get along fine. 
They’re always kidding each other about their gardens. 

Mrs. McCall poked her head out the front door. “Cute!” she called out, 
smiling at us from under her white baseball cap. “Come on in, Bill. Your brother 
is on the phone.” 

Mr. McCall set his pruning sheers down and went inside. 

We lugged Chip past the McCall driveway and followed Dad into our front 

yard. 

“Over here!” Dad instructed as he set Hap down in the far corner of the 
yard. Next to Deer-lilah. Deer-lilah is the deer. Dad named her after Lilah from 
Lawn Lovely. 

With our last bit of strength, we dragged Chip over to Dad. These gnomes 
were heavy. They weighed a lot more than our other ornaments. 

Mindy and I plopped the gnome down on the grass and collapsed in the dirt 
next to him. 

Whistling happily, Dad set Chip on one side of the deer. And Hap on the 
other. 

He stepped back to study them. “What cheerful little guys!” he declared. 
“I’ve got to show your mom. She won’t be able to resist them! They’re too cute 
to hate!” 

He hurried across the lawn and into the house. 

“Yo!” I heard a familiar cry from next door. Moose jogged across his 
driveway. “I hear you have some ugly new lawn things.” 

He charged up to the gnomes and stared. “Way ugly,” he boomed. 

Moose leaned down and stuck his tongue out at Hap. “You want to fight, 
shrimp?” he asked the little statue. “Take that!” He pretended to punch Hap in 
his chubby chest. 

“Wreck the runt!” I cried. 

Moose grabbed the gnome around his waist and gave him a dozen quick 
punches. 

I scrambled to my feet. “I’ll wipe that ugly grin off your face!” I yelled at 
Chip. I closed my hands around the gnome’s neck and pretended to choke him. 

“Watch this!” Moose shot out a thick leg and karate-kicked Hap in his small 
pointy hat. The squat figure wobbled. 

“Careful! Stop messing around!” Mindy warned. “You’re going to break 
them.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Let’s tickle them!” 

“Tickle, tickle!” Moose squeaked as he tickled Hap under the armpits. 

“You’re a riot, Moose,” Mindy declared. “Areal—” 

Moose and I waited for Mindy to finish insulting us. But instead, she 
pointed to the McCalls’ garden and screamed, “Oh, no! Buster!” 

Moose and I spun around and spied Buster. In the middle of Mr. McCall’s 
garden, pawing away at the green stalks. 

“Buster! No!” I screamed. 

I grabbed the dog whistle and raised it to my mouth. But before I could 
blow, Mr. McCall exploded out of his front door! 

“That stupid mutt again!” he shouted, waving his arms wildly. “Get out of 
here! Shoo!” 

Buster whimpered, turned, and trotted back to our yard, head down, stumpy 
tail between his legs. 

Uh-oh, I thought, studying Mr. McCall’s angry face. We’re in for trouble 

now. 

But before Mr. McCall could start lecturing us, Dad pushed the front door 
open. “Kids, your mother says that dinner is almost ready.” 

“Jeffrey, are you deliberately sending that mutt over to ruin my melons?” 
Mr. McCall called. 

Dad grinned. “Buster can’t help it,” he replied. “He keeps mistaking your 
melons for golf balls! ” 

“Are those tomatoes you’re growing?” Moose’s dad shot back. “Or are they 
olives?” 

“Didn’t you see the tomato I rolled into the house yesterday?” Dad replied. 
“I had to use a wheelbarrow!” 

Buster danced around the yard. I think somehow he knew he had escaped 
big trouble. 

We started for the house. But I stopped when I heard a heavy thud. 

I whirled around to discover Hap lying face down in the grass. 

Buster busily licked his face. 

“Bad dog,” Dad scolded. I don’t think Dad likes Buster any more than Mr. 
McCall does. “Did you knock that gnome over? Get away from there!” 

“Buster—come here, boy!” I called. But he ignored me and licked at the 
face more furiously than ever. 

I brought my dog whistle to my lips and gave one quick short blow. Buster 
raised his head, alert to the sound. He forgot about the plaster gnome and trotted 
over to me. 

“Joe, pick Hap up, will you?” Dad demanded, annoyed. 

Mindy held onto Buster. I grabbed the gnome by his shoulders and slowly 
heaved him to his feet. Then I checked for damage. 

Legs. Arms. Neck. Everything seemed okay. 

I raised my eyes to Hap’s face. 

And jumped back in surprise. 

I blinked a few times. And stared at the gnome again. 

“I—I don’t believe it!” I murmured. 

8 

The gnome’s smile had vanished. 

Its mouth stood open wide, as if trying to scream. 

“Hey—!” I choked out. 

“What’s wrong?” Dad called. “Is it broken?” 

“Its smile!” I cried. “Its smile is gone! It looks scared or something!” 

Dad jumped down the steps and ran over. Moose and Mr. McCall joined 

him. 

Mindy walked slowly in my direction, with a suspicious scowl on her face. 
She probably thought I was playing another joke. 

“See?” I cried as everyone gathered around me. “It’s unbelievable!” 

“Ha-ha! Good one, Joe!” Moose burst out. He punched me in the shoulder. 
“Pretty funny.” 

“Huh?” I lowered my eyes to the little figure. 

Hap’s lips were curved up in a grin. The same silly grin he always wore. 
The terrified expression had disappeared. 

Dad let out a hearty laugh. “Good acting job, Joe,” he said. “You really 
fooled us all.” 

“Maybe your son should be an actor,” Mr. McCall said, scratching his head. 
“He didn’t fool me,” Mindy bragged. “That one was lame. Really lame.” 
What had happened? Had I imagined that open mouth? 

Mr. McCall turned to Buster. “Listen, Jeffrey,” he started. “I’m serious 
about that dog of yours. If he comes into my garden again...” 

“If Buster goes over there again, I promise we’ll tie him up,” Dad replied. 
“Aw, Dad,” I said. “You know Buster hates to be tied up. He hates it!” 
“Sorry, kids,” Dad said, turning to go inside. “That’s it. Buster gets one 
more chance.” 

I bent down to pet Buster’s head. “Only one more chance, boy,” I 
whispered in his ear. “Did you hear that? You only get one more chance.” 

I woke up the next morning and squinted at the clock radio on my night table. 
Eight A.M. Tuesday. The second day of summer vacation. Excellent! 

I threw on my purple-and-white Vikings jersey and my gym shorts and ran 
downstairs. Time to mow the lawn. 

Dad and I had an agreement. If I mowed the lawn once a week all summer, 
Dad would buy me a new bike. 

I knew exactly which model I wanted, too. Twenty-one gears and really fat 
tires. The coolest mountain bike ever. I’d be able to fly over boulders! 

I let myself out the front door and raised my face to the warm morning sun. 
It felt pretty good. The grass shimmered, still covered with dew. 

“Joe!” I heard a loud bellow. 

Mr. McCall’s bellow. “Get over here!” 

Mr. McCall leaned over his vegetable patch. An angry red vein throbbed in 
his forehead. 

Oh, no, I thought as I edged toward him. What now? 

“I’ve had it,” he roared. “If you don’t tie that dog up, I’m calling the police! 
I mean it!” 

Mr. McCall pointed to the ground. One of his casaba melons lay in the dirt, 
broken into jagged pieces. Melon seeds were scattered everywhere. And most of 
the orange fruit had been eaten away. 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. I didn’t know what to say. 
Lucky for me, Dad showed up just in time. He was on his way to work. 

“Is my son giving you some gardening advice, Bill?” he asked. 

“No jokes today!” Mr. McCall snapped. He scooped up the broken pieces of 
melon and shoved them in my dad’s face. “See what your wild dog has done! 
Now I have only four melons left!” 

Dad turned to me. His expression grew stern. “I warned you, Joe! I told you 
to keep the dog in our yard.” 

“But Buster didn’t do this,” I protested. “He doesn’t even like melons!” 

Buster skulked around behind the flamingos. His ears drooped flat against 
his head. His tail hung low between his legs. He looked really guilty. 

“Well, who else could have done it?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

Dad shook his head. “Joe, I want you to tie Buster up in the back. Now!” 

I saw that I had no choice. No way I could argue. 

“Okay, Dad,” I mumbled. I shuffled across the lawn and grabbed Buster’s 
collar. I hauled him to the corner of the back yard and sat him next to his red 
cedar doghouse. “Stay!” I commanded. 

I rummaged through the garage until I found a long piece of rope. Then I 

tied Buster to the tall oak tree next to his doghouse. 

Buster whimpered. He really hates being tied up. 

“I’m sorry, boy,” I whispered. “I know you didn’t eat that melon.” 

Buster pricked up his ears as Dad came around back to make sure I had tied 
the dog up. “It’s just as well that Buster is tied up today,” he said. “The painters 
are starting on the house this afternoon. Buster would only be in their way.” 

“Painters?” I asked in surprise. Nobody told me that painters were coming. 
I hate the smell of paint! 

Dad nodded. “They’re going to paint over that faded yellow,” he said, 
pointing to the house. “We’re having the house painted white with black trim.” 

“Dad, about Buster...” I started. 

Dad held up a hand to silence me. “I have to get to work. Keep him tied up. 
We’ll talk later.” I watched him make his way to the garage. 

This is all Mr. McCall’s fault, I thought. All of it! After Dad drove away, I 
stamped angrily into the garage and grabbed the lawn mower. I pushed the 
mower around the side of the house and into the front yard. Mindy sat on the 
front steps, reading. I rammed the mower forward. 

“I hate Mr. McCall!” I exclaimed. I shoved the mower around a flamingo. I 
felt like slicing off its skinny legs. “He is such a jerk. I’d like to smash the other 
four stupid melons!” I cried. “I’d love to wreck them all so Mr. McCall will 
leave us alone!” 

“Joe, get a grip,” Mindy called, peering up from her book. 

After I finished mowing, I ran into the house and grabbed a large plastic 
bag for the grass clippings. When I came back out, Moose was sprawled on our 
lawn. Several brightly colored plastic rings lay scattered on the grass around 
him. 

“Think fast!” he cried. He hurled a blue plastic ring at me. I dropped the 
bag and leaped for it. 

“Nice catch!” he said, scrambling to his feet. “How about a game of ring 
toss? We’ll use the gnomes’ pointy hats.” 

“How about using Mindy’s pointy head?” I replied. 

“You are so immature,” Mindy said. She stood and walked to the door. “I’m 
going to find some place quiet to read.” 

Moose handed me a few rings. He flung a purple one toward Hap. The ring 
slid neatly around the gnome’s hat. 

“What a throw!” he exclaimed. 

I took a ring and spun around like a discus thrower. I tossed two yellow 
rings at Chip. They slapped against the gnome’s fat face and slipped to the grass. 

Moose chuckled. “You throw like Mindy. Watch me!” He leaned forward 
and hurled two rings. They settled neatly around Chip’s pointy hat. 

“Yes!” Moose cried. He flexed his bulging muscles. “Super Moose rules 
again!” 

We tossed the rest of the rings. Moose beat me. But only by two points— 
ten to eight. 

“Rematch!” I cried. “Let’s play again!” 

I dashed over to the gnomes and gathered up the rings. As I pulled a 
handful from Chip’s hat, I stared into his face. 

And gasped. 

What was that? 

A seed. 

An orange seed about half an inch long. 

Stuck between the gnome’s fat lips. 

9 

“Is that a melon seed?” I asked, my voice trembling. 

“A what?” Moose stomped up behind me. 

“A melon seed,” I repeated. 

Moose shook his head. He clapped a big hand against my shoulder. “You’re 
seeing things,” he declared. “Come on, let’s play!” 

I pointed to Chip’s mouth. “I’m not seeing things. There! Right there! Don’t 
you see it?” 

Moose’s gaze followed my finger. “Yeah. I see a seed. So what?” 

“It’s a casaba melon seed, Moose. Like the ones scattered on the ground.” 

How could a casaba seed find its way into Chip’s mouth? 

There had to be an explanation. A simple explanation. 

I thought hard. I couldn’t think of one. 

I brushed the seed from the gnome’s lips and watched it flutter to the grass. 

Then I stared at the gnome’s grinning face. Into those cold, flat eyes. 

And the gnome stared back at me. I shivered in the heat. 

How did that seed get there? I wondered. How? 

I dreamed about melons that night. I dreamed that a casaba melon grew in our 
front yard. Grew and grew and grew. Bigger than our house. 

Something startled me out of my melon dream. I fumbled for my alarm 
clock. One A.M. 

Then I heard a howl. Alow, mournful howl. Outside the house. 

I jumped out of bed and hurried to the window. I peered into the shadowy 
front yard. The lawn ornaments stood in silence. 

I heard the howl again. Louder. Longer. 

It was Buster. My poor dog. Tied up in the back yard. 

I crept out of my room and down the dark hall. The house was quiet. I 
started down the carpeted stairs. 

A step squeaked under my foot. I jumped, startled. 

A second later, I heard another creak. 

My legs were shaking. 

Cool it, Joe, I told myself. It’s only the steps. 

I tiptoed through the darkened living room and into the kitchen. I heard 
low, rustling sound behind me. My heart started to pound. 

I whirled around. 

Nothing there. 

You’re hearing things, I told myself. 

I stumbled forward in the dark. Closed my hand around the doorknob. 

And two powerful hands grabbed me from behind! 

10 

“Where do you think you’re going?” 

Mindy! 

I breathed a sigh of relief. And yanked myself away from her grasp. 

“I’m going for a midnight snack,” I whispered, rubbing my neck. “I’m 
going to eat the rest of Mr. McCall’s stupid melons.” 

I pretended to cram my mouth full and chew. “Yum! Casabas. I need more 
casabas!” 

“Joe! You’d better not!” Mindy whispered in alarm. 

“Hey, I’m kidding,” I said. “Buster is howling like crazy. I’m going out to 
calm him down.” 

Mindy yawned. “If Mom and Dad catch you sneaking out in the middle of 
the night...” 

“It’ll just take a few minutes.” I stepped outside. The damp night air sent a 
small chill down my back. I gazed up at the starless night sky. 

Buster’s pitiful howls rose from the back. 

“I’m coming,” I called in a loud whisper. “It’s okay, boy.” 

Buster’s howls dropped to quiet whimpers. 

I took a step forward. Something rustled through the grass. I froze in place. 
And squinted into the darkness. Two small figures scampered by the side of the 
house. They scraped across the yard and disappeared into the night. 

Probably raccoons. 

Raccoons? 

That’s the answer! The raccoons must have eaten Mr. McCall’s melon. I 
wanted to wake up Dad and tell him. But I decided to wait till morning. 

I felt much better. That meant that Buster could be set free. I made my way 
over to Buster and sat next to him on the dew-wet grass. 

“Buster,” I whispered. “I’m here.” 

His big brown eyes drooped sadly. I threw my arms around his furry neck. 
“You won’t be tied up for long, Buster,” I promised. “You’ll see. I’ll tell Dad 
about the raccoons first thing in the morning.” 

Buster licked my hand gratefully. “And tomorrow I’ll take you for a long 
walk,” I whispered. “How’s that, boy? Now go to sleep.” 

I slipped back inside the house and jumped into bed. I felt good. I had 
solved the mystery of the melon. Our troubles with Mr. McCall were over, I 
thought. 

But I thought wrong. 

Our troubles were just beginning. 

“I don’t believe it! I don’t believe it!” Mr. McCall’s cries cut through the quiet 
morning, waking me from my heavy sleep. 

I rubbed my eyes and glanced at the clock radio. Six-thirty A.M. 

What’s all the screaming about? 

I hopped out of bed and hurried downstairs, yawning and stretching. Mom, 
Dad, and Mindy were at the front door, still in pajamas and robes. 

“What’s happening?” I asked. 

“It’s Bill!” Dad cried. “Come on!” 

We piled outside and stared into our neighbors’ garden. 

Mr. McCall hung over his vegetable patch in a tattered blue-and-white- 
checkered robe. He grabbed frantically at his casaba melons, screaming. 

Moose and his mother stood behind Mr. McCall in their robes, wide-eyed 
and silent. Instead of her usual friendly smile, Moose’s mom wore a grim frown. 

Mr. McCall lifted his head from the garden. “Ruined!” he roared. “They’re 
totally ruined!” 

“Oh, boy,” Dad muttered. “We’d better get over there, Marion.” He started 
across our front lawn. Mom, Mindy, and I followed. 

“Take it easy, Bill,” my dad said calmly as he stepped into the McCalls’ 
front yard. “Nothing is worth getting so upset about.” 

“Easy? Take it easy?” Mr. McCall shrieked. The vein in his forehead 
throbbed. 

The raccoons, I thought. They attacked the casabas again. I’ve got to tell 
Dad. Now. Before Buster gets blamed for this, too. 

Mr. McCall cradled his four casaba melons in his hands. They were still 
attached to the vine. 

“I came out to water my casabas and I found this... this...” He was too 
upset to finish. He held the melons out to us. 

“Whoa!” I cried in amazement. 

No raccoon could have done this. 

No way. 

Someone had taken a black marker and drawn big, sloppy smiley faces on 
each melon! 

My sister shoved me aside to get a good look. 

“Joe!” she shrieked. “That’s horrible. How could you!” 

11 

“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall demanded. 

“Yes, Mindy, what are you talking about?” Mom asked. 

“I caught Joe sneaking outside last night,” Mindy replied. “In the middle of 
the night. He told me he wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

Everyone turned to stare at me in horror. Even Moose, my best friend. Mr. 
McCall’s face was as red as a tomato again. I saw him clenching and 
unclenching his fists. 

Everyone stared at me in shocked silence. The smiley faces on the melons 
stared at me, too. 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

Before I could explain, Dad exploded. “Joe, I think you owe us an 
explanation. What were you doing outside in the middle of the night?” 

I felt my face grow red-hot with anger. “I went out to calm Buster down,” I 
insisted. “He was howling. I didn’t touch the melons. I would never do anything 
like that. I was only joking when I told Mindy I wanted to wreck them!” 

“Well, this is no joke!” Dad exclaimed angrily. “You are grounded for the 
week!” 

“But, Dad—!” I pleaded. “I didn’t draw on those melons!” 

“Make that two weeks!” he snapped. “And I think you should mow Mr. 
McCall’s grass and water his garden all month. As an apology.” 

“Whoa, Jeffrey,” Mr. McCall interrupted. “I don’t want your son—or your 
dog—in my garden again. Ever.” 

He rubbed the casaba melons with his huge fingers, trying to erase the ugly 
black stains. “I hope this comes off,” he muttered. “Because if it doesn’t, Jeffrey, 
I’ll sue. Believe me, I will!” 

Two hours after the melon disaster, I sprawled on the floor of my room. 
Grounded. With nothing to do. 

I couldn’t play with Buster in the yard. Because the painters were outside. 

So I stayed in my room and reread all of my Super Gamma Man comic 
books. 

I ordered a glob of rubber vomit from the Joker’s Wild catalog for five 

dollars. That’s most of my weekly allowance. Then I sneaked into Mindy’s room 
and mixed up all the clothes in her closet. No more colors in rainbow order. 

When I had finished, it still wasn’t even noon. 

What a totally boring day, I thought, as I wandered downstairs. 

“Hand me the yellow, please,” Mindy’s voice rang out from the den. 

I crept toward the door and peeked in. Mindy and her best friend, Heidi, sat 
cross-legged on the floor. They were decorating T-shirts with fabric paint. 

Heidi is almost as annoying as Mindy. Something is always bothering her. 
She’s too cold. Or too hot. Or her stomach hurts. Or her shoelaces are too tight. 

I watched silently as the two girls worked. Heidi drew a silver collar on a 
large purple cat. 

Mindy hunched over in concentration and slowly outlined a large yellow 
flower. 

I leaped into the den. “Boo!” I screamed. 

“Yaii!” Heidi shrieked. 

Mindy jumped up, smearing a big yellow blotch on her red shorts. “You 
jerk!” she cried. “See what you made me do!” 

She scraped at the paint with her fingernails. “Beat it, Joe,” she ordered. 
“We’re busy.” 

“Well, I’m not,” I replied. “Thanks to you, Miss Snitch.” 

“It was your bright idea to draw faces on those melons,” she snarled. “Not 
mine.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I insisted. 

Mindy counted off the evidence on her fingers. 

“You were up in the middle of the night. You went out in the yard. And you 
told me you wanted to wreck the rest of the melons.” 

“I was joking!” I exclaimed. “Don’t you know what a joke is? You should 
try making one sometime.” 

Heidi stretched out her arms. “I’m hot,” she said. “Why don’t we go to the 
pool? We can finish our shirts later.” 

Mindy fixed her eyes on me. “Joe, do you want to go with us?” she asked in 
a sweet voice. “Whoops. I forgot. You’re grounded.” Then she burst out 
laughing. 

I turned and left the two girls in the den. I have to get out of this house, I 
thought. 

I headed for the kitchen. Mom and the painter huddled together at the 

counter, checking paint swatches. 

“We want the onyx black for the trim. Not the pitch black,” she instructed, 
tapping the swatches. “I think you brought the wrong paint.” 

I tugged on her sleeve. “Mom. Buster’s really bored. Can I take him for a 
walk?” 

“Of course not,” she replied quickly. “You’re grounded.” 

“Please,” I begged. “Buster needs a walk. And that paint smell is making 
me sick.” I held my stomach and made gagging sounds. 

The painter shifted impatiently from foot to foot. “Okay, okay,” Mom said. 
“Take the dog.” 

“Excellent! Thanks, Mom!” I cried. I darted through the kitchen and into 
the back yard. “Good news, Buster,” I exclaimed. “We’re free!” 

Buster wagged his stumpy tail. I untied the long rope and clipped a short 
leash to his collar. 

We walked about two miles. All the way down to Buttermilk Pond. That’s 
our favorite stick-chasing spot. 

I tossed a fat stick into the water. Buster plunged into the cold pond and 
fetched it. We did that over and over until it was three o’clock. Time to go home. 

On the way back to the house, we stopped at the Creamy Cow. They have 
the best ice cream in town. 

I used the last bit of my allowance to treat us both to double-dip chocolate- 
chip cookie dough cones. Buster liked the cookie dough, but he left all the 
chocolate chips on the ground. 

After we finished our ice cream, we continued home. Buster pulled at his 
leash excitedly as we strolled up the driveway. He seemed really happy to be 
back. 

He dragged me into the front yard and sniffed everything. The evergreen 
bushes. The flamingos. The deer. The gnomes. 

The gnomes. 

Was something different about the gnomes? 

I dropped Buster’s leash and bent down for a closer look. 

I studied their fat little hands. What were those dark smudges on their 
fingertips. Dirt? 

I rubbed their chubby fingers. But the smudges remained. 

No. Not dirt. 

I leaned in closer. 

Paint. Black paint. 

12 

Black paint. The same color as the smiley faces on Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I swallowed hard. What’s going on here? I wondered. How could the 
gnomes’ hands be covered in paint? 

I’ve got to show someone, I decided. 

Mom! She’s in the house. She’ll help me figure this out. 

As I reached our front door, I heard a scraping sound coming from the 
McCalls’ yard. 

“Buster! No!” I shouted. 

Buster circled Mr. McCall’s vegetable patch, his leash dragging behind him. 

I quickly shoved my hand under my T-shirt and yanked out my dog whistle. 
I blew it hard. 

Buster trotted right back to me. 

“Good boy!” I cried in relief. I shook my finger in his face. I tried to be 
stern. “Buster, if you don’t want to be tied up, you have to stay out of that 
garden!” 

Buster licked my finger with his long, sticky tongue. Then he turned to lick 
the gnomes. 

I watched Buster slobber all over them. 

“Oh, no!” I cried. “Not again!” 

Chip’s and Hap’s mouths gaped wide open. In the same terrified 
expressions I had seen before. As if they were trying to scream. 

I slammed my eyes shut. I opened one slowly. 

The terrified expressions remained. 

What was going on here? Were the gnomes afraid of Buster? Was I going 
crazy? 

My hands trembled as I quickly tied Buster to the tree. Then I ran into the 
house to search for Mom. 

“Mom! Mom!” I panted breathlessly. I found her upstairs, working in her 
office. “You’ve got to come outside! Now!” 

Mom whirled around from her computer. “What’s wrong?” she demanded. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I cried. “There’s black paint on their hands. And they’re 

not grinning anymore. Come out. You’ll see!” 

Mom slowly shoved her chair away from the computer. “Joe, if this is 
another joke...” 

“Please, Mom. It will just take a second. It’s not a joke. Really!” 

Mom led the way downstairs. She gazed at the gnomes from the front door. 

“See?” I cried, standing behind her. “I told you! Look at their faces. They 
look like they’re screaming!” 

Mom narrowed her eyes. “Joe, give me a break. Why did you get me away 
from my work? They have the same dumb grins they always have.” 

“What?” I gasped. I ran outside. I stared at the gnomes. 

They stared back at me. Grinning. 

“Joe, I really wish you’d stop the dumb gnome jokes,” Mom said sharply. 
“They’re not funny. Not funny at all.” 

“But look at the paint on their fingers!” 

“That’s just dirt,” she said impatiently. “Please, go read a book. Or clean 
your room. Find something to do. You’re driving me crazy!” 

I sat down on the grass. Alone. To think. 

I thought about the casaba seed on one of the gnome’s lips. I remembered 
the first time their mouths had twisted in horror. That was the first time Buster 
had licked them. 

And now they had paint on their fingers. 

It all added up. 

The gnomes are alive, I decided. 

And they’re doing horrible things in the McCalls’ garden. 

The gnomes? Doing horrible things? I must be losing my mind! 

Suddenly, I didn’t feel too well. Nothing made any sense. 

I stood up to go inside. 

And heard whispers. 

Gruff whispers. Down at my feet. 

“Not funny, Joe,” Hap whispered. 

“Not funny at all,” Chip rasped. 

13 

Should I tell Mom and Dad what I heard? I wondered as we ate dinner that 
night. 

“How was everyone’s day?” Dad asked cheerfully. He spooned some peas 
onto his dinner plate. 

They’ll never believe me. 

“Heidi and I rode our bikes to the pool,” Mindy piped up. She arranged a 
mound of tuna casserole on her plate into a neat square. Then she flicked a stray 
pea away. “But she got a cramp in her leg, so we mostly sunbathed.” 

I have to tell. 

“I heard something really weird this afternoon,” I burst out. “Really, really 
weird.” 

“You interrupted me!” Mindy said sharply. She blotted her mouth carefully 
with her napkin. 

“But this is important!” I exclaimed. I started shredding my napkin 
nervously. “I was in the front yard. All alone. And I heard whispers.” 

I made my voice low and gruff. “The voices said, ‘Not funny, Joe. Not 
funny.’ I don’t know who it was. Nobody was there. I... uh... think it was the 
gnomes.” 

Mom banged her glass of lemonade down on the table. “Enough with these 
gnome jokes!” she declared. “No one thinks they’re funny, Joe.” 

“But it’s true!” I cried, crushing my shredded napkin into a ball. “I heard 
the voices!” 

Mindy uttered a scornful laugh. “You are so lame,” she said. “Please pass 
the bread, Dad.” 

“Sure, honey,” Dad replied, handing her the wooden tray of dinner rolls. 

And that was the end of that. 

After dinner, Dad suggested that we water the tomatoes. 

“Okay,” I replied with a shrug. Anything to get out of the house. 

“Want me to get the Bug Be Gone?” I asked as we stepped outside. 

“No! No!” he gasped. His face turned ghostly pale. 

“What’s wrong, Dad? What is it?” 

He pointed silently at the tomato patch. 

“Ohhh,” I moaned. “Oh, no!” 

Our beautiful red tomatoes had been crushed, mangled, and maimed—seeds 
and pulpy red tomato flesh everywhere. 

Dad stared openmouthed, his hands balled into fists. “Who would do such a 
terrible thing?” he sighed. 

My heart began to throb. My pulse raced. 

I knew the truth. And now everyone would have to believe me. 

“The gnomes did it, Dad!” I grabbed the sleeve of his shirt and began 
tugging him to the front yard. “You’ll see. I’ll prove it!” 

“Joe, let go of me. This is no time for jokes. Don’t you realize that we’re 
out of the garden show? We’ve lost our chance for a blue ribbon! Or any ribbon, 
for that matter.” 

“You have to believe me, Dad. Come on.” I held tightly onto Dad’s sleeve. 
And I wouldn’t let go. 

As I dragged him out front, I wondered what we would find. 

Blood-red tomato juice smeared all over their ugly faces? 

Squishy pulp hanging from their tiny fat fingers? 

Hundreds of seeds stuck to their creepy little feet? 

We approached the gnomes. 

My eyes narrowed on the hideous creatures. 

And finally we stood right before them. 

And I couldn’t believe what we found. 

14 

Nothing. 

No juice. 

No pulp. 

Not a single seed. Not one. 

I searched their bodies. Frantically. From their ugly, grinning faces to their 
creepy, stubby toes. 

No clues. Nothing. 

How could I have been wrong? My stomach lurched as I turned to face my 

dad. 

“Dad...” I started in a shaky voice. 

Dad cut me off with an angry wave of his hand. “There’s nothing to see 
here, Joe,” he muttered. “I don’t want to hear another word about the gnomes. 
Understand? Not one!” 

His brown eyes flashed with fury. “I know who’s responsible for this!” he 
said bitterly. “And he’s not going to get away with it!” 

He whirled around and trotted into the back yard. He scooped up a handful 
of smashed tomato. 

The juice oozed between his fingers as he circled the house and charged 
next door. 

I watched Dad march up the McCalls’ steps and jab at the doorbell. He 
began howling before anyone answered the ring. “Bill! Come out here. Now!” 

I crouched behind Dad. I’d never seen him this angry before. 

I heard the lock turn. The door swung open. And there stood Mr. McCall. In 
a white jogging outfit. Holding a half-eaten pork chop in one hand. 

“Jeffrey, what are you yelling about? It’s difficult to digest with all this 
noise.” He chuckled. 

“Well, digest this!” Dad screamed. Then he brought his hand up and hurled 
the smashed tomatoes. 

They splattered against Mr. McCall’s white T-shirt and dribbled down his 
white sweatpants. Some of the mushy pulp landed on his clean white sneakers. 

Mr. McCall stared down at his clothes in total disbelief. “Are you nuts?” he 
bellowed. 

“No. You are!” my father shrieked. “How could you do this? For a stupid 
blue ribbon!” 

“What are you talking about?” Mr. McCall shouted. 

“Oh, I see. Now you’re going to play innocent. You’re going to pretend you 
don’t know anything. Well, you’re not going to get away with this.” 

Mr. McCall stomped down the steps and planted himself about an inch 
away from my dad. He puffed out his broad chest and hung over my father 
menacingly. 

“I didn’t touch your lousy tomatoes!” he roared. “You wimp! You probably 
bought your blue-ribbon tomatoes last year.” 

Dad shook an angry fist in Mr. McCall’s glaring face. “My tomatoes were 
the best at the show! Yours looked like raisins next to mine! And whoever heard 
of growing casabas in Minnesota, anyway? You’re going to be the joke of the 
garden show!” 

My whole body shuddered. They’re going to get into a fist fight, I realized. 
And Mr. McCall will squash my dad. 

“Joke?” Mr. McCall growled. “You’re the joke. You and your sour 
tomatoes. And those stupid lawn ornaments! Now leave before I really lose 
control!” 

Mr. McCall stomped up to his front door. Then he spun around and said, “I 
don’t want my son hanging around with Joe anymore! Your son probably 
wrecked your tomatoes. Just as he wrecked my melons!” 

He disappeared into the house, slamming the door so hard, the porch shook. 

That night I tossed and turned in bed for hours. Faces painted on melons. 
Crushed tomatoes. 

Whispering lawn gnomes. I couldn’t think of anything else. 

It was way after midnight, but I couldn’t sleep. The gnomes with their 
leering smiles danced before my closed eyes. 

Those grinning faces. Laughing. Laughing at me. 

Suddenly the room felt hot and stuffy. I kicked off the thin sheet that 
covered my legs. Still too hot. 

I jumped out of bed and headed for my window. I threw it wide open. 
Warm, wet air rushed in. 

I rested my arms on the windowsill and peered out into the darkness. It was 
a foggy night. A thick gray mist swirled over the front yard. Despite the heat, I 

felt a chill down my back. I had never seen it this foggy before. 

The fog shifted slightly. The angel slowly came into view as the fog moved 
away. Then the seal. The skunks. The swans. A flash of pink—the flamingos. 
And there stood the deer. 

Alone. 

All alone. 

The gnomes were gone. 

15 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried. Racing to their bedroom. “Wake up! Wake up! The 
gnomes are gone!” 

Mom bolted straight up. “What? What’s wrong?” 

Dad didn’t budge. 

“It’s the gnomes!” I shouted, shaking Dad’s shoulder. “Wake up!” 

My father opened one eye and squinted up at me. “What time is it?” he 
mumbled. 

“Get up, Dad!” I pleaded. 

Mom groaned as she snapped on the light next to her bed. “Joe. It’s so late. 
Why did you wake us up?” 

“They’re—they’re gone!” I stammered. “They disappeared. I’m not 
kidding. I’m really not.” 

My parents glanced at each other. Then they glared at me. “Enough!” Mom 
cried. “We’re tired of your jokes. And it’s the middle of the night! Get to bed!” 

“Right now!” Dad added sternly. “We’ve had just about enough of this 
nonsense. We’re going to have a serious talk about this. In the morning.” 

“But—but—but—” I stammered. 

“Go!” Dad shouted. 

I backed out of the room slowly, stumbling over someone’s slipper. 

I should have realized that they wouldn’t believe me. But someone had to 
believe me. Someone had to. 

I raced down the dark hall to Mindy’s room. As I neared her bed, I could 
hear the whistling sounds she always makes when she lies on her back. She was 
fast asleep. 

I stared down at her for a moment. Should I wake her? Would she believe 

me? 

I patted her on the cheek. “Mindy. Wake up,” I whispered. 

Nothing. 

I called her name again. A little louder. 

Her eyes fluttered open. “Joe?” she asked drowsily. 

“Get up. Quick!” I whispered. “You have to see this!” 

“Have to see what?” she groaned. 

“The gnomes. The gnomes have disappeared!” I exclaimed. “I think they 
ran away! Please, get up. Please.” 

“The gnomes?” she mumbled. 

“Come on, Mindy. Get up,” I pleaded. “It’s an emergency!” 

Mindy’s eyes shot wide open. “Emergency? What? What emergency?” 

“It’s the gnomes. They’ve really disappeared. You have to come outside 
with me.” 

“That’s the emergency?” she screeched. “Are you crazy? I’m not going 
anywhere with you. You’ve totally lost it, Joe. Totally.” 

“But, Mindy—” 

“Quit bugging me. I’m going back to sleep.” 

Then she closed her eyes and pulled the sheet over her head. 

I stood in her dark, silent room. 

No one would believe me. No one would come with me. What should I do 
now? What? 

I imagined the gnomes ripping up every last vegetable in our garden. 
Yanking out the yams and smashing the squash. And for dessert, chomping on 
the rest of Mr. McCall’s casabas! 

I knew I had to do something. Fast! 

I ran from Mindy’s room and raced down the stairs. I jerked the front door 
open and sprinted outside. 

Outside into the murky fog. 

Swallowed up inside the thick blanket of mist. 

So dark and foggy. I could barely see. I felt as if I were moving through a 
dark dream. A nightmare of grays and blacks. All shadows. Nothing but 
shadows. 

I inched forward slowly, moving as if I were underwater. The grass felt so 
wet against my bare feet. But I couldn’t even see my own feet through the thick 
carpet of fog. 

Like a dream. Like a heavy, dark dream. So many shifting shadows. So 
silent. Eerily silent. 

I pushed on into the haze. I had lost all sense of direction. Was I heading 
toward the street? 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when something grabbed my ankle. 

Frantically, I shook my leg. Tried to break free. 

But it held on. 

And pulled me down. 

Down into the whirling darkness. 

A snake. 

No. Not a snake. The garden hose. The garden hose that I had forgotten to 
roll up after watering the lawn that night. 

Get a grip, Joe. I told myself. You have to calm down. 

I pulled myself up and staggered forward. Squinting hard. Trying to see my 
way. Shadowy figures seemed to reach for me, bend toward me. 

I wanted to turn back. And go inside. And climb into my nice, dry bed. 

Yes. That’s what I should do, I decided. 

I turned slowly. 

And heard a shuffling sound. The soft thud of footsteps. Nearby. 

I listened closely. 

And heard the sounds again. Footsteps as light as the mist. 

I was breathing hard now. My heart pounding. My bare feet chilled and wet. 
The dampness creeping up my legs. My entire body shuddered. 

I heard a raspy cackle. A gnome? 

I tried to turn. Tried to see it in the billowing blackness. 

But it grabbed me from behind. Hard around the waist. 

And with a dry, evil laugh, it threw me to the ground! 

16 

As I hit the wet ground, I heard the low, evil laugh again. 

And recognized it. 

“Moose?” 

“Scared you big time!” he muttered. He helped me to my feet. Even in the 
fog, I could see the big grin on his face. 

“Moose—what are you doing out here?” I managed to cry. 

“I couldn’t sleep. I kept hearing weird sounds. I was staring out into the fog 
—and I saw you. What are you doing out here, Joe? Causing more trouble?” 

I wiped wet blades of grass from my hands. “I haven’t been causing the 
trouble,” I told him. “You’ve got to believe me. Look—the two lawn gnomes— 
they’re gone.” 

I pointed to the deer. Moose could see that the gnomes weren’t standing in 
their spots. 

He stared for a long time. “This is a trick—right?” 

“No. It’s for real. I’ve got to find them.” 

Moose frowned at me. “What did you do, hide the ugly little creeps? Where 
are they? Come on, tell me!” 

“I didn’t hide them,” I insisted. 

“Tell me,” he repeated, leaning over me, bringing his face an inch from 
mine. “Or suffer the Ten Tortures!” 

Moose shoved his huge hands hard against my chest. I fell back and landed 
in the wet grass again. He thumped down on my stomach and pinned my arms to 
the ground. 

“Tell me!” Moose insisted. “Tell me where they are!” Then he bounced up 
and down on top of me. 

“Stop!” I gasped. “Stop!” 

He stopped because lights flashed on in both of our houses. 

“Oh, wow,” I whispered. “We’re in major trouble now.” 

I heard my front door bang open. A second later, Moose’s door opened, too. 

We froze. “Keep quiet,” I whispered. “Maybe they won’t see us.” 

“Who’s out here?” my father called. 

“What’s going on, Jeffrey?” I heard Mr. McCall shout. “What’s all the noise 
out here?” 

“I don’t know,” my dad replied. “I thought maybe Joe...” His voice trailed 
off. 

We’re safe, I thought. We’re hidden by the fog. 

Then I heard a low click. The long, thin beam of a flashlight swept across 
the yard. It settled on Moose and me. 

“Joe!” Dad screamed. “What are you doing out there? Why didn’t you 
answer me?” 

“Moose!” Mr. McCall shouted in a deep, angry voice. “Get in here. Move 
it!” 

Moose climbed up and raced into his house. 

I hoisted myself up from the grass for the second time that night and slowly 
made my way inside. 

Dad crossed his arms tightly across his chest. “You woke us up twice 
tonight! And you’re outside in the middle of the night again! What’s wrong with 
you?” 

“Listen, Dad, I only went outside because the gnomes are missing! Check,” 
I begged. “You’ll see!” 

My father glared at me with narrowed eyes. “These gnome stories are 
getting out of hand!” he snapped. “I’ve had it! Now go upstairs. Before I ground 
you for the entire summer!” 

“Dad, I’m begging you. I’ve never been so serious in my life. Please look,” 
I pleaded. “Please. Please. Please!” And then I added, “I’ll never ask you for 
anything else again.” 

I guess that’s what convinced him. 

“Okay,” he said, sighing wearily. “But if this is another joke...” 

My father stepped over to the living room window and peered out into the 
swirling fog. 

“Please let the gnomes still be gone! ” I prayed silently. “Please let Dad see 
that I’m telling the truth. Please...” 

17 

“Joe, you’re right!” my father declared. “The gnomes aren’t out there.” 

He believed me! Finally! I jumped up and shot a fist into the air. “Yes!” I 
cheered. 

Dad wiped at the moist glass pane with his pajama sleeve and squinted out 
the window again. 

“See, Dad! See!” I cried happily. “I was telling the truth. I wasn’t joking.” 

“Hmmm. Deer-lilah’s not there, either,” he said softly. 

“What?” I gasped, feeling my stomach churn. “No. The deer is there! I saw 
it!” 

“Hold on a minute,” Dad murmured. “Ahhh. There she is. She was hidden 
in the fog. And the gnomes! There they are! They’re right there, too. They were 
hidden in the fog. See?” 

I stared out the window. Two pointy hats broke through the mist. The two 
gnomes stood dark and still, in their places beside the deer. 

“Noooooo!” I moaned. “I know they weren’t there. I’m not playing tricks, 
Dad. I’m not!” 

“Fog can do funny things,” Dad said. “One time I was driving through a 
real pea soup of a fog. I spotted something strange through the windshield. It 
was shiny and round and it sort of hovered in the air. Oh, boy, I thought. A UFO! 
A flying saucer! I couldn’t believe it!” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Well, my UFO turned out to be a silver balloon 
tied to a parking meter. Now, Joe. Back to this gnome problem.” Dad’s face 
turned stern. “I don’t want to hear any more crazy stories. They’re only lawn 
ornaments. Nothing more. Okay? Not another word. Promise?” 

What choice did I have? “Promise,” I muttered. 

Then I dragged myself up the stairs to bed. 

What a horrible day—and night. My father thinks I’m a liar. Our tomatoes 
are ruined. And Moose isn’t allowed to hang out with me anymore. 

What else could possibly go wrong? 

I woke up the following morning with a heavy feeling in my stomach. As if I 
had swallowed a bowl of cement. 

All I could think about were the gnomes. 

Those horrible gnomes. They were destroying my summer. They were 
destroying my life! 

Forget about them, Joe, I told myself. Just forget about them. 

Anyway, today had to be better than yesterday. It sure couldn’t be worse. 

I peered out my bedroom window. All traces of the fog had been burned 
away by a bright yellow sun. Buster slept peacefully in the grass, his long white 
rope snaking through the garden. 

I glanced over at the McCalls’ house. Maybe Moose is outside helping his 
dad in the garden, I thought. 

I leaned farther out the window to get a better look. 

“Oh, noooo!” I moaned. “No!” 

18 

Globs of white paint splattered over Mr. McCall’s red Jeep! 

The roof. The hood. The windows. The whole Jeep covered in paint. 

This meant major trouble, I knew. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and yesterday’s T-shirt and hurried outside. I 
found Moose in his driveway, his jaw clenched, shaking his head as he circled 
the Jeep. 

“Unbelievable, huh?” he said, turning to me. “When my dad saw this, he 
had a cow!” 

“Why didn’t he park in the garage?” I asked. Mr. McCall always parks the 
Jeep in their two-car garage. 

Moose shrugged. “Mom’s been cleaning out the basement and attic for a 
yard sale. She stuck about a million boxes of junk in the garage. So Dad had to 
park in the driveway last night.” 

Moose patted the roof of the Jeep. “The paint is still sticky. Touch it.” 

I touched it. Sticky. 

“My dad is steaming!” Moose declared. “At first he thought your dad did it. 
You know. Because of the tomatoes. But Mom told him that that was ridiculous. 
So he called the police. He said he won’t rest until whoever did it is thrown in 
jail!” 

“He said that?” I asked. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. “Moose, 
once the police start to check things out, they’re going to blame you and me!” 

“Blame us? Are you nuts? Why would they blame us?” he demanded. 

“Because we were both outside last night!” I said. “And everybody knows 
it.” 

Moose’s dark brown eyes flickered with fear. “You’re right,” he said. “What 
are we going to do?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied sadly. I paced back and forth in the McCalls’ 
driveway, thinking hard. The asphalt felt warm and sticky on my bare feet. 

I moved to the grass. And noticed a line of small white paint spots. 

“Hey, what’s this?” I cried. 

I followed the paint trail across the grass. 

Over the petunias. 

To the corner of my yard. 

The paint drips ended where the gnomes stood, grinning at me. 

“I knew it! I knew it!” I cried out. “Moose, come look at this trail. The 
gnomes splashed your car! And did all the other bad things around here.” 

“Lawn gnomes?” Moose sputtered. “Joe, give up. No one will believe that. 
Why don’t you give it a rest?” 

“Check out the evidence!” I demanded. “The melon seed on the gnome’s 
lips. This trail of white paint. I even found black paint on their fingers. Right 
after your dad found the smiley faces on his casabas!” 

“Weird,” Moose muttered. “Very weird. But lawn gnomes are lawn gnomes, 
Joe. They don’t run around doing mischief.” 

“What if we prove they’re guilty?” I suggested. 

“Excuse me? How would we do that?” 

“Catch them in the act,” I replied. 

“Huh? This is nuts, Joe.” 

“Come on, Moose. We’ll do it tonight. We’ll sneak out, hide around the side 
of the house, and watch them.” 

Moose shook his head. “No way,” he answered. “I’m in big trouble after 
last night.” 

“And after the police finish, what kind of trouble will you be in then?” 

“Okay. Okay. I’ll do it,” he muttered. “But I think this whole thing is a big 
waste of time.” 

“We’re going to trap these gnomes, Moose,” I told him. “If it’s the last thing 
we do.” 

Ahhh! 

My alarm clock! It didn’t go off! 

And now it was nearly midnight. And I was late. I’d promised to meet 
Moose outside at eleven-thirty. 

I leaped out of bed, still dressed in my jeans and T-shirt. I grabbed my 
sneakers and ran outside. 

No moon. No stars. The front lawn lay blanketed in darkness. 

The yard was silent. Too silent. 

I glanced around for Moose. No sign of him. He probably went back inside 
when I didn’t show. 

What should I do now? Stay out by myself? Or go back to bed? 

Something rustled in the bushes. I gasped. 

“Joe. Joe. Over here,” Moose whispered loudly. 

He popped his head out from behind the evergreen shrubs in front of my 
house. And waved me over. 

I slid down next to him. 

Moose punched me hard on the arm. “I thought you chickened out.” 

“No way!” I whispered back. “This was my idea!” 

“Yeah, your crazy idea,” Moose replied. “I can’t believe I’m hiding behind 
a bush. In the middle of the night. Spying on lawn ornaments.” 

“I know it sounds crazy, but—” 

“Shhh. Did you hear something?” Moose interrupted. 

I heard it. A scraping sound. 

I reached into the shrub and parted the thick green branches. The needles 
clawed at my hands and arms. I jerked my arms out quickly. Too quickly. Blood 
dripped from my fingers where two needles had pierced right through my skin. 

The scraping sound came closer. 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Closer. 

Moose and I sat there. We exchanged frightened glances. 

I had to look. I had to see what was making those sounds. 

I parted the needles once again. And stared through the mass of needled 
branches. Two small, glowing eyes met mine! 

“Get it, Moose! Get it!” I cried. 

Moose jumped up from behind the bush. Just in time—to see it scamper 
away. 

“A raccoon! It was only a raccoon!” 

I let out a long sigh. “Sorry, Moose.” 

We sat there a while longer. We parted the branches every few minutes to 
check on the gnomes. My arms were scratched raw from the rough needles. 

But the gnomes hadn’t budged. They stood grinning into the night in their 
silly suits and caps. 

I groaned. My legs felt stiff and cramped. 

Moose checked his watch. “We’ve been out here for over two hours,” he 
whispered. “Those gnomes aren’t going anywhere. I’m going home.” 

“Wait a little longer,” I begged him. “We’ll catch them. I know we will.” 

“You’re a pretty good guy,” Moose said as he parted the bushes for the 

millionth time. “So I hate to tell you this, Joe. But you’re as crazy as—” 

He didn’t finish his sentence. His mouth dropped open, and his eyes nearly 
popped out of his pudgy head. 

I peered into the shrubs—in time to see the gnomes come to life. They 
stretched their arms over their heads. And stroked their chins. 

They shook out their legs. And smoothed out their shirts. 

“They—they’re moving !” Moose cried. 

Too loudly. 

And then I lost my balance and fell. Right into the bush. 

They’ve seen us, I realized. 

Now what? 

19 

“No. Oh, man. No!” Moose whispered. He tugged me to my feet. “They’re 
moving. They’re really moving!” 

Squinting through the branches, we both stared in horror at Hap and Chip. 

The gnomes bent their knees, limbering up. Then they each took one stiff 
step. Then another. 

I was right. They are alive, I thought. Very alive. 

And they’re coming for Moose and me. 

We have to run, I told myself. We have to get out of here. 

But neither of us could take our eyes off the living lawn gnomes! 

The full moon suddenly appeared low over the trees. The front lawn lit as if 
someone had turned on a spotlight. The stocky figures swung their short, fat 
arms and began to run. Their pointed hats cut through the air like sharks’ fins. 

They scrambled toward us on their stumpy legs. 

Moose and I dropped to our knees and tried to hide. My whole body was 
trembling so hard, I was making the bush shake! 

The gnomes ran closer. So close that I could see the dark red of their evil 
eyes and the white gleam of their grins. 

I clenched my fists so tightly, my hands ached. 

What were they going to do to us? 

I shut my eyes—and heard them run past. I heard thudding footsteps. 
Whistling breaths. 

I opened my eyes to see them racing across the cement walk and around the 
side of the house. 

“Moose—they didn’t see us!” I whispered happily. 

We helped each other to our feet. I felt dizzy. The dark ground tilted. My 
legs felt soft and rubbery like Jell-O. 

Moose wiped his sweaty brow. “Where are they going?” he whispered. 

I shook my head. “I don’t know. But we have to follow them. Come on.” 

We gave each other a quick thumbs-up and stepped out from our hiding 
place. I led the way. We moved across the cement walk and past the front porch. 
Toward the side of the house. 

I stopped when I heard their raspy voices, talking low. Just up ahead. 

Moose grabbed my shoulder, his eyes wide open in alarm. “I’m getting out 
of here. Now!” 

I turned around. “No!” I pleaded. “You’ve got to stay and help me catch 
them. We have to show our parents what’s been going on here.” 

He heaved a long sigh. It made me feel a little better to know that a big, 
tough guy like Moose was as frightened as I was. Finally, he nodded. “Okay. 
Let’s go get them.” 

Keeping in the dark shadow of the house, we made our way around to the 
back. I saw Buster, sound asleep beside his dog house in the center of the yard. 

And then I saw the two lawn gnomes. They were bent over the pile of paint 
and brushes and drop cloths the painters had left beside the garage. 

Moose and I hung back as Hap and Chip picked up two cans of black paint. 
They pried the cans open with their thick fingers. 

Giggling, the two gnomes swung back the open cans, then hurled the black 
paint at the side of my house. The black paint spattered the fresh white paint, 
then dripped down in long, thick streaks. 

I clapped a hand over my mouth to keep from screaming. 

I knew it. I’d know it all along. But no one would believe me. The gnomes 
were behind all the trouble around here. 

The gnomes returned to the pile for more paint. “We’ve got to stop them,” I 
whispered to Moose. “But how?” 

“Let’s just tackle them,” Moose suggested. “Tackle them from behind and 
pin them down.” 

It sounded simple enough. They were little, after all. Smaller than us. 
“Okay,” I whispered, my stomach fluttering. “Then we’ll drag them into the 
house and show my parents.” 

I took a deep breath and held it. Moose and I started to inch forward. 

Closer. Closer. 

If only my legs weren’t wobbling like rubber bands! 

Closer. 

And then I saw Moose go down. 

He toppled forward—and hit the ground hard, letting out a loud “Oooof! ” 

It took me a second to see that he had tripped over Buster’s rope. 

He struggled to get to his feet. But the rope had tangled around his ankle. 

He reached down with both hands. Gave it a hard tug. 

And woke up Buster! 

“Rrrrrrowwwwwf! Rrrrrrowwwwwf!” Buster must have seen the gnomes 
because he started barking his head off. 

The gnomes spun around. 

And fixed their eyes on us. In the bright moonlight, their faces turned hard 
and angry. 

“Get them!” Chip growled. “Don’t let them escape!” 

20 

“Run!” I screamed. 

Moose and I bolted toward the front of the house. 

Buster was still barking his head off. 

And over the barking, I heard shrill giggles. The gnomes giggled as they 
chased after us. 

Their feet slapped sharply on the grass. I glanced back, saw their stubby 
legs moving fast, a blur of motion. 

I pumped my legs, gasping for breath, and rounded the side of the house. 

I could hear the high-pitched giggles of the two gnomes close behind us. 
“Help!” Moose cried. “Somebody—help us!” 

My mouth hung open. I struggled to breathe. They were gaining on us. 

I knew I had to run faster. But my legs suddenly felt as heavy as bricks. 
“Hellllp!” Moose called. 

I glanced at the house. Why wasn’t anyone waking up in there? 

We ran around the house and kept running. 

Why were Hap and Chip giggling like that? 

Because they knew they were going to catch us? 

I felt a stab of pain in my side. “Oh, no!” A cramp. 

I felt Moose tugging me. “Don’t slow down, Joe. Keep going!” 

The pain sharpened, like a knife in my side. “Can’t run...” I choked out. 
“Joe—keep going! Don’t stop!” Moose cried, frantically pulling my arm. 
But I doubled over, holding my side. 

It’s all over, I thought. They’ve got me. 

And then the front door swung open. The porch light flashed on. 

“What’s going on out here?” a familiar voice called. 

Mindy! 

She stepped out, pulling at the belt of her pink bathrobe. I saw her squint 
into the darkness. 

“Mindy!” I called. “Mindy—watch out!” 

Too late. 

The gnomes grabbed her. 

Giggling loudly, they pinned her arms back. Dragged her down the porch 
steps. Carried her to the street. 

21 

Mindy thrashed her arms and kicked her legs. But the giggling gnomes had 
surprising strength. 

“Help me!” Mindy called back to Moose and me. “Don’t just stand there— 
help me! ” 

I swallowed hard. The pain in my side faded. 

Moose and I didn’t say a word. We just started chasing after them. 

They had already carried Mindy to the street. Their feet slapped on the 
pavement. In the light from the street lamp, I saw Mindy struggling to free 
herself. 

Moose and I hurtled down the driveway. “Put her down!” I shouted 
breathlessly. “Put my sister down—now!” 

More giggles. They scurried past the McCalls’ house. Past the next two 
houses. 

Moose and I ran after them, shouting, begging them to stop. 

And then—to our shock—they did stop. 

In the shadow of a tall hedge, they set Mindy down. And turned to us. “We 
mean you no harm,” Chip said. 

The gnomes’ expressions were serious now. Their eyes peered at us through 
the darkness. 

“I don’t believe this!” Mindy cried, straightening her robe. “This is crazy! 
Crazy!” 

“Tell me about it,” I muttered. 

“Please listen to us,” Hap rasped. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip repeated. 

“No harm!” Mindy shrieked. “No harm! You just dragged me from my 
home! You—you—” 

“We only wanted to get your attention,” Hap said softly. 

“Well, you’ve got it!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“We mean you no harm,” Chip said once again. “Please believe us.” 

“How can we believe you?” I demanded, finally finding my voice. “Look at 
all the trouble you’ve caused. You’ve ruined the gardens! You splashed paint 
everywhere! You—” 

“We can’t help it,” Hap interrupted. 

“We really can’t,” Chip echoed. “You see, we’re Mischief Elves.” 

“You’re what?” Mindy cried. 

“We’re Mischief Elves. We do mischief. That’s our mission in life,” Hap 
explained. 

“Wherever there is mischief in the world, we’re there,” Chip added. 
“Mischief is our job. We can’t help ourselves.” 

He bent down and broke off a chunk of the concrete curb. Then he pulled 
open the mailbox across from us and shoved the piece of concrete inside. 

“See? I can’t help myself. I have to do mischief wherever I go.” 

Hap giggled. “Without us, the world would be a pretty dull place— 
wouldn’t it?” 

“It would be a much better place,” Mindy insisted, crossing her arms in 
front of her. 

Moose still hadn’t said a word. He just stood and stared at the two talking 
lawn gnomes. 

Hap and Chip made pouty faces. “Please don’t hurt our feelings,” Chip 
rasped. “Our life isn’t easy.” 

“We need your help,” Hap added. 

“You want us to help you do mischief?” I cried. “No way! You’ve already 
gotten me into major trouble.” 

“No. We need you to help get us our freedom,” Chip said solemnly. “Please 
—listen and believe.” 

“Listen and believe,” Hap echoed. 

“We lived in a land far from here,” Chip began. “In a forest deep and green. 
We guarded the mines and protected the trees. We performed our mischief 
innocently. But we also did a lot of good.” 

“We were hard-working people,” Hap told us, scratching his head. “And we 
were happy in our forest home.” 

“But then the mines were closed and the forests were cut down,” Chip 
continued. “We were captured. Kidnapped. And taken far from home. We were 
shipped to your country and forced to work as lawn ornaments.” 

“Slaves,” Hap said, shaking his head sadly. “Forced to stand all day and 
night.” 

“That’s impossible!” Mindy cried. “Don’t you get bored? How do you stand 
so still?” 

“We go into a trance,” Chip explained. “Time passes without our realizing 
it. We come out of the trance at night and go about doing our job.” 

“You mean mischief!” I declared. 

They both nodded. 

“But we want to be free,” Hap continued. “To go where we want. To live 
where we choose. We want to find another forest where we can live in freedom.” 
Two tiny gnome tears rolled down his fat cheeks. 

Chip sighed and raised his eyes to me. “Will you help us?” 

“Help you do what?” I demanded. 

“Help our friends and us escape?” Chip replied. 

“There are six others,” Hap explained. “They’re locked in the basement. At 
the store where you bought us. We need your help to set them free.” 

“We can climb into the basement window,” his friend continued. “But we 
are too short to climb back out. And too short to reach the doorknob to let 
ourselves out through the door.” 

“Will you help us escape?” Hap pleaded, tugging the bottom of my T-shirt. 
“You just have to climb down into the basement. Then help our six friends out 
the basement door.” 

“Please help us,” Chip begged, tears in his eyes. “Then we’ll be gone. To a 
deep forest. And we will never cause you any more mischief.” 

“That sounds good to me!” Mindy exclaimed. 

“So you’ll do it?” Hap squealed. 

They both began tugging at us, chirping, “Please? Please? Please? Please? 
Please?” 

Moose, Mindy, and I exchanged troubled glances. 

What should we do? 

22 

“Please? Please? Please? Please?” 

“Let’s help them,” Moose said, finally finding his voice. 

I turned to Mindy. I didn’t usually ask her advice. But she was the oldest. 
“What do you think?” 

Mindy bit her lower lip. “Well, look how much Buster hates to be tied up,” 
she said. “He only wants to be free. I guess everything deserves to be free. Even 
lawn gnomes.” 

I turned back to the gnomes. “We’ll do it!” I declared. “We’ll help you.” 

“Thank you! Thank you!” Chip cried happily. He threw his arms around 
Hap. “You don’t know what this means to us!” 

“Thank you! Thank you! Thank you!” Hap squealed. He leaped into the air 
and clicked the heels of his boots together. “Hurry! Let’s go!” 

“Now?” Mindy cried. “It’s the middle of the night! Can’t we wait until 
tomorrow?” 

“No. Please. Now,” Hap insisted. 

“In the darkness,” Chip added. “While the store is closed. Please. Let’s 
hurry.” 

“I’m not dressed,” Mindy replied. “I really don’t think we can go now. I 
think—” 

“If we stay here longer, we’ll have to do more mischief,” Chip said with a 
wink. 

I sure didn’t want that to happen. “Let’s do it now!” I agreed. 

And so the five of us crept along the dark street and up the steep hill toward 
Lawn Lovely. Wow, did I feel weird! Here we were, walking around in the 
middle of the night with a couple of lawn ornaments! About to break into the 
store and set six more lawn ornaments free! 

The old pink house was a strange enough place during the day. But at night, 
it was totally creepy. All those lawn animals—deer and seals and flamingos— 
stared at us through the darkness, with blank, lifeless eyes. 

Were they alive, too? I wondered. 

Hap seemed to read my mind. “They’re only for decoration,” he sneered. 
“Nothing more.” 

The two excited gnomes made their way quickly across the wide lawn and 
around the side of Mrs. Anderson’s house. Moose, Mindy, and I followed 
behind. 

Mindy clutched my arm with an ice-cold hand. My legs still felt wobbly. 
But my heart was pounding with excitement—not fear. 

Hap and Chip pointed to the long, low window that led down to the 
basement. I knelt down and peered inside. Total darkness. 

“You’re sure the other gnomes are down there?” I asked. 

“Oh, yes,” Chip declared eagerly. “All six. They’re waiting for you to 
rescue them.” 

“Please hurry,” Hap pleaded, shoving me gently to the window. “Before the 
old woman hears us and wakes up.” 

I lowered myself to the edge of the open window. And turned back to my 
sister and Moose. 

“We’re coming right behind you,” Moose whispered. 

“Let’s rescue them and get out of here,” Mindy urged. 

“Here goes,” I said softly. 

I crossed my fingers and slid down into the darkness. 

23 

I bumped over the window frame and landed on my feet. A few seconds later, I 
heard Moose and Mindy slide in after me. 

I squinted into the blackness that surrounded us. I couldn’t see a thing. I 
licked my dry lips and sniffed the air. A sharp smell, like vinegar, filled the hot, 
damp basement. Sweat, I thought. Gnome sweat. 

I heard a low giggle from outside. Chip and Hap hurtled over the window 
ledge and thudded to the floor. 

“Hey, guys—” I whispered. 

But they scampered off into the darkness. 

“What’s going on here?” Moose demanded. 

“We’ve got to find the light switch,” Mindy whispered. 

But before we could move, the ceiling lights all flashed on. I blinked in the 
sudden blaze of brightness. 

And then gasped as I stared across the vast basement—at a sea of lawn 
gnomes! 

Not six! Six hundred ! Row after row of them, jammed against each other, 
staring at the three of us. 

“Whoa!” Moose cried. “It’s a mob!” 

“Hap and Chip lied to us!” I cried. 

Their shirts were different colors. But the lawn gnomes all looked exactly 
alike. They all wore pointed caps and black belts. They all had staring red eyes, 
wide noses, grinning lips, and large pointy ears. 

I was so startled to see so many of the ugly creatures, it took me a while to 
spot Hap and Chip. Finally, I saw them at the side of the room. 

Hap clapped his hands three times. 

And three more times. Short, sharp claps that echoed off the basement 
walls. 

And then the crowd of gnomes came to life, stretching and bending, 
grinning and giggling, chattering in shrill, excited voices. 

Mindy grabbed my arm. “We’ve got to get out of here.” 

I could barely hear her over the chattering, giggling mob of gnomes. I 
glanced up at the basement window. It suddenly seemed so high, so far away. 

When I turned back, Hap and Chip had moved in front of us. They clapped 
their hands for attention. 

The hundreds of gnomes instantly fell silent. 

“We have brought the young humans!” Hap announced, grinning happily. 

“We have kept our promise!” Chip declared. 

Giggles and cheering. 

And then, to my horror, the gnomes began moving forward. Their eyes 
flashed excitedly. They reached out their stubby arms toward us. The pointed 
hats bobbed and slid forward, like sharks on the attack. 

Mindy, Moose, and I backed up. Backed up to the wall. 

The gnomes crowded up against us. Their little hands plucked at my 
clothes, slapped my face, pulled my hair. 

“Stop!” I shrieked. “Get back! Get back!” 

“We came to help you!” I heard Mindy scream. “Please—we came to help 
you escape!” 

Loud giggling. 

“But we don’t want to escape!” a grinning gnome declared. “Now that 
you’re here, it’s going to be so much fun!” 

24 

Fun? 

What did he mean by fun ? 

Hap and Chip pushed their way back to the front and stepped up beside us. 
They clapped their hands together to silence the giggling, chattering crowd. 

The basement instantly turned silent. 

“You tricked us!” Mindy screamed at the two gnomes. “You lied to us!” 
They giggled in reply and slapped each other’s shoulders gleefully. 

“I can’t believe you fell for our sad story,” Hap said, shaking his head. 

“We told you we’re Mischief Gnomes,” Chip sneered. “You should have 
known we were playing mischief!” 

“Great joke, guys,” I said, forcing a hoarse laugh. “You fooled us. Way to 
go. So now let us go home, okay?” 

“Yeah. Let us go home!” Moose insisted. 

The whole room erupted in laughter. 

Hap shook his head. “But the mischief has just begun!” he declared. 

Cheers and giggles. 

Chip turned to the crowd of excited gnomes. “So what shall we do with our 
lovely prisoners? Any ideas?” 

“Let’s see if they bounce!” a gnome called from near the back of the room. 
“Yeah! Dribble them!” 

“A dribbling contest!” 

“No—bounce them against the wall. Bounce and catch!” 

More cheers. 

“No! Fold them into tiny squares! I love it when we fold humans into 
squares!” 

“Yes! A folding contest!” another gnome cried. 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” several gnomes began to chant. 

“Tickle them!” a gnome in front suggested. 

“Tickle them for hours!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

The room rang out with their excited chants. 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

I turned to Moose. He stared out at the crowd of chanting gnomes, dazed 
and frightened. His eyes bulged and his chin quivered. 

Mindy had her back pressed up against the basement wall. Her blond hair 
was matted to her forehead. Her hands were jammed into the pockets of her 
bathrobe. 

“What are we going to do?” she asked me, shouting over the excited chants. 

Suddenly I had an idea. 

I raised my arms high over my head. “Quiet! ” I screamed. 

The room instantly grew silent. Hundreds of red eyes glared at me. 

“Let us go!” I demanded. “Or the three of us will scream at the top of our 
lungs. We will wake up Mrs. Anderson. And she will be down here in a second 
to rescue us!” 

Silence. 

Had I frightened them? 

No. The gnomes burst into loud, scornful laughter. They slapped each 
other’s shoulders, hooted, and giggled. 

“You’ll have to do better than that!” Hap grinned up at me. “We all know 
that Mrs. Anderson can’t hear a thing.” 

“Go ahead and shout,” Chip urged. “Shout all you want. We like it when 
humans shout.” He turned to Hap, and the two of them slapped each other’s 
shoulders and fell on the floor, giggling gleefully, kicking their feet in the air. 

Over the vast basement, the chants started up again. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

“Fold them! Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Dribble! Dribble! Dribble!” 

With a long sigh, I turned to my frightened sister and friend. “We’re 
doomed,” I muttered. “We don’t have a chance.” 

25 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

A new chant started in the back of the room and swept up toward the front. 

“Yes!” Hap and Chip declared happily. 

“Excellent mischief!” Hap cried. 

“A Tug of War! We’ll tug them till they stretch!” Chip shouted. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

“Joe—what are we going to do?” I heard Mindy’s frightened voice over the 
enthusiastic chants. 

Think, Joe, I urged myself. Think! There has to be a way out of this 
basement. 

But I felt so dazed. The chants rang in my ears. The grinning faces leered 
up at us. My thoughts were a jumbled mess. 

“Stretch them! Stretch them!” 

“Fold them! Fold them!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

Suddenly, over the shrill gnome voices, I heard a familiar sound. 

A dog’s bark. 

Buster’s bark. 

“Buster!” Mindy cried. “I hear him!” 

“I—I did too!” I exclaimed, turning and raising my eyes to the window 
above our heads. “He followed us! He must be right outside!” 

I desperately wished Buster could talk. Could run home and tell Mom and 
Dad that we were in terrible trouble. 

But he could only bark. Or... could he do more? 

I suddenly remembered how frightened Hap and Chip appeared whenever 
Buster came around. The terrified expressions on their faces. 

My heart fluttered with hope. Maybe the gnomes are afraid of dogs. Maybe 
Buster can scare them into letting us go. Maybe he can even frighten them back 
into their trance. 

I edged closer to my sister, my back pressed against the wall. “Mindy, I 

think the gnomes are afraid of Buster. If we get him down here, I think he can 
save us.” 

We didn’t hesitate. All three of us started shouting up to the window. 
“Buster! Buster! Come here, boy!” 

Could he hear us over the chanting gnomes? 

Yes! 

His big head peered down at us through the window. 

“Good boy!” I cried. “Now, come here. Come down here, Buster!” 

Buster’s mouth opened. His pink tongue drooped from his mouth, and he 
started to pant. 

“Good doggie!” I crooned. “Good doggie—come down here. Fast! Come, 
boy! Come, Buster!” 

Buster poked his head into the window. And yawned. 

“Down, Buster!” Mindy ordered. “Come down here, boy!” 

He pulled his head out of the window. And settled down on the ground 
outside. I could see his head resting on his paws. 

“No, Buster!” I shrieked, shouting over the chants. “Come, boy! Don’t lie 
down! Come! Buster, come!” 

“Rowf?” He pushed his head back into the window. Farther. Farther. 

“That a boy! Come on!” I pleaded. “A little more... a little more. If you 
come down here, I’ll feed you doggie treats five times a day.” 

Buster cocked his head to the side and sniffed at the damp, sweaty air of the 
basement. 

I held my arms out to the dog. “Please, Buster. You’re our last chance. 
Please—hurry! Come down here.” 

To my dismay, Buster pulled his head out of the window. 

Turned. 

And trotted away. 

26 

Mindy and Moose let out long, disappointed sighs. “Buster deserted us,” Mindy 
said softly. Her shoulders sagged. Moose dropped to his knees on the floor, 
shaking his head. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

The chant had changed. 

Hap grinned up at us. “Maybe we’ll use you for trampolines! That would be 
fun!” 

“It’s almost time for a vote!” Chip added, rubbing his hands together 
eagerly. 

“Trampoline! Trampoline!” 

“Tug of War! Tug of War!” 

I held my hands over my ears, trying to block out the sound of their shrill 
voices. 

Silence. Please let me have silence, I thought. 

Silence. 

The word gave me an idea. 

Silence. Buster’s dog whistle was silent! 

Suddenly, I knew how to bring Buster back! 

“Mindy!” I cried “The dog whistle! Buster always comes when I blow the 
dog whistle!” 

Mindy raised her head and brightened. “That’s right!” she cried. “Hurry, 
Joe!” 

I grabbed for the shiny metal whistle under my T-shirt. It felt slippery with 
sweat. This has to work, I thought to myself. It has to bring Buster back. 

I pulled the whistle out. 

“The whistle!” several gnomes shrieked. 

The room instantly grew silent. 

I raised the whistle to my lips. 

“Quick—blow it!” Mindy screeched. 

To my surprise, Hap and Chip both dove at me. 

They leaped up and slapped at the whistle. 

The whistle spun out of my hands. 

“Noooo!” I cried in despair. 

I grabbed frantically for it. 

But it rolled and tumbled away, sliding across the basement floor. 

27 

Mindy, Moose, and I all dove for it. 

But the gnomes were quicker. 

A gnome in a bright blue shirt raised the whistle, clutched tightly in his 
little fist. “I’ve got it!” 

“No, you don’t!” Moose cried. He leaped at the gnome. Tackled him around 
the knees. 

The gnome let out a yelp as he went toppling to the floor. 

The dog whistle fell from his hand. 

And bounced across the hard floor toward me. 

I scooped it up. Started to raise it to my lips. 

Three gnomes leaped onto my shoulders, giggling and grunting. 

“Noooo!” I uttered a cry as they batted the whistle from my hand. I dropped 
to the floor, three gnomes on top of me. 

I finally shook them off and jumped to my feet. My eyes searched for the 
whistle. 

I saw a bunch of gnomes diving for the floor, scrambling for it. A few feet 
away, Moose struggled against four or five gnomes who had formed a line to 
block him. Mindy was battling another group of gnomes, who held her back, 
their tiny hands around her legs and waist. 

And then I saw Hap raise the whistle high. 

The gnomes stepped back, clearing a circle around him. 

Hap set the whistle in front of him on the floor. Then he raised his foot 

high. 

He was about to crush it! 

“Noooooo!” Another long cry escaped my throat. I scrambled over the 
floor, half-crawling, half-flying. 

As Hap’s heavy plaster foot came down, I stretched out my hand. 

Fumbled for the whistle. 

Grabbed it. 

Rolled away as the gnome’s foot tromped down heavily. It thudded inches 
from my head. 

I sat up. Raised the whistle to my lips. 
And blew as hard as I could. 

Now what? 

Would the whistle work? 

Would Buster come running to rescue us? 

28 

I blew the silent whistle again. 

And turned to the window. Buster, where are you? 

The gnomes must have been asking the same question. Because they froze 
in place, too. The excited chattering, giggling, and chanting stopped. 

The only sound I could hear was my own shallow breathing. 

I stared up at the window. A rectangle of blackness. No sign of Buster. 

“Hey—!” Moose’s cry made me turn around. 

“Look at them!” Moose’s voice echoed through the silence. 

“Look—they all froze!” Mindy declared. She placed both hands on the red 
cap of a gnome—and pushed the gnome over. 

It clattered to the floor. And didn’t move. A hunk of plaster. 

“I don’t get it!” Moose scratched his crew cut. 

Still gripping the dog whistle tightly, I moved around the room, examining 
the frozen gnomes, pushing them over. Enjoying the silence. 

“Back in their trance state,” Mindy murmured. 

“But how?” Moose demanded. “Buster never showed up. If they weren’t 
terrified of the dog, why did they all freeze up again?” 

I suddenly knew the answer. I raised the whistle and blew it again. “It was 
the whistle,” I explained. “It wasn’t Buster. I had it wrong. They were afraid of 
the whistle. Not the dog.” 

“Let’s get out of here,” Mindy said softly. “I never want to see another lawn 
gnome as long as I live.” 

“Wait till I tell my parents about this!” Moose declared. 

“Whoa!” I cried, grabbing his shoulder. “We can’t tell anyone about this. 
No way!” 

“Why not?” he demanded. 

“Because no one will believe it,” I replied. 

Moose stared at me for a long moment. “You’re right,” he agreed finally. 
“You’re definitely right.” 

Mindy moved to the wall and stared up at the window. “How do we get out 
of here?” 

“I know how,” I told her. I picked up Hap and Chip and stood them beneath 
the window. Then I climbed onto their caps, lifted my hands to the window, and 
pulled myself up. “Thanks for the boost, guys!” I called down. 

They didn’t reply. 

I hoped they were frozen for good. 

Mindy and Moose followed me out. Of course, Buster was waiting for us in 
the yard. His stubby tail began to wag as soon as I appeared. He came running 
over and licked my face till I was sopping wet and sticky. 

“Sorry, fella. You’re a little late,” I told him. “You weren’t much help— 
were you!” 

He licked me some more. Then he greeted Mindy and Moose. 

“Yaaaay! We’re out! We’re out!” Moose cried. He slapped me so hard on 
the back, I thought my teeth were going to fly out! 

I turned to my sister. “Tickle! Tickle! Tickle! ” I chanted. 

“Give me a break!” Mindy cried, rolling her eyes for the thousandth time 
that day. 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” I made tickling motions with my hands and started 
to chase her down the street. 

“Joe—stop it! Don’t tickle me! I’m warning you!” 

“Tickle! Tickle! Tickle!” 

I knew I’d never forget those high-pitched chants. I knew I’d hear them in 
my dreams for a long, long time. 

The next evening, Mindy and I were watching MTV in the den when Dad came 
home. “Be nice to your dad,” Mom had warned us earlier. “He’s very upset that 
somebody stole his two lawn gnomes.” 

Yes, the two gnomes were missing when he woke up. 

Big surprise. 

Mindy and I were so happy, we didn’t have a single argument all day. 

And now we were happy to see Dad—except that he had a strange 
expression on his face. “Uh... I’ve brought home a little surprise,” he 
announced, glancing guiltily at Mom. 

“Now what?” she demanded. 

“Come and see.” Dad led us out to the front lawn. 

The sun was disappearing behind the trees, and the sky was gray. But I 
could still see clearly what Dad had purchased at Lawn Lovely this time. 

An enormous, brown plaster gorilla! 

At least eight feet tall, with gigantic black eyes and a bright purple chest. 
The gorilla had paws the size of baseball mitts and a head as big as a basketball. 

“It’s the ugliest thing I ever saw!” Mom cried, both hands pressed to her 
face. “You’re not really going to put that horrible monster on our front lawn— 
are you, dear?” 

Anything is better than those lawn gnomes, I thought. Anything is better 
than lawn gnomes who come alive and do terrible mischief. 

I glanced at Mindy. I had a feeling she was thinking the same thing. 

“I think it’s a beauty, Dad,” I said. “It’s the best-looking lawn gorilla I ever 
saw!” 

“It’s great, Dad,” Mindy agreed. 

Dad smiled. 

Mom turned and hurried back to the house, shaking her head. 

I glanced up at the gorilla’s enormous purple-and-brown painted face. “Be a 
good gorilla,” I murmured. “Don’t be like those awful gnomes.” 

Then, as I started to turn away, the gorilla winked at me. 


A SHOCKER ON 
SHOCK STREET 

1 

“This is creepy, Erin.” My friend Marty grabbed my sleeve. 

“Let go!” I whispered. “You’re hurting me!” 

Marty didn’t seem to hear. He stared straight ahead into the darkness, 
gripping my arm. 

“Marty, please—” I whispered. I shook my arm free. I was scared, too. But 
I didn’t want to admit it. 

It was darker than the darkest night. I squinted hard, trying to see. And then 
a gray light glowed dimly in front of us. 

Marty ducked low. Even in the foggy light, I could see the fear in his eyes. 

He grabbed my arm again. His mouth dropped open. I could hear him 
breathing hard and fast. 

Even though I was frightened, a smile crossed my face. I liked seeing Marty 
scared. 

I really enjoyed it. 

I know, I know. That’s terrible. I admit it. Erin Wright is a bad person. What 
kind of a friend am I? 

But Marty always brags that he is braver than me. And he is usually right. 
He usually is the brave one, and I’m the wimp. 

But not today. 

That’s why seeing Marty gasp in fright and grab my arm made me smile. 

The gray light ahead of us slowly grew brighter. I heard crunching sounds 
on both sides of us. Close behind me, someone coughed. But Marty and I didn’t 
turn around. We kept our eyes straight ahead. 

Waiting. Watching.... 

As I squinted into the gray light, a fence came into view. A long wooden 
fence, its paint faded and peeling. A hand-lettered sign appeared on the fence: 
DANGER. KEEP OUT. THIS MEANS YOU. 

Marty and I both gasped when we heard the scraping sounds. Soft at first. 
Then louder. Like giant claws scraping against the other side of the fence. 

I tried to swallow, but my mouth suddenly felt dry. I had the urge to run. 
Just turn and run as fast as I could. 

But I couldn’t leave Marty there all alone. And besides, if I ran away now, 

he would never let me forget it. He’d tease me about it forever. 

So I stayed beside him, listening as the scraping, clawing sounds turned into 
banging. Loud crashes. 

Was someone trying to break through the fence? 

We moved quickly along the fence. Faster, faster—until the tall, peeling 
fence pickets became a gray blur. 

But the sound followed us. Heavy footsteps on the other side of the fence. 

We stared straight ahead. We were on an empty street. A familiar street. 

Yes, we had been here before. 

The pavement was puddled with rainwater. The puddles glowed in the pale 
light from the streetlamps. 

I took a deep breath. Marty gripped my arm harder. Our mouths gaped 
open. 

To our horror, the fence began to shake. The whole street shook. The rain 
puddles splashed against the curb. 

The footsteps thundered closer. 

“Marty—!” I gasped in a choked whisper. 

Before I could say another word, the fence crumbled to the ground, and the 
monster came bursting out. 

It had a head like a wolf—snapping jaws of gleaming white teeth—and a 
body like a giant crab. It swung four huge claws in front of it, clicking them at us 
as its snout pulled open in a throaty growl. 

“NOOOOOOO!” Marty and I both let out howls of terror. 

We jumped to our feet. 

But there was nowhere to run. 

2 

We stood and stared as the wolf-crab crawled toward us. 

“Please sit down, kids,” a voice called out behind us. “I can’t see the 
screen.” 

“Ssshhhh!” someone else whispered. 

Marty and I glanced at each other. I guess we both felt like jerks. I know I 
did. We dropped back into our seats. 

And watched the wolf-crab scamper across the street, chasing after a little 
boy on a tricycle. 

“What’s your problem, Erin?” Marty whispered, shaking his head. “It’s 
only a movie. Why did you scream like that?” 

“You screamed too!” I replied sharply. 

“I only screamed because you screamed!” he insisted. 

“Sssshhh!” someone pleaded. I sank low in the seat. I heard crunching 
sounds all around me. People eating popcorn. Someone behind me coughed. 

On the screen, the wolf-crab reached out his big, red claws and grabbed the 
kid on the trike. SNAP. SNAP. Good-bye, kid. 

Some people in the theater laughed. It was pretty funny. 

That’s the great thing about the Shocker on Shock Street movies. They make 
you scream and laugh at the same time. 

Marty and I sat back and enjoyed the rest of the movie. We love scary 
movies, but the Shock Street films are our favorites. 

In the end, the police caught the wolf-crab. They boiled him in a big pot of 
water. Then they served steamed crab to the whole town. Everyone sat around 
dipping him in butter sauce. They all said he was delicious. 

It was the perfect ending. Marty and I clapped and cheered. Marty put two 
fingers in his mouth and whistled through his teeth the way he always does. 

We had just seen Shocker on Shock Street VI, and it was definitely the best 
one of the series. 

The theater lights came on. We turned up the aisle and started to make our 
way through the crowd. 

“Great special effects,” a man told his friend. 

“Special effects?” the friend replied. “I thought it was all real!” 

They both laughed. 

Marty bumped me hard from behind. He thinks it’s funny to try and knock 
me over. “Pretty good movie,” he said. 

I turned back to him. “Huh? Pretty good?” 

“Well, it wasn’t scary enough,” he replied. “Actually, it was kind of 
babyish. Shocker V was a lot scarier.” 

I rolled my eyes. “Marty, you screamed your head off—remember? You 
jumped out of your seat. You grabbed my arm and—” 

“I only did that because I saw how scared you were,” he said, grinning. 
What a liar! Why can’t he ever admit it when he’s scared? 

He stuck his sneaker out and tried to trip me. 

I dodged to the left, stumbled—and bumped hard into a young woman. 

“Hey—look out!” she cried. “You twins should be more careful.” 

“We’re not twins!” Marty and I cried in unison. 

We’re not even brother and sister. We’re not related in any way. But people 
always think that Marty and I are twins. 

I guess we do look a lot alike. We’re both twelve years old. And we’re both 
pretty short and kind of chubby. We both have round faces, short black hair, and 
blue eyes. And we both have little noses that sort of turn up. 

But we’re not twins! We’re only friends. 

I apologized to the woman. When I turned back to Marty, he stuck out his 
shoe and tried to trip me again. 

I stumbled, but quickly caught my balance. Then I stuck out my shoe—and 
tripped him. 

We kept tripping each other through the long lobby. People were staring at 
us, but we didn’t care. We were laughing too hard. 

“Do you know the coolest thing about this movie?” I asked. 

“No. What?” 

“That we’re the first kids in the world to see it!” I exclaimed. 

“Yeah!” Marty and I slapped each other a high five. 

We had just seen Shocker on Shock Street VI at a special sneak preview. My 
dad works with a lot of movie people, and he got us tickets for it. The others in 
the theater were all adults. Marty and I were the only kids. 

“Know what else was really cool?” I asked. “The monsters. All of them. 
They looked so incredibly real. It didn’t look like special effects at all.” 

Marty frowned. “Well, I thought the Electric Eel Woman was pretty phony- 

looking. She didn’t look like an eel—she looked like a big worm!” 

I laughed. “Then why did you jump out of your seat when she shot a bolt of 
electricity and fried that gang of teenagers?” 

“I didn’t jump,” Marty insisted. “You did!” 

“Did not! You jumped because it looked so real,” I insisted. “And I heard 
you choke when the Toxic Creep leaped out of the nuclear waste pit.” 

“I choked on a Milk Dud, that’s all.” 

“You were scared, Marty, because it was so real.” 

“Hey—what if they are real?!” Marty exclaimed. “What if it isn’t special 
effects? What if they’re all real monsters ?” 

“Don’t be dumb,” I said. 

We turned the corner into another hall. 

The wolf-crab stood waiting for me there. 

I didn’t even have time to scream. 

He opened his toothy jaws in a long wolf howl—and wrapped two giant red 
claws around my waist. 

3 

I opened my mouth to scream, but only a squeak came out. 

I heard people laughing. 

The big claws slid off my waist. Plastic claws. 

I saw two dark eyes staring out at me from behind the wolf mask. I should 
have known that it was a man in a costume. But I didn’t expect him to be 
standing there. 

I was surprised, that’s all. 

I blinked at a white flash of light. A man had just taken a picture of the 
creature. I saw a big red and yellow sign against the wall: SEE THE MOVIE— 
THEN PLAY THE GAME ON CD-ROM. 

“Sorry if I scared you,” the man inside the wolf-crab costume said softly. 

“She scares easily!” Marty declared. 

I gave Marty a hard shove, and we hurried away. I turned back to see the 
creature waving a claw at me. “We’ve got to go upstairs and see my dad,” I told 
Marty. 

“Tell me something I don’t know.” 

He thinks he’s so funny. 

Dad’s office is upstairs from the theater, on the twenty-ninth floor. We 
jogged to the elevators at the end of the hall and took one up. 

Dad has a really cool job. He builds theme parks. And he designs all kinds 
of rides. 

Dad was one of the designers of Prehistoric Park. That’s the big theme park 
where you go back to prehistoric times. It has all kinds of neat rides and shows 
—and dozens of huge dinosaur robots wandering around. 

And Dad worked on the Fantasy Films Studio Tour. Everyone who comes 
to Hollywood goes on that tour. 

Dad’s idea was the part where you walk through a huge movie screen and 
find yourself in a world of movie characters. You can star in any kind of movie 
you want to be in! 

I know it sounds as if I’m bragging, but Dad is really smart, and he’s an 
engineering genius! I think he is the world expert on robots. He can build robots 
that will do anything! And he uses them in all his parks and studio tours. 

Marty and I stepped off the elevator on the twenty-ninth floor. We waved to 
the woman at the front desk. Then we hurried to Dad’s office at the end of the 
hall. 

It looks more like a playroom than an office. It’s a big room. Huge, really. 
Filled with toys, and stuffed cartoon characters, movie posters, and models of 
monsters. 

Marty and I love to roam around the office, staring at all the neat stuff. On 
the walls, Dad has great posters from a dozen different movies. On a long table, 
he has a model of The Tumbler, the upside-down roller coaster he designed. The 
model has little cars that really screech around the tracks. 

And he has a lot of cool stuff from Shock Street —like one of the original 
furry paws that Wolf Girl wore in Nightmare on Shock Street. He keeps it in a 
glass case on the windowsill. 

He has models of tramcars and little trains and planes and rockets. Even a 
big, silver plastic blimp. It’s radio-controlled, and he can make it float round and 
around his office. 

What a great place! I always think of Dad’s office as the happiest place in 
the world. 

But today, as Marty and I stepped inside, Dad didn’t look too happy. He 
hunched over his desk with the telephone to his ear. His head was lowered, his 
eyes down. He kept a hand pressed against his forehead as he mumbled into the 
phone. 

Dad and I don’t look at all alike. I’m short and dark. He’s tall and thin. And 
he has blond hair, although there’s not much left of it. He’s pretty bald. 

He has the kind of skin that turns red easily. 

His cheeks get real pink when he talks. And he wears big, round glasses 
with dark frames that hide his brown eyes. 

Marty and I stopped at the doorway. I don’t think Dad saw us. He stared 
down at the desk. He had his tie pulled down and his shirt collar open. 

He muttered for a short while longer. Marty and I crept into the office. 

Finally, Dad set down the phone. He raised his eyes and saw us. “Oh, hi, 
you two,” he said softly. His cheeks turned bright pink. 

“Dad—what’s wrong?” I asked. 

He sighed. Then he pulled off his glasses and pinched the bridge of his 
nose. “I have very bad news, Erin. Very bad news.” 

4 

“Dad—what is it? What?” I cried. 

Then I saw the grin slowly spread across his face. I knew I’d been tricked 
again. 

“Gotcha!” he declared. His brown eyes flashed gleefully. His cheeks were 
bright pink. “Gotcha again. You fall for that gag every time.” 

“Dad—!” I let out an angry cry. Then I rushed up to the desk, wrapped my 
hands around his neck, and pretended to strangle him. 

We both collapsed against each other, laughing. Marty still stood in the 
doorway, shaking his head. “Mr. Wright, that is so lame,” he muttered. 

Dad struggled to slip his glasses back on. “I’m sorry. You kids are just too 
easy to fool. I couldn’t resist.” He smiled at me. “Actually, I’ve got good news.” 

“Good news? Is this another joke?” I demanded suspiciously. 

He shook his head. He picked up something from his desk. “Check this out, 
guys. Do you know what this is?” He held it in his palm. 

Marty and I came closer to examine it. It was a little, white plastic vehicle 
with four wheels. “Some kind of train car?” I guessed. 

“It’s a tramcar,” Dad explained. “See? People sit on long benches inside it. 
Here. It’s motor-driven.” He pointed to the front of the model to show where the 
engine went. “But do you know where this tramcar will be used?” 

“Dad, we give up. Just tell us,” I insisted impatiently. “Stop keeping us in 
suspense.” 

“Okay, okay.” His cheeks reddened. His smile grew wider. “This is a model 
of the tram that will be used at the Shocker Studio Tour.” 

My mouth dropped open. “Do you mean the tour is finally going to open?” 
I knew that Dad had been working on it for years. 

Dad nodded. “Yes. We’re finally about to open it to the public. But before 
we do, I want you two to test it out.” 

“Huh? You mean it?” I shrieked. I was so excited, I felt as if I’d burst out of 
my skin! 

I turned to Marty. He was leaping up and down, shooting both fists into the 
air. “Yes! Yes! Yes!” 

“I built this whole tour,” Dad said, “and I want you two to be the first kids 

in the world to go on it. I want to know your opinion. What you like and what 
you don’t like.” 

“Yes! Yes! Yes!” Marty kept leaping into the air. I thought I might have to 
tie a rope around his waist and hold onto it to keep him from floating away! 

“Dad—the Shock Street movies are the bestl” I cried. “This is awesome!” 
And then I added, “Is the tour very scary?” 

Dad rested a hand on my shoulder. “I hope so,” he replied. “I tried to make 
it as scary and real as I could. You get on the tram and you ride through the 
whole movie studio. You get to meet all of the characters from the horror 
movies. And then the tram takes you on a slow ride down Shock Street.” 

“The real Shock Street?” Marty cried. “Do you mean it? You get to ride 
down the real street where they make the movies?” 

Dad nodded. “Yes. The real Shock Street.” 

“Yes! Yes! Yes!” Marty started pumping his fists in the air again, shouting 
like a maniac. 

“Awesome!” I cried. “Totally awesome!” I was as excited as Marty. 

Suddenly Marty stopped leaping. His expression turned serious. “Maybe 
Erin shouldn’t go,” he told my dad. “She gets too scared.” 

“Huh?” I cried. 

“She was so scared during the movie sneak preview, I had to hold her 
hand,” Marty told Dad. 

What a liar! 

“Give me a break!” I cried angrily. “If anyone was a scaredy-cat wimp, it 
was you, Marty!” 

Dad raised both hands to signal halt. “Calm down, guys,” he said softly. 
“No arguing. You have to keep together. You know, you two will be the only 
ones on the tour tomorrow. The only ones.” 

“Yes!” Marty cheered happily. “Yes! Yes!” 

“Wow! That’s great!” I cried. “It’s totally great. It’s going to be the best!” 
Then I had an idea. “Can Mom come too? I bet she would really enjoy it.” 

“Excuse me?” Dad squinted at me through his glasses. His whole face 
turned bright red. “What did you say?” 

“I asked if Mom could come too,” I repeated. 

Dad kept staring at me for a long time, studying me. “Are you feeling okay, 
Erin?” he asked finally. 

“Yes. Fine,” I replied meekly. 

I suddenly felt very confused and upset. What had I done wrong? 
Was something wrong with Mom? 

Why was Dad staring at me like that? 

5 

Dad came around the desk and put an arm around my shoulder. “I think you and 
Marty will have a better time if you go by yourselves,” he said softly. “Don’t you 
agree?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I guess.” 

I still wondered why he was staring at me so suspiciously. But I decided not 
to ask him. I didn’t want him to get angry or something and change his mind 
about us going on the tour. 

“Do you mean you’re not coming with us?” Marty asked Dad. “We’re 
really going by ourselves?” 

“I want you to go by yourselves,” Dad replied. “I think that will make it 
more exciting for you.” 

Marty grinned at me. “I hope it’s really scary!” he declared. 

“Don’t worry,” Dad replied. A strange smile spread over his face. “You 
won’t be disappointed.” 

The next afternoon, a gray haze hung in the air as Dad drove Marty and me 
to Shocker Studios. 

I sat up front with Dad, peering out the car window at the smog. “It’s so 
gloomy out,” I murmured. 

“Perfect for a horror movie tour,” Marty chimed in from the backseat. He 
was so excited, he could barely sit still. He kept bouncing his legs up and down 
and tapping his hands on the leather seat. 

I had never seen Marty so crazed. If he didn’t have his seat belt to hold him 
down, he’d probably bounce right out of the car! 

The car climbed up the Hollywood hills. The narrow road curved past 
redwood houses and tree-filled yards cut into the sides of the hills. 

As we climbed, the sky turned even darker. We’re driving up into a cloud of 
fog, I thought. Far in the distance, I could see the HOLLYWOOD sign, 
stretching in the haze across a dark peak. 

“Hope it doesn’t rain,” I muttered, watching the fog roll over the sign. 

Dad chuckled. “You know it never rains in Los Angeles!” 

“Which monsters are we going to see?” Marty asked, bouncing in the 
backseat. “Is Shockro on the tour? Do we really get to walk on Shock Street?” 

Dad squinted hard through his glasses, turning the wheel as the road curved 
and twisted. “I’m not telling,” he replied. “I don’t want to spoil it for you. I want 
it all to be a surprise.” 

“I just wanted to know so I could warn Erin,” Marty said. “I don’t want her 
to get too scared. She might faint or something.” He laughed. 

I let out an angry growl. Then I turned around and tried to punch him. But I 
couldn’t reach. 

Marty leaned forward and messed up my hair with both hands. “Get off 
me!” I screamed. “I’m warning you—!” 

“Take it easy, guys,” Dad said softly. “We’re here.” 

I turned and stared out the windshield. The road had flattened out. Up 
ahead, an enormous sign proclaimed SHOCKER STUDIOS in scary, blood-red 
letters. 

We drove slowly up to the huge iron gates in the front. The gates were 
closed. A guard in a small black booth sat reading a newspaper. I glimpsed gold 
script letters above the gate. They spelled out one word: BEWARE. 

Dad pulled right up to the gate, and the guard peered up. He gave Dad a big 
smile. Then he pressed a button, and the gates slowly swung open. Dad drove 
the car into the tall white parking garage beside the studio. He parked in the first 
space next to the entrance. The garage seemed to stretch on forever. But I could 
see only three or four other cars inside. 

“When we open next week, this garage will be jammed!” Dad said. “There 
will be thousands of people here. I hope.” 

“And today, we’re the only ones!” Marty cried excitedly, jumping out of the 
car. 

“We’re so lucky!” I agreed. 

A few minutes later, we were standing on the platform outside the main 
building, facing a wide street, waiting for the tram to take us on the tour. The 
street led to dozens of white studio buildings, spread out all the way down the 
hill. 

Dad pointed to two enormous buildings as big as airplane hangars. “Those 
are the soundstages,” he explained. “They film a lot of movie scenes inside those 
buildings.” 

“Does the tour go inside them?” Marty demanded. “Where is Shock Street? 
Where are the monsters? Are they making a movie now? Can we watch them 
making it?” 

“Whoa!” Dad cried. He placed his hands on Marty’s shoulders as if to keep 
him from flying off the ground. I had never seen Marty so totally wired! “Take it 
easy, fella,” Dad warned. “You’ll blow a fuse! You won’t survive the tour!” 

I shook my head. “Maybe we should put him on a leash,” I told Dad. 

“Arf, arf!” Marty barked. Then he snapped his teeth at me, trying to bite 
me. 

I shivered. The fog rolled in from the hills. The air felt damp and cold. The 
sky darkened. 

Two men in business suits came zooming along the street in a golf cart. 
They were both talking at once. One of them waved to Dad. 

“Can we ride in one of those carts?” Marty asked. “Can Erin and I each 
have our own cart?” 

“No way,” Dad told him. “You have to take the automated tram. And 
remember—stay in the tramcar. No matter what.” 

“You mean we can’t walk on Shock Street?” Marty whined. 

Dad shook his head. “Not allowed. You have to stay on the tram.” 

He turned to me. “I’ll be waiting for you here on the platform when you get 
back. I want a full report. I want to know what you like and what you don’t like. 
And don’t worry if things don’t work exactly right. There are still a few bugs to 
work out.” 

“Hey—here comes the tram!” Marty cried, hopping up and down and 
pointing. 

The tram came rolling silently around the corner. I counted six tramcars in 
all. They were shaped like roller-coaster cars, open on top—only much longer 
and wider. The cars were black. A grinning white skull was painted on the front 
of the first car. 

A young, red-haired woman wearing a black uniform was seated on the first 
bench in the front car. She waved to us as the tram rolled up to the platform. She 
was the only passenger. 

She hopped out as the tram stopped. “Hi, I’m Linda. I’m your tour guide.” 
She smiled at my dad. Her red hair fluttered in the wind. 

“Hello, Linda,” Dad said, smiling back at her. He gently shoved Marty and 
me forward. “Here are your first two victims.” 

Linda laughed and asked us our names. We told her. 

“Can we ride in front?” Marty asked eagerly. 

“Yes, of course,” Linda replied. “You can sit anywhere you want. This 

whole ride is just for you.” 

“All right!” Marty cried. He slapped me a high five. 

Dad laughed. “I think Marty is ready to begin,” he told Linda. 

Linda pushed her red hair out of her face. “You can start right away, guys. 
But first, there’s something I have to do.” 

She leaned over the tramcar and tugged out a black canvas bag. “This will 
only take a second, guys.” She pulled a red plastic gun from the bag. “This is a 
Shocker Stun Ray Blaster.” 

She gripped the plastic pistol tightly. It looked like something in a Star Trek 
movie. Her smile faded. Her green eyes narrowed. “Be careful with these 
blasters, guys. They can freeze a monster in its tracks from twenty feet.” 

She handed the blaster to me. Then she reached into her bag to get one for 
Marty. “Don’t fire them unless you have to.” She swallowed hard and bit her 
lower lip. “I sure hope you don’t have to.” 

I laughed. “You’re kidding—right? These are just toys—right?” 

She didn’t answer. She pulled another blaster from her bag and started to 
bring it to Marty. 

But she stumbled over a cord on the platform. “Ohh!” She let out a startled 
cry as the blaster went off in her hand. 

A loud buzz. A bright ray of yellow light. 

And Linda stood frozen on the platform. 

6 

“Linda! Linda!” I screamed. 

Marty’s mouth dropped open. He let out a choked gurgle. 

I turned to Dad. To my surprise, he was laughing. 

“Dad—she’s—she’s frozen!” I cried. But when I turned back to Linda, she 
had a big smile on her face, too. 

It took us both a while, but we soon realized the whole thing was a joke. 

“That’s the first shock on the Shocker tour,” Linda announced, lowering the 
red blaster. She put a hand on Marty’s shoulder. “I think I really shocked you, 
Marty!” 

“No way!” Marty insisted. “I knew it was a joke. I just played along.” 

“Come on, Marty!” I cried, rolling my eyes. “You nearly dropped your 
teeth!” 

“Erin, I wasn’t scared,” Marty insisted sharply. “Really. I just went along 
with the joke. Do you really think I’d fall for a dumb plastic blaster gun?” 

Marty is such a jerk. Why can’t he ever admit it when he’s scared? 

“Climb in, you two,” Dad urged. “Let’s get this show on the road.” 

Marty and I climbed into the front seat of the tram. I looked for a seat belt 
or a safety bar, but there wasn’t one. “Are you coming with us?” I asked Linda. 

She shook her head. “No. You’re on your own. The tram moves 
automatically.” She handed Marty his Stun Blaster. “Hope you don’t need it.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Marty muttered, rolling his eyes. “This gun is so babyish.” 

“Remember—I’ll meet you back here at the end of the ride,” Dad said. He 
waved. “Enjoy it. I want a full report.” 

“Don’t get out of the tram,” Linda reminded us. “Keep your head and arms 
inside. And don’t stand up while the tram is moving.” 

She stepped on a blue button on the platform. The tram started up with a 
jolt. Marty and I were thrown back against the seat. Then the tram rolled 
smoothly forward. 

“First stop is The Haunted House of Horror!” Linda called after us. “Good 
luck!” 

I turned back to see her waving to us, her long red hair fluttering in the 
wind. A strong breeze blew against us as the tram made its way down the hill. 

The sky was nearly as dark as night. Some of the white studio buildings were 
hidden by the fog. 

“Stupid gun,” Marty muttered, rolling it around in his hands. “Why do we 
need this plastic gun? I hope the whole tour isn’t this babyish.” 

“I hope you don’t complain all afternoon,” I told him, frowning. “Do you 
realize how awesome this is? We’re going to see all the great creatures from the 
Shocker movies.” 

“Think we’ll see Shockro?” he asked. Shockro is his favorite. I guess 
because he’s so totally gross. 

“Probably,” I replied, my eyes on the low buildings we were passing. They 
all stood dark and empty. 

“I want to see Wolf Boy and Wolf Girl,” Marty said, counting the monsters 
off on his fingers. “And... the Piranha People, and Captain Sick, The Great 
Gopher Mutant, and—” 

“Wow! Look!” I cried, pounding his shoulder and pointing. 

As the tram turned a sharp corner, The Haunted House of Horror loomed 
darkly in front of us. The roof and its tall stone turrets were hidden by the fog. 
The rest of the mansion stood gray against the dusky sky. 

The tram took us nearer. Tall weeds choked the front lawn. The weeds bent 
and swayed in the wind. The gray shingles on the house were chipped and 
peeling. Pale green light, dim, eerie light, floated out from the tall window in 
front. 

As we rode closer, I could see a rusty iron porch swing—swinging by itself! 
—on a broken, rotting porch. 

“Cool!” I exclaimed. 

“It looks a lot smaller than in the movie,” Marty grumbled. 

“It’s exactly the same house!” I cried. 

“Then why does it look so much smaller?” he demanded. 

What a complainer. 

I turned away from him and studied The Haunted House. An iron fence 
surrounded the place. As we moved around to the side, the rusty gate swung 
open, squeaking and creaking. 

“Look!” I pointed to the dark windows on the second floor. The shutters all 
flew open at once, then banged shut again. 

Lights came on in the windows. Through the window shades, I could see 
the silhouettes of skeletons hanging, swinging slowly back and forth. 

“That’s kind of cool,” Marty said. “But not too scary.” He raised his plastic 
gun and pretended to shoot at the skeletons. 

We circled The Haunted House of Horrors once. We could hear screams of 
terror from inside. The shutters banged again and again. The porch swing 
continued to creak back and forth, back and forth, as if taken by a ghost. 

“Are we going inside or not?” Marty demanded impatiently. 

“Sit back and stop complaining,” I said sharply. “The ride just started. 
Don’t spoil it for me, okay?” 

He stuck his tongue out at me. But he settled back against the seat. We 
heard a long howl, and then a shrill scream of horror. 

The tram made its way silently to the back of the house. A gate swung open 
and we rolled through it. We moved quickly through the overgrown, weed- 
choked backyard. 

The tram picked up speed. We bounced over the lawn. Up to the back door. 
A wooden sign above the door read: ABANDON ALL HOPE. 

We’re going to crash right into the door! I thought. I ducked and raised my 
hands to shield myself. 

But the door creaked open, and we burst inside. 

The tram slowed. I lowered my hands and sat up. We were in a dark, dust- 
covered kitchen. An invisible ghost cackled, an evil laugh. Battered pots and 
pans covered the wall. As we passed, they clattered to the floor. 

The oven door opened and closed by itself. The teapot on the stove started 
to whistle. Dishes on the shelves rattled. The cackling grew louder. 

“This is pretty creepy,” I whispered. 

“Ooh. Thrills and chills!” Marty replied sarcastically. He crossed his arms 
in front of him. “Bor-ring!” 

“Marty—give me a break.” I shoved him away. “You can be a bad sport if 
you want. But don’t ruin it for me.” 

That seemed to get to him. He muttered, “Sorry,” and scooted back next to 
me. 

The tram moved out of the dark kitchen, into an even darker hallway. 
Paintings of goblins and ugly creatures hung on the hallway walls. 

As we approached a closet door, it sprang open—and a shrieking skeleton 
popped out in front of us, its jaws open, its arms jutting out to grab us. 

I screamed. Marty laughed. 

The skeleton snapped back into the closet. The tram turned a corner. I saw 



flickering light up ahead. 

We rode into a large, round room. “It’s the living room,” I whispered to 
Marty. I raised my eyes to the flickering light and saw a chandelier above our 
heads, with a dozen burning candles. 

The tram stopped beneath it. The chandelier began to shake. Then, with a 
hiss, the candles ah flickered out at once. 

The room plunged into darkness. 

Then a deep laugh echoed all around us. 

I gasped. 

“Welcome to my humble home!” a deep voice suddenly boomed. 

“Who is that?” I whispered to Marty. “Where is it coming from?” No reply. 
“Hey—Marty?” I turned to him. “Marty—?” He was gone. 

7 

“Marty?” 

My breath caught in my throat. I froze, staring into the darkness. 

Where did he go? I asked myself. He knows we aren’t supposed to leave the 
tramcar. Did he climb out? 

No. 

If he had, I would have heard him. 

“Marty?” 

Someone grabbed my arm. 

I heard a soft laugh. Marty’s laugh. 

“Hey—where are you? I can’t see you!” I cried. 

“I can’t see you, either,” he replied. “But I didn’t move. I’m still sitting 
right next to you.” 

“Huh?” I reached out and felt the sleeve of his shirt. 

“This is cool!” Marty declared. “I’m waving my arms, but I can’t see a 
thing. You really can’t see me?” 

“No,” I replied. “I thought—” 

“It’s some kind of trick with the lights,” he said. “Black light or something. 
Some kind of neat movie special effect.” 

“Well, it creeped me out,” I confessed. “I really thought you disappeared.” 

“Sucker,” he sneered. 

And then we both jumped. 

A fire suddenly blazed in the big brick fireplace. Bright orange light filled 
the room. A big black armchair spun around to reveal a grinning skeleton. 

The skeleton raised its bony yellowed head. The jaws moved. “I hope you 
like my house,” its voice boomed. “Becauseyou will never leave!” 

It tossed back its head and let out an evil cackle. 

The tram jolted to a start. We rumbled out of the living room. Into a long, 
dark hallway. The skeleton’s laugh followed us into the hall. 

I fell back against the seat as we picked up speed. 

We whirred around a corner. Down another long hall, so dark I couldn’t see 
the walls. 

Faster. Faster. 

We whipped around another corner. Made another sharp turn. 

We were climbing now. And then we took a sharp dip that made both of us 
throw up our hands and scream. 

Around another sharp turn. Up, up, up. And then we came crashing down. 

A wild roller-coaster ride in total darkness. 

It was awesome. Even better because we didn’t expect it. Marty and I 
screamed our heads off. We bumped hard against each other as the tram whirled 
around in the black halls of The Haunted House of Horrors. Up, up, again—then 
we tilted sharply down. 

I hung on to the front of the car for dear life. I gripped it so hard, both hands 
ached. There was no seat belt, no safety bar. 

What if we tumbled out? I wondered. 

The car tilted sharply sideways, as if reading my frightened thoughts. I let 
out a shriek and lost my grip. I slid against the side of the car. Marty fell on top 
of me. 

I frantically reached out for something to hold on to. 

The car tilted back rightside up. I took a deep breath, slid back into place on 
the long seat. 

“Whoa! That was excellent !” Marty cried, laughing. “Excellent!” 

Gripping the front of the car, I took another deep breath and held it. I was 
trying to slow my racing heart. 

A door swung open in front of us, and we burst through it. 

The car bounced hard. I saw trees. The gray-fogged sky. 

We were back outside. Racing through the backyard. Both of us were tossed 
from side to side as we roared over the weeds, zigzagging through the dark trees. 

“Whoa! Stop!” I choked out. I couldn’t catch my breath. The wind blew 
hard against my face. The tram clattered and squealed as we bumped over the 
rough ground. 

We were out of control. Something had definitely gone wrong with the 

tram. 

Bouncing hard on the plastic seat, holding on tightly, I searched for 
someone who could help us. 

No one in sight. 

We bumped onto the road. The tram started to slow. I turned to Marty. His 
hair was blown over his face. His mouth hung open. His eyes rolled around in 

his head. He was totally dazed. 

The tram slowed, slowed, slowed, until we were creeping smoothly along. 

“That was great]” Marty declared. He smoothed back his hair with both 
hands and grinned at me. I knew he had been scared, too. But he was pretending 
that he enjoyed the crazy, wild ride. 

“Yeah. Great.” I tried to pretend, too. But my voice came out weak and 
shaky. 

“I’m going to tell your dad that the roller-coaster ride through the halls was 
the best]” Marty declared. 

“It was kind of fun,” I agreed. “And kind of scary.” 

Marty turned away from me. “Hey. Where are we?” 

The tram had come to a stop. I pulled myself up and peered around. We had 
parked between two rows of tall evergreen bushes. The bushes were slender, 
shaped like spears reaching up to the sky. 

Above us, the afternoon sun was trying to break through the fog. Rays of 
pale light beamed down from the gray sky. The tall, thin shadows of the bushes 
fell over our tramcar. 

Marty stood up and turned to the back of the tram. “There’s nothing around 
here,” he said. “We’re in the middle of nowhere. Why did we stop?” 

“Do you think—?” I started. But I stopped talking when I saw the bush 
move. 

It wiggled. Then the bush next to it wiggled, too. 

“Marty—” I whispered, tugging his sleeve. I saw two glowing red circles 
behind the bush. Two glowing red eyes] 

“Marty—there’s someone there.” 

Another pair of eyes. And then another pair of eyes. Staring out at us from 
behind the evergreen bushes. 

And then two dark claws. 

And then rustling sounds. The bush tilted as a dark figure leaped out. 
Followed by another. 

Snarling, growling. 

I gasped. Too late to run. 

We were surrounded by the ugly creatures. Snuffling, wheezing creatures, 
who staggered out from the bushes. Reaching out, reaching out for us, they 
began to climb into the tram. 

8 

Marty and I jumped to our feet. 

“Ohhhhhh.” I heard Marty let out a frightened moan. 

I started to back away. I thought maybe I could scramble out the other side 
of the car. 

But the snarling, growling monsters came at us from both sides. 

“L-leave us alone!” I stammered. 

A monster covered in tangled brown fur opened his jaws to reveal long, 
jagged rows of yellow teeth. His hot breath exploded in my face. He stepped 
closer. Then he swiped at me with a fat paw and uttered a menacing roar. “Would 
you like an autograph?” he growled. 

I gaped at him, my mouth hanging down to my knees. “Huh?” 

“Autographed photo?” he asked. He raised his furry paw again. He held a 
black-and-white snapshot in it. 

“Hey—you’re Ape Face!” Marty cried, pointing. 

The hairy creature nodded his head. He raised the photo to Marty. “Want a 
photo? This is the autographing part of the tour.” 

“Yeah! Okay,” Marty replied. 

The big ape pulled a marker from behind his ear and bent to sign the photo 
for Marty. 

Now that my heartbeat was returning to normal, I began to recognize some 
of the other creatures. The guy covered in purple slime was The Toxic Wild 
Man. And I recognized Sweet Sue, the walking-talking baby doll with real hair 
you can brush. Sweet Sue was really a mutant murderer from Mars. 

The frog-faced guy covered from head to toe with purple and brown warts 
was The Fabulous Frog, also known as The Toadinator. He starred in Pond Scum 
and Pond Scum II, two of the scariest movies ever made. 

“Frog—can I have your autograph?” I asked. 

“Grrrbbit. Grrbit.” He croaked and slipped a pen into his wart-covered 
hand. I leaned forward eagerly and watched him sign his photo. It was hard for 
him to write. The pen kept slipping in his slimy frog hands. 

Marty and I collected a bunch of autographs. Then the creatures went 
snarling and wheezing back into the bushes. 

When they were gone, we both burst out laughing. “That was so dumb!” I 
cried. “When I saw them creeping out from behind the bushes, I thought I’d have 
a cow!” I glanced down at the photos. “But it’s kind of cool to get their 
autographs.” 

Marty made a disgusted face. “It’s just a bunch of actors in costumes,” he 
sneered. “It’s for babies.” 

“But—but—they looked so real,” I stammered. “It didn’t look as if they 
were wearing costumes—did it? I mean, The Toadinator’s hands were really 
slimy. And Ape Face’s fur was so real. The masks were awesome. I couldn’t tell 
they were masks.” 

I brushed the hair out of my eyes. “How do they get into those costumes? I 
didn’t see any buttons or zippers, or anything!” 

“That’s because they’re movie costumes,” Marty explained. “They’re better 
than regular costumes.” 

Mr. Know-It-All. 

The tram started to back out. I settled down into the seat. I watched the two 
rows of evergreen bushes fade into the distance. 

Down the long, sloping hill, I could see the white studio buildings. I 
wondered if they were making a movie on one of the soundstages. I wondered if 
the tram would take us to watch them shoot. 

I could see two golf carts moving along the road. 

They were carrying people down to the sound-stage buildings. 

The sun still struggled to shine through the fog. The tram bounced over the 
grass, up the hill. 

“Whoa!” I cried out as we turned sharply and headed back toward the trees. 

“Please remain in the car at all times.” A woman’s voice burst from a 
speaker in the tram car. “Your next stop will be The Cave of The Living Creeps.” 

“The Cave of The Living Creeps? Wow! That sounds scary!” Marty 
exclaimed. 

“Sure does!” I agreed. 

We had no idea just how scary it would turn out to be. 

9 

The tram zigzagged its way through the trees. Their shadows rolled over us like 
dark ghosts. 

We moved so silently. I tried to imagine what the ride would be like if the 
tram was packed with excited kids and adults. I decided it would be a lot less 
scary with a crowd. 

But I wasn’t complaining. Marty and I were really lucky to be the first kids 
ever to try out this ride. 

“Wow!” Marty grabbed my arm as The Cave of The Living Creeps loomed 
in front of us. The mouth of the cave was a huge dark hole, cut into the side of 
the hill. I could see pale, silvery light flickering past the entrance. 

The tram slowed down as we approached the dark opening. A sign above 
the entrance had one word carved roughly into it: FAREWELL. 

The tramcar lurched forward. “Hey—!” I cried out and ducked my head. 
What a tight squeeze! 

Into the dim, flickering light. 

The air instantly grew colder. And damp. A sour, earthy smell rose to my 
nostrils, making me gasp. 

“Bats!” Marty whispered. “What do you think, Erin? Think there are bats in 
here?” He leaned close and let out an evil laugh in my ear. 

Marty knows that I hate bats! 

I know, I know. Bats aren’t really evil creatures. And they aren’t dangerous. 
Bats eat mosquitoes and other insects. And they don’t attack people or get 
tangled in your hair or try to suck your blood. That’s only in movies. 

I know all that. But I don’t care. 

Bats are ugly and creepy and disgusting. And I hate them. 

One day, I told Marty how much I hate bats. And so he’s been teasing me 
about them ever since. 

The tram moved deeper into the cave. The air grew colder. The sour aroma 
nearly choked me. 

“Look—over there!” Marty screamed. “A vampire bat!” 

“Huh? Where?” I couldn’t help myself. I cried out in alarm. 

Of course it was one of Marty’s dumb jokes. He laughed like a maniac. 

I growled at him and punched him hard on the shoulder. “You’re not funny. 
You’re just dumb.” 

That made him giggle even harder. “I’ll bet there are bats in this cave,” he 
insisted. “You can’t go into a deep, dark cave like this one without seeing bats.” 

I turned away from his grinning face and listened hard. I was listening for 
fluttering bat wings. I didn’t hear any. 

The cave narrowed. The walls seemed to close in on us. The side of the car 
scraped against the dirt wall. I could feel that we were heading down. 

In the dim, silvery light, I saw a long row of pointy icicle-type things 
hanging down from the cave ceiling. I know they have a name, but I can never 
remember which one it is—stalagmites or stalactites. 

I ducked my head again as the tram shot under them. Up close, they looked 
like pointed elephant tusks. 

“We’re getting closer to the bats!” Marty teased. 

I ignored him. I kept my eyes straight ahead. The cave grew wide again. 
Dark shadows shifted and danced over the walls as we rolled past. 

“Ohhh.” I uttered a groan as I felt something cold and slimy drop onto the 
back of my neck. 

I jerked away and turned sharply to Marty. “Cut it out!” I snapped. “Get 
your cold hands off me!” 

“Who—me?” 

He wasn’t touching me. Both of his hands gripped the front of the car. 

Then what was on the back of my neck? So cold and wet. Icy wet. I 
shuddered. My whole body shook. 

“M-Marty!” I stammered. “H-help!” 

Marty stared at me, confused. “Erin—what’s your problem?” 

“The back of my neck—” I choked out. 

I could feel the cold, wet thing start to move. I decided not to wait for 
Marty to help me. 

I reached back and pulled it off. It felt sticky and cold between my fingers. 
It slithered and wriggled, and I dropped it on the seat. 

A worm! 

A huge, long white worm. So cold, so wet and cold. 

“Weird!” Marty exclaimed. He leaned close to examine it. “I’ve never seen 
a worm that big! And it’s white.” 

“It—it dropped from the ceiling,” I said, watching it wiggle next to me. 

“It’s ice-cold.” 

“Huh? Let me touch it,” Marty said. He raised his hand and slowly lowered 
his pointer finger to the worm. 

His finger poked the worm in its middle. 

And then Marty opened his mouth in a scream of horror that echoed 
through the cave. 

10 

“What is it? Marty—what’s wrong?” I shrieked. 

“I—I—I—” He couldn’t speak. He could only utter, “I—I—I—!” His eyes 
bulged. His tongue flopped out. 

He reached up and pulled a white worm off the top of his head. “I—I—I got 
one too!” 

“Yuck!” I cried. His worm was nearly as long as a shoelace! 

We both tossed our worms out of the tram. 

But then I felt a soft, damp plop on my shoulder. And then a cold plop on 
top of my head. Another on my forehead, like a cold slap. 

“Ohhh—help!” I moaned. I started thrashing my arms, grabbing at the 
worms, struggling to pull them off me. 

“Marty—please!” I turned to him for help. 

But he was battling them, too. Twisting and ducking. Trying to dodge, as 
more and more white worms fell from the ceiling. 

I saw one fall on his shoulder. I saw another one begin to wrap itself around 
his ear. 

As fast as I could, I pulled the sticky, wet creatures off me and tossed them 
over the side of the slow-rolling tram. 

Where are they coming from? I wondered. 

I glanced up—and a fat, wet one fell over my eyes. 

“Yeowwww!” I let out a shriek, grabbed it, flung it away. 

The tram turned sharply, sending us both sliding over the seat. The cave 
narrowed again as we entered a different tunnel. The silvery light glowed dimly 
around us as we bounced forward. 

Two white worms, each at least a foot long, wriggled across my lap. I 
tugged them off and heaved them over the tram. 

Breathing hard, I searched for more. My whole body itched. The back of 
my neck tingled. I couldn’t stop shaking. 

“They stopped falling,” Marty announced in a shaky voice. 

Then why did I still itch? 

I rubbed the back of my neck. Stood up and searched the seat, then the 
floor. I found one last worm, climbing over my shoe. I kicked it away, then 

dropped back onto the seat with a loud sigh. 

“That was totally gross!” I wailed. 

Marty scratched his chest, then rubbed his face with both hands. “I guess 
that’s why they call it The Cave of The Living Creeps,” he said. He swept a hand 
back through his black hair. 

I shivered. I couldn’t stop itching. I knew the worms were gone, but I could 
still feel them. “Those disgusting white worms—do you think they were alive?” 

Marty shook his head. “Of course not. They were fakes.” He snickered. “I 
guess they fooled you, huh?” 

“They sure felt real,” I replied. “And the way they wriggled around—” 

“They were robots or something,” Marty said, scratching his knees. 
“Everything here is fake. It has to be.” 

“I’m not so sure,” I said, my whole body still itchy and tingling. 

“Well, just ask your father,” Marty replied grumpily. 

I had to laugh. I knew why Marty was suddenly so grouchy. Whether the 
worms were real or fake, they had scared him. And he knew that I knew that he 
had been frightened. 

“I don’t think little kids will like the worms,” Marty said. “I think they’ll 
get too scared. I’m going to tell that to your dad.” 

I started to reply—and felt something drop over me. Something scratchy 
and dry. 

It covered my face, my shoulders—my entire body. 

I shot both hands up and tried to push it away. It’s some kind of a net, I 
thought. 

I grabbed at it, desperate to get it off my face. As I struggled, I turned and 
saw Marty squirming and batting his arms, caught under the same net. 

The tram bounced through the dim cave tunnel. The sticky net felt like 
cotton candy on my skin. 

Marty let out a yelp. “It—it’s a big spider-web!” he stammered. 

I tugged and grabbed and pulled. But the sticky threads clung to my face, 
my arms, and my clothes. “Yuck! This is so gross!” I choked out. 

And then I saw the black dots scurrying through the net. It took me a few 
seconds to realize what they were. Spiders! Hundreds of them! 

“Ohhhh.” A low moan escaped my throat. 

I batted the spiderweb with both hands. I rubbed my cheeks frantically, 
trying to scrape away the sticky threads. I pulled a spider off my forehead. 

Another one off the shoulder of my T-shirt. 

“The spiders—they’re in my hair!” Marty wailed. 

He suddenly forgot about acting cool. He began raking his hair with both 
hands, slapping himself in the head, pinching and swiping at the spiders. 

As the tram rolled silently on, we both twisted and squirmed, struggling to 
flick away the black spiders. I pulled three of them out of my hair. Then I felt 
one climb into my nose! 

I opened my mouth in a horrified scream—and sneezed it out. 

Marty plucked a spider off my neck and sent it soaring through the air. The 
last spider. I couldn’t see—or feel—any more. 

We both dropped down in the seat, breathing hard. My heart pounded in my 
chest. “Still think everything is a fake?” I asked Marty, my voice weak and 
small. 

“I—I don’t know,” he replied softly. “The spiders could be puppets maybe. 
You know. Radio-controlled.” 

“They were realV I cried sharply. “Face it, Marty—they were real! This is 
The Cave of The Living Creeps—and they were living !” 

Marty’s eyes grew wide. “You really think so?” 

I nodded. “They had to be real spiders.” 

A smile spread over Marty’s face. “That’s so coo/!” he declared. “Real 
spiders! That is totally cool!” 

I let out a long sigh and slumped lower in the seat. I didn’t think it was cool 
at all. I thought it was creepy and disgusting. 

These rides are supposed to be fake. That’s what makes them fun. I decided 
to tell my dad that the worms and spiders were too scary. He should get rid of 
them before the studio tour opens to the public. 

I crossed my arms in front of me and kept my eyes straight ahead. I 
wondered what we would mn into next. I hoped there weren’t any other 
disgusting insects waiting to fall on us and climb all over our faces and bodies. 

“I think I hear the bats!” Marty teased. He leaned close to me, grinning. 
“Hear those fluttering sounds? Giant vampire bats!” 

I shoved him back to his side of the seat. I wasn’t in any mood for his 
joking around. 

“When do we get out of this cave?” I asked impatiently. “This isn’t any 

fun.” 

“I think it’s cool,” Marty repeated. “I like exploring caves.” 

The narrow tunnel opened into a wide cavern. The ceiling appeared to be a 
mile high. There were giant rocks scattered over the cavern floor. Rocks piled on 
rocks. Rocks everywhere. 

Somewhere ahead of us, I heard water dripping. Plunk plunk plunk. 

Eerie green light glowed from the cave walls. The tram pulled up to the 
back wall—and then stopped. 

“Now what?” I whispered. 

Marty and I turned in our seat, letting our eyes explore the huge cavern. All 
I could see were rocks. Smooth rocks, some round, some square. 

Plunk plunk plunk. Water dripped somewhere to our right. The air felt cold 
and damp. 

“This is kind of boring,” Marty murmured. “When do we get going?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. Why did we stop here? It’s just a big empty 
cave.” 

We waited for the tram to back up and take us out of there. 

And waited. 

A minute went by. Then another few minutes. 

We both turned around and got up on our knees, peering to the back of the 
tram. Nothing moved. We listened to the steady drip of water, echoing off the 
high stone walls. No other sound. 

Leaning forward against the seatback, I cupped my hands around my mouth 
and shouted. “Hey—can anybody hear us?” 

I waited, listening. No reply. 

“Can anybody hear us?” I tried again. “I think we’re stuck here!” 

No reply. Just the steady drip drip drip. 

I waited, squinting hard into the glow of green light. 

Why wouldn’t the tram get moving? Had it broken down? Were we really 
stuck here? 

I turned to Marty. “What’s up with this tram? Do you think we’re—HEY!” 

I gasped as I stared at the empty seat beside me. 

I reached both hands out. I grabbed for Marty. 

Another lighting trick? Another optical illusion? 

“Marty? Hey—Marty?” I croaked. 

A cold shiver rolled down my back. 

This time Marty was really gone. 

11 

“Marty—?” 

A scraping sound beside the tram made me jump. 

I spun around and saw Marty grinning at me from the cave floor. “Gotcha.” 

“You creep!” I shouted. I swung my fist, but he dodged away, laughing. 
“You’re The Living Creep!” I cried. “You deliberately tried to scare me.” 

“It isn’t too hard a job!” he shot back. His smile faded. “I climbed down to 
check things out.” 

“But the tram might start up any second!” I told him. “You know what that 
tour guide told us. She said we should never leave the tram.” 

Marty squatted down and studied the tires. “I think the tram is stuck or 
something. Maybe it came off its tracks.” He raised his eyes to me and shook his 
head fretfully. “But there aren’t any tracks.” 

“Marty—get back in,” I pleaded. “If it starts up and leaves you standing 
there—” 

He grabbed the side of the car with both hands and shook it. The tramcar 
bounced on its tires. But it didn’t move. 

“I think it broke down,” Marty said softly. “Your father said that some 
things might not work.” 

I felt a stab of fear in my chest. “You mean we’re stranded here? All by 
ourselves in this creepy cave?” 

He stepped to the front of the car and squeezed between the tram and the 
cave wall. Then he tried to push the tram back, shoving with both hands as hard 
as he could. 

It wouldn’t budge. 

“Oh, wow,” I muttered, shaking my head. “This is horrible. This isn’t any 
fun at all.” 

I got back up on my knees on the seat and tried shouting again, as loud as I 
could: “Is anybody in here? Does anybody work here? The tram is stuck!” 

Plunk plunk plunk. The dripping water was my only reply. 

“Can somebody help us?” I shouted. “Please—can somebody help?” 

No answer. 

“Now what?” I cried. 

Marty was still shoving with all his might against the front of the tram. He 
gave one last hard push, then gave up with a sigh. “You’d better climb down,” he 
said. “We have to walk.” 

“Huh? Walk? In this creepy dark cave? No way, Marty!” 

He came around to my side of the car. “You’re not afraid —are you, Erin?” 

“Yes, I am,” I confessed. “A little.” I glanced around the huge cavern. “I 
don’t see any exits. We’d have to walk back through those tunnels. With all the 
spiders and worms and everything.” 

“We can find a way out,” Marty insisted. “There’s got to be a door 
somewhere. They always build emergency exits in these theme park rides.” 

“I think we should stay in the tram,” I said uncertainly. “If we stay here and 
wait, someone will come and find us.” 

“It could take days,” Marty declared. “Come on, Erin. I’m going to walk. 
Are you coming with me?” 

I shook my head, my arms crossed tightly in front of me. “No way,” I 
insisted. “I’m staying here.” 

I knew he wouldn’t go off by himself. I knew he wouldn’t go unless I 
joined him. 

“Well. ’Bye then,” he said. He turned and started walking quickly across the 
cave floor. 

“Hey, Marty—?” 

“’Bye. I’m not waiting here all day. See you later.” 

He was really leaving. Leaving me alone in the stalled tram, in the scary 
cave. “But, Marty—wait!” 

He turned back to me. “Are you coming or not, Erin?” he called back 
impatiently. 

“Okay, okay,” I murmured. I saw that I had no choice. I climbed over the 
side of the tram and dropped to the cave floor. 

The dirt was smooth and damp. I started walking slowly toward Marty. 

“Hurry it up,” he called. “Let’s get out of here.” He was walking backward 
now, motioning for me to catch up to him. 

But I stopped and my mouth dropped open in horror. 

“Don’t look at me like that!” he shouted. “Don’t stare at me as if I’m doing 
something wrong!” 

But I wasn’t staring at Marty. 

I was staring at the thing creeping up behind Marty. 

12 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I struggled to warn Marty, but only frightened grunts escaped 
my throat. 

He kept backing up, backing right into the enormous creature. 

“Erin, get a move on. What’s your problem ?” he demanded. 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I finally managed to point. 

“Huh?” Marty spun around—and saw it, too. “Whoa!” he screamed. His 
sneakers slid on the soft cave floor as he came running back to me. “What is that 
thing?” 

At first, I thought it was some kind of machine. It looked like one of those 
tall steel cranes you see on construction sites. All silvery and metallic. 

But as it rose up on its wire-thin back legs, I saw that it was alive ! 

It had round black eyes the size of billiard balls. They spun wildly in its 
skinny silver skull. Two slender antennae bobbed at the top of the head. Its 
mouth appeared soft, mushy. A gray tongue darted out between long, bristly 
whiskers. 

Its long body stretched back like a folded-up leaf. As it stood, it waved its 
front legs, short white sticks. 

The whole creature looked like some kind of gross stick figure. Its long 
back legs bent and sprang forward, bent then sprang forward. The thick tongue 
swung from side to side. The black eyes stopped whirling and focused on me. 

“Is it—is it a grasshopper ?” I choked out. 

Marty and I had both backed up to the tram. 

Waving its stick arms, the creature sprang closer, its antennae circling 
slowly on top of its head. 

Marty and I pressed our backs against the cold cave wall. We couldn’t move 
back any farther. 

“I think it’s a praying mantis,” Marty replied, staring up at it. The insect had 
to be at least three times as tall as us. As it moved forward, its head nearly 
scraped the cave ceiling. 

The tongue licked its soft, mushy mouth. The mouth puckered and made 
loud sucking sounds. My stomach lurched. The sound was so sick\ 

The round black eyes stared down at Marty and me. The giant praying 

mantis, its body shining like aluminum, took another hopping step toward us. It 
started to lower its head. 

“Wh-what’s it going to do?” I stammered, pressing my back hard against 
the cave wall. 

To my surprise, Marty suddenly started to laugh. 

I turned to him and grabbed his shoulder. Was he totally losing it? 

“Marty—are you okay?” 

“Of course!” he replied. He pulled away from me and took a step toward 
the towering insect. “Why should we be scared, Erin? It’s a big robot. It’s 
programmed to walk up to the tram.” 

“Huh? But, Marty—” 

“It’s all on a computer,” he continued, staring up as the big head bobbed 
lower on its stick body. “It isn’t real. It’s part of the ride.” 

I stared up at the creature. Big drops of saliva rolled off its fat tongue and 
hit the cave floor with a splat. 

“It’s... uh... really lifelike,” I murmured. 

“Your dad is a genius at this stuff!” Marty declared. “We’ll have to tell him 
what a good job he did on the praying mantis.” He laughed. “Your dad said there 
were still some bugs, remember? This must be one of them!” 

The insect rubbed its front legs together. It made a shrill whistling sound. 

I covered my ears. The high-pitched note made my ears ache! 

I was still holding my ears as a second giant praying mantis hopped out 
from behind a tall rock. 

“Look—another one!” Marty cried, pointing. He tugged my arm. “Wow. 
They move so smoothly. You can’t even tell that they’re machines.” 

The two silvery insects chittered at each other, a sharp shrill, metallic 
sound. Their black eyes twirled. Their antennae rotated rapidly, excitedly. 

Gobs of saliva rolled off their tongues and splattered to the floor. The 
second one flashed silvery wings on its back, then quickly closed them up again. 

“Great-looking robots!” Marty declared. He turned to me. “We’d better get 
back in the tram. It’ll probably start up again now that we’ve seen these giant 
bugs.” 

The two insects chittered to each other. They hopped closer, their sticklike 
legs springing hard, bouncing off the smooth cave floor. 

“I hope you’re right,” I told Marty. “Those insects are too real. I want to get 
out of here!” 

I started to follow him to the tramcar. 

The first mantis leaped forward quickly. It hopped between us and the tram, 
blocking our path. 

“Hey—!” I cried. 

We tried to step around it. But it took a big hop to stay in front of us. 

“It—it won’t let us pass!” I stammered. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out as the big creature suddenly swung down and slammed 
its head against my chest. The powerful head-butt sent me sprawling backward. 

“Hey—stop that!” I heard Marty shout. “That machine must be broken!” 

Its black eyes glowing, the mantis lowered its head again—and gave me 
another hard push toward the center of the cave. 

Its partner moved quickly to trap Marty. It lowered its body and prepared to 
head-butt Marty. But Marty quickly backed away, raising his hands in front of 
him like a shield. He hurried to join me. 

I heard scraping sounds. Shrill chirps and chittering. 

I spun around to discover two more huge, ugly mantises climbing out from 
behind rocks. Then two more, their antennae twisting excitedly. Their fat gray 
tongues rolling around their open mouths. 

Marty and I huddled together in the middle of the cavern as the creatures 
hopped and scraped around us. Then they rose up high on their hind legs, their 
black eyes gleaming, their short stick arms waving. 

“We—we’re surrounded!” I cried. 

13 

The giant insects all began chittering at once. They scraped their front legs 
together excitedly. The shrill whistle rose through the cave, echoing off the stone 
walls. 

They formed a circle around us, leaning back on their spindly hind legs. 
Moving closer. Tightening the circle. Their tongues whipped back and forth. 
Thick gobs of mantis saliva hit the floor. 

“They’re out of control!” Marty shrieked. 

“What are they going to do to us?” I cried, covering my ears against their 
excited chirps and the deafening whistle. 

“Maybe they are voice-controlled,” Marty shouted. He tilted back his head 
and shouted up at them: “Stop! Stop!” 

They didn’t stop. 

One of them tilted its silvery head, opened its ugly mouth wide, and spit out 
a black gob. It splattered onto Marty’s sneaker. 

He jumped back. His sneaker stuck to the floor. 

He struggled to tug it free. “Yuck! Watch out! That black stuff—it’s like 
glue!” he cried. 

THOOOM. 

Another mantis opened its mouth wide and spit out a big black gob of 
sticky goo. It splotched the shoulder of my T-shirt. 

“Oww!” I wailed. It was so hot—it burned me right through my shirt. 

The others chittered shrilly and scraped their hairy stick arms. Their 
tongues darting back and forth, they began to lower their heads to us. 

“The stun guns!” I cried, grabbing Marty’s arm. “Maybe the guns will work 
against these bugs!” 

“Those guns are only toys!” he wailed. 

THUPPP. 

Another black gob missed Marty’s foot by inches. 

“Besides, the guns are in the tram,” Marty continued, staring up at the ugly 
creatures. “No way they’ll let us get to the tram.” 

“Then what are we going to do?” I cried. 

As I asked the question, an idea flashed into my mind. 

“Marty—” I whispered. “How do you normally get rid of bugs?” 

“Huh? Erin—what are you talking about?” 

“You step on them—right? Don’t you usually step on them?” 

“But, Erin—” he protested. “These bugs are big enough to step on us!” 

“It’s worth a try!” I cried. 

I raised my sneaker—and tromped as hard as I could on the foot of the 
nearest mantis. 

The giant insect let out a shrill hiss and hopped backward. 

Beside me, Marty stomped on another insect, bringing the heel of his 
sneaker down hard on its spindly foot. That creature fell back, too, raising its 
head in a shrill hiss of pain. Its eyes spun wildly. Its antennae shot straight up. 

I stomped down hard again. With a hoarse choking sound, the big mantis 
fell onto its side. All four stick legs thrashed the air. 

“Let’s go!” I shouted. 

I turned and burst through the circle of insects. I didn’t know where to run. I 
only knew I had to get away. 

The cave erupted in hisses and shrill whistles, angry cluttering and croaks. I 
glimpsed Marty lurching after me. 

I ignored the echoing, ringing sounds and ran. 

Ran to the tram. 

Leaned over the side and grabbed both plastic stun guns into my arms. 

Then I pushed away from the tram and hurtled along the stone cave wall. 

Where could I go? 

How could I escape? 

The cluttering and hissing grew louder, more frantic. The tall shadows of 
the giant insects danced on the wall as I ran. I had the feeling that the shadows 
could reach out and grab me. 

I glanced back. 

Marty came running behind me at full speed. 

The mantises were hopping, scrabbling, limping across the dirt floor after 
us. 

Where to run? Where? 

And then I saw the narrow opening in the cave wall. Just a crack, really. 

But I dove for it. Slipped into it. Squeezed myself into the dark hole 
between the stone. 

And burst out the other side. Into the misty daylight. 

Outside! 

I could see trees tilting down the hill. The road that led down to the studio 
buildings. 

Yes! Outside! I made it! 

I felt so happy. So safe. 

But I didn’t have long to enjoy the feeling. 

As I started to catch my breath, I heard Marty’s terrified cry: “Erin—help! 
Help! They got me! They’re eating me!” 

14 

With a gasp, I spun around. 

How could I help Marty? How could I get him out of the cave? 

To my surprise, he was leaning against the cave wall, one elbow against the 
rock, his legs crossed. A big grin on his round face. 

“April Fools,” he said. 

“YAAAIIIII!” I let out an angry scream. Then I dropped the two plastic 
pistols and rushed at him, ready to pound him with my fists. “You jerk! You 
scared me to death!” 

He laughed and dodged to the side as I came at him. I swung my fist and hit 
air. 

“Don’t play any more dumb jokes like that!” I cried breathlessly. “This 
place is too scary! Those big insects—” 

“Yeah. They were scary,” he agreed, his smile fading. “They were so real! 
How do you think they made them spit like that?” 

I shook my head. “I don’t know,” I muttered. 

I had a heavy feeling in my stomach. I knew it was a crazy idea. But I was 
beginning to think these creatures we were seeing were real. 

Maybe I’ve seen too many scary movies. But the big praying mantises and 
the white worms and all the other creatures and monsters really seemed to be 
alive. 

They didn’t move like mechanical creatures. They appeared to breathe. And 
their eyes focused on Marty and me as if they could really see us. 

I wanted to tell Marty what I was thinking. But I knew he would only laugh 
at me. 

He was so sure that they were all robots and that we were seeing some 
awesome movie special effects. Of course, that made sense. We were on a movie 
studio tour, after all. 

I hoped Marty was right. I hoped it was all tricks. Movie magic. 

My dad was a genius when it came to designing mechanical creatures and 
building theme park rides. And maybe that’s all we were seeing. Maybe Dad had 
really outdone himself this time. 

But the heavy feeling in my stomach wouldn’t go away. I had the feeling 

that we were in danger. Real danger. 

I had the feeling that something had gone wrong here. That something was 
out of control. 

I suddenly wished we weren’t the first two kids to try out the tour. I knew it 
was supposed to be a thrill to be the only ones here. But it was too quiet. Too 
empty. Too scary. It would be so much more fun if hundreds of other people 
were along with us. 

I wanted to tell Marty all this. But how could I? 

He was so eager to prove that he was braver than me. So eager to prove that 
he wasn’t afraid of anything. 

I couldn’t tell him what I was really thinking. 

I picked up the two plastic stun guns and handed him one. I didn’t want to 
carry them both. 

He tucked the barrel of his gun into his jeans pocket. “Hey, Erin—look 
where we are!” he cried. He jogged past me, his eyes straight ahead. “Check it 
out!” 

He started running across the grass. I turned and started to follow him. I 
didn’t want him to get too far ahead. 

The sky had darkened. The sun had disappeared behind a heavy blanket of 
clouds. Wisps of gray fog hung low in the cool air. It was nearly evening. 

We crossed the road and stepped into a town. I mean, it was a movie set of a 
town. A small town with low, one- and two-story buildings, small shops, a 
country-looking general store. Big, old houses in the block beyond the stores. 

“Do you think this is a set they really use in the movies?” I asked, hurrying 
to catch up to Marty. 

He turned to me, his dark eyes flashing with excitement. “Don’t you 
recognize it? Don’t you know where you are?” 

And then my eyes fell on the crumbling, old mansion half-hidden by the 
twisted trees. And across from it, I saw the crooked picket fence that ran around 
the old cemetery. 

And I knew we were on Shock Street. 

“Wow!” I exclaimed, spinning around, trying to take it all in at once. “This 
really is Shock Street. This is where they filmed all of the movies!” 

“It doesn’t look the way I imagined it,” Marty said. “It looks even scarier!” 

He was right. As the sky darkened to evening, long shadows fell over the 
empty buildings. The wind made a moaning sound as it swept around the corner. 

Marty and I made our way down the street, trying to see everything. We 
kept crossing from side to side, peering into a dark, dust-covered shop window 
—then running to examine the front yard of a rundown, old mansion. 

“Check out that empty lot,” I said, pointing. “That’s where The Mad 
Mangier hung out. Remember? In Shocker III? Remember—he mangled 
everyone who walked by?” 

“Of course I remember,” Marty snapped. He stepped into the empty lot. Tall 
weeds bent low, blown by the moaning wind. Shadows moved against the fence 
at the back. 

I stayed on the sidewalk and squinted hard, trying to see what cast the 
shadows. 

Did The Mad Mangier still lurk back there? 

The lot was totally empty. So how could there be tall, shifting shadows on 
the fence? 

“Marty—come back,” I pleaded. “It’s getting dark.” 

He turned back. “Scared, Erin?” 

“It’s just an empty lot,” I told him. “Let’s keep walking.” 

“People always thought it was just an empty lot,” Marty replied in a low, 
scary voice. “Until The Mad Mangier jumped out and mangled them!” He let out 
a long, evil laugh. 

“Marty—you’re losing it,” I murmured, shaking my head. 

He came trotting out of the lot, and we crossed the street. “I wish I had a 
camera,” he said. “I’d really like a picture of me standing in The Mangler’s lot.” 
His eyes lit up. “Or even better—!” 

He didn’t finish his sentence. Instead, he took off, running full speed. 

“Hey—wait up!” I cried. 

A few seconds later, I saw where he was headed. The old cemetery. 

He ran up to the cracked and peeling wooden gate and turned back to me. 
“Even better, I’d like a photo of me standing in the cemetery. The actual set 
where they filmed Cemetery on Shock Street.” 

“We don’t have a camera,” I called from the street. “Get away from there.” 

He ignored me and started to open the gate. The bottom was stuck in the 
grass. Marty tugged hard. Finally, the gate started to pull open, creaking and 
groaning as it moved. 

“Marty—let’s go,” I insisted. “It’s getting late. Dad is probably waiting for 
us, wondering what happened to us.” 

“But this is part of the tour!” he insisted. He tugged the heavy gate open 
just wide enough to squeeze inside the cemetery. 

“Marty—please! Don’t go in!” I begged. I ran up beside him. 

“Erin, it’s just a movie set,” he replied. “You didn’t used to be such a total 
wimp!” 

“I—I just have a bad feeling about this cemetery,” I stammered. “A very 
bad feeling.” 

“It’s part of the tour,” he repeated. 

“But this gate was c/osed!” I cried. “It was closed so that people don’t go 
in.” I raised my eyes to the cemetery. I saw the old graves tilting up from the 
ground like crooked teeth. “I have such a bad feeling...” 

Marty ignored me. He tugged the gate open a little wider and slipped into 
the cemetery. 

“Marty—please—!” I gripped the low fence tightly with both hands and 
watched him. 

He took three steps toward the old graves. Then his hands shot straight up 
in the air—and he dropped out of sight. 

15 

I stared into the darkness, blinking hard. 

I swallowed. Once. Twice. 

I couldn’t believe that he was gone, that he had vanished so quickly. 

The wind moaned between the jagged, tilting gravestones. 

“Marty—?” My voice came out in a choked whisper. “Marty?” 

I gripped the picket fence so hard, my hands ached. I knew I had no choice. 
I had to go in there and see what had happened to him. 

I took a deep breath and pushed myself through the opening. The ground 
was soft. My sneakers sank into the tall grass. 

I took one step. 

Then another. 

I stopped when I heard Marty’s voice. “Hey—be careful.” 

“Huh?” I gazed around. “Where are you?” 

“Down here.” 

I peered down—into a deep, dark hole. An open grave. Marty stared up at 
me. He had dirt on his cheeks and down the front of his T-shirt. He raised both 
hands. “Help me out. I fell!” 

I had to laugh. He looked ridiculous, standing in that hole, covered in dirt. 

“It’s not funny. Help me out,” he repeated impatiently. 

“I warned you,” I said. “I had a bad feeling.” 

“It smells down here,” Marty complained. 

I leaned down. “What does it smell like?” 

“Like dirt. Get me out!” 

“Okay, okay.” I grabbed his hands and tugged. He kicked his feet, digging 
his toes of his sneakers into the soft dirt. 

A few seconds later, he was back on the ground, frantically brushing 
himself off. “That was cool!” he declared. “Now I can tell people I was in a 
grave in The Shock Street Cemetery.” 

A chill ran down my back as the wind picked up. “Let’s get out of here,” I 
pleaded. 

Something gray floated silently between two old gravestones. A wisp of 

fog? A gray cat? 

“Check out these graves,” Marty said, still brushing dirt off his jeans. 
“They’re all cracked and faded. I can barely read the names. That’s so cool. And 
look how they sprayed cobwebs over that row of stones. Creepy, huh?” 

“Marty—can we go?” I begged again. “Dad is probably worried by now. 
Maybe the tram started up again. Maybe we can find it.” 

He ignored me. I watched him lean over a tombstone to read the words cut 
into it. “Jim Socks,” he read. “Eighteen forty to eighteen eighty-seven.” He 
laughed. “Jim Socks. Get it? And look at the ones next to it. Ben Dover. Sid 
Upp. These are all funny!” 

I laughed. Ben Dover and Sid Upp were pretty funny. 

My laugh was cut short when I heard a soft cry from the back of the 
graveyard. I saw another gray wisp dart behind a tombstone. 

I held my breath and listened hard. The wind whistled through the tall 
grass. 

Rising above the wind came another shrill cry. 

A cat? I wondered. Is the cemetery filled with cats? Or is it a child? 

Marty heard it, too. He moved down the row of stones until he stood beside 
me. His dark eyes glowed excitedly. “This is so cool. Did you hear the sound 
effects? There must be a speaker hidden in the ground.” 

Another shrill cry. 

Definitely human. A girl? 

I shivered. “Marty, I really think we should try to get back to my dad. 
We’ve been here all afternoon. And—” 

“But what about the rest of the tour?” he argued. “We have to see 
everything!” 

I heard another cry. Louder. Closer. A cry of terror. 

I tried to ignore it. Marty was probably right. The cries had to be coming 
from a loudspeaker somewhere. 

“How can we finish the tour?” I demanded. “We were supposed to stay on 
the tram—remember? But the tram—OHH!” 

I cried out as a hand shot up from the ground in front of us. A green hand. 
Its long fingers unfolded, as if reaching for us. 

“Whoa!” Marty cried, stumbling back. 

Another green hand shot up from the dirt. Then two more. 

Hands reaching up from graves. 

I let out a frightened gasp. Hands were bursting up through the grass. Hands 
all around us. Their fingers twisting and arching, reaching out. 

Marty started to laugh. “This is totally awesome! Just like in the movie!” 

He stopped laughing as a hand poked up beside him and grabbed his ankle. 
“Erin—help!” he cried. 

But I couldn’t help. 

Two green hands had wrapped around my ankles and were pulling me 
down, down into the grave. 

16 

“Come dowwwwwnnnnn, ” a soft voice moaned. “Come dowwwwwnnnn with 
us.” 

“Nooo!” I shrieked. 

My arms thrashed the air. I tried to kick, but the hands gripped me so 
tightly, so firmly. 

My whole body frantically jerked and tilted back and forth, as I struggled 
not to fall. If I fell, I knew they would grab my hands, too. And pull me 
facedown into the earth. 

“Come dowwwwwwwnnnnnnn. Come dowwwwwnnnn with us. ” 

This isn’t a joke, I thought. These hands are real. They are really trying to 
pull me underground. 

“Help! Oh, help!” I heard Marty’s cry. Then I saw him fall. He toppled to 
the grass, onto his knees. 

Two hands gripped his ankles. Two more green hands poked up from the 
dirt to grab his wrists. 

“Come dowwwwwwwnnnnnnn. Come dowwwwwnnnn with us,” the sad 
voice moaned. 

“Noooo!” I shrieked, tugging wildly, desperately. 

To my surprise, I pulled free. 

One foot sank into the soft grass. I glanced down. My sneaker had slid off. 
The hand still gripped the sneaker—but my foot was free. 

With a happy cry, I bent down. Pulled off the other sneaker. 

I was free now. Free! 

Breathing hard, I bent and quickly pulled off my socks. I knew it would be 
easier to run barefoot. I tossed the socks away. Then I hurried over to Marty. 

He was flat on his stomach. Six hands held him down, tugging at him, 
tugging hard. His whole body twisted and shook. 

He raised his head when he saw me. “Erin—help me!” he gasped. 

I dropped to my knees. Reached for his sneakers. Tugged them off. 

The green hands gripped the sneakers tightly. Marty kicked his feet free and 
tried to climb to his knees. 

I grabbed a green hand and pulled if off his wrist. The hand slapped at me. 

A cold, hard slap that made my hand ring with pain. 

Ignoring it, I grabbed for another green hand. 

Marty rolled over. Rolled free. Jumped to his feet, gasping, trembling, his 
mouth hanging open, his dark eyes bulging. 

“Your socks—” I cried breathlessly. “Pull them off! Hurry!” 

He clumsily tore them off his feet. 

The hands grabbed wildly for us. Dozens of hands stretching up from the 
dirt. Hundreds of hands reaching up for us from the tall graveyard grass. 

“Come dowwwwwwwnnnnnnn. Come dowwwwwnnnn with us,” the voice 
moaned. 

“Come dowwwwurwwnnnnnrm. Come dowwwwwnnnn, ” a dozen other soft 
voices called from beneath the ground. 

Marty and I froze. The soft, sad voices seemed to hypnotize me. My legs 
suddenly felt as if they were made of stone. 

“Come dowwwwurwwnnnnnrm. Come dowwwwwnnnn. ” 

And then I saw a green head pop up from the dirt. And then another head. 
Another. Bald green heads with empty eye sockets and open, toothless mouths. 

I saw shoulders, then arms. More heads poking up. Bright-green bodies 
pulling up from beneath the ground. 

“M-Marty—” I choked out. “They’re coming up after us!” 

17 

The cemetery rang out with grunts and groans as the ugly green figures pulled 
themselves up from the ground. 

I took one last glance at their tattered, shredded clothing, at their blackened 
eye sockets, their toothless, grinning mouths. 

And then I started to run. 

Marty and I both ran without saying a word. Side by side, we darted across 
the tall grass between the rows of crooked tombstones. 

My heart thudded in my chest. My head throbbed. My bare feet sank into 
the cold dirt, slipped on the tall, damp grass. 

Marty reached the wooden gate first. He was running so hard, he banged 
into the fence. He let out a cry—then slipped through the gate onto Shock Street. 

I could hear moans and groans and eerie calls of the disgusting green 
people behind me. But I didn’t look back. I dove for the gate. Squeezed through. 
Then I shoved it shut behind me. 

Running into the street, I stopped to catch my breath. I bent over and 
pressed my hands against my knees. My side ached. I sucked in breath after 
breath. 

“Don’t stop!” Marty cried frantically. “Erin—keep going!” 

I took a deep breath and followed him down the street. Our bare feet 
slapped the pavement. 

I could still hear the moans and calls behind us. But I was too scared to 
glance back. 

“Marty—where is everybody?” I called breathlessly. 

Shock Street was empty, the houses and shops all dark. 

Shouldn’t there be people around? I wondered. This is a big movie studio. 
Where are the people who work for Shocker Studios? Where are the people who 
work on the studio tour? 

Why isn’t anyone around to help us? 

“Something is wrong!” Marty choked out, running at full speed. We passed 
The Horror Hardware Store and Shock City Electronics. “The robots are out of 
control or something!” 

At last! Marty agreed with me. He finally agreed that something was 

terribly wrong. 

“We’ve got to find your dad,” Marty said, running across the street to the 
next block of dark houses. “We’ve got to tell him there’s a problem.” 

“We have to find the tram,” I called, struggling to keep up with him. “Ow!” 

My bare foot came down on something hard. A rock or something. Pain 
shot up my leg. But I hobbled on. 

“If we can get back on the tram, it will take us back to Dad,” I called. 

“There has to be a way out of Shock Street,” Marty said. “It’s only a movie 

set.” 

We ran past a tall mansion with two turrets. It looked like an evil castle. I 
didn’t remember it from any of the Shocker movies. 

Beyond the mansion stretched a big, empty dirt lot. At the back of the lot 
stood a low brick wall, just a foot or two taller than Marty and me. 

“Cut through here!” I told Marty. “If we can climb up on that wall, we can 
probably see the studio road.” 

I was just guessing. But it was worth a try. 

We both turned into the empty lot. 

My bare feet thudded over the soft dirt. 

The dirt felt cold and wet. As we crossed the field, our feet tossed up big 
clumps of mud. 

I pumped my legs harder as the mud grew softer. My bare feet were sinking 
into it. As I ran, the cold mud rose up over my ankles. 

Marty and I were nearly to the brick wall when we ran into the sinkhole. 

“Yaaaaaiiii!” We both uttered hoarse cries as the ground gave way beneath 
us. 

The mud made a sick splussssh as we sank. 

I tossed up both hands. Tried to grab onto something. 

But there was nothing to grab. 

The mud oozed around me. Over my ankles. My legs. Up over my knees. 

It’s sucking me down, I thought. I tried to cry out again—but panic choked 
my throat. 

I glimpsed Marty beside me. His arms were waving wildly. His whole body 
twisted and squirmed as he sank. The mud was up over his waist—and he was 
still sinking fast. 

I kicked hard. Tried to raise my knees. 

But I was trapped. Trapped and dropping down, down into the dark, wet 

ooze. 

My mud-covered arms slapped against the surface. 

I couldn’t stop myself. 

The mud bubbled up over my neck. And I was sinking fast. 

18 

I held my breath. The mud rose up to my chin. 

In a second, it will be over my head, I thought. 

A sob escaped my throat. 

The mud crept higher, up over my chin. I started to spit as it reached my 
mouth. 

And then I felt something grab my arm. Strong hands slipped under my 
arms. I felt the hands slide in the mud. 

They gripped me harder. 

I felt myself being tugged up, tugged by someone very strong. 

The mud made a loud plop as I rose up. I felt the mud roll down my chest, 
my legs, my knees. 

And then I was standing on the surface, still held by the two powerful 
hands. 

“Marty—!” I called, tasting the sour mud on my lips. “Are you—?” 

“I’m up!” I heard his hoarse reply. “Erin, I’m okay!” 

The strong hands finally let go. My legs trembled. I wobbled but remained 
standing. 

I turned to see who had rescued me. 

And stared into the glowing red eyes of a wolf. 

A human with the face of a wolf. Clawed hands covered in black fur. A 
long, brown snout curved in an open, toothy grin. Sharp, pointed ears above a 
thick tuft of black wolf fur. 

A female. She wore a silvery catsuit. Sleek and tight-fitting. As I stared in 
shock, she opened her mouth in a throaty growl. 

I recognized her at once. Wolf Girl! 

I turned to see her companion—Wolf Boy. He had pulled Marty out of the 
mud hole. Marty’s whole body was caked in mud. He tried to wipe his face, but 
only managed to smear more mud over his cheeks. 

“You—saved us! Thank you!” I cried, finally finding my voice. 

The two werewolves uttered low growls in reply. 

“We—we lost the tram,” I explained to Wolf Girl. “We need to get back. 

You know. Back to where the ride began.” 

She let out a sharp growl. Then she snapped her toothy jaw hard. 

“Please—” I begged. “Can you help us get back to the tram? Or can you 
take us to the main building? My dad is waiting for me there.” 

Wolf Girl’s red eyes flashed. She growled again. 

“We know you’re just actors!” Marty blurted out shrilly. “But we don’t 
want to be scared anymore. We’ve had enough scares for today. Okay?” 

The two werewolves growled. A long white string of saliva drooled over 
Wolf Boy’s black lips. 

Something inside me snapped. I totally lost it. “Stop it!” I screamed. “Just 
stop it! Marty is right! We don’t want to be scared now. So stop the werewolf act 
—and help us!” 

The werewolves growled again. Wolf Girl snapped her jaws. A long pink 
tongue slid out, and she licked her jagged teeth hungrily. 

“That’s enough !” I shrieked. “Stop the act! Stop it! Stop it!” 

I was so angry, so furious —I reached up with both hands. I grabbed the fur 
on the sides of Wolf Girl’s mask. 

And I tugged the mask with all my strength. 

Tugged. Tugged with both hands as hard as I could. 

And felt real fur. And warm skin. 

It wasn’t a mask. 

19 

“Ohh.” I let out a gasp, and jerked my hands away. 

The werewolf’s red eyes glowed. Her black lips parted. Once again, her 
tongue flicked hungrily over her yellow, pointed teeth. 

My whole body trembled as I backed up against the brick wall. “M-Marty 
—” I stammered. “It’s not an act.” 

“Huh?” Marty stood stiffly in front of Wolf Boy, his dark eyes wide in his 
mud-caked face. 

“They’re not actors,” I whispered. “Something is wrong here. Something is 
terribly wrong.” 

Marty’s mouth dropped open. He took a step back. 

Both werewolves uttered low growls. They lowered their heads as if 
preparing to attack. 

“Do you believe me?” I cried. “Do you finally believe me?” 

Marty nodded. He didn’t say a word. I think he was too terrified to talk. 

Saliva poured from the werewolves’ mouths. Their eyes glowed like fire in 
the darkness. Their furry chests began to heave in and out. Their breaths came 
loud and hoarse. 

I jumped back against the wall as both werewolves raised their heads and 
let out long, frightening howls. 

What were they going to do to us? 

I grabbed Marty and tugged him to the wall. “Up!” I cried. “Get up! Maybe 
they can’t reach us up there!” 

Marty leaped high, stretching up his arms. His hands slapped the top of the 
wall, then slid back down. He tried again. He bent his knees. Jumped. Grabbed 
for the top of the wall. Slipped back down. 

“I can’t!” he wailed. “It’s too high.” 

“We’ve got to!” I shrieked. 

I turned back and saw the two werewolves lean back on their hind legs and 
then spring up. They were snarling and growling now, thick gobs of saliva 
running over their snapping teeth. 

“Up!” I cried. 

As Marty leaped for the wall again, I reached down and grabbed his muddy 

foot. “Up!” I gave him a hard boost. 

His hands thrashed the air. Caught the top of the brick wall. Held on. 

His bare feet kicked the air. But he held on and tugged himself up. 

On his knees on top of the wall, he turned and grabbed my hands. He pulled 
and I jumped. I struggled to scramble up beside him. 

But I couldn’t get my knees up. Couldn’t get them onto the wall. 

My bare feet thrashed wildly. My knees scraped against the wall as Marty 
tugged. 

“I can’t do it! I can’t!” I gasped. 

The werewolves howled again. 

“Keep trying!” Marty choked out. He tugged my arms. Tugged with all his 
strength. 

I was still struggling as the two werewolves leaped. 

20 

I heard the snap of jaws. 

I felt hot breath on the bottom of my foot. 

The two werewolves thudded against the wall. 

With a desperate cry, I sprang to the top. Gasping for air, I pressed myself 
flat against the bricks. 

I raised my head in time to see the two snarling werewolves leap again. 
Jaws snapped in front of my face. Red eyes gleamed hungrily at me. 

“No!” With a cry, I scrambled to my feet. 

The werewolves raised their heads in angry howls and prepared to attack 
again. 

Marty and I stood pressed close together, staring down at them. 

They jumped. 

Their claws scraped against the bricks. The shrill screech sent chills down 
my back. Their teeth snapped. 

They dropped down. Prepared another leap, snarling excitedly. 

“We can’t stay up here forever!” Marty cried. “What do we do?” 

I squinted into the darkness. Was that the studio road on the other side of 
the wall? 

Too dark to tell. 

The werewolves leaped again. Jagged teeth scraped against my ankle. 

I jumped back. Nearly toppled off the wall. 

Marty and I bumped into each other, our eyes on the two growling creatures 
preparing another leap. 

The gun! The plastic stun gun! 

Mine had fallen from my hand. It was probably buried in that mud hole. But 
my eyes fell on Marty’s gun. Its handle poked out from his jeans pocket. 

Without saying a word, I grabbed the handle and tugged the plastic pistol 
from Marty’s jeans. 

“Hey—!” he cried. “Erin—what are you doing?” 

“They gave us the guns for a reason,” I explained, shouting over the 
frightening howls of the two werewolves. “Maybe this will stop them.” 

“It—it’s only a toy!” Marty stammered. 

I didn’t care. It was worth a try. 

Maybe it would frighten them. Maybe it would hurt them. Maybe it would 
chase them away. 

I raised the plastic gun. Aimed it as the two werewolves made another leap 
of attack. “One—two—three—FIRE!” I squeezed the trigger. Again. Again. 
Again! 

21 

The gun made a loud buzzing sound. It shot out a beam of yellow light. 

Yes! I thought. Yes! I prayed. 

The light will stop them. 

It’s a stun gun—right? The buzzing sound and the bright light will stun 
them. It will freeze them in place so Marty and I can make our escape. 

I squeezed the trigger hard. Again. Again. 

It didn’t stop the werewolves. It didn’t even seem to surprise them. 

They leaped higher. I felt sharp claws scrape my leg. I cried out in pain. 

And the plastic gun flew out of my hand. 

It clattered against the top of the wall, then slid to the ground. 

Just a toy. Marty was right. It wasn’t a real weapon. It was just a stupid toy. 

“Look out!” Marty opened his mouth in a shrill shriek as the snarling 
creatures made another high leap at the wall. 

Claws scraped the brick—and held on. Red eyes glared up at me. Hot wolf 
breath tingled my skin. 

“Ohhh.” My arms flew up as I lost my balance. I struggled to stay up. But 
my knees bent. My feet slipped. 

I grabbed for Marty. Missed. 

And toppled off. Landed hard on my back on the other side of the wall. 

Gazing up in horror, I saw Marty leap down beside me. 

The two werewolves were on the top of the wall now. They glared down at 
us, red eyes glowing, tongues out, breathing hard. 

Preparing to pounce. 

Marty dragged me to my feet. “Run!” he cried hoarsely, his eyes wide with 
panic. 

The werewolves growled above us. 

The ground tilted. I still felt dizzy, a little dazed from my fall. “We—we 
can’t outrun them!” I moaned. 

I heard a rumbling sound. A clatter. 

Marty and I both turned. And saw two yellow eyes, glowing against the 
dark sky. 

Yellow eyes of a creature roaring toward us. 

No. Not a creature. 

As it drew nearer, I could make out its long, sleek shape. 

The tram! 

The tram bouncing over the road behind yellow headlights. Coming closer. 
Closer. 

Yes! 

I turned to Marty. Did he see it, too? He did. 

Without saying a word, we both began running to the road. The tram was 
rolling fast. Somehow we had to climb on it. We had to! 

Behind us, I heard the werewolves howl. I heard a hard thump, then another 
as they dropped off the wall. 

The twin yellow headlights of the tram swept over us. 

The werewolves snarled and howled angrily as they chased after us. 

A few feet ahead of me, Marty was hurtling forward, his head down, his 
legs pumping furiously. 

The tram bumped closer. Closer. 

The howling werewolves were inches behind us. I could almost feel their 
hot breath on the back of my neck. 

A few more seconds. A few more seconds—and Marty and I would make 
our jump. 

I watched the tram speed around a curve, the yellow headlights washing 
over the dark road. I kept my eyes on the front car. Took a deep breath. Prepared 
to jump. 

And then Marty fell. 

I saw his hands shoot out. Saw his mouth open wide in surprise. In horror. 

He stumbled over his own bare feet and dropped to the ground, landing 
hard on his stomach. 

I couldn’t stop in time. 

I ran right into him. Stumbled over him. 

Fell heavily on top of him. 

And watched the tram speed past us. 

22 

“Owoooooooo!” 

The two werewolves uttered long howls of triumph. 

My heart pounding, I scrambled to my feet. “Get up!” I frantically pulled 
Marty up by both arms. 

We took off after the tram, our bare feet pounding the hard road. The last 
car bounced a few feet ahead of us. 

I reached it first. Shot out my right hand. Grabbed the back of the car. 

With a desperate leap, I hoisted myself up. Up. And into the last seat. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I turned back to find Marty running behind 
the tram. His hands reached for the back of the tramcar. “I—I can’t make it!” he 
gasped. 

“Run! You’ve got to!” I screamed. 

Behind him, I could see the werewolves scampering close behind. 

Marty put on a burst of speed. He grabbed the back of the car with both 
hands. It dragged him for several feet—until he swung himself around and 
dropped into the seat beside me. 

Yes! I thought happily. We made it! We got away from those howling 
werewolves. 

Or did we? 

Would they jump into the tram after us? 

I spun around, my whole body trembling. And I watched the werewolves 
fade into the distance. They ran for a while, then gave up. They both stood in the 
road, hunched over in defeat, watching us escape. 

Escape. 

What a wonderful word. 

Marty and I grinned at each other. I slapped him a high five. 

We were both breathing hard, covered in mud. My legs ached from running. 
My bare feet throbbed. My heart still thudded from the frightening chase. 

But we had escaped. And now we were safe in the tram, on our way back to 
the starting platform. Back to my dad. 

“We’ve got to tell your dad that this place is messed up,” Marty said 
breathlessly. 

“Something is horribly wrong here,” I agreed. 

“Those werewolves—they weren’t kidding around,” Marty continued. 
“They—they were real, Erin. They weren’t actors.” 

I nodded. I felt so glad that Marty finally agreed with me. And he wasn’t 
pretending to be brave anymore. He wasn’t pretending that it was all robots and 
special effects. 

We both knew that we had faced real dangers. Real monsters. 

Something was terribly wrong at Shocker Studios. Dad had told us he 
wanted a full report. Well, he was going to get one! 

I settled back in the seat, trying to calm down. 

But I shot straight up again when I realized we weren’t alone. “Marty— 
look!” I pointed to the front of the tram. “We aren’t the only passengers.” 

In fact, every tramcar appeared to be filled with people. 

“What’s going on?” Marty murmured. “Your dad said we were the only 
ones on the tour. And now the tram is—OH!—” 

Marty never finished his sentence. His mouth fell open in a gasp. His eyes 
bulged open wide. 

I gasped, too. 

The other passengers on the tram all turned around at the same time. And I 
saw their grinning jaws, their dark, empty eye sockets, the gray bones of their 
skulls. 

Skeletons. 

The other passengers were all grinning skeletons. 

Their jaws opened in dry laughter. Cruel laughter that sounded like the 
wind screeching through bare trees. Bones rattled and clattered as they raised 
their yellowed, skeletal hands to point at us. 

Their skulls bobbed and bounced as the tram carried us, faster, faster, 
through the darkness. 

Marty and I slumped low in the seat, trembling, staring at the grinning 
skulls, the pointing fingers. 

Who were they? 

How did they get on this tram? 

Where were they taking us? 

23 

The skeletons laughed their wheezing laugh. Their bones clanked and rattled. 
Their yellowed skulls bounced loosely on their clattering shoulder bones. 

The tram picked up speed. We were flying through the darkness. 

I forced myself to turn away from the grinning skulls and peered out. 
Beyond the trees, I could see the low buildings of the movie studio. As I stared, 
they grew smaller, faded into the blackness of the night. 

“Marty—we’re not going back to the main platform,” I whispered. “We’re 
heading the wrong way. We’re going away from all the buildings.” 

He swallowed hard. I could see the panic in his eyes. “What can we do?” he 
choked out. 

“We’ve got to get off!” I replied. “We’ve got to jump.” 

Marty had slumped all the way down in the seat, as low as he could get. I 
think he was trying to hide from the skeletons. 

Now he raised his head and peeked over the side of the tram. “Erin—we 
can’t jump!” he cried. “We’re going too fast.” 

He was right. 

We were rocketing along the road. And the tram kept picking up speed. The 
trees and shrubs whirred past in a dark blur. 

And then as we squealed into a sharp curve, a tall building seemed to jump 
into our path. 

A castle, bathed in swirling spotlights. All gray and silver. Twin towers 
reached up to the sky. A solid stone wall rose up from the road. 

The road. 

It curved straight into the castle wall. The road ended at the wall. 

And we were roaring down the road, still picking up speed. 

Roaring toward the castle. 

The skeletons rattled and clattered and laughed their dry, screeching laugh. 
They bounced in their seats, bones cracking, jumping in excitement as we 
zoomed at the castle. 

Closer. Closer. 

Right up to it now. Up to the solid stone wall. 

About to smash right into it. 

24 

My legs trembled. My heart pounded. But somehow I managed to stand up on 
the seat. 

I took a deep breath. Held it. Closed my eyes—and jumped. 

I landed hard on my side, and rolled. 

I saw Marty hesitate. The tram bounced. Marty dove over the side. 

He hit the ground on his stomach. Rolled onto his back. And kept rolling. 

I came to a stop under a tree. And turned to the castle—in time to see the 
tram plunge into the stone wall. 

Without a sound. 

The first tramcar hit the castle wall and flew through it. 

Silently. 

I could see the skeletons bobbing and bouncing. 

And I saw the next car and the next and the next—all shoot into the castle 
wall and disappear through it without making a sound. 

A few seconds later, the tram disappeared. 

A heavy silence fell over the road. 

The spotlights on the castle wall dimmed. 

“Erin—are you okay?” Marty called weakly. 

I turned to find him on his hands and knees on the other side of the road. I 
scrambled to my feet. I had scraped my side, but it didn’t hurt too badly. 

“I’m okay,” I told him. I pointed to the castle. “Did you see that?” 

“I saw it,” Marty replied, standing up slowly. “But I don’t believe it.” He 
stretched. “How did the tram go through the wall? Do you think the castle isn’t 
really there? That it’s an optical illusion? Some kind of trick?” 

“There’s an easy way to find out,” I said. 

We walked side by side on the road. The wind rustled the trees, making 
them whisper all around us. The pavement felt cold under my bare feet. 

“We’ve got to find my dad,” I said quietly. “I’m sure he can explain 
everything to us.” 

“I hope so,” Marty murmured. 

We stepped up to the castle wall. I stuck out both hands, expecting them to 

go right through. 

But my hands slapped solid stone. 

Marty lowered his shoulder and shoved it against the castle wall. His 
shoulder hit the wall with a thud. 

“It’s solid,” Marty said, shaking his head. “It’s a real wall. So how did the 
tram go through it?” 

“It’s a ghost tram,” I whispered, rubbing my hand against the cold stone. “A 
ghost tram filled with skeletons.” 

“But we rode in it!” Marty cried. 

I slapped the wall with both hands and spun away from it. “I’m sick of 
mysteries!” I wailed. “I’m sick of being scared! I’m sick of werewolves and 
monsters! I’m never going to another scary movie as long as I live!” 

“Your father can explain it all,” Marty said softly, shaking his head. “I’m 
sure he can.” 

“I don’t want him to explain it!” I cried. “I just want to get away from 
here!” 

Keeping close together, we made our way around to the side of the castle. I 
could hear strange, animal howls behind us. And a frightening cackle cut 
through the air somewhere above our heads. 

I ignored all the sounds. I didn’t want to think about whether they were 
being made by real monsters or fakes. I didn’t want to think about the 
frightening creatures we had run into—or the close calls Marty and I had had. 

I didn’t want to think. 

At the back of the castle, the road appeared again. “I hope we’re going in 
the right direction,” I murmured, following it as it curved into the hill. 

“Me, too,” Marty replied in a tiny voice. 

We picked up our pace, walking quickly in the middle of the road. We tried 
not to pay attention to the sharp animal calls, the shrill cries, the howls and 
moans that seemed to follow us everywhere. 

The road sloped uphill. Marty and I leaned forward as we climbed. The 
frightening cries and howls followed us up the hill. 

As we neared the top, I saw several low buildings. 

“Yes!” I cried. “Marty—look! We must be heading back to the main 
platform.” I started jogging toward the buildings. Marty trotted close behind. 

We both stopped when we realized where we were. 

Back on Shock Street. 

Somehow we had made a circle. 

Past the old houses and small shops, The Shock Street Cemetery came into 
view. Staring at the fence, I remembered the green hands poking up from the 
ground. The green shoulders. The green faces. The hands pulling us, pulling us 
down. 

My whole body shuddered. 

I didn’t want to be back here. I never wanted to see this terrifying street 
again. 

But I couldn’t turn away from the cemetery. As I stared at the old 
gravestones from across the street, I saw something move. 

A wisp of gray. Like a tiny cloud. 

It rose up between two crooked, old stones. Floated silently into the air. 

And then another puff of gray lifted off the ground. And another. 

I glimpsed Marty. He stood beside me, hands pressed against his waist, 
staring hard. He saw them, too. 

The gray puffs rose silently, like snowballs or cotton. Dozens of them, 
floating up from the graves. 

Floating over the cemetery and out over the street. 

Floating above Marty and me. Hovering so low. 

And then as we stared up at them, they started to grow. To inflate, like gray 
balloons. 

And I saw faces inside them. Dark faces, etched in shadow like the Man in 
the Moon. The faces scowled at us. Old faces, lined and creased. Eyes narrowed 
to dark slits. Frowning faces. Sneering faces inside the billowing, white puffs. 

I grabbed Marty’s shoulder. I wanted to run, to get away, to get out from 
under them. 

But, like smoke, the wisps of mist with their evil faces, swirled down, 
swirled around us. Trapped us. Trapped us inside. 

The faces, the ugly, scowling faces, spinning around us. Spinning faster, 
faster, holding us in the swirling, choking mist. 

25 

I pressed my hands over my eyes, trying to shut them out. 

I froze in total panic. I couldn’t think. I couldn’t breathe. 

I could hear the shrill rush of wind as the ghostly clouds swirled around us. 

And then I heard a man’s voice, shouting over the wind: “Cut! Print that 
one! Good scene, everyone!” 

I lowered my hands slowly and opened my eyes. I let out my breath in a 
long whoosh. 

A man came striding up to Marty and me. He wore jeans and a gray 
sweatshirt under a brown leather jacket. He had a blue-and-white Dodgers cap 
sideways on his head. A blond ponytail tumbled out from under it. 

He carried a clipboard in one hand. He had a silver whistle around his neck. 
He smiled at Marty and me and flashed us a thumbs-up. 

“Hey, what’s up, guys? I’m Russ Denver. Good job! You looked really 
scared.” 

“Huh?” I cried, my mouth dropping open. “We were really scared!” 

“I’m so glad to see a real live human!” Marty cried. 

“This tour—it’s totally messed up!” I shrieked. “The creatures—they’re 
alive! They tried to hurt us! They really did! It wasn’t any fun! It wasn’t like a 
ride!” The words spilled out of me in a rush. 

“It was really gross! The werewolves snapped at us and chased us up a 
wall!” Marty exclaimed. 

The two of us started talking at once, telling this guy Denver all of the 
frightening things that had happened to us on the tour. 

“Whoa! Whoa!” A smile crossed his handsome face. He raised his 
clipboard as if to shield himself from us. “It’s all special effects, guys. Didn’t 
they explain to you that we’re making a movie here? That we were filming your 
reactions?” 

“No. No one explained that, Mr. Denver!” I replied angrily. “My dad 
brought us here. He designed the studio tour. And he told us we were the first to 
try it out. But he didn’t tell us about any movie being filmed. I really think—” 

I felt Marty’s hand on my shoulder. I knew Marty was trying to calm me 
down. But I didn’t want to be calmed down. 

I was really angry. 

Mr. Denver turned back to a group of crew members behind him in the 
street. “Take thirty, guys. Let’s break for dinner.” 

They moved away, talking among themselves. Mr. Denver turned back to 
us. “Your father should have explained to you—” 

“It’s okay. Really,” Marty interrupted. “We just got a little scared. All of the 
creatures seemed so real. And we didn’t see any other people anywhere. You’re 
the first real person we’ve seen all afternoon.” 

“My dad must be really worried,” I told the movie director. “He said he’d 
be waiting for us on the main platform. Can you tell us how to get there?” 

“No problem,” Mr. Denver replied. “See that big house there with the open 
door?” He pointed with his clipboard. 

Marty and I stared at the house across the street. A narrow path led up to the 
house. A pale yellow light shone inside the open front door. 

“That’s Shockro’s House of Shocks,” the director explained. “Go right in 
that door and straight through the house.” 

“But won’t we get shocked in there?” Marty demanded. “In the movie, 
anyone who goes into Shockro’s house gets jolted with twenty million volts of 
electricity!” 

“That’s just in the movie,” Mr. Denver replied. 

“The house is just a set. It’s perfectly safe. Go through the house. Then out 
the back, and you will see the main building on the other side of the street. You 
can’t miss it.” 

“Thank you!” Marty and I called out at once. 

Marty turned and started running full speed toward the house. 

I turned back to Mr. Denver. “I’m sorry for yelling before,” I told him. “I 
was just so scared, and I thought—” 

I gasped. 

Mr. Denver had turned away. And I saw the long power cord—the power 
cord that was plugged into his back. 

He wasn’t a real human. He wasn’t a movie director. He was some kind of 
robot. 

He was fake like all the others. He was lying to us. Lying! 

I turned and cupped my hands around my mouth. I started to run, frantically 
calling after Marty: “Don’t go in there! Marty—stop! Don’t go in that house!” 

Too late. 

Marty was already running through the door. 

26 

“Marty—wait! Stop!” I shouted as I ran. 

I had to stop him. 

The director was a fake. I knew he wasn’t telling the truth. 

“Marty— please\” 

My bare feet pounded the hard pavement. I plunged up the path as Marty 
trotted into the doorway. 

“Stop!” 

I flew to the doorway. Reached out both hands. Made a wild dive to tackle 

him. 

And missed. 

I skidded across the walk on my stomach. 

As soon as Marty entered the house, I saw the flash of white light. I heard a 
loud buzz. Then the sharp crackle of electricity. 

The room exploded in a flash of lightning. So bright I had to shield my 

eyes. 

When I opened them, I saw Marty sprawled facedown on the floor. 
“Nooooo!” I let out a terrified wail. 

Scrambling to my feet, I dove into the house. 

Would I get shocked, too? 

I didn’t care. I had to get to Marty. I had to help him out of there. 

“Marty! Marty!” I screamed his name again and again. 

He didn’t move. 

“Marty—please!” I grabbed his shoulders and started to shake him. “Wake 
up, Marty! Snap out of it! Marty!” 

He didn’t open his eyes. 

I suddenly felt a chill. A dark shadow slid over me. 

And I realized I wasn’t alone in the house. 

27 

I spun around with a gasp. 

Was it Shockro? Some other scary creature? 

A tall figure leaned over me. I squinted into the darkness, struggling to see 
his face. 

“Dad!” I cried as he came into focus. “Dad! Oh, I’m so glad to see you!” 

“Erin, what are you doing here?” he asked in a low voice. 

“It—it’s Marty!” I stammered. “You’ve got to help him, Dad. He’s been 
shocked and he—he—” 

Dad leaned closer. Behind his eyeglasses, his brown eyes were cold. His 
face set in a troubled frown. 

“Do something, Dad!” I pleaded. “Marty is hurt. He isn’t moving. He won’t 
open his eyes. The studio tour was so awful, Dad! Something is wrong. 
Something is terribly wrong!” 

He didn’t reply. He leaned closer. 

And as his face came into the soft light, I saw that he wasn’t my father! 

“Who are you?” I shrieked. “You’re not my dad! Why aren’t you helping 
me? Why aren’t you helping Marty? Do something—please! Where’s my dad? 
Where is he? Who are you? Help me! Somebody? Help me 
AAAAAARRRRRRRRR. Help MRRRRRRRRRRRR. Dad— 
MARRRRRRRRRRRRRR. DRRRMMMMMMMMmmmmm.” 

28 

Mr. Wright stood staring down at Erin and Marty. He shook his head unhappily. 
He shut his eyes and let out a long sigh. 

Jared Curtis, one of the studio engineers, came running into The House of 
Shocks. “Mr. Wright, what happened to your two kid robots?” he demanded. 

Mr. Wright sighed again. “Programming problems,” he muttered. 

He pointed to the Erin robot, frozen in place on her knees beside the Marty 
robot. “I had to shut the girl off. Her memory chip must be bad. The Erin robot 
was supposed to think of me as her father. But just now, she didn’t recognize 
me.” 

“And what about the Marty robot?” Jared asked. 

“It’s totally down,” Mr. Wright replied. “I think the electrical system 
shorted out.” 

“What a shame,” Jared said, bending to roll the Marty robot over. He pulled 
up the T-shirt and fiddled with some dials on the back. “Hey, Mr. Wright, it was 
a great idea to make robot kids to test the park. I think we can fix them.” 

Jared opened up a panel on Marty’s back and squinted at the red and green 
wires. “All the other creatures, and monsters, and robots worked perfectly. Not a 
single bug.” 

“I should have known there was a problem yesterday,” Mr. Wright said. 
“We were in my office. The Erin robot asked about her mother. I built her. She 
doesn’t have a mother.” 

Mr. Wright tossed up his hands. “Oh, well. No problem. We’ll reprogram 
these two. Put in new chips. They’ll be good as new in no time. Then we’ll try 
them out once again on the Shocker Studio Tour, before we open the park to real 
kids.” 

He took the Marty robot from Jared and slung it over his shoulder. Then he 
picked up the Erin robot. He tossed it over his other shoulder. Then, humming to 
himself, he carried them to the engineering building. 


THE HAUNTED 
MASK II 


1 

I don’t know if you have ever spent any time with first graders. But there is only 
one word to describe them. And that word is ANIMALS. 

First graders are animals. 

You can quote me. 

My name is Steve Boswell, and I am in the sixth grade. I may not be the 
smartest guy at Walnut Avenue Middle School. But I know one thing for sure: 
First graders are animals. 

How do I know this fact? I learned it the hard way. I learned it by coaching 
the first-grade soccer team after school every day. 

You might want to know why I chose to coach their soccer team. Well, I 
didn’t choose it. It was a punishment. 

Someone set a squirrel loose in the girls’ locker room. That someone was 
me. But it wasn’t my idea. 

My best friend, Chuck Green, caught the squirrel. And he asked me where I 
thought he should set it free. 

I said, “How about the girls’ locker room before their basketball game on 
Thursday?” 

So maybe it was partly my idea. But Chuck was just as much to blame as I 

was. 

Of course, I was the one who got caught. 

Miss Curdy, the gym teacher, grabbed me as I was letting the squirrel out of 
its box. The squirrel ran across the gym to the bleachers. The kids in the 
bleachers all jumped up and started running and screaming and acting crazy. 

It was just a dumb squirrel. But all the teachers started chasing after it. It 
took hours to catch it and get everyone calmed down. 

So Miss Curdy said I had to be punished. 

She gave me a choice of punishments. One: I could come into the gym after 
school every day and inflate basketballs—by mouth—until my head exploded. 
Or two: I could coach the first-grade soccer team. 

I chose number two. 

The wrong choice. 

My friend Chuck was supposed to help me coach the team. But he told 

Miss Curdy he had an after-school job. 

Do you know what his after-school job is? Going home and watching TV. 

A lot of people think that Chuck and I are best friends because we look so 
much alike. We’re both tall and thin. We both have straight brown hair and dark 
brown eyes. We both wear baseball caps most of the time. Sometimes people 
think we’re brothers! 

But that’s not why I like Chuck and Chuck likes me. We’re best friends 
because we make each other laugh. 

I laughed really hard when Chuck told me what his after-school job was. 
But I’m not laughing now. 

I’m praying. Every day I pray for rain. If it rains, the first graders don’t 
have soccer practice. 

Today, unfortunately, is a bright, clear, beautiful October day. Standing on 
the playground behind school, I searched the sky for a cloud—any cloud—but 
saw only blue. 

“Okay, listen up, Hogs!” I shouted. I wasn’t making fun of them. That’s the 
name they voted for their team. Do you believe it? The Walnut Avenue Hogs. 

Does that give you an idea of what these kids are like? 

I cupped my hands around my mouth and shouted again. “Line up, Hogs!” 

Andrew Foster grabbed the whistle I wear around my neck and blew it in 
my face. Then Duck Benton tromped down hard on my new sneakers. Everyone 
calls him Duck because he quacks all the time. He and Andrew thought that was 
a riot. 

Then Marnie Rosen jumped up behind me, threw her arms around my neck, 
and climbed on my back. Marnie has curly red hair, freckles all over her face, 
and the most evil grin I ever saw on a kid. “Give me a ride, Steve!” she shouted. 
“I want a ride!” 

“Marnie—get off me!” I cried. I tried to loosen her grip on my neck. She 
was choking me. The Hogs were all laughing now. 

“Marnie—I... can’t... breathe!” I gasped. 

I bent down and tried to throw her off my back. But she hung on even 
tighter. 

Then I felt her lips press against my ear. 

“What are you doing?” I cried. Was she trying to kiss me or something? 

Yuck! She spit her bubble gum into my ear. 

Then, laughing like a crazed fiend, she hopped off me and went running 

across the grass, her curly red hair bouncing behind her. 

“Give me a break! ” I cried angrily. The purple gum stuck in my ear. It took 
me a while to scrape it all out. 

By the time I finished, they had started a practice game. 

Have you ever watched six-year-olds play soccer? It’s chase and kick, chase 
and kick. Everybody chase the ball. Everybody try to kick it. 

I try to teach them positions. I try to teach them how to pass the ball to each 
other. I try to teach them teamwork. But all they want to do is chase and kick, 
chase and kick. 

Which is fine with me. As long as they leave me alone. 

I blow my whistle and act as umpire. And try to keep the game going. 

Andrew Foster kicked a big clump of dirt on my jeans as he ran by. He 
acted as if it were an accident. But I knew it was deliberate. 

Then Duck Benton got into a shoving fight with Johnny Myers. Duck 
watches hockey games on TV with his dad, and he thinks you’re supposed to 
fight. Some days Duck doesn’t chase after the ball at all. He just fights. 

I let them chase-and-kick, chase-and-kick for an hour. Then I blew the 
whistle to call practice to an end. 

Not a bad practice. Only one bloody nose. And that was a win because it 
wasn’t mine! 

“Okay, Hogs—see you tomorrow!” I shouted. I started to trot off the 
playground. Their parents or baby-sitters would be waiting for them in front of 
the school. 

Then I saw that a bunch of the kids had formed a tight circle in the middle 
of the field. They all wore grins on their faces, so I decided I’d better see what 
they were up to. 

“What’s going on, guys?” I asked, trotting back to them. 

Some kids stepped back, and I spotted a soccer ball on the grass. Marnie 
Rosen smiled at me through her freckles. “Hey, Steve, can you kick a goal from 
here?” 

The other kids stepped away from the ball. I glanced to the goal. It was 
really far away, at least half the field. 

“What’s the joke?” I demanded. 

Mamie’s grin faded. “No joke. Can you kick a goal from here?” 

“No way!” Duck Benton called. 

“Steve can do it,” I heard Johnny Myers say. “Steve can kick it farther than 

that.” 

“No way!” Duck insisted. “It’s too far even for a sixth grader.” 

“Hey—that’s an easy goal,” I bragged. “Why don’t you give me something 
hard to do?” 

Every once in a while I have to do something to impress them. Just to prove 
that I’m better than they are. 

So I moved up behind the ball. I stopped about eight or ten steps back. 
Gave myself plenty of running room. 

“Okay, guys, watch how a pro does it!” I cried. 

I ran up to the ball. Got plenty of leg behind it. 

Gave a tremendous kick. 

Froze for a second. 

And then let out a long, high wail of horror. 

2 

On my way home a few minutes later, I passed my friend Chuck’s house. Chuck 
came running down the gravel driveway to greet me. 

I didn’t really feel like talking to anyone. Not even my friend. 

But there he was. So what could I do? 

“Yo—Steve!” He stopped halfway down the driveway. “What happened? 
Why are you limping?” 

“Concrete,” I groaned. 

He pulled off his black-and-red Cubs cap and scratched his thick brown 
hair. “Huh?” 

“Concrete,” I repeated weakly. “The kids had a concrete soccer ball.” 

Chuck squinted at me. I could see he still didn’t understand. 

“One of the kids lives across the street. He had his friends help roll a ball of 
concrete to the school,” I explained. “Painted white and black to look like a 
soccer ball. Solid concrete. They had it there on the field. They asked me to kick 
a goal and—and—” My voice caught in my throat. I couldn’t finish. 

I hobbled over to the big beech tree beside Chuck’s driveway and leaned 
back against its cold, white trunk. 

“Wow. That’s not a very funny joke,” Chuck said, replacing his cap on his 
head. 

“Tell me about it,” I groaned. “I think I broke every bone in my foot. Even 
some bones I don’t have.” 

“Those kids are animals /” Chuck declared. 

I groaned and mbbed my aching foot. It wasn’t really broken. But it hurt. A 
lot. I shifted my backpack on my shoulders and leaned back against the tree. 

“Know what I’d like to do?” I told Chuck. 

“Pay them back?” 

“You’re right!” I replied. “How did you know?” 

“Lucky guess.” He stepped up beside me. I could see that he was thinking 
hard. Chuck always scrunches up his face when he’s trying to think. 

“It’s almost Halloween,” he said finally. “Maybe we could think of some 
way to scare them. I mean, really scare them.” His dark eyes lit up with 
excitement. 

“Well... maybe.” I hesitated. “They’re just little kids. I don’t want to do 
anything mean.” 

My backpack felt weird—too full. I pulled it off my shoulder and lowered it 
to the ground. 

I leaned over and unzipped it. 

And about ten million feathers came floating out. 

“Those kids—!” Chuck exclaimed. 

I pulled open the backpack. All of my notebooks, all of my textbooks— 
covered in sticky feathers. Those animals had glued feathers to my books. 

I tossed down the backpack and turned to Chuck. “Maybe I do want to do 
something mean!” I growled. 

A few days later, Chuck and I were walking home from the playground. It was a 
cold, windy afternoon. Dark storm clouds rose up in the distance. 

The storm clouds were too late to help me. I had just finished afternoon 
practice with the Hogs. 

It hadn’t been a bad practice. It hadn’t been a good practice, either. 

Just as we started, Andrew Foster lowered his head and came at me full 
speed. He weighs about a thousand pounds, and he has a very hard head. He 
plowed into my stomach and knocked the wind out of me. 

I rolled around on the ground for a few minutes, groaning and choking and 
gasping. The kids thought it was pretty funny. Andrew claimed it was an 
accident. 

I’m going to get you guys back, I vowed to myself. I don’t know how. But 
I’m going to get you guys. 

Then Marnie Rosen jumped on my back and tore the collar off my new 
winter coat. 

Chuck met me after practice. He’d started doing that now. He knew that 
after one hour with the first graders, I usually needed help getting home. 

“I hate them,” I muttered. “Do you know how to spell hate? H-O-G-S.” My 
torn coat collar flapped in the swirling wind. 

“Why don’t you make all of them practice with a concrete ball?” Chuck 
suggested. He adjusted his Cubs cap over his hair. “No. Wait. I’ve got it. Let 
them take turns being the ball!” 

“No. No good,” I replied, shaking my head. The sky darkened. The trees 
shook, sending a shower of dead leaves down around us. 

My sneakers crunched over the leaves. “I don’t want to hurt them,” I told 
Chuck. “I just want to scare them. I just want to scare them to death.” 

The wind blew colder. I felt a cold drop of rain on my forehead. 

As we crossed the street, I noticed two girls from our class walking on the 
other side. I recognized Sabrina Mason’s black ponytail swinging behind her as 
she hurried along the sidewalk. And next to her, I recognized her friend Carly 
Beth Caldwell. 

“Hey—!” I started to call out to them, but I stopped. 

An idea flashed into my mind. 

Seeing Carly Beth, I knew how to scare those first graders. 

Seeing Carly Beth, I knew exactly what I wanted to do. 

3 

I started to call to the girls. But Chuck clamped his hand over my mouth and 
dragged me behind a wide tree. 

“Hey—get your clammy paws off me. What’s the big idea?” I cried when 
he finally pulled his hand away. 

He pushed me against the rough bark of the tree trunk. “Ssshhh. They 
haven’t seen us.” He motioned with his eyes toward the two girls. 

“So?” 

“So we can sneak up and scare them,” Chuck whispered, his dark eyes 
practically glowing with evil excitement. “Let’s make Carly Beth scream.” 

“You mean for old times’ sake?” 

Chuck nodded, grinning. 

For many years, making Carly Beth scream had been our hobby. That’s 
because she was a really good screamer, and she would scream at just about 
anything. 

One day in the lunchroom last year, Chuck tucked a worm inside his turkey 
sandwich. Then he gave the sandwich to Carly Beth. 

She took one bite and knew that something tasted a little weird. When 
Chuck showed her the big bite she had taken out of the worm, Carly Beth 
screamed for a week. 

Chuck and I took bets on who could scare Carly Beth the most and who 
could make her scream. I guess it was kind of mean. But it was funny too. 

And sometimes when you know that people are real easy to scare, you have 
no choice. You have to scare them as often as you can. 

Anyway, that all changed last Halloween. 

Last Halloween Chuck and I had a horrible scare. Carly Beth wore the most 
frightening mask I had ever seen. It wasn’t a mask. It was like a living face. 

It was so ugly, so real. It glared at us with evil, living eyes. Its mouth 
sneered at us with real lips. The skin glowed a sick green. And Carly Beth’s 
normally soft voice burst out in a terrifying animal growl. 

Chuck and I ran for our lives. 

No joke. We were terrified. 

We ran for blocks, screaming the whole way. It was the worst night of my 

life. 

Everything changed after that. 

Nearly a whole year has gone by, and we haven’t tried to scare Carly Beth 
once. I don’t think Carly Beth can be scared. Not anymore. 

After last Halloween, I don’t think anything scares her. 

She is totally fearless. I haven’t heard her shriek or scream once the entire 

year. 

So I didn’t want to try to scare her now. I needed to talk to her. About that 
scary mask of hers. 

But Chuck kept pressing me back against the tree trunk. “Come on, Steve,” 
he whispered. “They don’t see us. We’ll duck down behind the hedges and get 
ahead of them. Then when they come by, we’ll jump out and grab them.” 

“I don’t really—” I started. But I could see that Chuck had his heart set on 
scaring Carly Beth and Sabrina. So I let him pull me down out of sight. 

A light rain had started to fall. The gusting wind blew the raindrops into my 
face. I crept along the hedge, bent low, following Chuck. 

We passed by the girls and kept moving. I could hear Sabrina’s laugh 
behind us. I heard Carly Beth say something else. Then Sabrina laughed again. 

I wondered what they were talking about. I stopped to glance through the 
hedge. Carly Beth had a weird expression on her face. Her dark eyes stared 
straight ahead. She was moving stiffly. She had the collar of her blue down 
jacket pulled up high around her face. 

I ducked down low again as the girls came closer. I turned and saw that 
Chuck and I were standing on the wide front lawn of the old Carpenter mansion. 

I felt a chill as I stared across the weed-choked lawn at the gloomy old 
house, covered in a deep darkness. Everyone said that the house was haunted— 
haunted by people who had been murdered inside it a hundred years ago. 

I don’t believe in ghosts. But I don’t like standing so close to the creepy old 
Carpenter mansion, either. 

I pulled Chuck into the empty lot next door. Rain pattered the ground. I 
wiped raindrops off my eyebrows. 

Carly Beth and Sabrina were only a few yards away. I could hear Sabrina 
talking excitedly about something. But I couldn’t make out her words. 

Chuck turned to me, an evil grin spreading across his face. “Ready?” he 
whispered. “Let’s get ’em!” 

We leaped to our feet. Then we both jumped out, screaming at the top of 

our lungs. 

Sabrina gasped in shock. Her mouth dropped to her knees. Her hands flew 
up in the air. 

Carly Beth stared at me. 

Then her head tilted against the blue jacket collar—tilted and fell. 

Her head fell off her shoulders. 

It dropped to the ground and bounced onto the grass. 

Sabrina lowered her eyes to the ground. She gaped at Carly Beth’s fallen 
head in disbelief. 

Then Sabrina’s hands began to flail the air crazily. She opened her mouth in 
a scream of horror. And screamed and screamed and screamed. 

4 

I swallowed hard. My knees started to buckle. 

Carly Beth’s head stared up at me from the grass. Sabrina’s shrieks rang in 
my ears. 

And then I heard soft laughter. Laughter from inside Carly Beth’s jacket. 

I saw a clump of brown hair poke up through the raised collar. And then 
Carly Beth’s laughing face shot up from under the jacket. 

Sabrina stopped her wild cries and started to laugh. 

“Gotcha!” Carly Beth cried. She and Sabrina fell all over each other, 
laughing like lunatics. 

“Oh, wow,” Chuck groaned. 

My knees were still shaking. I don’t think I had taken a breath the whole 

time. 

I bent down and picked up Carly Beth’s head. Some kind of dummy head. 
A sculpture, I guess. I rolled it around between my hands. It was amazing. It 
looked just like her. 

“It’s plaster of Paris,” Carly Beth explained, grabbing it away from me. 
“My mom made it.” 

“But—it’s so real-looking!” I choked out. 

She grinned. “Mom is getting pretty good. She keeps doing my head over 
and over. This is one of her best.” 

“It’s okay. But it didn’t fool us,” Chuck said. 

“Yeah. We knew it was a fake,” I quickly agreed. But my voice cracked 
when I said it. I was still kind of in shock. 

Sabrina shook her head. Her black ponytail waved behind her. Sabrina is 
very tall, taller than Chuck and me. Carly Beth is a shrimp. She only comes up to 
Sabrina’s shoulder. 

“You should have seen the looks on your faces!” Sabrina exclaimed. “I 
thought your heads were going to fall off!” 

The two girls hugged each other again and had another good laugh. 

“We saw you a mile away,” Carly Beth said, twirling the head in her hands. 
“Luckily, I brought this head in to show off in art class today. So I pulled my 
jacket over my head, and Sabrina tucked the plaster head into the collar.” 

“You guys scare pretty easy,” Sabrina smirked. 

“We weren’t scared. Really,” Chuck insisted. “We were just playing along.” 

I wanted to change the subject. The girls would talk all day and night about 
how dumb Chuck and I were. If we let them. I didn’t want to let them. 

The rain kept pattering down, blown by the gusting wind. I shivered. We 
were all getting pretty wet. 

“Carly Beth, you know that mask you wore last Halloween? Where did you 
get it?” I asked. I tried to sound casual. I didn’t want her to think it was any big 
deal. 

She hugged her plaster head against the front of her jacket. “Huh? What 
mask?” 

I groaned. She is such a jerk sometimes! 

“Remember that really scary mask you had last Halloween? Where did you 
get it?” 

She and Sabrina exchanged glances. Then Carly Beth said, “I don’t 
remember.” 

“Give me a break!” I groaned. 

“No. Really—” she insisted. 

“You remember,” Chuck told her. “You just don’t want to tell.” 

I knew why Carly Beth didn’t want to tell. She was probably planning to 
get another truly terrifying mask at the same store for this Halloween. She 
wanted to be the scariest kid in town. She didn’t want me to be scary too. 

I turned to Sabrina. “Do you know where she bought that mask?” 

Sabrina made a zipper motion over her lips. “I’m not telling, Steve.” 

“You don’t want to know,” Carly Beth declared, still hugging the head. 
“That mask was too frightening.” 

“You just want to be scarier than me,” I replied angrily. “But I need a really 
scary mask this year, Carly Beth. There are some kids I want to scare and—” 

“I’m serious, Steve,” Carly Beth interrupted. “There was something totally 
weird about the mask. It wasn’t just a mask. It came alive. It clamped onto my 
head, and I couldn’t get it off. The mask was haunted or something.” 

“Ha-ha,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

“She’s telling the truth!” Sabrina cried, narrowing her dark eyes at me. 

“The mask was evil,” Carly Beth continued. “It started giving me orders. It 
started talking all by itself, in a horrible, harsh growl. I couldn’t control it. And I 
couldn’t get it off. It was attached to my head! I—I was so scared!” 

“Oh, wow,” Chuck murmured, shaking his head. “You’ve got a good 
imagination, Carly Beth.” 

“Good story,” I agreed. “Save it for English class.” 

“But it’s the truth!” Carly Beth cried. 

“You just don’t want me to be scary,” I grumbled. “But I need a good, scary 
mask like that one. Come on,” I begged. “Tell.” 

“Tell us,” Chuck insisted. 

“Tell,” I repeated, trying to sound tough. 

“No way,” Carly Beth replied, shaking her fake round, little head. “Let’s get 
home. It’s really raining hard.” 

“Not till you tell!” I cried. I stepped in front of her to block her path. 

“Grab the head!” Chuck cried. 

I grabbed the plaster head from Carly Beth’s hands. 

“Give it back!” she shrieked. She swiped at it, but I swung it out of her 
reach. Then I tossed it to Chuck. 

He backed away. Sabrina chased after him. “Give that back to her!” 

“We’ll give it back when you tell us where you bought that mask!” I told 
Carly Beth. 

“No way!” she cried. 

Chuck tossed the head to me. Carly Beth made a wild grab for it. But I 
caught it and heaved it back to Chuck. 

“Give it back! Come on!” Carly Beth cried, running after Chuck. “My mom 
made that. If it gets messed up, she’ll kill me!” 

“Then tell me where you bought the mask!” I insisted. 

Chuck tossed the head to me. Sabrina jumped up and batted it down. She 
made a wild dive for it, but I got there first. I picked it up off the grass and 
heaved it back to Chuck. 

“Stop it! Give it back!” 

Both girls were screaming angrily. But Chuck and I kept up our game of 
keep-away. 

Carly Beth made a frantic leap for the head and fell on her stomach onto the 
grass. When she stood up, the front of her jacket and her jeans were soaked, and 
she had grass stains on her forehead. 

“Tell!” I insisted, holding the head high in the air. “Tell, and you can have 
the head back!” 

She growled at me. 

“Okay,” I warned her. “I guess I have to drop-kick it onto that roof.” 

I turned toward the house at the top of the lawn. Then I held the head in 
front of me in both hands and pretended I was going to punt it onto the roof. 

“Okay, okay!” Carly Beth cried. “Don’t kick it, Steve.” 

I kept the head in front of me. “Where did you get the mask?” 

“You know that weird little party store a couple of blocks from school?” 

I nodded. I had seen the store, but I had never gone in. 

“That’s where I bought it. There’s a back room. It was filled with weird, 
ugly masks. That’s where I got mine.” 

“All right!” I cried happily. I handed Carly Beth back her head. 

“You guys are creeps,” Sabrina muttered, pulling her collar up against the 
rain. She pushed me out of the way and wiped the grass stain off Carly Beth’s 
forehead. 

“I really didn’t want to tell you,” Carly Beth moaned. “I wasn’t making that 
story up about the mask. It was so terrifying.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” I rolled my eyes again. 

“Please, don’t go there!” Carly Beth begged. She grabbed my arm tightly. 
“Please, Steve. Please, don’t go to that party store!” 

I pulled my arm away. I narrowed my eyes at her. And I laughed. 

Too bad I didn’t take her seriously. 

Too bad I didn’t listen to her. 

It might have saved me from a night of endless horror. 

5 

“Get off me! Get off me, Mamie! I mean it!” I shouted. 

The little redheaded pest hung onto my back, laughing and digging her 
pudgy fingers into my neck. Why did she think I was some kind of thrill ride? 

“Get off! This is my good sweater!” I cried. “If you wreck it—” 

She laughed even harder. 

It had rained all night and all morning. But the clouds had parted at 
lunchtime. Now the sky was blue and clear. I had no choice. I had to hold soccer 
practice for the Hogs. 

Across the playground, I saw Duck Benton fighting with Andrew Foster. 
Andrew picked up the soccer ball and heaved it with all his might into Duck’s 
stomach. 

Duck’s mouth shot open. He let out a whoosh of breath, and a huge wad of 
bubblegum went flying into the air. 

“Get off!” I pleaded with Marnie. I tried spinning and twirling as fast as I 
could, trying to throw her off my back. I knew if anything happened to this 
sweater, Mom would have a fit. 

You might ask why I was wearing my best, blue wool sweater to soccer 
practice. Good question. 

The answer is: It was Class Photo Day. And Mom wanted me to take a 
really good picture to send to all my aunts and uncles. She made me wear the 
sweater. And she made me shampoo my hair before school and not wear my 
Orlando Magic cap over it. 

So I looked like a jerk all day. And now, here was soccer practice. And I 
had forgotten to bring a sweatshirt or something to replace my good sweater. 

“Whoooooa!” Marnie gave me a final kick in the side as she hopped off my 

back. 

I pulled down my sweater, hoping it wasn’t stretched too badly. I heard 
angry shouts and glanced up to find Andrew and Duck swinging their fists at 
each other and butting heads across the field. 

I reached for my whistle. 

And grabbed air. 

Marnie had swiped it. She held it high above her head and ran, laughing, 

over the grass. 

“Hey, you—!” I screamed, chasing after the little thief. 

I took three steps—and my sneakers slid in the mud. My feet flew out from 
under me. With an angry cry, I fell forward. And landed on my stomach in deep, 
wet mud. 

“Noooooo!” I let out a howl of dread. “Please. Nooooo!” 

But when I pulled myself up, the mud came with me. My entire body was 
caked in thick, wet mud. My beautiful blue sweater? It was now an ugly brown 
sweater. 

With a sad groan, I sank back onto the ground. I just wanted to disappear, to 
sink from sight into the big mud hole. 

My faithful team, the Horrible Hogs, were laughing and hooting. They 
thought it was a riot. Nice kids, huh? 

At least my mud dive had stopped Andrew and Duck from fighting. 

The mud weighed me down as I climbed slowly to my feet. I felt like 
Andrew. I felt as if I weighed a thousand pounds. Maybe I did! 

I wiped mud off my eyes with both hands—and saw Chuck standing over 
me. He tsk-tsked a few times. “You look really bad, man.” 

“Tell me something I don’t know,” I muttered. 

“Why did you do that?” he asked. 

I squinted through two inches of mud at him. “Excuse me?” 

“You look like a Mud Monster or something.” Chuck snickered. 

“Ha-ha,” I said glumly. 

“You told me to meet you here, Steve. You said we were going straight to 
that party store to buy the you-know-what.” 

He glanced back at my team of first graders. They weren’t listening to our 
conversation. They were too busy flinging mud balls at each other. 

I scooped my hand along the front of my sweater and scraped off about ten 
pounds of glop. “I... uh... I think I’d better go home after practice and get 
changed first,” I told Chuck. 

Talk about your long afternoons! 

I had to break up the mud ball fight. Then I had to hand over all of the little 
angels to their parents and baby-sitters. 

Then I had to explain to their angry parents and baby-sitters why they had 
practiced mud ball fighting instead of soccer. 

I crept home. Chuck waited for me outside. I hid my mud-caked clothes in 
the back of my closet. I didn’t have time to explain to my mom. 

Then I changed into a clean pair of jeans and a gray-and-red Georgetown 
Hoyas sweatshirt one of my uncles had sent me. I don’t know anything about the 
Hoyas. I don’t even know what a Hoya is. But it is a cool sweatshirt. 

I pulled my cap down over my mud-drenched hair. Then I hurried to meet 
Chuck. 

“Steve—is that you?” Mom called from the den. 

“No, it isn’t!” I called back. I closed the front door behind me and ran down 
the driveway before she could stop me from going out again. 

I was really eager to find that party store and check out the weird masks. So 
eager, I forgot to bring any money with me. 

Chuck and I walked two blocks before I reached into my jeans pocket and 
realized it was empty. We jogged back to my house, and I crept up to my room 
once again. 

“This just isn’t my day,” I muttered to myself. 

But I knew that buying a really gross and frightening mask would instantly 
cheer me up. Then I could go ahead with my plan to terrify the Hogs, to get my 
revenge. 

Revenge! 

What a beautiful word. 

When I’m older and have my own car, that’s what I want it to say on my 
license plate. 

I pulled all of my allowance money out of the dresser drawer where I hide 
it. I counted it quickly—about twenty-five dollars. Then I jammed the bills into 
my jeans pocket and hurried back downstairs. 

“Steve—are you going out again?” Mom called from the den. 

“Be right back!” I shouted. I slammed the front door and ran down the 
driveway to meet Chuck. 

Our sneakers slid over fat, wet leaves as we walked. A pale full moon hung 
low over the trees. 

The streets and sidewalks still glistened from all the rain. 

Chuck had his hands stuffed into the pockets of his hooded sweatshirt. He 
leaned into the wind as we walked. “I’m going to be late for dinner,” he 
grumbled. “I’m probably going to get into major trouble.” 

“It’ll be worth it,” I told him, feeling a little more cheerful. We crossed the 

street that led to the party store. A small grocery stood on the corner. Other small 
shops came into view. 

“I can’t wait to see these masks!” I exclaimed. “If I find one just half as 
scary as Carly Beth’s...” 

There it stood! In the darkness above a small, square store, I could make out 
the sign: THE PARTY PLACE. 

“Let’s check it out!” I cried. 

I leaped over a fire hydrant. 

Flew over the sidewalk. Up to the big front window. 

And peered in the window. 

6 

“Oh, wow!” Chuck cried breathlessly, stepping up beside me. 

We both pressed our faces against the window glass and stared in. 

Stared into total darkness. 

“Is it closed?” Chuck asked softly. “Maybe it’s just closed for the night.” 

I uttered an unhappy sigh. “No way. It’s closed for good. The store is gone.” 

Peering through the dust-smeared glass, I could see empty shelves and 
display racks inside. A tall metal shelf lay on its side across the center aisle. A 
trash basket, overflowing with paper and empty soda cans, stood on top of the 
counter. 

“There’s no 'Out of Business’ sign on the door,” Chuck said. He’s a good 
friend. He saw how disappointed I looked. He was trying to stay hopeful. 

“It’s empty.” I sighed. “Totally cleaned out. It isn’t going to open up again 
tomorrow morning.” 

“Yeah. Guess you’re right,” Chuck murmured. 

He slapped my shoulder. “Yo—snap out of it. You’ll find a scary mask at 
some other store.” 

I pushed myself away from the window. “I wanted one like Carly Beth’s,” I 
complained. “You remember that mask. You remember those glowing eyes, 
right? And the way the mouth moved. The way it growled at us with those long, 
dripping fangs. It was so gross. And it looked totally real. Like a real monster!” 

“They probably have masks like that at K-Mart,” Chuck said. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered. I kicked at a candy wrapper that blew across 
the sidewalk. 

A car rumbled past slowly. Its headlights rolled over the front of the store, 
lighting up the bare shelves, the empty counters inside. 

“We’d better get home,” Chuck warned, pulling me away from the store. 
“I’m not allowed to wander around town after dark.” 

He said something else, but I didn’t hear him. I was still picturing Carly 
Beth’s mask, still unable to get over my disappointment. 

“You don’t understand how important this is to me,” I told Chuck. “Those 
first graders are ruining my life. I have to pay them back this Halloween. I have 
to.” 

“They’re just first graders,” he replied. 

“No, they’re not. They’re monsters. Vicious, man-eating monsters.” 

“Maybe we can make a scary mask,” Chuck suggested. “You know. Out of 
papier-mache and stuff.” 

I didn’t even bother to answer him. Chuck is a good guy, but sometimes he 
has the dumbest ideas ever thought up by a human. 

I could just see Marnie Rosen and Duck Benton when I popped out on 
Halloween. “Ooh, we’re scared! We’re scared! Papier-mache!” 

“I’m hungry,” Chuck grumbled. “Come on, Steve. Let’s get out of here.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I agreed. I started to follow him down the sidewalk—then 
stopped. 

Another car had turned onto the street. Its headlights rolled over a narrow 
alley beside the party store. 

“Whoa, Chuck! Check it out!” I grabbed the shoulder of his sweatshirt and 
spun him around. “Look!” I pointed into the alley. “That door is open!” 

“Huh? What door?” 

I dragged Chuck into the alley. A large black trapdoor in the sidewalk had 
been left up. It caught the light from a streetlamp on the sidewalk. 

Chuck and I peered in through the door. Steep concrete steps led down to a 
basement. 

The basement of the party store! 

Chuck turned to me, a confused expression on his face. “So? They left the 
basement door open. So what?” 

I grabbed the open trapdoor and leaned over the steps, squinting into the 
dim light from the streetlamp. “There are boxes down there. A whole bunch of 
cartons.” 

He still didn’t understand. 

“Maybe all the masks and costumes and party things are packed up in those 
cartons. Maybe the stuff hasn’t been shipped away yet.” 

“Whoa. What are you thinking about?” Chuck demanded. “You’re not 
going down there—are you? You’re not going to sneak down to that dark 
basement and try to steal a mask —are you ? ” 

I didn’t answer him. 

I was already halfway down the stairs. 

7 

My heart began to pound as I made my way down. The steps were narrow and 
slippery. Slick from all the rain. 

“Ohh!” I let out a cry as one foot slid over the concrete step and I felt 
myself start to fall. I shot out both hands in search of a railing—but there wasn’t 
one. 

I landed on the hard basement floor with a loud thud —luckily, on both feet. 
Feeling shaken, I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I turned back to the trapdoor and called up to Chuck. “I’m okay. Get 
down here.” 

In the light from the streetlamp, I could see his unhappy face peering down 
at me. “I—I really don’t want to,” he called softly. 

“Chuck—hurry,” I insisted. “Get out of the alley. If someone drives by and 
sees you, they’ll get suspicious.” 

“But it’s so late, Steve,” he whined. “And it isn’t right to break into 
basements and—” 

“We’re not breaking in,” I called up to him impatiently. “The door was open 
—right? Hurry up. If the two of us search the boxes, we can do it in five 
minutes.” 

He leaned down over the opening. “It’s too dark,” he complained. “We 
don’t have a flashlight or anything.” 

“I can see fine,” I replied. “Get down here. You’re wasting time.” 

“But it’s against the law...” he started. Then I saw his expression change. 
His mouth dropped open as car headlights washed over him. With a low gasp, 
Chuck ducked through the opening, and bolted down the stairs. 

He stepped up close beside me, breathing hard. “I don’t think they saw me.” 
His eyes darted around the large basement. “It’s too dark, Steve. Let’s go home.” 

“Give your eyes a chance to adjust,” I instructed him. “I can see okay.” 

I gazed slowly around the basement. It was bigger than I’d thought. I 
couldn’t really see the walls. They were hidden in darkness. 

The ceiling was low, only a foot or two over our heads. Even in the dim 
light, I could see the thick cobwebs in the rafters. 

The cartons had been stacked in two rows near the steps. Somewhere way 

across the room, I could hear the steady drip drip drip of water. 

“Oh!” I jumped when I heard a clattering sound. 

It took me a few seconds to figure out that it was the wind blowing against 
the metal trapdoor up in the alley. 

I made my way over to the nearest carton and bent over to examine it. The 
flaps were folded over each other. But the carton wasn’t sealed. 

“Let’s have a look,” I murmured, reaching for the flaps. 

Chuck had his arms crossed tightly in front of his chest. “This isn’t right,” 
he protested. “It’s stealing.” 

“We haven’t taken anything,” I protested. “And even if we do find a good, 
scary mask and take it, we’ll just borrow it. We’ll return it after Halloween.” 

“Aren’t you... a little scared?” Chuck asked softly, his eyes moving all 
around the dark room. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m a little scared,” I admitted. “It’s cold and creepy down 
here.” The wind clattered the trapdoor above us again. I heard the faint drip of 
water against the concrete floor. 

“Let’s hurry,” I urged. “Help me.” 

Chuck stepped beside me, but he just stared down at the box and didn’t try 
to help. 

I pulled open the first carton, pushed back the cardboard flaps, and peered 
inside. “What is this stuff?” I reached in and pulled out a cone-shaped party hat. 
The box was stuffed with party hats. 

“This is great!” I whispered happily to Chuck. 

I dropped the hat back in the box. “I was right. All the stuff from the store is 
packed up down here. We’re going to find the scary masks. I know we will!” 

Cartons were stacked on top of cartons. I pulled down another one and 
started to pull it open. “Chuck, you take the bottom one,” I instructed. 

He hesitantly reached for the box. “I have a bad feeling about this, Steve,” 
he murmured. 

“Just find the masks,” I replied. My heart was thudding. My hands were 
shaking as I pulled open the second carton. I was really excited. 

“This one is filled with candles,” Chuck reported. 

My carton had piles of party place mats, napkins, and paper cups. “Keep 
going,” I urged. “The masks have got to be down here.” 

Above our heads, the wind shook the trapdoor. I hoped it wouldn’t suddenly 
slam shut on us. I didn’t want to be trapped down in this cold basement in the 

dark. 

Chuck and I slid two more cartons into the pale square of light from 
outside. My carton was taped shut. I struggled to pull off the tape. 

I stopped when I heard the creaking sound above my head. 

Creaking floorboards? 

I froze, my hands over the carton. “What was that?” I whispered. 

Chuck frowned at me. “What was what?” 

“Didn’t you hear that noise upstairs? It sounded like a footstep.” 

Chuck shook his head. “I didn’t hear anything.” 

I listened for a few more seconds. Silence now. So I went back to work on 
the carton. 

I pulled it open and peered eagerly inside. 

Greeting cards. Dozens of greeting cards. I sifted through them. Birthday 
cards. Valentines. A whole carton of cards. 

Disappointed, I shoved the carton to the side and turned to Chuck. “Any 
luck?” 

“Not yet. Let’s see what’s in this one.” 

He pulled open the carton with both hands. Then he leaned over it and 
peered inside. 

“Oh, yuck! ” he cried. 

8 

“It’s so gross!” Chuck groaned. 

“What is? What?” I demanded. I leaped over my carton to get to him. 

“Check it out.” A grin spread over Chuck’s face as he pulled something out 
of the carton. 

I gasped as I saw an ugly purple face with broken teeth and a long, fat 
worm poking out of a hole in its cheek. 

“You found them!” I shrieked. 

Chuck let out a gleeful laugh. “A whole carton of masks! And they’re all 
totally gross!” 

I grabbed the ugly mask from his hand and studied it. “Hey—it feels 
warm!” 

It was so cold down in that basement. Why did the mask feel warm? 

The worm bobbed out of the ugly face, as if it were alive. 

I dropped the mask, plunged my hand into the carton, and pulled out 
another one. A disgusting pig face with thick gobs of green stuff dripping from 
its snout. 

“That one looks like Carly Beth!” Chuck joked. 

“These are scarier than the mask Carly Beth had last year,” I said. 

I pulled another one from the box. A furry animal face, sort of like a gorilla, 
except that it had two long pointed fangs sliding down past its chin. 

I dropped it and grabbed up another mask. Then another. A hideous bald 
head with one eye hanging down by a thread and an arrow through the forehead. 

I tossed it to Chuck and pulled out another one. 

“This is amazing!” I cried happily. “These will terrify those kids. How will 
I ever choose the best one?” 

Chuck let out a disgusted groan and dropped the mask he was holding into 
the box. “They feel like real skin. They’re so warm.” 

I didn’t pay any attention to him. I was busy digging down to the bottom of 
the carton. I wanted to check out each mask before I made my choice. 

I wanted the scariest, grossest mask in the box. I wanted a mask that would 
give those first graders more nightmares than they had given me! 

I pulled out a mask of a girl’s face with a lizard’s head poking out from her 

mouth. 

No. Not scary enough. 

I pulled out a mask of a snarling wolf, its lips pulled back to show two 
jagged rows of pointed teeth. 

Too wimpy. 

I pulled out an ugly mask of a leering old man, his mouth twisted in an evil 
grin. One long, crooked tooth stuck down over his lower lip. 

The mask had long, stringy yellow hair that drooped down over the old 
man’s craggy forehead. I could see big black spiders climbing in the hair and in 
the ears. A chunk of forehead was missing, revealing a patch of gray skull 
underneath. 

Not bad, I thought. 

This one even smelled bad! 

I started to put it back when I heard a creaking sound again. 

Louder this time. 

The ceiling above my head groaned. 

I gasped. It really sounded like a footstep. Someone walking around up 
there. 

But the store had appeared dark and empty. Chuck and I had both stared 
into the window for a long time. If anyone was hiding there in the darkness, we 
would have seen them. 

Another creak made me suck in a mouthful of air. 

I froze, listening hard. I could hear the steady drip drip of water across the 
dark basement. I could hear the trapdoor rattling outside. 

And I could hear my own shallow breathing. 

The ceiling squeaked. I swallowed hard. 

It’s an old building, I told myself. All old buildings squeak and creak. 
Especially on a windy night. 

A scraping footstep made me gasp out loud. 

“Chuck—did you hear that?” 

Gripping the old-man mask, I listened hard. 

“Did you hear that?” I whispered. “Do you think someone else is in the 
building?” 

Silence. 

Another scraping footstep. 

“Chuck?” I whispered. “Hey—Chuck?” 

My heart pounding, I turned to him. 
“Chuck?” 

He was gone. 

9 

“Chuck?” 

A stab of fear made my breath catch in my throat. 

I heard the hard thud of sneakers against concrete, and turned to the stairs. 
In the dim light, I saw Chuck disappear out through the trapdoor. 

As soon as he reached the alley, he poked his head back in. “Steve—get 
out!” he called down in a loud whisper. “Hurry! Get out of there!” 

Too late. 

A ceiling light flashed on. 

As I blinked against the bright light, I saw a man move quickly across the 
basement. He swept along the wall, pulled a long, black cord—and the trapdoor 
slammed shut with a deafening clang. 

“Oh!” I uttered a weak cry as he turned angrily to me. 

I was trapped. 

Chuck got out. But I was trapped. Trapped in the basement with this guy. 

And what a weird-looking guy! To begin with, he wore a long black cape 
that swept behind him as he crossed the room to me. 

Is that a Halloween costume? I wondered. 

Does he wear a black cape all the time? 

Beneath the billowing cape, he wore a black suit, kind of old-fashioned 
looking. 

He had shiny black hair, parted in the middle and slicked down with some 
kind of hair grease, and a pencil-thin, black mustache that curled over his upper 
lip. 

As he stood over me, his black eyes glowed like two burning coals. 

Like vampire eyes! I thought. 

My whole body was shaking. I gripped the sides of the carton and tried to 
return his stare. 

Trapped, I thought, waiting for him to speak. Trapped with a vampire. 

“What are you doing here?” he asked finally. He pushed back his cape and 
crossed his arms in front of him. The glowing eyes glared down at me sternly. 

“Uh... just looking at masks,” I managed to choke out. I was still on my 

knees on the floor. I knew that my legs were shaking too hard to stand up. 

“The store is closed,” the man said through gritted teeth. 

“I know,” I admitted, lowering my eyes to the floor. “I—” 

“The store went out of business. We’re closed for good.” 

“I... I’m sorry,” I murmured. 

Was he going to let me go? What was he going to do with me? 

If I started to scream, no one would hear me. 

Would Chuck try to get help for me? Or was he halfway home by now? 

“I live upstairs,” the man explained, still glaring at me angrily. “I heard 
scraping sounds down here. Boxes being moved around. I was going to call the 
police.” 

“I’m not a burglar,” I blurted out. “Please don’t call the police. The trapdoor 
was open and my friend and I came down.” 

His eyes moved quickly around the room. “Your friend?” 

“He ran away when he heard you coming,” I told him. “I just wanted to see 
if there were any masks. You know. For Halloween. I wasn’t going to steal 
anything. I just—” 

“But the store is closed,” the man repeated. He glanced at the open carton in 
front of me. “Those masks are very special. They’re not for sale.” 

“N-not for sale?” I stammered. 

“You shouldn’t break into stores,” the man replied, shaking his head. His 
slicked-down hair gleamed under the low ceiling light. “How old are you?” 

I drew a blank. My mouth dropped open, but no answer came out. I was so 
terrified, I forgot how old I was! 

“Twelve,” I answered finally. I took a deep breath, trying to calm myself. 

“Twelve and you’re already breaking into stores,” the man said softly. 

“I don’t break into stores!” I protested. “I mean, I never did before. I came 
to buy a mask. Look. I brought money.” 

I jammed my trembling hand into my jeans pocket and pulled out the wad 
of bills. “Twenty-five dollars,” I said, holding up the money so he could see it. 
“Here. Is it enough for one of these masks?” 

He rubbed his chin. “I told you, young man. These masks are special. They 
cannot be sold. Believe me—you do not want one of these.” 

“But I do!” I cried. “They’re awesome! They’re the best masks I’ve ever 
seen. Halloween is only a few days away. I need one. I need one desperately. 
Please—!” 

“No!” the man shouted sharply. “Not for sale.” 

“But why not?” I wailed. 

He eyed me thoughtfully. “Too real,” he replied. “The masks are too real.” 

“But that’s why they’re so awesome!” I exclaimed. “Please? Please? Take 
my money. Here.” I pushed the wad of bills toward him. 

He didn’t reply. Instead, he turned away. His cape swirled behind him. 
“Come with me, young man.” 

“Huh? Where?” Cold fear ran down my back. I was still holding the money 
out in front of me. 

“Come upstairs with me. I’m going to call your parents.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “Please—!” 

If my mom and dad found out I got caught breaking into the basement of a 
store, they would go totally ballistic! They’d ground me for life! I’d miss this 
Halloween—and the next thirty Halloweens to come! 

The man eyed me coldly. “I don’t want to call the police,” he said softly. 
“I’d rather call your parents.” 

“Please...” I murmured again, climbing to my feet. 

I suddenly had an idea. 

I could make a run for it. 

I glanced quickly at the concrete stairs leading up to the trapdoor. If I took 
off—and really flew—I could get up those stairs before the man could reach me. 

The trapdoor was shut. But it probably wasn’t locked. I could push it open 
from underneath, and just keep running. 

I glanced again at the steps. It was worth a try, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I silently counted to three. 

One... two... THREE! 

On three, I took off. My heart thudded louder than my sneakers on the hard 
floor. But I made it to the stairs in about a second and a half! 

“Hey—stop!” I heard the caped man cry out in surprise. I could hear his 
heavy steps as he plunged after me. 

“Stop, young man! Where are you going?” 

I didn’t slow down or glance back. 

I took the stairs two at a time. 

Yes! Yes! Em getting away! I thought. 

As I reached the top, I shot out both hands—and pushed up on the trapdoor 

with all of my might. 
It didn’t budge. 

“Ohh!” I let out a terrified moan. 

The caped man had reached the bottom of the steps. I could practically feel 
his breath on the back of my neck. 

The door has got to open! I told myself. It’s got to! 

I took a deep breath. Then I heaved my shoulder against the door. I uttered 
a desperate groan as I pushed. 

Pushed. 

The caped man made a grab for me. 

I felt his hand brush my ankle. 

I kicked the hand away. Then I shoved my shoulder hard against the 
trapdoor. 

And it opened. 

“Yes!” A happy cry escaped my throat as I scrambled out into the alley. 

The cold air rushed against my hot face. I stumbled over something hard—a 
stone or a brick. I didn’t stop to look. I ran through the narrow alley, to the 
sidewalk in front of the store. 

My eyes swept back and forth. I searched for Chuck. No sign of him. 

Had the caped man followed me out the trapdoor? Was he chasing after me? 

I turned back to the alley. And saw only darkness. 

Then I took off, running fast, my feet practically flying over the pavement. I 
shot across the street. Bright lights washed over me. A car horn honked, making 
me jump about a mile! The car roared past. 

“Hey, Steve—!” 

Chuck stepped out from behind a tall evergreen shrub. “You made it!” 

“Yeah. I made it,” I replied, gasping for breath. 

“I—I didn’t know what to do!” he stammered. 

I shook my head. “So you just stood here?” 

“I waited for you,” he said. “I was kind of scared.” 

Big help. 

“Get going,” I urged, glancing back across the street. “He may be chasing 

We ran side by side, our breath steaming up into the cold night air. The 
houses and dark lawns whirred past in a gray-black blur. We didn’t say another 
word to each other. 

Three blocks later, I slowed down as we reached Chuck’s house. I leaned 
over and tried to shake away the sharp pain in my side. I always get a pain like 
that when I run more than a few blocks. 

“See you!” Chuck cried breathlessly. “Sorry you didn’t get your mask.” 

“Yeah. It’s too bad,” I murmured glumly. 

I watched him run along the side of his house until he disappeared around 
the back. Then I took a deep breath and took off again, jogging now, toward my 
house on the next block. 

My heart was still racing in my chest. But I was starting to feel calmer. The 
man in the black cape didn’t chase after us. In a few seconds, I would be safe in 
my own home. 

Halfway up our driveway, I slowed to a stop. The pain in my side had faded 
to a dull ache. 

I stepped into the yellow light from the front porch. I could hear my dog 
Sparky barking inside the house. Sparky knew I was home. 

As I climbed onto the front stoop, a smile crossed my face. 

Avery wide smile. 

I was pleased with myself. In fact, I was overjoyed. I felt like leaping in the 
air. Or maybe doing a wild, crazy dance. Or crowing like a rooster. Or tilting 
back my head and howling at the moon. 

The evening had been a total success. 

I didn’t tell Chuck. I didn’t want Chuck to know. 

But when the caped man clicked on the basement light—in that split second 
before he saw me and I saw him—I grabbed a mask from the carton. And I 
shoved it under my sweatshirt. 

I had a mask! 

It hadn’t been easy. In fact, being trapped in that eerie basement with that 
strange man had been the scariest time of my life. 

But I had a mask! Safely tucked under my sweatshirt. 

I could feel it against my chest as I ran. And I could feel it now, warm 
against my skin as I reached for the front door. 

I was so happy. So pleased with myself. 

And then I felt the mask start to move. 

And I screamed as something sharp bit into my chest. 

11 

I grabbed the front of my sweatshirt. I pressed both hands tight against the bulge 
of the mask. 

“Whoa,” I murmured, holding the mask in place under the sweatshirt. 

Stop imagining things, Steve, I scolded myself. 

Calm down. The mask started to slip down your chest. That’s all. It wasn’t 
moving. It didn’t bite you. 

Get in the house, I ordered myself. Hide the thing in a drawer in your room. 
And pull yourself together. 

Why was I so nervous? 

The scary part was over. I had escaped with one of the great masks. Now it 
was my turn to scare other people. Why was I standing there scaring myself? 

Still holding the front of my sweatshirt, I pushed open the front door and 
stepped into the house. “Down, boy! Get down, Sparky!” I cried as the little 
black terrier greeted me. He leaped high off the floor, bouncing off me, barking 
and whining as if he hadn’t seen me in twenty years. 

“Get down, Sparky! Down!” 

I wanted to sneak into the house, run up to my room, and stash the mask 
away before my parents heard me return. But Sparky ruined that plan. 

“Steve—is that you?” Mom stormed into the living room, a fretful frown on 
her face. She glared at me and angrily blew a curl of blond hair from in front of 
her eyes. “Where on earth were you? Your father and I went ahead and ate 
dinner. Yours is ice-cold by now!” 

“Sorry, Mom,” I said, still holding the front of my sweatshirt to keep the 
mask in place as I tried to push Sparky away. 

The lock of hair fell back over her forehead. She blew at it again. “Well? 
Where were you?” 

“I... well...” 

Think fast, Steve. 

You can’t tell her you sneaked out to steal a Halloween mask from the 
basement of a store. 

“I had to help Chuck with something,” I finally answered. 

Sure, it was a lie. But it wasn’t a serious lie. 

I’m usually a very honest guy. But right then, all I cared about was having 
the mask! I had it, and I was desperate to get it out from under my sweatshirt and 
hidden in a safe place in my room. 

“Well, you should have told me where you were going,” Mom scolded. 
“Your father went out to do the grocery shopping. But he’s very angry, too. You 
should have been home for dinner.” 

I lowered my head. “Sorry, Mom.” 

Sparky gazed up at me. Was he staring at the bulge in my sweatshirt? 

If the dog could see it, Mom could see it too. 

“I’ll take off my coat and come right down,” I told her. 

I didn’t give her a chance to reply. I spun around, leaped onto the stairs, and 
ran up two at a time. I flew down the hall, burst into my room, and slammed the 
door behind me. 

I took a few seconds to catch my breath. I listened hard, making sure that 
Mom hadn’t followed me upstairs. 

No. I could hear her banging around in the kitchen, getting my dinner ready. 

I couldn’t wait to check out the mask! 

Which one did I take? When the light came on in the store basement, I 
grabbed a mask without looking. I stuffed it under my sweatshirt before I could 
see it. 

Now I eagerly reached under the sweatshirt and pulled out my hard-won 
prize. 

“Wow!” I raised it in both hands and admired it. 

The old-man mask. I took the mask of the creepy old man. 

I smoothed out its long strings of yellow-white hair. Holding it by the big, 
pointy ears, I lifted it in front of my face and examined it closely. 

A single white tooth hung down over the bottom lip. A brown wormhole 
poked through the center of the tooth. 

Outside on the front stoop, the big tooth had scraped my chest, I realized. 
That’s what made me think the mask was biting me. 

The mouth was twisted in an evil sneer. The lips curled like two brown 
worms. 

The long nose had gobs of green dripping from each nostril. A square patch 
of skin was missing just above the forehead. I could see gray skull bone in the 
hole. 

The whole face was creased and lined. The flesh was a sickly green. The 

skin appeared to be peeling off the face. Dark scabs bulged from the sunken 
cheeks. 

Black spiders appeared to crawl through the stringy, yellow hair. Spiders 
poked out of the two ears. 

“Yuck!” I cried. 

Was I holding the scariest Halloween mask in the world? 

No. In the universe! 

I began to feel a little queasy just holding it. I rubbed the scabby cheek with 
one finger. The skin felt warm, like real skin. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” I practiced laughing like an old man. “Heh-heh-heh.” I 
tried a dry cackle. 

Look out, Hogs! I told myself. When I come leaping out at you on 
Halloween night in this mask, you will jump out of your skins! 

“Heh-heh-heh.” 

I raked the ugly, long hair back over the head. My fingers bumped over the 
spiders tangled in the hair. The spiders didn’t feel rubbery. They felt soft and 
warm like the skin. 

I gazed down happily at the disgusting, old face. It sneered back at me. The 
brown worm lips quivered. 

Should I try it on? 

I carried it over to the mirror on my closet door. I was dying to see what I’d 
look like. 

I’ll slip it on for just a second, I decided. Long enough to see how ugly and 
frightening I’d look. 

Holding it in both hands, I raised the mask over my head. 

Then slowly, carefully... very carefully... I began to pull the mask down, 
down, down over my face. 

12 

“Steve—!” 

Mom’s loud cry from downstairs startled me. 

“Steve—where are you? Get down here for your dinner!” 

“Coming!” I shouted back. I lowered the mask. I’d try it on later, I decided. 

I walked quickly to the dresser and pulled open my sock drawer. Smoothing 
the long, spidery hair over the ugly face, I set the mask down carefully in the 
drawer. Then I hid it under several pairs of socks and closed the drawer. 

I hurried down to the kitchen. Mom had a salad on the table and a plate of 
warmed-up macaroni-and-cheese. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized that I was starved! I sat down, 
pushed the salad aside, and started forking up the macaroni as fast as I could. 

I glanced down to see Sparky staring up at me with his big, black, soulful 
eyes. He saw me looking at him and tilted his head. 

“Sparky,” I said, “you don’t like macaroni—remember?” 

He tilted his head the other way, as if trying to understand. I slipped him a 
couple of noodles. He sniffed them and left them on the floor. 

Behind me, Mom busily cleaned out the refrigerator, making room for the 
groceries Dad was out buying. I was dying to tell her about the scary mask. I 
wanted to show it to her. Maybe put it on and make her scream. 

But I knew she’d ask too many questions about where I bought it, and how 
much it cost, and how much of my allowance I used up to pay for it. 

All questions I couldn’t answer. 

So I bit my tongue and forced myself not to blurt out the exciting news that 
I wouldn’t have to be a hobo again this Halloween. 

That was my costume for the past five years. A hobo. Actually, it wasn’t 
much of a costume. I wore one of Dad’s baggy old suits with patches on the 
pants. Mom rubbed charcoal on my face to make me look dirty. And I carried a 
knapsack on a fishing pole over my shoulder. 

Bor-ring! 

This Halloween will be different, I promised myself. This Halloween will 
not be boring. 

I was so happy. As I sat gobbling down macaroni-and-cheese, I couldn’t get 

that creepy mask out of my mind. 

I’m not going to tell anyone about it, I decided. I’m going to scare everyone 
I know. 

I’m not even going to tell Chuck. After all, he ran away and left me down in 
that dark basement. 

Look out, Chuckie Boy! I told myself, grinning so hard some noodles 
slipped out of my mouth. I’m going to get you too! 

13 

I had soccer practice for my first graders after school the next day. It was a 
sunny, cold October afternoon. The sunlight made the yellow and brown falling 
leaves glitter like gold. Puffs of white cloud floated like soft cotton across the 
blue sky. 

Everything looked beautiful to me. Because Halloween was only one day 
away. 

I was staring up at the clouds when Marnie Rosen drop-kicked the soccer 
ball into my stomach. 

I grabbed my stomach and doubled over in pain. Duck Benton and two 
other kids jumped on my back and drove me facedown into the mud. 

I didn’t care. 

In fact, I laughed. 

Because I knew that I had only one day to wait. 

I tried to show them how to pass. As I ran along the sidelines, Andrew 
Foster stuck out his foot. I tripped and went sailing into the bike rack. A 
handlebar caught me under the chin as I fell, and I actually saw stars. 

But I didn’t care. 

I picked myself up with a grin on my face. 

Because I knew a secret. I knew an evil secret that the kids didn’t know. I 
knew that trick-or-treat night was going to be a special treat for me! 

At four o’clock, I called an end to practice. I was too weak to blow the 
whistle. My clothes were soaked with mud, I walked with a limp, and I had cuts 
and bruises in twenty different places. 

A typical practice with the Horrible Hogs. 

But did I care? 

You know the answer. 

I gathered them in a circle around me. They were shoving each other, and 
pulling hair, and calling each other horrible names. I told you—they’re total 
animals. 

I raised my hands to quiet them down. “Let’s have a special Hogs’ 
Halloween party tomorrow,” I suggested. 

“YAAAY!” they cheered. 

“We’ll meet in our costumes after practice,” I continued. “The whole team. 
And we’ll all go trick-or-treating together. I’ll take you.” 

“YAAY!” they cheered again. 

“So tell your parents to drop you off,” I told them. “This is going to be our 
special party. We’ll meet in front of the old Carpenter mansion.” 

Silence. This time they didn’t cheer. 

“Why do we have to meet there?” Andrew asked. 

“Isn’t that old house supposed to be haunted?” Marnie asked softly. 

“That place is too creepy,” Duck added. 

I narrowed my eyes at them, challenging them. “You guys aren’t scared — 
are you?” I demanded. 

Silence. They exchanged nervous glances. 

“Well? Are you all too wimpy to meet me there?” I asked. 

“No way!” Marnie insisted. 

“No way! We’re not scared of a stupid old house!” 

They all began to tell me how brave they were. They all said they would 
meet me there. 

“I saw a ghost once,” Johnny Myers bragged. “Behind my garage. I shouted 
‘Boo!’ and it floated away.” 

These kids are animals, but they have great imaginations. 

The other kids all started teasing Johnny. He stuck to his story. He insisted 
he saw a ghost. So they pushed him to the ground and got his jacket all muddy. 

“Hey, Steve—what are you going to be for Halloween?” Marnie asked. 

“Yeah. What’s your costume?” Andrew demanded. 

“He’s going to be a pile of toxic waste!” someone joked. 

“No. He’s going to be a ballerina!” someone else declared. 

They all hooted and jeered. 

Go ahead and laugh, guys, I thought. Have a good laugh now. Because 
when you see me on Halloween, I’ll be the only one laughing. 

“Uh... I’m going to be a hobo,” I told them. “You’ll recognize me. I’ll be 
wearing a tattered old suit. And my face will be all dirty. I’ll be dressed like a 
bum.” 

“You are a bum!” one of my loyal team members shouted. 

More wild laughing and hooting. More shoving and hair-pulling and 
wrestling on the ground. 

Luckily, their parents and baby-sitters showed up to take them home. I 

watched them go with a big smile on my face. A big, evil smile. 

Then I grabbed up my backpack and hurried home. I ran all the way. I was 
eager to take another look at my mask. 

Chuck stepped out as I jogged past his house. “Hey, Steve... what’s up?” he 
called. 

“Not much!” I called back. “Later, man!” 

I kept running. I didn’t want to hang out with Chuck. I needed to check out 
that mask. I needed to remind myself of how awesome it was. How totally 
terrifying. 

I burst through the front door. Then I ran straight up the stairs to my room, 
taking the stairs three at a time. 

I raced down the long hall. I turned into my room and tossed my backpack 
onto the bed. Then I hurried across the room to my dresser and eagerly jerked 
open my sock drawer. 

“Huh?” 

I peered inside. With a trembling hand, I shoved away several balled-up 
pairs of socks. 

The mask was gone. 

14 

“No!” 

I began pawing frantically through the drawer, tossing all the socks onto the 
floor. 

No mask. Gone. 

The balled-up socks bounced all over the room. My heart was bouncing too. 

Then I remembered that I had moved the mask. Before school that morning. 
I was worried that my mom might do laundry. And open my sock drawer. And 
see it there. 

So I had shoved it to the back of my closet, behind my rolled-up sleeping 

bag. 

Letting out a long whoosh of air, I dropped to my hands and knees. I 
quickly collected all the socks and stuffed them back into the drawer. Then I 
opened the closet door and pulled down the mask from the top shelf. 

Steve, you’ve got to calm down, man, I told myself. It’s just a Halloween 
mask, after all. You’ve got to stop scaring yourself like that. 

Sometimes it helps to scold yourself, to give yourself advice. 

I started to feel a little calmer. I smoothed back the stringy yellow hair and 
mbbed my hand over the craggy, scab-covered skin of the mask. 

The brown lips sneered at me. I poked my little finger through the 
disgusting wormhole in the tooth. I squeezed the spiders hiding inside the ears. 

“This is so cool! ” I declared out loud. 

I couldn’t wait a whole day till Halloween. I had to show it to someone. 

No. I had to scare someone with it. 

Chuck’s face popped instantly into my mind. My old friend Chuck was the 
perfect victim. I knew that he was home. I had seen him there a few minutes ago. 

Wow. Will he be shocked! I told myself. Chuck thought that I ran out of that 
store basement empty-handed. When I sneak into his house and creep up on him 
wearing this disgusting mask, he’ll faint! 

I glanced at the clock. I had an hour before dinnertime. Mom and Dad 
weren’t even home yet. 

Yes, I’ll do it! I decided. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” I practiced my old-man cackle. “Heh-heh-heh.” The 

scariest, most evil cackle I could do. 

Then I grasped the wrinkled neck of the mask in both hands. Stepping in 
front of the mirror, I raised the mask over my head. 

And tugged it down. 

It slid easily over my hair. It felt soft and warm as I pulled it over my face. 

Down over my ears. Over my cheeks. 

Down, down. 

Until I felt the top of the mask settle onto my hair. I twisted it until I could 
see out of the narrow eyeholes. 

Then I lowered my hands to my sides and stepped closer to the mirror to 
check myself out. 

So warm. 

I suddenly felt too warm. 

The rubbery mask pressed tightly against my cheeks and forehead. 

Warmer. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as my face began to burn. 

So hot... 

So hard to breathe. 

“Hey... what is happening to me?” 

15 

I could feel the skin of the mask tightening around my face. 

My cheeks burned. A sour odor swept over me, choked me. 

I gagged. I sucked in a deep breath through my mouth. But the mask was so 
tight, I could hardly breathe. 

I grabbed the ears with both hands. The outside of the mask felt normal. But 
inside, I was burning up! 

I tried to tug the mask off. But it wouldn’t slide up. The hot rubber stuck to 
my face. 

I groaned as the putrid odor washed over me again. 

I tugged harder. The mask didn’t budge. 

I gasped for breath. 

I grabbed the stringy hair—and pulled. I slid my hands under the chin—and 
pushed. 

“Ohhh.” A sick groan escaped my throat. My hands dropped limply to my 
sides. 

I suddenly felt so tired. So weak. 

So totally weak. 

Every breath was a struggle. I bent over. My body began to tremble. 

I felt so weak. And old. 

Old. 

Was this how an old man felt? 

Calm down, Steve, I scolded myself. It’s just a rubber mask. It fits a little 
too snug, that’s all. 

It’s stuck to your face. But you’ll pull it off, and you’ll be fine. 

Calm down. Count to ten. Then examine the mask in the mirror. Grab it 
from the bottom, and you’ll be able to pull it up. No problem. 

I counted to ten. Then I stepped up close to the mirror. 

I nearly cried out when I saw my reflection. The mask really was awesome! 
So real. So gross. 

With my eyes staring out of it, the face seemed to come alive. The brown 
lips sneered back at me. When I moved my lips, they appeared to move too. The 

green gobs of goo trembled inside the big nostrils. The spiders appeared to be 
crawling through the tangled, yellow hair. 

It’s only a mask. A really cool mask, I said to myself. 

I started to feel a little calmer. 

But then a cackle escaped my throat. “Heh-heh-heh.” 

Not my cackle! 

Not in my voice! An old man’s cackle. 

How did that happen? How did I utter such a strange sound? 

I clamped my lips shut. I didn’t want to make that sound again. 
“Heh-heh-heh.” 

Another frightening cackle! In a shrill, high-pitched voice. More like a dry 
croak than a laugh. 

I tightened my jaw. Clenched my teeth. Held my breath so I wouldn’t 
cackle again. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” 

I wasn’t doing it! 

Who was cackling like that? 

Where was the shrill, dry laugh coming from? 

I gaped at the old face in the mirror, suddenly frozen in fear. 

And then I felt a strong hand grab my leg. 

16 

With a choked gasp, I whirled around. 

And peered down through the tight eyeholes of the mask. 

I instantly saw that it wasn’t a hand on my leg. It was teeth. 

Dog teeth. 

“Sparky—it’s you!” I cried. But my voice came out in a dry whisper. 

Sparky backed away. 

I cleared my throat and tried again. “Don’t be afraid, Sparky. It’s only me.” 
My voice! It sounded more like a dry cough. 

It sounded like my grandpa! 

I had an old man’s face—and an old man’s voice. 

And I felt so tired. So totally weak and tired. 

As I reached to pet Sparky, my arms drooped as if they weighed a thousand 
pounds. Both of my knees cracked as I bent down. 

The dog gazed up at me and tilted his head. His short stub of a tail wagged 
furiously. 

“Don’t be scared, Sparky,” I croaked. “I was just trying out this mask. 
Pretty scary, huh?” 

I lowered my face and tried to pick Sparky up. 

But as I leaned forward, I could see the dog’s eyes go wide with terror. 
Sparky let out a shrill yip —jumped out of my hands, and went tearing across the 
room, barking at the top of his lungs. Barking in total fright. 

“Sparky—it’s me!” I cried. “I know I sound different. But it’s me—Steve!” 

I wanted to chase after him. But my legs felt so weak, and my knees refused 
to bend. 

It took me three tries to pull myself up to a standing position. My head 
ached. I was too out-of-breath to run after Sparky. 

Too late, anyway. I could hear him barking his head off, already downstairs. 
“Weird,” I muttered, rubbing my aching back. I hobbled back to the mirror. 
Sparky has seen masks before. He knew it was me. Why was he so scared? Was 
it my weird voice? 

How had the mask dried up my voice? And why did I suddenly feel one 

hundred and ten? 

At least, my face no longer felt on fire. But the skin of the mask still 
pressed so tightly against my face, I could barely move my lips. 

I have to get out of this thing, I decided. Chuck will have to wait until 
Halloween night to be scared out of his skull. 

I raised both hands to my neck and searched for the bottom of the mask. My 
neck felt craggy and wrinkled. The skin was dry. 

Where was the bottom of the mask? 

I leaned close to the mirror on my closet door and narrowed my eyes at my 
reflection. I stared hard at the neck of the mask. 

Wrinkled skin flecked with ugly brown patches. 

But where was the bottom? Where did the mask end and my neck begin? 

My hands began to tremble as they fumbled up and down my throat. I could 
feel my heart begin to race. 

I moved my hands slowly, carefully, up and down my neck. 

Again. And again. 

Finally, I let my hands drop to my side and uttered a weary, frightened sigh. 

There was no mask bottom. No line at all between the mask and my neck. 

The wrinkled, spotted mask skin had become my skin. 

“Nooooo! Nooooo!” I wailed in my old man’s voice. I had to get the thing 
off me! There had to be a way! 

I squeezed the cheeks of the mask and tugged with all my might. 

“Ow!” Sharp pain ran down my face. 

I pulled the hair. That sent a wave of pain shooting down my scalp. 
Frantically, I grabbed at the mask, slapped at it, pulled it, tore at it. 

I felt each move. Each slap and tug made my skin hurt. Every touch hurt me 
as if it were my own skin. 

“The eyeholes!” I croaked. 

I reached for the eyeholes. Maybe I could slip my fingers inside the 
eyeholes and lift the mask off. 

My hands fumbled around my eyes. My trembling fingers searched, poking 
and rubbing. 

No eyeholes. There were no eyeholes. 

The rutted, scab-covered skin had melted onto me. It had become my skin. 

The ugly, disgusting mask had become my face! 

I looked like a horrifying, spider-infested, decaying old man. And I felt as 

old and weird as I looked! 

My throat tightened in terror. I sank against the mirror, pressing my ugly, 
craggy forehead against the glass. 

I shut my eyes. What can I do? What can I do? The question repeated like 
an unhappy chant in my mind. 

And then I heard the front door slam. And I heard Mom’s voice at the 
bottom of the stairway. “Steve—are you home? Steve?” 

What can I do? What can I do? The question repeated and repeated. 

“Steve?” Mom called. “Come down here. I want to show you something.” 

No! I thought, swallowing hard, my dry throat making a sick clicking 
sound. No! I can’t come down! I can’t! I don’t want you to see me like this! 

“Oh, never mind!” Mom called. “I’m coming up there!” 

17 

I heard her footsteps on the stairs. 

A shock of panic made me lurch toward the door. I nearly fell over. My old 
legs were stiff, too stiff to move quickly. 

I hobbled to the door and closed it just as Mom reached the second floor. 
Then I leaned against the door, my hand on my throbbing chest, trying to catch 
my breath. 

Trying to think. Trying to decide what to say. 

I couldn’t let her see me like this. I couldn’t let her see the mask. She’d start 
asking questions. And I couldn’t let her see how the mask had changed me. 

A few seconds later, she knocked gently on the door. “Steve, are you in 
there? What are you doing?” 

“Uh... nothing, Mom.” 

“Well, may I come in? I brought you something.” 

“Not right now,” I croaked. 

Please don’t open the door! I begged silently. Please don’t come into my 
room! 

“Steve, why do you sound so strange?” Mom demanded. “What’s wrong 
with your voice?” 

“Uh...” Think fast, Steve. Think fast. 

“Uh... sore throat, Mom. A really bad sore throat.” 

“Let me take a look at you. Are you sick?” Glancing down, I saw the 
doorknob turn. 

“No!” I screamed, pressing my back against the door. 

“You’re not sick?” 

“I mean, yes,” I croaked in my shaky, old-man voice. “I’m not feeling well, 
Mom. I’m going to lie down for a while. I’ll come down later, okay?” 

I stared at the doorknob, listening to her breathing on the other side of the 
door. “Steve, I bought you those black-and-white cookies that you love. Your 
favorites. Do you want one? Maybe it’ll make you feel better.” 

My stomach growled. Those cookies are my favorites. Dripping with 
chocolate icing on one side and vanilla icing on the other. “Maybe later,” I 
moaned. 

“But I drove two miles out of my way to buy them for you,” Mom said. 

“Later. I’m really not feeling well.” I was telling the truth. My temples 
throbbed. My whole body ached. I felt so weak, I could barely stand up. 

“I’ll call you for dinner,” Mom said. I listened to her make her way back 
down the stairs. Then I hobbled over to the bed and slumped my old man’s body 
down onto the edge. 

“Now what?” I asked myself. I pressed my hands against my scabby 
cheeks. “How do I get out of this thing?” 

I shut my tired, burning eyes and tried to think. After a few minutes, Carly 
Beth’s face floated into my mind. 

“Yes!” I croaked. “Carly Beth is the one person in the world who can help 

me.” 

Carly Beth wore a mask from the same store last Halloween. Maybe the 
same thing happened to her. Maybe her mask stuck to her face and changed her. 

She got her mask off. She will know how I can get my mask off too. 

The phone stood across the room beside the computer on my desk. 
Normally, I’d be over there in three seconds. But it took me three minutes of 
gmnting and straining to get my old body to stand up. Then it took another five 
minutes to drag myself across the room. 

By the time I dropped into my desk chair, I was exhausted. It took all of my 
strength to raise my hand and punch in Carly Beth’s number on the phone. 

I can’t go on like this, I told myself. She’s got to help me. She’s got to know 
how to get this mask off. 

After the third ring, Carly Beth’s father answered. “Hello?” 

“Hi... uh... could I speak to Carly Beth?” I choked out. 

A silence. Then: “Who is this?” Mr. Caldwell sounded confused. 

“It’s me,” I answered. “Is Carly Beth there?” 

“Is this one of her teachers?” he demanded. 

“No. It’s Steve. I—” 

“I’m sorry, sir. I can’t hear you very well. Can you speak up? Why did you 
wish to speak to my daughter? Perhaps I can help you?” 

“No... I—” 

I heard Mr. Caldwell speak softly to someone else at his house. “It’s an old 
man, asking for Carly Beth. I can barely hear him. He won’t say who he is.” 

He came back on the phone. “Are you one of her teachers, sir? Where do 
you know my daughter from?” 

“She’s my friend,” I croaked. 

I heard him turn again to someone else in the room, probably Carly Beth’s 
mom. He muffled the phone with his hand, but I heard what he said: “I think it’s 
a nut. Some kind of crank call.” 

He returned to me. “Sorry, sir. My daughter can’t come to the phone.” He 
hung up. 

I sat there listening to the buzz in my spider-filled ear. 

Now what? I asked myself. 

Now what? 

18 


I must have fallen asleep in the desk chair. I don’t know how long I slept. 

I was awakened by Dad pounding on my bedroom door. “Steve— 
dinnertime!” he called in. 

I sat up with a start. My back ached from sleeping sitting up. I rubbed my 
wrinkled neck, trying to rub away the stiffness. 

“Steve—are you coming down to dinner?” Dad asked. 

“I—I’m not very hungry,” I croaked. “I’m going to take a nap, Dad. I think 
I’m getting sick.” 

“Hey, don’t get sick the night before Halloween,” he replied. “You don’t 
want to miss out on trick-or-treating.” 

“I—I’ll be okay,” I stammered in my hoarse voice. “If I get a good night’s 
sleep, I’ll be fine.” 

Yeah. Right. 

I’ll be one hundred and fifty. But I’ll be fine. 

I let out an unhappy sigh. 

“We’ll bring you up some soup or something later,” Dad called in. Then he 
disappeared downstairs. 

I stared at the phone. Should I try Carly Beth again? 

No, I decided. She won’t believe it’s me. She’ll hang up the way her father 
did. 

I scratched my ears. I could feel the spiders crackling around in them. I 
touched the bare spot on top of my head where the skin was ripped apart. The 
skin was soft and wet. I could feel the patch of hard skull that showed through. 

“Ohhhh.” Another long sigh. 

I’ve got to think, I told myself. I’ve got to think of a way out of this. 

But I felt so weary, so sleepy. 

I pulled myself up and slumped to the bed. A few seconds later, I fell sound 
asleep. 

I awoke to bright sunlight streaming through my bedroom window. 

I blinked several times, startled by the bright morning light. Morning. 
Halloween morning. 

It should have been a happy day. An exciting day. But instead... 

I reached up with both hands and touched the sides of my face. 

Smooth! 

My cheeks felt smooth. Soft and smooth. 

I rubbed my ears. Small ears. My ears. No spiders! 

I raised both hands to my hair. And touched my hair. Not the stringy, old 
man’s hair. 

Hesitantly, carefully, I touched the torn spot on top of my head where the 
skull showed through. 

Not there! 

“I’m me again!” I cried out loud. I let out a long whoop of joy. 

No old man’s mask. No old man’s voice. No old man’s body. 

It had all been a dream. A horrible nightmare. 

Still blinking in the light, I gazed happily around my room. 

“I dreamed it all!” I cried. 

Going down to that dark store basement. Pawing through the carton of 
masks. The man in the cape. The mask of the old man. Sneaking it home and 
trying it on. 

The mask sticking to my skin. Refusing to come off. 

All a dream! 

All a horrifying nightmare that was over now. 

I was so happy! This had to be the happiest moment of my life. 

I started to jump out of bed. I wanted to leap around my room, to dance for 

joy- 

But then my eyes blinked open. And I woke up for real... 

19 


...I woke up for real. 

And knew that I had only dreamed that it was all a dream! 

I grabbed my face—and felt the craggy wrinkles, the heavy scabs. I rubbed 
my nose and brushed the green gobs stuck in my nostrils. 

I had dreamed that the mask didn’t exist. 

I had dreamed that I had my own face back. My own voice and body. 

All a dream. A wonderful dream. 

But now I was really awake—and really in trouble. 

I pulled myself up and brushed the stringy, yellow hair out of my eyes. “I 
have to tell Mom and Dad,” I decided. “I can’t spend another day like this.” 

I had slept in my clothes. I staggered to my feet and dragged my old body 
to the door. I tugged open the door—and saw a note taped on the other side. 

Dear Steve, 

Hope you’re feeling better. Mom and I had to go visit your Aunt Helen this 
morning. We left early to beat the traffic. We’ll be home in time to help you with 
your hobo costume. Love, Dad 

My hobo costume? 

Not this year. Besides, since I was now at least one hundred and fifty, I was 
a little old to go trick-or-treating! 

Crinkling the note in my hand, I made the long trip down to the kitchen, 
holding on to the banister, taking one step at a time. I had a sudden craving for a 
steaming bowl of oatmeal and a cup of hot milk. 

“Oh, no!” I croaked. I was starting to think like an old man! 

I made myself a breakfast of orange juice and corn flakes. I carried it to the 
table and sat down to eat. The juice glass felt strange against my fat, brown lips. 
And it was almost impossible to chew the cornflakes with just one long, crooked 
tooth. 

“What am I going to do?” I moaned out loud. 

Then, suddenly, I had an answer. 

I decided to go ahead with my plan to terrify the first graders. Why 

shouldn’t I pay back those bratty kids for all the trouble they gave me day after 
day on the soccer field? 

Yes! I decided. When Mom and Dad get home, I’ll greet them and show off 
my old-man costume. They won’t know it isn’t a costume. They’ll think it’s 
really cool. 

Then, later, I’ll go to the spooky old Carpenter mansion to meet the kids. 
And I’ll scare the first graders out of their masks! 

And then what? 

Then I’ll find Carly Beth. It won’t be hard to find her. She’s having a 
Halloween party at her house after trick-or-treating. 

I’ll find Carly Beth and get her to tell me the secret. I’ll get her to show me 
how to remove this horrible mask. 

Then I will be a very happy guy. 

Sitting there alone in the kitchen, struggling to choke down my cornflakes, 
it seemed like a really good plan. 

Too bad it didn’t work out the way I hoped. 

20 

When Mom and Dad returned home that evening, I hobbled downstairs to greet 
them. They both gasped when they saw my ugly, scabby face. 

Mom dropped the bag she was carrying. Her mouth fell open to her knees. 

Dad’s eyes bulged. He stared at me for a long time. Then he burst out 
laughing. “Steve—that is the best costume!” he exclaimed. “Where did you get 
that?” 

“It’s disgusting,” Mom said. “Ohh. I can’t stand that open patch on top of 
the head. And that horrible hole in your tooth.” 

Dad walked in a circle around me, admiring my new look. 

I had put on the patched, black suit that I wore as my hobo costume. And I 
had found one of my grandpa’s old canes in the closet, which I leaned on now. 

“It’s great!” Dad declared, squeezing my shoulder. 

“I bought the mask at a party store,” I croaked. It was almost the truth. 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. “The old man’s voice is very good,” 
Mom said. “Have you been practicing?” 

“Yes. All day,” I replied. 

“Do you feel better?” Dad asked. “We didn’t want to disturb you this 
morning since you weren’t feeling good. Your mom and I had to leave so 
early...” 

“I’m feeling much better,” I lied. Actually, my legs were trembling and my 
whole body was drenched in a cold sweat. 

Feeling weak, I leaned harder on the cane. 

“Yuck! What’s that in your hair?” Mom cried. 

“Spiders,” I told her. I shuddered. I could feel them crawling over my head 
and in my ears. 

“They’re so real-looking,” Mom declared, raising a hand to her cheek. She 
shook her head. “Are you sure you don’t want to be a hobo? That mask must be 
so hot and uncomfortable.” 

If she only knew how uncomfortable it was! 

“Leave him be,” Dad scolded her. “He looks great. He’s going to terrify 
everyone on the street tonight.” 

I hope so, I thought. I glanced at my watch. Time to get going. 

“Well, he’s terrifying me!” Mom exclaimed. She shut her eyes. “I can’t 
stand to look at you, Steve. Why did you buy something so... so ugly?” 

“I think it’s funny,” Dad told her. He poked a finger at my long tooth. 
“Great mask. Is it rubber?” 

“Yeah. I guess,” I muttered in my quivering, old voice. 

Mom made a disgusted face. “Are you trick-or-treating with Chuck?” 

I yawned. I suddenly felt sleepy. “I promised my soccer players I’d meet 
them,” I croaked. “Then I’m going over to Carly Beth’s house.” 

“Well, don’t stay out too late,” Mom said. “And if that heavy mask gets too 
hot, take it off for a while—okay?” 

I wish! I thought bitterly. 

“See you later,” I said. Leaning on the cane, I began dragging myself to the 
front door. 

Mom and Dad laughed at my funny walk. 

I wasn’t laughing. I wanted to cry. 

Only one thing kept me from breaking down and telling them the truth. 
Only one thing kept me from telling Mom and Dad that I was trapped inside this 
horrible mask, that it had turned me into a weak, ancient creature. 

Revenge. 

I could see the terrified expressions on the faces of my soccer team. And I 
could hear their howls of horror as they went running for their lives. 

That cheered me up and kept me going. 

I grabbed the doorknob and struggled to pull open the front door. 

“Steve—wait!” Dad cried. “My camera. Wait. I want to take a picture.” He 
disappeared in search of the camera. 

“Your trick-or-treat bag!” Mom cried. “You forgot your trick-or-treat bag.” 
She rummaged around in the front closet until she found the shopping bag with 
little pumpkins all over both sides. 

I knew I couldn’t manage the cane and the shopping bag. But I took it from 
her anyway. I’ll throw the bag away when I get outside, I decided. I didn’t plan 
to trick-or-treat. I knew it would take me half an hour just to walk up someone’s 
driveway! 

Dad burst back into the living room. “Say cheese!” he cried, raising his 
little camera. 

I tried to twist my wormy lips into a smile. 

Dad flashed the camera once. Then three more times. 

Blinded by flashbulb lights, I said good-bye and made my way out the door. 
The white circles followed me into the night. I nearly fell off the front stoop. 

I grabbed the railing and waited for my heart to stop pounding. Slowly the 
flashes of light faded from my eyes, and I began to pull myself down the 
driveway. 

It was a clear, cold night. No wind at all. The nearly bare trees stood as still 
as statues. 

I limped onto the sidewalk and started in the direction of the Carpenter 
mansion. There was no moon. But the street appeared brighter than usual. Most 
houses had all of their front lights on to welcome trick-or-treaters. 

I stuffed the shopping bag into a trash can at the foot of our neighbors’ 
driveway. Then I continued down the block, my cane tap-tapping on the 
sidewalk. 

My back began to ache. My old legs trembled. I leaned over the cane, 
breathing hard. 

After half a block, I had to take a rest against a lamppost. Luckily, the 
Carpenter mansion was on the next block. 

As I started on my way, two little girls came hurrying down the sidewalk, 
followed by their father. One girl wore colorful butterfly wings. The other wore 
lots of makeup, a gold crown, and a long fancy dress. 

“Ooh, he’s ugly,” the butterfly whispered to her friend as they came near. 

“Yuck!” I heard the princess reply. “Look at the green stuff in his nose.” 

I leaned close to them, opened my lips in a snarl, and rasped, “Get out of 
my way! ” 

The little girls both let out frightened squeals and took off down the 
sidewalk. Their father flashed me an angry stare and hurried after them. 

“Heh-heh-heh.” An evil cackle escaped my lips. 

Seeing their frightened faces gave me new energy. Leaning on my cane, I 
tap-tapped my way across the street. 

A few minutes later, the Carpenter mansion came into view. The huge old 
house stood dark and empty. Its stone turrets rose up to the purple night sky like 
castle towers. 

Huddled under a streetlamp at the bottom of the weed-choked front yard 
stood my soccer team. My Hogs. My first graders. 

My victims. 

They were all in costumes. I saw Power Rangers and Ninja Turtles. 

Mummies and monsters. Two ghosts, a Beauty, and a Beast. 

But I recognized them anyway. I recognized them because they were 
shoving each other, grabbing at trick-or-treat bags, shouting and fighting. 

I leaned against my cane, watching them from halfway down the block. My 
heart started to pound. My whole body trembled. 

This was it. My big moment. 

“Okay, guys,” I murmured softly to myself. “It’s show time! ” 

21 

I was trembling with excitement as I dragged myself up to them. I stepped into 
the light, my wormy lips twisted in a frightening sneer. 

I stared from one to another, giving them a chance to see my terrifying face. 
Giving them a chance to see the spiders crawling through my hair. The 
wormhole in my tooth. The patch of skull poking up through my rutted scalp. 
They grew quiet. I could feel their eyes on me. I could sense their instant 

fear. 

I opened my mouth to let out a frightening growl that would send them 
running for their mommies. 

But Marnie Rosen, wearing a white bride’s dress and veil, stepped up to me 
before I could get it out. “Can we help you, sir?” she asked. 

“Are you lost?” one of the Power Rangers asked. 

“Do you need directions?” 

“Can we help you get somewhere?” 

No. No! 

This wasn’t going right. This wasn’t going the way I’d planned—the way 
I’d dreamed! 

Marnie took my arm. “Which way were you headed, sir? We’ll walk with 
you. It’s kind of a scary night to be walking around a strange neighborhood.” 

The others pushed in closer, trying to be helpful. 

Trying to be helpful to an old man. An old man they weren’t the least bit 
scared of. 

“Nooooo!” I howled in protest. “I’m the ghost of the Carpenter mansion! 
I’ve come to pay you back for trespassing on my front yard!” 

I tried to shriek—but my voice came out in a weak whisper. I don’t think 
they heard a word I uttered. 

I’ve got to scare them, I told myself. I’ve got to! 

I raised both hands together in the air as if I planned to strangle them all. 

My cane flew out of my grasp. I lost my balance and tottered over 
backward. 

“Ohhhh!” I let out a groan as I hit the sidewalk sitting up. 

They all cried out. But not in fear. They cried out because they were 

worried about me. 

Helping hands reached down to pull me to my feet. 

“Are you okay? Here’s your cane.” I recognized Duck Benton’s scratchy 
voice. 

I heard murmurs of sympathy. “Poor old guy,” someone whispered. 

“Are you hurt?” 

“Can we get you some help?” 

No. No. No. No. No. 

They weren’t terrified. The weren’t the tiniest bit afraid. 

I sank onto the cane. I suddenly felt so weary. So totally exhausted I could 
barely keep my head up. 

Forget about scaring them, Steve, I told myself. You’ve got to get to Carly 
Beth’s house before you collapse. You’ve got to find out from Carly Beth how to 
get the mask off. How to get your old face—and strength—back. 

Marnie was still holding on to my trembling arm. “Where are you trying to 
go?” she asked, her freckled face filled with concern. 

“Uh... do you know where Carly Beth Caldwell’s house is?” I asked in a 
weak croak. 

“It’s on the next block. Across the street. I know her brother,” I heard 
Andrew Foster say. 

“We’ll take you there,” Marnie offered. 

She gripped my arm tighter. A mummy stepped up and took my other arm. 
They began to walk me slowly, gently down the sidewalk. 

I don’t believe this! I thought bitterly. They’re supposed to be scared out of 
their costumes! They should be shrieking and crying by now. 

But instead, they’re helping me walk. 

I sighed. The sad thing was, I felt so tired and weak, I couldn’t have made it 
to Carly Beth’s without their help. 

They led me halfway up her driveway. Then I thanked them and told them I 
could make it the rest of the way. 

I watched them scurry away to go trick-or-treating. “I guess Steve isn’t 
going to show up,” Duck said. 

“He was probably too big a wimp to go out on Halloween night!” Marnie 
joked. 

They all laughed. 

Leaning heavily on the cane, I turned toward Carly Beth’s house. The lights 

were all on. But I couldn’t see anyone in the windows. 

She probably isn’t back from trick-or-treating yet, I decided. 

I heard chattering voices. Footsteps on the gravel drive. 

I wheeled around to see Carly Beth and her friend Sabrina Mason hurrying 
across the lawn, heading toward the house. 

I recognized Carly Beth’s duck costume. She wore it every year. Except for 
last Halloween, when she wore that terrifying mask. 

Sabrina was some kind of superhero. She wore silvery tights and a long 
silvery cape. She had a silvery mask pulled over her face, but I recognized her 
long, black hair. 

“Carly Beth—!” I tried to shout. But her name came out in a choked 
whisper. 

She and Sabrina kept chattering excitedly as they hurried across the lawn. 

“Carly Beth—! Please!” I cried. 

Halfway to the house, they both turned. They saw me. 

Yes! 

“Carly Beth—” I cried. 

She pulled off her duck mask and took a few steps toward the driveway. 
She squinted hard at me. “Who are you?” 

“It’s me!” I cried weakly. “I—” 

“Are you the man who tried to call me earlier?” she demanded coldly. 

“Well... yes,” I croaked. “You see, I need—” 

“Well, leave me alone!” Carly Beth screamed. “Why are you following me? 
Leave me alone, or I’ll get my father!” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered helplessly. 

The two girls spun away and began jogging to the house. 

Leaving me standing there in the driveway. 

Leaving me all alone. 

Leaving me doomed. 

22 

I let out a bitter wail. “Carly Beth—it’s me! It’s me! Steve!” I cried. “Steve 
Boswell!” 

Did she hear me? 

Yes. 

She and Sabrina had stepped onto the stone walk that led to the front porch. 
In the square of yellow light from the porch, I saw them both turn around. 

“It’s Steve! It’s Steve!” I repeated, my throat aching from my desperate 
cries. 

Slowly, cautiously, both girls made their way back to me. 

“Steve?” Carly Beth stared hard at me, her mouth falling open. 

“Is that a mask?” Sabrina demanded, keeping close to Carly Beth. 

“Yes, it’s a mask,” I croaked. 

“Yuck. It’s disgusting!” Sabrina declared. She pulled off her silver mask to 
see better. “Are those spiders? Yuck!” 

“I need help,” I confessed. “This mask—” 

“You went to the party store!” Carly Beth cried. The duck mask fell to the 
ground. She raised both hands to the sides of her face. “Oh, no! No! Steve, I 
warned you!” 

“Yes. That’s where I got it,” I said, pointing to my hideous face. “I didn’t 
listen to you. I didn’t know.” 

“Steve, I told you not to go there,” Carly Beth said, her expression still tight 
with horror. Hands still pressed against her cheeks. 

“Now the mask won’t come off,” I wailed. “It’s stuck to me. It’s part of me. 
And it’s—it’s turning me into an old, old man. A feeble old man.” 

Carly Beth shook her head sadly. She stared at my ugly face, but didn’t say 
a word. 

“You’ve got to help me,” I pleaded. “You’ve got to help me get this mask 

off.” 

Carly Beth let out a frightened sigh. “Steve—I don’t think I can.” 

23 

I grabbed her duck feathers and held on. “You’ve got to help me, Carly Beth,” I 
begged. “Why won’t you help me?” 

“I want to help you,” she explained. “But I’m not sure I can.” 

“But you had a mask from the same store last Halloween,” I protested. 
“You pulled the mask off. You escaped from it—right?” 

“It can’t be pulled off,” Carly Beth said. “There’s no way to pull it off.” 

Over her shoulder, I saw three kids in costumes at the next house. A woman 
appeared in the doorway. I saw her dropping candy bars into the three trick-or- 
treat bags. 

Some kids are having fun tonight, I thought bitterly. 

I am not having fun tonight. 

I may never have fun again. 

“Come into the house,” Carly Beth suggested. “It’s cold out here. I’ll try to 
explain.” 

I tried to follow them up the driveway. But my legs wobbled like rubber. 
Carly Beth and Sabrina practically had to carry me into her house. They dropped 
me down on the green leather couch in the living room. 

On a table across the room, a carved jack-o’-lantern grinned at me. The 
pumpkin had more teeth than I did! 

Carly Beth dropped down on the couch arm. Sabrina sat on the edge of the 
armchair beside it. She leaned over and sifted through her trick-or-treat bag. 
How could she think of candy at a time like this? 

I turned to Carly Beth. “How do I get the mask off?” I croaked. 

Carly Beth chewed her bottom lip. She raised her eyes to me, her 
expression grim. “It isn’t a mask,” she said softly. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“It isn’t a mask,” she explained. “It’s a real face. A living face. Did you 
meet the man in the black cape?” 

I nodded. 

“He’s some kind of weird scientist, I think. He made the faces. In his lab.” 

“He—he made them?” I stammered. 

Carly Beth nodded solemnly. “They are real, living faces. The man in the 

cape tried to make them good-looking. But something went wrong. They all 
came out ugly. As ugly as the one you’re wearing.” 

“But, Carly Beth—” I started. 

She raised a hand to hush me. “The caped man calls the faces The Unloved. 
No one wants them because they turned out so ugly. They are The Unloved. 
They’re alive. And they attach themselves to anyone who comes near enough.” 

“But how do I get it off?” I cried impatiently. I raised my hands and tugged 
at my rutted, scabby cheeks. “I can’t spend the rest of my life like this. What can 
I do?” 

Carly Beth jumped up and began pacing back and forth in front of Sabrina 
and me. Sabrina unwrapped a Milky Way bar and began chewing it, watching 
Carly Beth pace. 

“The same thing happened to me last Halloween,” Carly Beth said. “I had 
chosen a really ugly mask. It was so scary. It attached itself to my head. And 
then it turned me evil.” 

“And what did you do?” I cried, leaning forward on my cane. 

“I went back to the party store. I found the man in the cape. He told me 
there was only one way to get rid of the mask. It could only be done with a 
symbol of love.” 

“Huh?” I gaped at her. I didn’t understand. 

“I had to find a symbol of love,” Carly Beth continued. “At first, I didn’t 
know what the man meant. I didn’t know what to do. But then I remembered 
something my mom had made for me.” 

“What?” I demanded eagerly. “What was it?” 

“It was that head,” Sabrina chimed in, her mouth bulging with chocolate. 

“My mom had sculpted a head of me,” Carly Beth said. “It looked just like 
me. You’ve seen it. Mom sculpted it because she loves me. It was a symbol of 
love.” 

Carly Beth dropped back down beside me. “I placed Mom’s sculpted head 
over The Unloved face. And The Unloved disappeared. The ugly face slipped 
right off.” 

“Great!” I cried happily. “Go get it. Hurry!” 

“Huh?” Carly Beth stared at me, confused. 

“Go get the sculpted head,” I begged. “I’ve got to get this thing off me!” 

Carly Beth shook her head. “You don’t get it, Steve. You can’t use my 
symbol of love. It will only work for me. You have to find your own symbol of 

love.” 

“But maybe it won’t work for Steve’s mask,” Sabrina interrupted. “Maybe 
each mask is different.” 

“Give me a break, Sabrina,” I muttered angrily. “It’s got to work! Don’t you 
understand? It’s got to!” 

“You have to find your own symbol of love,” Carly Beth repeated. “Can 
you think of one, Steve?” 

I stared back at her, thinking hard. I thought. And thought. Symbol of 
love... symbol of love... No. I couldn’t think of anything. Not a single thing. 
And then an idea popped into my mind. 

24 

I leaned on the cane and tried to pull myself up from the couch. But my feeble 
arms gave way, and I fell back into the cushion. 

“You’ve got to help me get home,” I told Carly Beth. “I thought of a 
symbol of love. It’s at my house.” 

“Okay. Let’s go!” she replied. 

“But what about the kids coming over here?” Sabrina asked, swallowing a 
chunk of Milky Way. “What about the party?” 

“You stay here and greet them,” Carly Beth told her. “If Steve really can 
find a symbol of love at his house—and if it works—we’ll be right back.” 

“It’ll work,” I said. “I know it will.” 

But I had my fingers crossed. Which made it even harder to climb up from 
the couch. 

Carly Beth saw me struggling. She took both my hands and pulled me to 
my feet. “Yuck! What are those things moving around in your ears?” she cried, 
making a disgusted face. 

“Spiders,” I said quietly. 

She swallowed hard. “I sure hope you find something that works.” 

“Me too,” I murmured as she guided me to the door. 

Carly Beth turned back into the living room. “Don’t eat all the chocolate 
while we’re gone,” she called to Sabrina. 

“It’s only my second piece!” Sabrina protested with her mouth full. 

We stepped into the darkness. Some kids in costumes were coming up the 
driveway, all carrying bulging trick-or-treat bags. “Hey, Carly Beth—where are 
you going?” a girl called. 

“I’m doing a good deed!” Carly Beth replied. “See you guys later!” She 
turned back to me. “I can’t believe you didn’t listen to me, Steve. You really 
look disgusting.” 

“I can’t even wipe the green gobs out of my nose!” I wailed. 

Holding me by the shoulder, she guided me toward my house. We crossed 
the street onto my block. I heard kids laughing and loud music inside the house 
on the corner. A Halloween party. 

As we passed the house, I stumbled over a moving shadow. Carly Beth 

caught me before I fell. “What was that?” I cried. 

Then I saw it scamper silently across the street. A black cat. 

I laughed. What else could I do? I had to laugh. 

Go ahead, cat, I thought bitterly. Go ahead and cross my path. I couldn’t 
have any worse luck—could I? 

My house came into view past a row of tall evergreen shrubs. Through the 
shrubs, I could see that nearly all the downstairs lights were on. 

“Are your parents home?” Carly Beth asked, helping me across the grass. 

I nodded. “Yeah. They’re home.” 

“Do they know about the... uh...” 

“No,” I replied. “They think it’s a costume.” 

As we stepped onto the front stoop, I could hear Sparky start to bark inside 
the house. I pushed open the door, and the little dog let out an excited yip and 
leaped up at me. 

His paws landed on my waist and pushed me back hard. I toppled against 
the wall. 

“Down, Sparky! Please! Get down!” I pleaded in my old man’s croak. 

I knew Sparky was glad to see me. But I was too feeble for his usual 
greeting. 

“Down, boy! Please!” 

Carly Beth finally managed to pull the dog off me so that I could stand up. 
Then she held onto Sparky until I regained my balance. 

“Steve—is that you?” I heard Mom call from the den. “You’re back so 
early!” 

Mom stepped into the living room. She had changed into the gray flannel 
housedress she usually relaxes in at night, and she had her blond hair in curlers. 

“Oh, hi, Carly Beth!” she cried in surprise. “I wasn’t expecting visitors. I 

“That’s okay, Mom,” I croaked. “We’re only staying a minute. We came 
back to get something.” 

“Don’t you love Steve’s costume?” Mom asked Carly Beth. “Isn’t that the 
most horrible mask you ever saw?” 

“You mean he’s wearing a mask?” Carly Beth joked. She and Mom enjoyed 
a good laugh. 

Sparky sniffed my shoes. 

“What did you come back here for?” Mom asked me. 

“Those black-and-white cookies,” I replied eagerly. “You know. The ones 
you bought me yesterday.” 

Those cookies were a symbol of love. 

Mom had told me how she drove two miles out of her way to buy them for 
me. She knew they were my favorite cookies in the whole world. And she drove 
out of her way to buy them because she loves me. 

So the cookies were the perfect symbol of love. 

I couldn’t wait to bite into one. One bite, I knew—and I’d be able to pull 
off this horrible mask. 

Mom’s face twisted in surprise. She narrowed her eyes, studying me. “You 
came back here for those cookies? Why? What about all your trick-or-treat 
candy?” 

“Uh... well...” I stammered. My brain stalled. I couldn’t think of a good 
reason. 

“He had a strong craving,” Carly Beth chimed in. “He told me he’s been 
thinking about those cookies all night.” 

“That’s right. I had a craving,” I repeated. “Candy bars can’t compare, 
Mom. Those cookies are the best.” 

“I love them, too,” Carly Beth added. “So I came back with Steve. We want 
to bring them to my Halloween party.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. “What a shame,” she said. 

“Huh?” I cried, feeling my heart skip a beat. “What do you mean? What’s 
wrong?” 

Mom shook her head. “The cookies are gone,” she replied softly. “The dog 
found the box this morning and broke into it. I’m sorry, guys. But Sparky ate 
them all.” 

25 

Mom’s words sent a cold shiver down my back. I let out a weak moan. And 
stared down at Sparky. 

The dog gazed up at me and began wagging his stubby tail. As if he were 
pleased with himself! 

“You’ve ruined my life, Sparky!” That’s what I felt like screaming. “You 
greedy pig! Couldn’t you save me just one cookie? Now I’m doomed. Doomed 
to live with this gross, frightening face forever.” 

And all because Sparky loved black-and-white cookies as much as I did. 

Still wagging his tail, Sparky ran over to me and brushed his furry, black 
body against my leg. He wanted to be petted. 

Forget it, I thought. No way I’m petting you—you traitor. 

I heard Dad calling Mom from the den. “Have fun, guys,” Mom said. She 
waved to Carly Beth and me and hurried off to see what Dad wanted. 

Have fun, guys? 

I’m never going to have fun again, I realized. 

Feeling weak and defeated, I turned to Carly Beth. “Now what do we do?” I 
whispered. 

“Quick—pick up Sparky,” she whispered back, motioning to the dog with 
both hands. 

“Huh? Do what? I’m never touching this dog again!” I croaked miserably. 

Panting hard, his tongue hanging to the floor, Sparky brushed my ankle 
again. 

“Pick him up!” Carly Beth insisted. 

“Why?” 

“Sparky is your symbol of love!” Carly Beth declared. “Look at him, Steve. 
Look how much that dog loves you.” 

“He loves me so much, he ate all my cookies!” I wailed. 

Carly Beth frowned at me. “Forget about the cookies. Pick up the dog. 
Sparky is your symbol of love. Pick him up and hold him against you. And I’ll 
bet the mask will come right off.” 

“I guess it’s worth a try,” I said softly. I started to pick up the little black 
terrier. My back creaked as I bent down. My aching knees cracked. 

Please work! I pleaded silently. Please let this work! 

I reached for Sparky—and he darted through my hands and ran across the 
carpet toward the den. 

“Sparky—come back! Sparky!” I cried, still bent over, still reaching out 
both hands. 

The dog stopped halfway across the living room and turned back. 

“Come back, Sparky!” I called in my old man’s quivering voice. “Come 
back, boy! Come back to Steve!” 

His stubby tail started wagging again. He stared at me, head tilted, and 
didn’t move. 

“He’s playing games with me,” I told Carly Beth. “He wants me to chase 
him.” 

I got down on my knees and motioned to Sparky with both hands. “Come, 
boy! Come! I’m too old to chase you! Come, Sparky!” 

To my surprise, the dog let out a yip, ran back across the room, and jumped 
into my arms. 

“Hug him tight, Steve,” Carly Beth urged. “Hug him tight. It’s going to 
work. I know it will!” 

The little dog felt so heavy in my weak, aching arms. But I held him against 
my chest. Held him tight. 

Held him as tight as I could. 

Held him for a long, long time. 

And nothing happened. 

26 

After about a minute, the dog got tired of being squeezed. He jumped out of my 
arms, bounced over the carpet, and disappeared into the den. 

I tugged at the mask with both hands. 

But I knew I was wasting my strength. It didn’t feel any different. Nothing 
had changed. The hideous face was still tightly attached to my head. 

Carly Beth put a hand gently on my shoulder. “Sorry,” she murmured. “I 
guess each mask is different.” 

“You mean I need something else to get it off,” I said, shaking my old, 
spider-infested head sadly. 

Carly Beth nodded. “Yes. Something else. But we don’t know what it is.” 

I uttered a helpless cry. “I’m doomed!” I wailed. “I can’t even climb up off 
my knees!” 

Carly Beth slid both of her hands under my shoulders and lifted me to my 
feet. I steadied myself, leaning on the cane. 

And then I had an idea. 

“The man in the cape,” I croaked. “He’ll know what I can do.” 

“You’re right!” Carly Beth’s face brightened. “Yes, you’re right, Steve. He 
helped me last Halloween. If we go back to the party store, I know he’ll help 
you!” 

She started to pull me to the front door. But I held back. “There’s just one 
little problem,” I told her. 

She turned back to me. “Problem?” 

“Yeah,” I replied. “I forgot to tell you. The party store is closed. It went out 
of business.” 

We walked there anyway. Well, I didn’t exactly walk. I limped and hobbled, 
feeling weaker and more feeble every second. Carly Beth practically had to carry 
me. 

The streets stood empty, glimmering dimly under the rows of streetlamps. 
Lights were going out in all the houses. It was pretty late. All of the trick-or- 
treaters had gone home. 

Two dogs followed us down the street. Big German shepherds. Maybe they 

thought we’d share our Halloween candy with them. Of course, I didn’t have any 
Halloween candy. 

“Go away,” I snarled at them. “I don’t like dogs anymore. Dogs are 
useless!” 

To my surprise, they seemed to understand. They turned and went loping 
across a dark front lawn, disappearing around the side of the house. 

A few minutes later, we passed the row of small shops and stepped up in 
front of the party store. Dark. Empty. 

“Out of business,” I murmured. 

Carly Beth pounded on the front door. I peered into the blue shadows 
beyond the dusty front window. Nothing moved. No one in there. 

“Open up! We need help!” Carly Beth shouted. She banged on the wooden 
door with both fists. 

Silence inside. No one stirred. 

A cold wind swept down the street. I shivered. I tried to bury my ugly head 
in my shoulders. “Let’s go,” I mumbled. Defeated. 

Doomed. 

Carly Beth refused to give up. She pounded the door with both fists. 

I turned away from the window—and gazed at the alley beside the store. 
“Whoa. Wait,” I called to her. “Come over here.” 

I dragged myself to the alley. Carly Beth followed. She rubbed her 
knuckles. I guess they were sore from pounding so hard on the door. 

I could see from the sidewalk that the trapdoor was shut. But I led Carly 
Beth into the alley. We stopped beside the trapdoor. 

“It leads into the basement of the party store,” I explained. “All the masks 
and other stuff are down there.” 

“If we can get down there,” Carly Beth whispered, “maybe we can find a 
way to help you.” 

“Maybe,” I whispered back. 

Carly Beth bent down and grabbed the wire handle to the trapdoor. She 
tugged it up hard. 

The door didn’t budge. 

“I think it’s locked,” she groaned. 

“Try again,” I urged. “It sticks. It’s very hard to open.” 

She bent down, grasped the handle in both hands, and pulled again. 

This time the door swung up, revealing the concrete stairs that led down to 

the basement. 

“Come on. Hurry, Steve.” Carly Beth tugged my arm. 
My last chance, I thought. My last chance. 

Trembling, I followed her down into the heavy darkness. 

27 

We huddled close together as we made our way across the basement floor. Pale 
light from a streetlamp floated in through the open trapdoor. 

Across the room, I heard the steady drip drip drip I’d heard before. The 
large cartons stood just where Chuck and I had left them. Three or four of them 
were still open. 

“Well. Here we are,” Carly Beth murmured. Her words sounded hollow, 
echoing softly against the stone basement walls. Her eyes darted around the 
room, then stopped on me. “Now what?” 

I shrugged. “Search through the cartons, maybe?” 

I stepped over to the nearest one and peered inside. “This one has all the 
masks,” I told her. I picked up a monster mask covered in bristly fur. 

“Yuck,” Carly Beth groaned. “Put it down. We don’t need another mask.” 

I dropped the mask back into the carton. It made a soft plop as it landed on 
the other masks. 

“I don’t know what we need,” I said. “But maybe we can find 
something...” 

“Look at these!” Carly Beth cried. She had pulled open another carton. She 
held up some kind of jumpsuit. It had a long, pointy tail on the back. 

“What’s that?” I demanded, stepping around two cartons to get to her. 

“A costume,” she replied. She leaned into the carton and pulled out another 
one. A pair of furry tights covered with leopard spots. “The box is filled with 
costumes.” 

“Big deal,” I grumbled. “That’s not going to help me.” 

I sighed. “Nothing is going to help me.” 

Carly Beth didn’t seem to hear me. She leaned over the edge of the box and 
pulled out another costume. She held it up in front of her. A shiny black suit. 
Very fancy. Like a tuxedo. 

As I stared at it, my face began to tingle. 

“Put it down,” I said glumly. “We need to find—” 

“Oh, yuck!” Carly Beth cried. “This suit—it’s crawling with spiders!” 

“Huh?” I gasped. My face tingled harder. I heard a loud buzzing in my ears. 
The tingle became an itch. 

“Hey, I’ll bet this is the costume that goes with your mask!” Carly Beth 
declared. She carried it over to me. “See? Spiders and more spiders!” 

I scratched my itching cheeks. The itch was quickly becoming painful. I 
scratched harder. 

“Get it away from me! It’s making me itch!” I cried. 

Carly Beth ignored my plea. She held the shiny black suit up in front of me, 
beneath my itching, burning face. 

“See? You have the head—and this is the body that goes with it,” she said, 
holding it against me. Admiring it. 

“Put it away!” I shrieked. “My face—it’s burning! Ow!” 

I slapped frantically at my cheeks. My forehead. My chin. 

“Owwwwww!” I howled. “I feel so weird! What is happening to me?” 

28 

“It’s burning hot!” I shrieked. “Owwwwww/ What is happening ?” 

I grabbed the sides of my face, trying to soothe away the burning pain. 

As I gripped my cheeks, the face began to slide under my hands. 

I felt it begin to rise. Up, up. 

I pulled my hands away—as the old man’s head slid over my head. Lifted 
off. Floated up. 

Cool air greeted my cheeks. I took a deep breath of the cold, fresh air. 

The craggy old head hovered above me for a moment. Then it floated 
toward the shiny black suit in Carly Beth’s hand. 

The head floated down onto the collar of the suit. 

Carly Beth let out a startled cry as the suit’s arms thrashed out. The trouser 
legs kicked. The suit twitched and squirmed as if trying to break free. 

Carly Beth let go of it and jumped back. 

A smile spread over the ugly old face. The suit legs lowered themselves to 
the floor. The old man performed a little dance, arms flapping, trouser legs 
hopping. 

And then he turned away from us. The head attached to the suit. The trouser 
legs bent at the knees, he shuffled toward the steps. 

Carly Beth and I both cried out in shock as the old man climbed up the 
steps and disappeared out the trapdoor. 

We stood there, eyes bulging, mouths wide-open. We stared at the opening 
at the top of the stairs. Stared in silence. Stared in amazement. 

And then we both began to laugh. 

We fell on each other, laughing, laughing till tears rolled down our cheeks. 

I laughed louder and harder than I had ever laughed. Because I was 
laughing in my voice. Laughing with my face. My real face. 

The old-man face found its body—and escaped. 

And now I was me again! 

This had to be the best Halloween ever! I had never been so happy in all my 
life just to have things normal. 

Carly Beth and I danced down the street as we made our way home. We 

sang at the top of our lungs. Sang and twirled each other around. 

And danced and strutted down the middle of the street. 

We were both so happy! 

We were half a block from my house—when the creature leaped out from 
behind a hedge. 

It opened its jaws in a broken-toothed roar. 

Carly Beth and I grabbed each other and uttered shrill cries of terror. 

The creature had bright purple skin that glowed in the light from the 
streetlamp. Fiery red eyes. A mouth full of broken, rotting teeth. And a fat, 
brown worm poking out from the middle of its cheek. 

“Huh?” I stared at the worm as it bobbed from the creature’s skin. Stared at 
the frightening purple face. 

And recognized it. 

“Chuck!” I cried. 

He let out a hoarse laugh from behind the mask. “I gotcha!” he bellowed. “I 
got both of you! You should have seen the looks on your faces!” 

“Chuck—” 

“I’ve been waiting here. Waiting to surprise you,” he rasped. The disgusting 
worm bobbed up and down in his cheek as he talked. 

“You didn’t see me grab this mask when I ran out of that store basement,” 
he growled. “I kept it a secret. I wanted to give you a good scare.” 

“You scared me to death!” Carly Beth admitted, giving him a playful shove. 
“Now take off the mask and let’s go to my house.” 

“Uh... I have a problem,” Chuck replied, lowering his voice. 

“Problem?” 

Chuck nodded. “I’m having a little trouble getting this mask off. Think you 
guys could help me?” 
