

ONE DAY AT 
HORRORLAND 

1 

As we entered the gates to HorrorLand, we had no idea that, in just a few hours, 
we would all be lying in our coffins. 

I’m the calm one in the Morris family. Everyone says, “Lizzy, you’re the 
calm one.” And I’m trying to tell this story calmly. 

But believe me—there’s no way! 

We had never planned to go to HorrorLand. In fact, we’d never heard of it. 

The five of us were squeezed into Dad’s little Toyota, on our way to spend 
the day at Zoo Gardens Theme Park. Dad had messed up and left the map at 
home. But Mom said the park would be real easy to find. 

When we got close to the park, Mom said, there would be lots of signs to 
direct us. But so far we hadn’t seen a single sign. 

Dad was driving, and Mom was beside him in the front. I was squeezed in 
back with my little brother, Luke, who is ten, and Luke’s friend Clay. 

It wasn’t the best place to be. My brother cannot sit still for a second. 
Especially in the car. He just has too much energy. And he’s totally goofy. 

The longer we drove, the more restless Luke became. He tried wrestling 
with Clay, but there really wasn’t room. Then he tried arm wrestling with him, 
and the two of them kept bumping me until I lost my temper and started shouting 
at them to stop. 

“Why don’t you three play Alphabet?” Mom suggested from the front. 
“Look out the window for letters.” 

“There aren’t any,” Luke replied. “There aren’t any signs.” 

“There isn’t anything to look at,” Clay grumbled. 

He was right. We were driving past flat, sandy fields. There were a few 
scraggly trees here and there. The rest was all desert. 

“I’m going to take this turnoff,” Dad announced. He took off his Chicago 
Cubs cap and scratched his thinning blond hair. “Haven’t I already taken this 
turnoff?” 

Dad is the only blond in the family. Mom, Luke, and I all have straight 
black hair and blue eyes. 

In fact, Dad doesn’t look as if he belongs in the same family. The three of 
us are tall and thin, with very fair skin. And Dad is short and kind of chubby, 

with a round face that’s almost always pink. I tease him all the time because I 
think he looks a lot more like a wrestler than a bank manager, which he is. 

“I’m pretty sure we’ve already been here,” Dad said unhappily. 

“It’s hard to tell. It’s all desert,” Mom replied, gazing out her window. 

“Very helpful,” Dad muttered. 

“How can I be helpful?” Mom shot back. “You’re the one who left the map 
on the kitchen table.” 

“I thought you packed it,” Dad grumbled. 

“Why should it be my job to pack the map?” Mom cried. 

“Break it up, you two,” I interrupted. Once they start fighting, they never 
stop. It’s always best to interrupt them quickly before they really get into it. 

“I’m the Mad Pincher!” Luke cried. He let out a gruesome, horror-movie 
laugh and started pinching Clay’s ribs and arms. 

I hate Luke’s Mad Pincher routine more than anything. I was so glad that 
Clay was sitting in the middle next to Luke and not me. Usually, the only way to 
stop Luke’s pinching is to slug him. 

Clay started squirming and laughing. He thinks everything Luke does is a 
riot. He laughs at all of my brother’s stupid jokes and stunts. I think that’s why 
Luke likes Clay so much. 

The two of them began pinching each other. 

Then Luke shoved Clay into me. “Give me a break!” I cried. 

I shoved Clay back. I know I shouldn’t have. But it was getting hot in the 
car, and we’d been driving for hours, and what was I supposed to do? 

“Lizzy! Boys! Chill out back there!” Dad cried. 

“Dad, nobody says ‘chill out’ anymore,” I told him calmly and quietly. 

For some reason, that made him go berserk. He started yelling, and his face 
got bright red. 

I knew he wasn’t mad at me. He was mad because he couldn’t find Zoo 
Gardens Theme Park. 

“Everybody just take a deep breath and be silent,” Mom suggested. 

“Ow! Stop pinching me!” Clay screamed. He gave Luke a hard shove. 

“You stop pinching me!” my brother shrieked, shoving him back. 

Boys can really be animals. 

“Hey, look—a sign up ahead!” Mom pointed as a large green sign came 
into view. 

Luke and Clay stopped fighting. Dad leaned forward over the steering 

wheel, squinting through the windshield. 

“Does it say where the park is?” Luke demanded. 

“Does it say where we are?” Clay asked. 

The words on the sign came into view as we drove past it. It read: SIGN 
FOR RENT. 

We all let out disappointed groans. 

“The Mad Pincher returns!” Luke cried. He gave Clay a hard pinch on the 
arm. Luke never knows when to quit. 

“This road isn’t going anywhere,” Dad said, scowling. “I’ll have to turn 
around and get back on the highway. If I can find it.” 

“I think you should ask someone for directions,” Mom suggested. 

“Ask someone? Ask someone?” Dad exploded. “Do you see anyone I can 
ask?” His face was bright red again. He drove with one hand so he could use the 
other to shake a fist. 

“I meant if you see a gas station,” Mom murmured. 

“A gas station?” Dad screamed. “I don’t even see a tree!” 

Dad was right. I stared out the window and saw nothing but white sand on 
both sides of the road. The sun beamed down on it, making it gleam. The sand 
was so bright, it nearly looked like snow. 

“I meant to go north,” Dad muttered. “The desert is south. We must have 
gone south.” 

“You’d better turn around,” Mom urged. 

“Are we lost?” Clay asked. I could hear some fear in his voice. 

Clay isn’t the bravest kid in the world. In fact, he is pretty easy to scare. 
Once I crept up behind him in our backyard at night and whispered his name— 
and he almost jumped right out of his shoes! 

“Dad, are we lost?” Luke repeated the question. 

“Yeah, we’re lost,” Dad replied quietly. “Hopelessly lost.” 

Clay let out a soft cry and slumped in the seat. He looked a little like a 
balloon deflating. 

“Don’t tell him that!” Mom cried sharply. 

“What should I tell him?” Dad snapped back. “We’re nowhere near Zoo 
Gardens. We’re nowhere near civilization! We’re in the desert, going nowhere!” 

“Just turn around. I’m sure we’ll find someone we can ask,” Mom said 
softly. “And stop being so dramatic.” 

“We’re all going to die in the desert,” Luke said, with a gmesome grin on 

his face. “And buzzards will peck out our eyeballs and eat our flesh.” 

My brother has a great sense of humor, doesn’t he? 

You can’t imagine what it’s like having to live with a total ghoul! 

“Luke, stop scaring Clay,” Mom said, turning in her seat to glare at Luke. 

“I’m not scared,” Clay insisted. But he looked scared. His round face was 
kind of pale. And his eyes were blinking a lot behind his glasses. With his short, 
feathery blond hair and round eyeglasses, Clay looked a lot like a frightened 
owl. 

Muttering to himself, Dad slowed the car to a stop. Then he turned it 
around, and we headed back in the direction we had come. “Great vacation,” he 
said through clenched teeth. 

“It’s still early,” Mom told him, checking her watch. 

The late morning sun was nearly straight overhead. I could feel its warmth 
on my face through the open sunroof. 

We drove for nearly half an hour. Luke wanted to play Twenty Questions or 
Geography with Clay. But Clay moodily said no. He just stared out the window, 
watching the desert roll by. Every few minutes, he’d ask, “Are we still lost?” 

“Pretty lost,” my dad would reply unhappily. 

“We’re okay,” Mom kept reassuring us. 

As we drove, the scraggly trees reappeared. Then, after a while, the sand 
gave way to darker fields, dotted with trees and low shrubs. 

I sat silently, my hands clasped in my lap, staring out the window. I wasn’t 
really scared or worried. But I wished we would at least see a gas station or a 
store or one other human being! 

“I’m getting hungry,” Luke griped. “Is it lunchtime?” 

With a long sigh that sounded like air escaping from a tire, Dad pulled the 
car to the side of the road. He reached across Mom to the glove compartment. 
“There’s got to be some kind of map in there,” he said. 

“No. I already looked,” Mom told him. 

As they started to argue, I raised my eyes to the open sunroof above my 
head. 

“Oh!” I let out a cry as I saw a hideous monster staring down at me, 
lowering its enormous head, about to crush the car. 

2 

I opened my mouth to scream, but no sound came out. 

The monster glared down at me through the sunroof. It was as tall as a 
building, I realized. Its red eyes glowed with evil, and its mouth was twisted in a 
hungry grin. 

“D-Dad!” I finally managed to stammer. Dad was bent over, fumbling 
through the papers in the glove compartment. 

“Wow!” I heard Luke cry. 

I turned and saw that Luke was staring up at it, too, his blue eyes wide with 
fright. 

“Dad? Mom?” My heart was pounding so hard, I thought my chest might 
explode. 

“Lizzy, what is it?” Mom asked impatiently. 

The monster lowered its head over us. Its mouth opened wide, ready to 
swallow the whole car. 

And then Luke started to laugh. “Wow! Cool!” he cried. 

And I realized at the same time that the monster wasn’t alive. It was a 
mechanical figure, part of a giant billboard display. 

Ducking my head to get a better view through the side window, I saw that 
Dad had pulled the car up right beside the billboard. My parents were so busy 
arguing about maps, they hadn’t even noticed it! 

I stared up at the red-eyed monster. It lowered its head and opened its jaws. 
Then the jaws snapped shut, and the enormous head slid back up. 

“It looks so real!” Clay exclaimed, staring up at it. 

“Didn’t fool me,” I lied. I wasn’t going to admit that I nearly leaped out 
through the sunroof. I’m supposed to be the calm one, after all. 

I rolled down the window and stuck my head out to read the billboard in 
front of the mechanical monster. In huge red letters it said: WELCOME TO 
HORRORLAND, WHERE NIGHTMARES COME TO LIFE! 

There was a dark red arrow in the upper left-hand corner with the words: 
ONE MILE. 

“Can we go there?” Luke demanded eagerly. He leaned forward and 
grabbed the back of Dad’s seat with both hands. “Can we, Dad? How about it?” 

“It looks kind of scary,” Clay said softly. 

Dad slammed the glove compartment shut with a sigh. He was giving up on 
the map idea. “Luke, stop pulling my seat,” he snapped. “Sit back.” 

“Can we go to HorrorLand?” Luke asked. 

“HorrorLand? What’s HorrorLand?” Mom demanded. 

“Never heard of it,” Dad muttered. 

“It’s only a mile from here,” Luke pleaded. “It looks great!” 

The monster lowered its head over the car, staring in through the sunroof. 
Then it raised its head again. 

“I don’t think so,” Mom said, looking out at the huge billboard. “Zoo 
Gardens is such a wonderful park. HorrorLand doesn’t look very nice.” 

“It looks great!” Luke insisted, pulling at Dad’s seat back again. “It looks 
really excellent!” 

“Luke, sit back,” Dad pleaded. 

“Let’s go,” I urged. “We’re never going to find Zoo Gardens.” 

Mom hesitated, chewing her lower lip. “I don’t know,” she said fretfully. 
“Some of these places aren’t safe.” 

“It’ll be safe!” Luke declared. “It’ll be very safe!” 

“Luke—sit back!” Dad growled. 

“Can we go?” Luke demanded, ignoring Dad’s request. “Can we?” 

“It could be fun,” Clay said quietly. 

“Let’s give it a try,” I urged them. “If we hate it, we can always leave.” 

Dad rubbed his chin. He sighed. “Well, I guess it would be better than 
sitting here in the middle of nowhere arguing all day.” 

“YAAAAAY!” Luke screamed. 

Luke and I reached over Clay to slap each other a high five. HorrorLand 
sounded like a pretty cool place to me, too. I love scary rides. 

“If the rides are as scary as that monster,” I said, pointing at the billboard, 
“this park will be awesome!” 

“You don’t think it’s too scary—do you?” Clay asked. I saw that he had his 
hands clasped tightly in his lap. And he had that frightened owl look on his face 
again. 

“No, it won’t be too scary,” I told him. 

Oh, wow—was I wrong ! 

“I can’t believe someone would build a big theme park out in the wilderness,” 

Dad declared. 

We were driving through what seemed like an endless forest. Tall old trees 
leaned over the two-lane road, nearly blocking out the late morning sun. 

“Maybe they haven’t built the park yet,” Mom suggested. “Maybe they’re 
going to clear out these trees and build the park here.” 

All three of us in the backseat were hoping Mom was wrong. And she was. 

The road curved sharply. And as we came out of the curve, we saw the tall 
gates to the park straight up ahead. 

Behind a tall purple fence, HorrorLand seemed to stretch for miles. Leaning 
forward in my seat, I could see the tops of rides and strange, colorful buildings. 
As we drove across the enormous parking lot, eerie chords of organ music 
invaded the car. 

“YAAAAAY! This looks great!” Luke exclaimed. 

Clay and I enthusiastically agreed. I couldn’t wait to get out of the car and 
see everything. 

“The parking lot is nearly empty,” Dad said, glancing uneasily at Mom. 

“That means we won’t have to wait in long lines!” I quickly exclaimed. 

“I think Lizzy is excited about this place,” Mom commented, smiling. 

“Me, too!” Luke cried. He punched Clay enthusiastically on the shoulder. 
Luke always has to be punching or pinching somebody. 

We crossed the wide parking lot. I saw a few cars parked near the front 
gate. At the far side of the lot stood a row of purple-and-green buses with the 
word HORRORLAND across the side. 

As we rode closer, I got a good look at the front gate. The same monster we 
had seen behind the billboard rose up behind a big purple-and-green sign over 
the gate. The sign read: THE HORRORLAND HORRORS WELCOME YOU 
TO HORRORLAND! 

“I don’t get that sign,” Mom said. “What are the HorrorLand Horrors?” 

“We’ll find out!” I exclaimed happily. 

The solemn, eerie organ music floated heavily over the parking lot. Dad 
pulled into a space in an empty aisle to the right of the front gate. 

Luke and I pushed open the back doors before the car had even stopped. 
“Let’s go!” I cried. 

Luke, Clay, and I started trotting toward the gate. As I ran, I stared up at the 
green monster over the sign. This one didn’t move its head like the billboard 
monster. But it looked very real. 

I glanced back and saw that Mom and Dad were hurrying to catch up with 
us. “This is going to be way cool!” I exclaimed. 

And then I gasped as a deafening explosion made the ground shake. 

And I stared back in horror as our car burst apart, exploding into a million 
pieces. 

3 

It took me a long while to stop screaming. Finally, I swallowed hard, choking 
back my cries. 

We all stared in shock. Small chunks of twisted metal and a few burning 
cinders were all that was left of our car. 

“How—?” was all Dad managed to say. 

“I—I d-don’t believe it!” I stammered. 

“Thank goodness we were all out of the car!” Mom cried. She gathered us 
up in a big hug. “Thank goodness we’re all okay.” 

Luke and Clay still hadn’t uttered a sound. They stood wide-eyed, staring at 
the spot where the car had stood. 

“My car!” Dad choked out in a horrified whisper. “My car... How? How?” 

“We’re safe,” Mom murmured. “We’re all safe. What a terrifying explosion. 
I can’t get the sound of it out of my ears.” 

“I—I’ve got to call the police!” Dad sputtered. 

He began trotting to the gate, shaking his head, muttering to himself. 

“How could the car just blow up like that, dear?” Mom asked, hurrying 
after him. “What would make it do that?” 

“How should I know?” Dad snapped angrily. “I—I don’t get it! I really 
don’t! And now what are we going to do?” He sounded really panicked. 

I didn’t blame him. The explosion was really scary. 

And when I realized that we could have all been inside the car when it went 
off, I had cold chills down my back. 

“Maybe there’s a car rental place we can call,” Mom suggested. 

Mom is like me, calm in any emergency. 

We followed Dad as he went running up to the ticket booth at the entrance. 
A green monster stood in the booth. He had bulging yellow eyes and dark horns 
curled over his head. It was a really great costume. 

“Welcome to HorrorLand,” he said in a gruff, low voice. A loud stab of 
organ music rose up from inside the ticket booth. “I am a HorrorLand Horror. 
All of the Horrors and I hope you have a scary day.” 

“My car!” Dad cried frantically “There was an explosion. I need a phone!” 

“I’m sorry, sir. No phones,” the guy in the monster costume replied. 

“Huh?” Dad’s face was bright red again. His forehead was drenched with 
sweat. “But I need a phone! Right away!” Dad insisted, glaring angrily at the 
green monster. “My car exploded! We’re stuck here!” 

“We’ll take care of you,” the Horror replied, lowering his gruff voice nearly 
to a whisper. 

“You’ll what? Dad cried. “We need a car. I need to get to a phone! Don’t 
you understand?” 

“No phones,” the monster repeated. “But, please, sir. Allow us to take care 
of you. I promise we will take care of everything. Don’t let this spoil your visit 
to HorrorLand.” 

“Spoil my visit?!” Dad shrieked, his face growing even redder. “But my car 

_ !” 

Another loud stab of organ music made me jump. The creepy music made 
me feel as if I were actually in a horror movie! 

“We will take care of you. I promise,” the Horror said. A strange smile 
crossed his face. His yellow eyes lit up. “Please enjoy your stay, and do not 
worry about transportation. The other Horrors and I will see that you are 
properly taken care of.” 

“But—but—” Dad sputtered. 

The Horror gestured toward the park. “Please enter as our guests. Free 
admission. I apologize for your car. But, please, do not worry. I promise you will 
have no need to worry about your car.” 

Dad turned back to us, sweat dripping down his forehead. I could see that 
he was really upset. “I—I can’t enjoy an amusement park now,” he said. “I can’t 
believe this happened. I really can’t. We’ve got to get a car somehow, and—” 

“Oh, please, Dad!” Luke cried. “Please! Can’t we go inside? He said he’ll 
take care of it for us.” 

“Just for a little while?” I joined my brother in pleading. 

“We’ve had such a long drive,” Mom told Dad. “Let’s go in for a short 
while. Let them blow off some steam.” 

Dad thought about it, frowning hard. “Okay. Just for a little while,” he 
agreed finally. 

The organ music grew louder as we stepped through the gate. “Wow! Look 
at this place!” I cried. “It really is like being in a horror movie.” 

We were standing on a brown cobbled street. Strange dark cottages tilted up 
on both sides of the street. Tall trees along the street nearly blocked out all the 

sunlight. The air carried a chill. 

Low howls, like wolf howls, floated out from the cottages. 

“Cool!” Luke declared. 

A sign proclaimed: WELCOME TO WEREWOLF VILLAGE. DO NOT 
FEED THE WEREWOLVES. IF YOU CAN HELP IT. 

The frightening howls grew louder. 

Luke and I laughed at the sign. 

I saw a green monster, one of the Horrors, staring out at us through a dark 
window in the cottage across the narrow street. Another Horror walked past 
carrying a very real-looking human head. He grasped it by its long blond hair 
and bounced it up and down, sort of like a yo-yo, as he walked. 

“Cool!” Luke proclaimed again. It seemed to be his word of the day. 

We walked along the cobbled street. The sound of our thudding sneakers 
echoed off the cottage walls. 

“Ohh!” We ah let out cries of surprise as a long, low, gray wolf ran in front 
of us. It disappeared around the side of a cottage before we really got a good 
look at it. 

“Was that a real wolf?” Clay asked, his voice shaking. 

“Of course not,” I told him. “It was probably a dog. Or else it was 
mechanical.” 

“Well, they certainly keep this park clean,” Mom said, trying to sound 
cheerful. “There isn’t a piece of trash or dirt anywhere. Of course, it isn’t very 
crowded.” 

Dad lingered behind. “I—I’ve got to find a phone,” he said fretfully. “I 
can’t enjoy this until I know we have a way to get home.” 

“But, dear—” Mom started. 

“There’s got to be a phone somewhere,” Dad interrupted. “Go on without 

me.” 

“No. I’ll come with you,” Mom said. “You’re in such a frantic state. You’ll 
need me to make the calls for you. The kids will have a better time without us 
hanging around anyway.” 

“Leave them?” Dad cried. “You mean, let them go on their own?” 

“Of course,” Mom said, hurrying back to him. “They’ll be perfectly fine. 
This looks like a very nice place. What could happen?” 

What could happen? 

With those words, Mom and Dad rushed off to find a phone. 

“Meet back here!” Mom called to us. 

Luke, Clay, and I were suddenly on our own. 

I turned to watch Mom and Dad hurry away. 

I turned back in time to see a gray wolf edging out from behind the cottage. 
It lowered its head and let out a rumbling warning growl. 

All three of us froze as we realized its hungry red eyes were locked on us. 

4 

I cried out and pulled Luke and Clay back. 

The wolf slithered out, holding its head low, glaring up at us with wide red 
eyes, its mouth open hungrily. 

“It—it’s real!” Clay declared, swallowing hard. I had my hand on his 
shoulder. I could feel him trembling. 

The wolf let out a deep growl. 

Then it slid back behind the cottage wall. 

“I think it’s some kind of robot or something,” I told Clay. 

“Let’s go somewhere else,” Clay replied, suddenly very pale. 

“What does that sign up there say?” Luke asked. He went running over the 
dark cobblestones to the sign, and Clay and I followed. 

The sign read: NO PINCHING. 

Luke laughed. “That’s stupid.” 

“What a dumb sign!” Clay agreed. 

“That sign was meant just for you, Luke!” I exclaimed. I gave him a hard 
pinch on the arm. 

“Hey! Can’t you read?” he shouted angrily, pointing to the sign. 

I saw a green Horror watching us from down the street. Then I saw a family 
making its way behind the row of cottages. There was a mother, a father, and a 
little girl. The little girl was crying for some reason. The parents had their hands 
on her shoulders and looked very upset. 

A wolf howl cut through the air. 

“Let’s find some rides!” Clay suggested. 

“Some scary rides!” Luke added. 

Walking side by side, keeping close together, we made our way out of the 
Werewolf Village. The street widened into a round plaza. Bright sunlight 
returned as soon as we stepped out of the village. 

Several purple-and-green buildings surrounded the plaza. I saw a few more 
families and several green-costumed Horrors keeping an eye on everything. A 
pudgy Horror behind a purple-and-green cart was selling ice cream cones 
—black ice cream! 

“Yuck!” Luke declared, making a face. 

We hurried past the cart, past another no pinching sign, and stopped in front 
of what appeared to be a tall purple mountain. 

“It’s a ride!” I told them. 

A doorway was cut into the side of the mountain. 

And above the doorway was a sign: DOOM SLIDE. WILL YOU BE THE 
ONE TO SLIDE FOREVER? 

“Cool!” Luke cried, slapping Clay a high five. 

“Til bet you climb to the top, then slide all the way down,” I said, pointing 
to the top of the mountain-shaped building. 

“Let’s go!” Luke cried excitedly. 

We ran to the building, then through the open doorway in its side. It was 
dark and cold inside. A wide ramp curved up toward the top. 

I could hear kids squealing and laughing, but I couldn’t see them. The three 
of us half walked, half ran up the ramp, eager to get to the top. 

About halfway up, we stopped to read another sign: WARNING! YOU 
MAY BE THE ONE TO SLIDE TO YOUR DOOM! 

Now I could hear kids screaming as they slid down. But it was too dark to 
see anything. “Are you scared, Clay?” I asked, noticing his tight expression. 

“No way!” he insisted, embarrassed by my question. “I’ve seen these things 
before. They’re like really huge sliding boards. You just sit on them and slide 
down.” 

“Hurry!” Luke shouted, running ahead of us. 

“Hey—wait up!” I called. I followed them to the top of the ramp. We found 
ourselves on a wide platform. A row of long, curving sliding boards stretched to 
the end of the platform. The sliding boards were numbered from one to ten. 

In the dim light, I saw two Horrors watching us approach. They stood in 
front of the sliding boards. Their bulging yellow eyes lit up as we hurried over to 
them. 

“Do you slide all the way down?” Luke asked one of them. 

The Horror nodded. 

“Do you go really fast?” Clay asked, lingering a few feet behind us. 

The Horror nodded again. “It’s a long way down,” he rumbled. 

“Be careful which slide you pick,” the other Horror warned. “Don’t pick the 
Doom Slide.” He gestured to the number painted in black in front of each slide. 

“Yes. Don’t pick the Doom Slide,” his partner repeated. “You’ll slide down 
forever and ever.” 

I laughed. 

He was just trying to scare us— wasn’t he? 

5 

I chose slide number three because three is my lucky number. Luke sat down on 
top of the slide next to mine, slide number two. And Clay scrambled over to the 
far end and dropped down onto slide number ten. 

I glanced back to see what the Horrors were doing. But before I could focus 
on them, I felt the bottom tilt underneath me. 

I let out a long, high-pitched shriek as I began to slide. 

I raised my arms over my head, leaned back, and screamed all the way 
down. My cries echoed in the enormous dark canyon of the Doom Slide 
building. 

It felt great. The slide curved and curved, and I swirled down in the 
darkness, faster and faster. 

In the shadowy light, I could see Luke in the slide next to mine. He was 
lying on his back, staring straight up with his mouth wide open. 

I tried to call out to him. But the slide curved away, and I curved with it. 

Down, down. 

I was sliding so fast, the darkness became a solid blur. 

The slide curved up, then around, then down again. I’m a human roller 
coaster, I thought happily. 

Down, down. Darker and darker. 

I’m sliding faster than the speed of light, I thought. 

I glanced from one side to the other, trying to see Luke and Clay. But it was 
too dark, and I was moving too fast. 

Too fast. 

And then, bump. 

A chute opened up. I hit the ground hard, landing on the seat of my jeans. 

Outside. I was back outside. 

Bump. 

Luke bounced out beside me. He hit the ground, still lying on his back, and 
made no attempt to get up. He grinned up at me. “Where am I?” 

“Back on the ground,” I told him, climbing to my feet. I brushed off the 
back of my jeans, then reached behind my head to straighten my braid. “Great 
ride, huh?” 

“Let’s go again,” Luke said, still lying there. 

“We can’t go again if you don’t get up,” I said. 

“Help me.” He reached up a hand. 

I groaned as I tugged him to a sitting position. “Get up yourself,” I said 
impatiently. 

“You were screaming in there,” he told me. 

“I did it on purpose,” I said. “I wanted to scream.” 

“Yeah. Sure.” He rolled his eyes. Then he pulled himself to his feet. “Wow. 
I’m a little dizzy. How fast do you think we were going?” 

I shrugged. “Pretty fast, I think. It’s so dark in there, it’s hard to know how 
fast you’re going.” 

And then I realized we were missing a member of our sliding party. I stared 
at the closed chutes on the wall of the building. “Hey—where’s Clay?” 

“Huh?” Luke had forgotten about him, too. 

We both stared at the side of the building, waiting for Clay to pop out. 

“Where is he?” Luke demanded shrilly. “He couldn’t be that much slower 
than us—could he?” 

I shook my head. I was starting to feel really nervous. I had a heavy feeling 
in the pit of my stomach. And my hands were suddenly cold and clammy. 

“Come on, Clay,” I pleaded, staring at the wall. “Come on out.” 

Luke scratched his black hair. “Where’d he go?” he asked. “Why didn’t 
Clay come out?” 

“Maybe he came out the front,” I said. “Maybe slide number ten dumps you 
out in front. Let’s check it out.” 

As we ran around the building toward the front, I scolded myself for getting 
scared so easily. Of course Clay came out in a different chute. He was probably 
waiting for us in front of the building. He was probably worried about us. 

As we rounded the purple building, the wide, circular plaza came into view. 
I searched for Mom and Dad, but they weren’t there. I saw a couple of other 
families on the other side of the circle, and the pudgy green Horror leaning on 
his ice cream cart. 

No sign of Clay. 

Luke and I kept running, up to the front entrance of the Doom Slide. We 
stopped a few feet from the dark opening. 

“He isn’t here!” Luke cried, struggling to catch his breath. 

I was breathing hard, too. And the heavy feeling of dread in my stomach 

grew even heavier. “No. No Clay,” I muttered. 

“What are we going to do?” Luke asked. His blue eyes were wide with fear. 

I saw a green Horror woman standing just inside the entrance. “Hey!” I 
called as I ran over to her. “Did you see a kid come out of there?” I asked 
breathlessly. 

The yellow eyes on the Horror’s mask bulged and appeared to light up. 
“No. This is the entrance. No one comes out here,” she replied. 

“He’s blond and sort of chubby. He wears glasses,” I told her. “He’s 
wearing a blue T-shirt and denim shorts.” 

The Horror shook her head. “No. No one comes out this way. Did you 
check the back? Everyone comes out the back.” 

“He didn’t!” Luke said shrilly. “We were there. He didn’t come out.” My 
brother’s voice was high and squeaky. He was breathing so hard, his chest was 
heaving up and down. He was in a panic. 

I was frightened, too. But I knew I had to stay calm. For Luke’s sake. 

“He didn’t come out the back,” I told the Horror, “and he didn’t come out 
the front. So what happened to him?” 

The Horror was silent for a long moment. Then she said in a low voice just 
above a whisper, “Maybe your friend chose the Doom Slide.” 

6 

I stared at the woman in the Horror costume. “You—you’re joking, right?” I 
stammered. “I mean, the Doom Slide—that’s just a joke.” 

She stared back with her bulging yellow eyes and didn’t reply. “The signs 
give a warning,” she said. “There’s always a warning.” 

She turned and disappeared into the dark entrance. Luke and I goggled at 
each other. I swallowed hard. My throat suddenly felt very dry. My hands were 
cold as ice now. 

“This is stupid,” Luke muttered. He jammed his hands into his jeans 
pockets. “It’s just a dumb slide. Why is she trying to scare us?” 

“I guess that’s her job,” I told him. 

“We’ve got to find Mom and Dad,” Luke muttered. 

“We’ve got to find Clay first,” I told him. “If Mom and Dad find out we lost 
Clay, they’ll get angry and make us go home as soon as we find him.” 

“If we find him,” Luke said glumly. 

I glanced back across the plaza. No Mom and Dad. Two teenagers were 
buying black ice cream cones from the Horror at the cart. Two Horrors were 
sweeping the plaza with push brooms, working side by side. 

Far in the distance, I could hear the howl of a wolf from the Werewolf 
Village. 

The sun was high in the sky now. I could feel it beaming down on top of my 
head and on my shoulders. But I still felt cold all over. 

“Clay—where are you?” I asked, thinking out loud. 

“He’s sliding forever,” Luke said, shaking his head. “Sliding forever and 
ever on the Doom Slide.” 

“That’s dumb,” I replied. But Luke had given me an idea. “Come on,” I 
said, tugging the sleeve on his T-shirt. I started pulling him to the dark entrance. 

“Huh? Where?” Luke pulled back. 

“We’ll go on the slides again,” I told him. 

His mouth dropped open in protest. “Without Clay? We can’t go on it again 
without Clay.” 

“We’re going to find Clay,” I said, grabbing his arm this time and pulling 
him to the dark open doorway. 

“You mean—?” My brother was starting to catch on. 

I nodded. “Yes. We’ll follow him. We’ll take the same slide he took.” 

“Slide number ten,” Luke murmured. And then he added in a solemn 
whisper, “The Doom Slide.” 

“We’ll take it, and it will lead us right to him,” I said. 

We climbed the ramp in silence. The rapid thud of our sneakers echoed in 
the vast hollow mountain. 

We ran past the sign about halfway up to the top. I read it again as I passed 
it by: WARNING! YOU MAY BE THE ONE TO SLIDE TO YOUR DOOM! 

Clay—are you still sliding? I wondered. 

I shook my head hard, shaking away the thought. Of course he wasn’t still 
sliding. What a stupid idea! 

The two Horrors were still standing at the top of the slides. “Be careful 
which slide you pick,” one of them warned. 

“We know which one we want,” I said breathlessly. “Slide number ten. 
Both of us. Together.” 

The Horror nearest the slide motioned for us to sit down. I glanced at Luke, 
who stood right behind me, his features tight with fear. 

He tugged me back a few steps. “Maybe we shouldn’t,” he whispered. 

“Why not?” I demanded impatiently. 

“What if the warning is true ? ” Luke demanded. 

“Don’t be dumb,” I scolded him. “This is an amusement park—remember? 
They don’t kill kids or send them sliding to their doom. It’s all for fun!” 

Luke swallowed hard. “You sure?” 

“Of course I’m sure,” I replied. “Now, do you want to find Clay or not?” 

Luke nodded. 

“Then let’s go,” I ordered. 

I sat down at the top of slide number ten. Luke plopped down right behind 
me, stretching his legs outside of mine. 

I felt the floor tilt up beneath us. 

We started to slide. 

“Clay, here we come!” I cried. 

7 

I didn’t scream this time. I clasped my hands in my lap and gritted my teeth. 

There was no way I was going to enjoy this ride. I just wanted to get to the 
end of it. I wanted to solve the mystery and find Clay. 

As we slid down together, Luke grabbed onto me, his hands gripping my 
waist. He cried out when we slid over a big bump, and it felt as if we were going 
to go flying off the slide. 

Then we both screamed as the slide took a steep dive—almost straight 
down—and we started to fall. 

We landed hard, and then the slide curved sharply to the right. We were 
both screaming our lungs out now. 

We were sliding faster and faster, in total darkness, blacker than black. I 
tried to see if we were moving alongside the other slides. But it was so dark, I 
couldn’t even see my sneakers in front of me! 

Luke squeezed my waist so hard, I could hardly breathe. I tried to tell him 
to loosen his grip, but he was screaming too loud to hear. 

Down, down. 

Darker and darker. 

We hit another bump that sent us bouncing up into the air. Then the slide 
dipped and curved sharply to the left. 

We should be at the bottom by now, I realized. 

We’d been sliding a very long time. 

I gritted my teeth harder and tried to brace myself to go flying out the chute 
and bumping onto the ground. 

But no chute opened. 

The ride didn’t end. 

We began to slide faster. I gasped in mouthfuls of the hot, damp air, 
struggling to catch my breath. 

The slide dipped and curved, sending us down into the thick, heavy 
blackness. 

We’re going to slide forever. 

The warning sign didn’t lie. 

I struggled to force those frightening thoughts from my mind. 

Luke suddenly got very quiet. “Are you okay?” I called back to him. 

“I don’t know,” he replied, holding on even tighter. “Why are we sliding so 
long?” 

“You’re hurting me!” I cried. 

He loosened his hold a little. “I don’t like this!” he shouted in my ear. 

We hit another bump. His hands flew off me. 

Another bump. Even harder. I thought I was going to fly off the slide and 
fall to the bottom—if there was a bottom. 

Down, down. 

Luke and I both cried out in disgust as something sticky covered our faces. 
I reached up with both hands and tried to pull it off. 

“Yuck!” Luke screamed. “What is it? My face—!” 

“It’s like cobwebs,” I shouted back at him. “Hot, sticky cobwebs.” 

My whole face itched. The sticky threads covered my face like a net. I 
pulled frantically at them. 

“Oh!” I cried out as the slide took another sharp dip. 

Tearing at the sticky cobwebs, I managed to pull most of them off. But my 
face still itched like crazy. It felt as if a thousand ants were crawling around on 
it. 

“It’s so gross!” Luke yelled behind me. “My face—it hurts!” 

Down, down into the heavy darkness. 

And then a flare of bright light made me shut my eyes. 

Was it daylight? Were we heading outside? 

No. 

I forced my eyes open and squinted at the yellow light. 

And realized I was staring at blazing flames. 

The slide ahead of us was on fire! 

The yellow-and-orange flames raged up, topped by a curtain of billowing 
black smoke. 

I raised my hands to my face and started to shriek. 

We were sliding right into the blazing flames. 

“We’re going to burn up!” Luke screamed. “Help—somebody! Help us!” 

8 

I shut my eyes and felt a powerful burst of heat, almost like an explosion. 

I’m burning up! I thought. 

Burning up! 

A whoosh of cool air made me open my eyes. 

The fire was behind us now. We had sailed right through it. 

Curving gently, we slid through cool darkness. I could still see the orange 
flicker of flames reflected on the dark walls above us. 

Luke and I were both silent. I was waiting for my heart to stop thudding in 
my chest. 

“Great special effects!” Luke cried. He let out a wild laugh, a frantic laugh 
I’d never heard before. 

The fire was fake, I realized. Some kind of projection or something. 

I sucked in mouthfuls of the cool air. I had never been so terrified in my 

life. 

“When does this ride end?” Luke cried. His voice had become high and 
frightened. 

Never, I thought glumly. We really are going to slide forever. 

And as that frightening thought lingered in my mind, a chute opened in 
front of us. Daylight streamed in. 

Bump. 

I landed hard on soft grass. 

A second later, Luke dropped out behind me. 

I blinked several times, waiting for my eyes to adjust to the bright sunlight. 

Then I climbed slowly to my feet, my heart still pounding. 

A yellow-and-green sign on a wooden pole stood directly in front of us. It 
read: WELCOME TO DOOM, POPULATION: 0 HUMANS. 

Standing next to the sign was Clay. He came rushing over to greet us, a 
happy smile on his round, pink face. “Hey, guys—hey!” he called. “Where’ve 
you been?” He slapped Luke a high five. Then Luke gave him a playful punch in 
the stomach. 

“Where’ve we been?” I asked. “Where’ve you been?” 

“Right here,” Clay replied. “I didn’t know where I was. I think this is the 
other side of the park or something. So I just waited for you.” 

“We went back on the Doom Slide,” Luke explained. “We took your slide. 
Number ten. What a ride! It was so cool!” 

A few seconds ago, Luke had been shrieking in real terror. Now here he 
was, pretending he loved it, telling Clay how cool it was. 

“You picked the good slide!” Luke told Clay. “Wow! It was excellent!” 

“I was kind of scared,” Clay confessed. “I mean, the fire—” 

“Great special effects!” my brother exclaimed. “This park is awesome!” 

Luke was such a phony. There was no way he would ever admit that he had 
been worried about Clay. And no way he’d admit that the long slide to Doom 
had terrified him. 

But I was glad to see his old enthusiasm return. I really didn’t like seeing 
my brother frightened and in a panic. 

“It was kind of a long slide,” Clay said, frowning. His feathery blond hair 
glowed in the bright sunlight. “A little too long, I think.” 

“I’d like to go on it again!” Luke boasted. 

I turned and gazed around. We were definitely in another section of 
HorrorLand. Nothing looked familiar. 

Across the wide walkway, I saw several kids in bathing suits heading down 
a sandy path. A sign over the path read: HORROR RAPIDS. 

To our right, a square-shaped building made of glass reflected the bright 
sunlight. The glass walls shimmered brightly as if on fire. Squinting into the 
light, I could just barely make out the sign in front of it: HOUSE OF MIRRORS. 

“Let’s try the House of Mirrors!” Luke urged, pulling Clay by the arm. 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I cried. “Don’t you think we should try to find 
Mom and Dad?” 

“They’re way over on the other side of the park,” Luke replied, tugging 
Clay along with him across the pavement. “Let’s have some fun and then find 
them.” 

“They’re probably looking for us,” I said fretfully. 

“The park isn’t very crowded. They’ll find us,” Luke replied. “Come on, 
Lizzy—it looks like fun!” 

I hesitated, thinking about Mom and Dad. I stared into the white glare of the 
glass building. 

Suddenly, I felt someone tap my shoulder. 

Startled, I cried out and spun around. 

It was a green-costumed Horror. His bulging eyes stared into mine as he 
leaned close to me. “Get away while you can!” he whispered. 

He turned his eyes quickly from side to side, as if making sure no one was 
watching him. “Please — I’m serious! Get away while you can!” 

9 

I was so stunned, I didn’t say anything. I watched him run off, moving 
awkwardly in the bulky Horror costume, his purple tail dragging over the 
pavement behind him. 

“What did he want?” Clay called. He and Luke were nearly up to the House 
of Mirrors entrance. 

“He—he said we should get out while we can,” I stammered, running over 
to them. I lost them for a moment in the blinding sunlight reflected off the glass 
building. 

Luke laughed. “These Horror guys are great!” he declared. “They really try 
to scare you in this place!” 

Behind his glasses, Clay’s eyes narrowed thoughtfully. “He was kidding— 
right?” he asked quietly. “I mean, it was just a joke, wasn’t it?” 

“I don’t know,” I told him. “I guess so.” I watched the Horror disappear 
quickly behind a tall, blue, pyramid-shaped building. 

“That’s his job,” Luke insisted. “He goes around scaring people all day.” 

“Maybe he was really warning us,” Clay murmured, staring at me. 

“No way!” Luke declared. He gave Clay a hard slap on the back. “Stop 
looking so gloomy all the time. This is a great place! You like to be scared, don’t 
you?” 

Clay’s expression remained worried. “I guess,” he replied uncertainly. 

I started to tell Clay I was sure it was just a joke, but Luke interrupted. 
“Hurry up! Let’s check out the House of Mirrors. Let’s have some fun before 
Mom and Dad show up and make us leave.” 

He dragged Clay toward the entrance, and I followed. We passed another no 
pinching sign as we made our way to the shimmering glass building. 

Outside the entrance, I stopped to read the yellow-and-green sign. It read: 
HOUSE OF MIRRORS. REFLECT BEFORE YOU ENTER. NO ONE MAY 
EVER SEE YOU AGAIN! 

“Hey—wait up!” I called to the boys. They had already hurried inside. 

I stepped in and found myself in a narrow, dark tunnel. My eyes were still 
filled with the bright glare from outside. I couldn’t see a thing. 

“Luke, Clay—wait up!” I shouted. My voice echoed through the low 

tunnel. I could hear them laughing up ahead. 

I jogged blindly, ducking my head because the ceiling was so low. Finally, 
my eyes adjusted to the darkness. 

The tunnel ended, and I found myself in a narrow corridor with mirrored 
walls and a mirrored ceiling. 

“Oh!” I uttered a low cry. I could see my reflections—dozens of them. I 
seemed to surround myself! 

I stopped for a moment and adjusted my long black braid. It was always 
coming loose. Then I called again to the boys, “Where are you? Wait up!” 

I could hear them giggling somewhere up ahead. “Try and find us!” Luke 
called. More giggling. 

I made my way quickly through the mirrored walkway. The walls curved to 
the right, then the left. My reflections followed me, stretching deep into the 
mirrors, dozens and dozens of me, getting smaller and smaller, stretching to 
infinity! 

“Hey—don’t get too far ahead!” I cried. 

I heard them giggling. Then I heard a rumble of footsteps that seemed to 
come from the other side of the mirrored wall. 

I followed the corridor, walking slowly, carefully, until I saw a narrow 
opening up ahead. 

“Wait right there. I’m coming through!” I called. 

I started through the opening and— BONK !—hit my forehead on solid 
glass. 

“Ow!” I cried out as the pain jolted across my forehead, then down the back 
of my neck, all the way down my spine. 

I raised my hands to the glass and waited for my dizziness to fade away. 

“Lizzy, where are you? Try to find us!” I heard Luke call. 

“I hit my head!” I shouted, rubbing my forehead. 

I could hear him and Clay laughing. Their voices seemed to be behind me 
now. I turned back, but there were only mirrors behind me. No opening. 

My head still ached a little, but the dizziness had gone away. I started 
walking again, more carefully this time. I kept both hands out in front of me so I 
wouldn’t bump into anything again. 

I turned a corner and stepped into a different room. To my surprise, the 
floor in this room was a mirror. The walls, the ceiling, the floor—were all 
mirrors. I felt as if I were standing inside a mirrored box. 

I took a few careful steps. It felt so weird walking on my own reflection. 

I could see the tops and the bottoms of my sneakers as I walked. It made it 
really hard to walk. I kept having the feeling that I was going to fall into myself! 

“Hey, guys—where are you?” I called. 

No reply. 

I felt a sharp stab of fear in my stomach. 

“Luke? Clay? Are you there?” I saw the mouths of my reflections move as I 
called out, dozens of mouths. But only one voice came out, my voice, tiny and 
shrill. 

“Luke? Clay?” 

Silence. 

“Don’t fool around, guys!” I shouted. “Where are you?” 

Silence. No reply. 

I stared at the dozens of reflections on all sides of me. They all looked very 
frightened. 

“Luke? Clay?” 

Where had they gone? 

10 

I stared at my reflections as horrifying thoughts swept over me. 

Had the hoys really disappeared? 

Had they fallen into some kind of trap? Were they lost in the maze of glass 
and mirrors ? 

HorrorLand was too scary, I decided. It was fun to be scared. But it was too 
hard to tell whether the scares here were for fun—or for real. Were there dangers 
in this place? Or was it all a big scary joke? 

“Luke? Clay?” I called to them in a trembling voice, turning all around, 
searching for an exit. 

Silence. 

Then I heard a muffled giggle. 

Then I heard whispering voices. Nearby. 

Another giggle, louder this time. Luke’s giggle. 

They had been playing a little joke on me. “Hey, you’re not funny!” I 
screamed angrily. “Really! Not funny!” 

I could hear them both burst out laughing. “Come and find us, Lizzy!” Luke 
called. 

“What’s taking you so long?” Clay added. 

More giggling. It seemed to come from just up ahead. 

Sliding my hands along the mirrors, I followed the hallway around to the 
right. I had to duck my head to slip through a narrow opening between the 
mirrors. 

I found myself in another small room surrounded by mirrors above and 
below and on all sides. The mirrors were tilted at strange angles so that my 
reflections appeared to bounce off each other as I moved. 

“Where are you? Am I getting closer?” I called. 

The light grew dim as I made my way through this room. My reflections 
darkened. The shadows grew longer. 

“We can’t see you!” Clay called. 

“Hurry up!” Luke shouted impatiently. 

“I’m going as fast as I can!” I screamed. “Just don’t move, okay? Stay in 
one place.” 

“We are! ” Luke called back. 

“How will we ever get out of here?” I heard Clay ask him in a low voice. 

“Ow!” I bumped my head again on a section of clear glass. 

I pounded my fist angrily on the glass. 

This wasn’t any fun, I decided. It was too painful. 

“Hurry up!” Luke called from somewhere nearby. “It’s boring waiting here 
for you!” 

“I’m coming,” I muttered, rubbing my poor aching forehead. 

I turned a corner and stepped into a wider room. No mirrors here. The walls 
were all glass. I stopped to gaze around—and there was Luke. 

“Finally!” he cried. “Why couldn’t you find us?” 

“I kept hitting my head,” I told him. “Let’s get out of here. Where’s Clay?” 

“Huh?” Luke’s mouth dropped open in surprise. He spun around, searching 
for his friend. “He was standing right here,” he said. 

“Luke—I’m in no mood for any more dumb jokes,” I said sharply. “Clay, 
where are you hiding?” 

“I’m not hiding. I’m over here,” Clay called. 

I took a few steps closer to my brother, and Clay came into view. He was 
standing in deep shadows behind a glass wall, his hands pressed against the 
pane. 

“How’d you get over there?” Luke asked Clay. 

Clay shrugged. “I can’t find a way out.” 

I moved toward my brother, then stopped. I suddenly realized that he was 
behind a wall of glass. Luke and I were in different rooms. 

“Hey—where’s the opening?” I asked him. 

Luke glanced around. “What do you mean, Lizzy?” 

“You and I—we’re not in the same room,” I replied. I walked up to the 
glass wall and tapped on it with my fist. 

“Huh?” Luke’s face filled with surprise. He made his way over to me. Then 
he tapped on his side of the glass, as if making sure it really did exist. 

“How’d that get there?” he murmured. 

Clay started moving around his room, sliding his hands along the panes of 
glass, searching for the opening. 

“Stand right there,” I told Luke. “I’ll find a way into your room.” 

I followed Clay’s example. I moved slowly around the room, keeping a 
hand pressed against the glass. The light was dim. My shadow fell over the glass 

as I walked. I could see my face reflected darkly in the glass. My eyes stared 
back at me, dark and desperate. 

Before I realized it, I had made a complete circle. 

I was back where I had started. And there was no opening. No doorway. 

No way out. 

“Hey! I’m trapped in here!” Clay called shrilly. 

“So am I,” I told him. 

“There’s got to be an opening,” Luke said. “How did we get in?” 

“You’re right,” I replied fretfully. “We should be able to get out the way we 
came in.” I began to search along the walls again, moving quickly. 

My heart began to pound. I had a fluttering feeling in my chest. There had 
to be a way out. There had to be. 

Luke pounded hard on the glass. In the other room, I could see Clay jogging 
frantically around his room, pushing on the walls as he moved. 

I went all the way around twice, then stopped. 

There was no way out. 

“I—I’m trapped,” I stammered. “It’s like a box. A glass box.” 

“We’re all trapped!” Clay cried. 

Luke was still pounding frantically on the glass with his fists. “Luke— 
stop!” I cried shrilly. “That isn’t helping!” 

He lowered his fists to his sides. “This is ridiculous,” he muttered. “There’s 
got to be a way out.” 

“Maybe there’s a trapdoor or something,” I suggested. I began to search the 
mirrored floor. It was too dark to see well. The floor appeared solid to me. 

I returned to the glass wall. “This isn’t much fun,” I said glumly. 

Luke and Clay nodded. I could see they were both really frightened. So was 
I. But I decided I was two years older than them, so I had to try to be the brave 
one. 

I wasn’t feeling very brave, though. Uttering a worried sigh, I leaned 
against the wall that separated Luke and me. 

And as I leaned, the wall started to move. 

I jumped back with a sharp cry. 

The wall was sliding toward me, closing in on me. 

I took another step back. 

Glancing around frantically, I saw that all the walls were sliding in. 

“Luke!” I cried. I turned to see him backing up, too. 

“The walls!” Clay called. “Help me!” 

“They’re sliding in on me, too!” Luke screamed. “Each room must have its 
own glass walls!” 

All three of us were trapped. 

With a desperate groan, I threw myself against one of the walls and tried to 
push it back. 

But I couldn’t stop it. 

The box was closing in, growing smaller. Smaller. 

“We’re going to be crushed!” I cried. 

11 

“Do something! Please—do something!” Clay was screaming. 

Luke lowered his shoulder to the glass and struggled to stop it from 
moving. But he wasn’t strong enough. The walls kept sliding in on him. 

I backed up, my hands raised like a shield. 

Closer, closer. The glass walls moved slowly, silently. 

I backed up until my back hit the wall behind me. 

There was nowhere to go. 

“Do something! Somebody —do something!” Clay’s terrified screams rang 
in my ears. 

“The glass—it’s squeezing me!” Luke shrieked. “Lizzy!” 

“I—I can’t move!” I shouted to him. 

The panes of glass began to press in on me from all sides. Above and 
below, too. 

I suddenly pictured one of those crushed cars. 

You know. The ears that are crunched into a perfect square in those big 
compactor machines. 

My entire body shuddered as I realized I was going to be crushed into a 
perfect square, too. 

“Ow!” I cried out as the glass pressed down on me. “Somebody—help!” I 
tried to scream, but my voice came out a muffled yelp. 

It was getting hard to breathe. 

The glass panes moved in. Tighter. Tighter. 

I gasped for air. 

I tried to push with all my might against the glass. 

But it was no use. 

I was being crushed into a human square. 

12 

I couldn’t hear Luke or Clay anymore. 

I could only hear my gasping, choked breath. 

I shut my eyes. 

And felt the floor drop away. 

And before I realized what was happening, I was falling, falling rapidly 
down. 

I opened my eyes in time to see the glass walls roll above me as I slid 
down, down, down through an open chute. 

And in a few seconds, I was back outside. I landed sitting up on the grass 
with a gentle thud. 

Luke and Clay came sliding out beside me. 

For a long moment, we sat on the grass, blinking in the bright sunlight, 
staring at each other in disbelief. 

“We’re okay,” Clay said uncertainly, finally breaking the silence. He slowly 
climbed to his feet. His round face was bright red, and his glasses were crooked 
and nearly falling off his nose. “We’re okay!” 

Luke let out a laugh. A gleeful laugh. He stood up and began jumping up 
and down for joy. 

I didn’t exactly feel like jumping up and down. I was still picturing the 
crushed car. 

Luke reached down, grabbed both of my hands, and pulled me to my feet. 
“What should we do next?” he demanded, grinning. 

“Huh? Next?” I cried. “Are you for real?” 

“That was really scary,” Clay said, his face still red. “I thought we were 
going to be scrunched flat.” 

“It was awesome!” Luke declared. 

Once again, he was forgetting that a few seconds before, he’d been 
screaming in total panic. 

“It was way too scary,” Clay murmured, shaking his head. 

“Clay’s right,” I agreed. “It was too scary to be fun. One more second, 
and...” 

“Don’t you see? That’s the whole idea!” Luke cried. “That’s how they scare 

you here. It’s so awesome! They make you think that one more second and 
you’re a goner. But it’s all perfectly timed. They want you to be terrified—and 
then— poof —you’re okay!” 

“I guess you’re right,” said Clay doubtfully. He pushed up his glasses, then 
mbbed his chin. 

“We’re not really going to get hurt or anything,” Luke continued. “This is 
an amusement park, remember? They want you to come back again and again. 
So they’re not going to really hurt anybody.” 

“Maybe,” Clay said. 

“But, Luke, what if they mess up?” I asked him. “What if the machines get 
goofed up? What if the timing gets off? Let’s say the floor underneath us got 
stuck. Then what?” 

Luke didn’t reply. He stared back at me thoughtfully. 

“What would have happened to us if the floor hadn’t dropped away at the 
right moment?” I demanded. 

Luke shrugged. “They make sure everything works okay,” he answered 
finally. 

I rolled my eyes. “Yeah. Sure.” 

“Is it possible to really be scared to death?” Clay asked me, a solemn 
expression on his face. “I mean, I know it happens in books and movies. But 
does it happen in real life?” 

“I don’t know. Maybe,” I replied. 

“I’ll bet people could get scared to death in that House of Mirrors,” Clay 
continued seriously. 

“No way!” Luke insisted. “Listen to me. This is just a place for fun. Scary 

fun.” 

He was watching something over my shoulder. I turned to see one of the 
guys in a green Horror costume walking by, carrying a huge bouquet of black 
balloons. 

Luke hurried up beside the Horror. “Hey, has anyone ever died here in this 
park?” Luke asked. 

The Horror kept walking. The black balloons bobbed above his head. “Only 
once,” he told Luke. 

“One person died here?” Luke asked. 

The Horror shook his big green head. “No. Not what I meant.” 

“What did you mean?” Luke demanded. 

“A person can only die once here,” the Horror said. “No one has ever died 
twice.” 

13 

“Do you mean people have really died here?” I shouted. 

But the Horror walked quickly on, the black balloons bouncing against each 
other, floating darkly against the clear blue sky. 

The Horror’s answer made me shiver. It wasn’t just his words. It was the 
cold tone of his voice, the way he made it sound like a warning. 

“He was joking—right?” Clay asked in a trembling voice. He scratched his 
blond hair nervously. 

“Yeah. I guess,” I replied. 

A family walked past us, heading toward the House of Mirrors. They had 
two little boys with them, both about five or six, and both of them were crying. 

“I’ve seen so many crying kids in this park!” I commented. 

“They’re just wimps,” Luke replied. “Scaredy-cats. Let’s go find another 
ride or something.” 

“No, I really think we should find Mom and Dad,” I told him. 

“Yeah. Let’s go find them,” Clay said eagerly. The poor kid. I think he was 
really scared. But he was trying his best not to let my brother see how frightened 
he was. 

“Aw, what’s the hurry?” Luke protested. “Let them find us. ” 

“But they’re probably really worried,” I insisted. I started walking toward 
the front gate. 

“Dad will only make us leave,” Luke grumbled. But he followed anyway. 
And Clay gratefully came along, keeping close to my side. 

Following the trail, we passed by a rickety old wooden roller coaster. It rose 
up as high as a four-story building, casting a wide, dark shadow over the walk. A 
sign in front read: OUT OF ORDER, DO YOU DARE TO RIDE IT ANYWAY? 

The gate was open. There was no attendant. 

“Hey, Lizzy, want to ride it?” Luke asked, staring at the beat-up old cars 
parked at the bottom of the tracks. 

“No way!” Clay and I replied in unison. We kept on walking. 

The trail curved under thick trees, and we were suddenly in the shade. A 
sign read: BEWARE OF TREE SNAKES. 

Clay covered his head with his hands. All three of us raised our eyes to the 

trees. 

Were there really snakes up there? 

It was too dark to see anything. The leaves were so thick, no sunlight 
filtered through. 

Suddenly, I heard a gentle hissing sound. 

At first I thought it was just the rustle of the leaves. 

But then the hissing grew louder—until all of the trees seemed to be hissing 
down at us. 

“Run!” I cried. 

The three of us started running along the trail, ducking low, our sneakers 
thudding hard on the pavement. The hissing in the trees above us grew louder, 
angrier. 

I thought I saw a long, dark snake slithering in the grass beside the trail. But 
it might have just been a shadow. 

We kept running even after the trees ended and we were in sunlight again. 
The trail curved past a row of evil-looking statues. They were made of stone. 
They were statues of grinning monsters, eyes narrowed menacingly, fangs 
lowered from their twisted mouths. Their arms were outstretched, ready to grab 
anyone who came close. 

I slowed to a trot, my eyes on the ugly statues. Suddenly, I heard low, evil 
laughter. 

“It—it’s coming from the statues!” Clay exclaimed. “Keep running!” 

Did the statues move toward us? Did they raise their arms higher? Did they 
beckon to us to come closer? 

I’m not sure. With their evil laughter in my ears, I lowered my head and 
turned on the speed. 

All three of us were panting hard as we ran along the trail. I didn’t see any 
other people. I didn’t see anyone in a Horror costume, either. 

We slowed as we came to another sign. This one had an arrow pointing in 
the direction we were running. It read: FRONT EXIT, DON’T BOTHER, YOU 
WILL NEVER ESCAPE. 

I caught the worried expression on Clay’s face as he read the sign. “It’s only 
a joke,” I told him. “The signs are supposed to be funny.” 

“Ha-ha,” he said weakly. He was panting hard, struggling to catch his 
breath. 

Without warning, Luke jumped on Clay’s shoulders. “Hey, Clay—how 

about a ride?” 

Clay cried out angrily, “Get off!” 

Luke laughed and hung on. Clay dropped to his knees, trying to throw Luke 
off. 

“Come on, guys,” I pleaded. “Luke, stop being such a goof. We’re trying to 
find Mom and Dad.” 

But now they were laughing and wrestling on the ground. 

“Come on, guys!” I shouted, rolling my eyes. “Let’s go!” I tugged my 
brother to his feet. 

Clay’s glasses had flown off. He stopped to pick them up from the grass. 
Then we continued on our way. 

The path led past a rectangular flower garden—filled with black flowers! 
Then it suddenly came to a stop in front of a large red barn. 

The boys walked up to the open doorway of the barn. I stayed back, 
searching for a path that led around the barn. I couldn’t see one. 

“The path goes right through the barn to the other side,” Luke called to me. 
“Come on, Lizzy!” He motioned for me to join them. 

I spotted a small sign painted to the right of the barn’s double doors. It read: 
BAT BARN. 

“Hey—are there bats in there?” I called, feeling a cold shudder run down 
my back. I like most animals. But bats really give me the creeps. 

Luke stepped inside the barn. Clay hung back, standing just outside the 
door. “I don’t see any,” Luke called out to me. “It’s kind of dark.” 

A strange odor invaded my nostrils. It was strong and sour. It came from the 

barn. 

I didn’t want to go in there. 

“Come on, Lizzy!” Luke called. “The path goes right out the other side. 
Don’t be chicken. You can run straight through.” 

I stepped up beside Clay at the doorway and peered inside the barn. 

“It looks okay,” Clay said quietly. 

The sour odor was much stronger. “Yuck,” I said, making a face. “It really 
stinks.” 

Luke stood inside the barn, his eyes raised to the rafters. “I don’t see 
anything up there,” he reported. 

Doors on the opposite wall were wide open. It would only take ten seconds 
to run through the barn and out the other side, I realized. 

“Let’s go,” I told Clay. 

He and I stepped into the barn. The sour smell was overpowering. I held my 
breath and pinched my fingers over my nose. 

We started running to the doors on the opposite wall—and they slammed 

shut. 

With a gasp of surprise, I turned back to the doors we had entered. They 
slammed shut, too. 

“Hey!” I shouted angrily. 

“What’s going on?” Clay cried in a whisper. 

We were in total darkness, blacker than black. 

The sour odor swept over me. I started to feel sick. 

And then I heard the rapid flutter of wings. Soft at first, then louder, closer. 

I screamed as I felt something brush against the back of my neck. 

14 

“Go away!” I let out a low moan of horror and swung my hands wildly above 
my head. 

The rapid fluttering retreated, then returned. 

“Bats!” Clay cried in a terrified, tiny voice. I felt him grab my arm. 

“I can’t see!” Luke shouted. “It’s so dark!” 

“I—I hate bats! ” I stammered. 

I felt a cold whoosh of air as a bat flapped over my head. 

I swung my hands wildly. 

The flapping, fluttering sounds were all around us. 

As my eyes slowly adjusted to the darkness, I began to see shadowy shapes 
shooting past. Back and forth. Faster and faster. 

I felt one brush my shoulder. 

“Oh, help!” I cried. 

Clay started to shriek. “Help us! Help us!” 

“They’re zooming right at me!” Luke wailed. 

Something bumped into my shoulder. I screamed. 

“Help us! Help us!” Clay continued to plead at the top of his lungs. His 
shouts were nearly drowned out by the flapping of wings. 

I felt another bat brush against my shoulder. Covering my face, I tried to 
make my way blindly to the door. 

The sour odor choked me. My terror made my legs shaky. I could barely 
walk. 

And then I felt a hard tug in my hair. 

Another tug. Loud flapping right on my head. 

A shrill whistling hiss. So close, it could have been coming from me. 

I screamed. I screamed again. 

“It—it’s caught in my hair!” I cried, falling to my knees. 

Another shrill hiss. Another tug of my hair. 

I swung my hands. I hit it. I felt a warm body, felt the brush of fluttering 
wings. 

I shoved it hard—shoved it from my hair. 

“Ohhh, help!” I cried. 

The flapping wings and shrill whistles surrounded me. I could hear Luke 
and Clay shouting. But they seemed far, far away. 

Another one brushed my cheek. Another one bumped my shoulder. 

The shadows darted back and forth. The barn was alive with flying, 
chittering bats. 

“Ohh, help! Help us, please!” Another one brushed my face. I felt a rush of 
air, beating wings on the top of my head. “Help us! Help us!” But there was no 
one around to help. 

15 

I covered my eyes with one hand and thrashed out wildly with the other hand, 
trying to beat the bats away. 

Choking and sobbing, I could barely breathe. 

I heard Luke calling far, far away. He seemed to be behind a curtain of 
flapping, chittering bats. 

And then, suddenly, sunlight invaded the barn. 

On my knees, I lowered my hand from my eyes and saw that the barn door 
had slid open. 

Luke, standing at the door, his mouth open in shock, turned back to Clay 
and me. “I—I touched the door, and it opened,” he explained. 

Clay’s glasses were hanging off one ear. His blond hair was totally messed 
up. His eyes darted around the barn. “Where are the bats?” he cried. 

I raised my eyes to the rafters. “Hey!” I cried out. No bats. No sign of any 
bats anywhere. 

I climbed to my feet, pulling my hair back with both hands. “Let’s get out 
of here!” I cried. 

Clay and I followed Luke out of the barn. The warm sunshine felt so good! 

I was still itchy from the bats. I rubbed my shoulders and the back of my 
neck. “I hate bats! I really do!” I exclaimed with a shudder. 

“But there weren’t any bats,” Luke said, grinning at me. “It was all a fake.” 

“Huh? It was not!” Clay cried angrily. “Those were bats. I could hear them 
—and feel them!” 

“All special effects,” Luke claimed. 

“It wasn’t special effects when one got tangled in my hair!” I cried. Just 
thinking about it gave me cold shivers. 

“Special effects,” Luke repeated. “Really excellent special effects. I was 
almost scared, too.” 

“Almost!” I cried. I walked over, grabbed him, and pretended to wring his 
neck. “Almost? I heard you screaming your head off, Luke! ” 

He pulled out of my grasp, laughing. “I knew it wasn’t real. I was just 
screaming like that to scare you!” 

What a liar! I really didn’t believe my brother. He was scared. He was 

plenty scared. I knew he was! 

“They were bats, not special effects,” I insisted angrily. 

“Then where did they go when the door opened?” Luke demanded. “As 
soon as the door opened, the bats all vanished.” 

“Let’s stop talking about it,” Clay pleaded. “Let’s find your parents— 
okay?” 

“Yeah, okay,” I agreed, glaring at Luke. “You really are nuts, you know 
that?” I told him. 

He stuck his tongue out at me. 

I wanted to punch his lights out. But I try to be a nonviolent person. So I 
just gave him one hard punch on the shoulder. 

He howled in protest. “You’re stupid, Lizzy. You’re really stupid,” he 
muttered. “And you’re afraid of pretend bats!” 

I ignored him and led the way down the path toward the front gate. Two 
people in Horror costumes appeared on the path, going the other way, chatting 
enthusiastically. 

“Is this the way to the front gate?” I called to them. 

They ignored my question and walked right past us. 

“Hey!” I called to them. 

But they both kept jabbering away and didn’t even seem to see or hear me. 

The sun beamed down on us. The air had become hot and still, with no 
breeze at all. 

I wiped sweat off my forehead with one hand. I could still smell the sour 
aroma of the Bat Barn. The odor was on my hands, on my clothes. 

I saw four teenagers in bathing suits, two boys and two girls, hurrying over 
the grass toward a large brown pond. A sign came into view near the shore. It 
read: ALLIGATOR POND, FEEL FREE TO SWIM HERE. 

Luke laughed. “Are those guys crazy?” 

We stopped to watch them step into the water. 

“Do you think there are really alligators in there?” Clay asked, biting his 
lower lip. 

I shrugged. “Who knows? I don’t know what to think about this park!” 

We continued along the path. A few minutes later, I recognized the 
mountain-shaped structure of the Doom Slide. The wide, circular plaza came 
into view. It was nearly deserted. Even the ice-cream-selling Horror had 
vanished from his cart. 

“Where do you suppose Mom and Dad are?” I asked. 

“They’ve probably been looking for us for hours, and now they’re really 
mad,” Luke said, frowning. 

“Where are they?” Clay cried. He was starting to sound really stressed out. 
“We’ve got to find them.” 

“Is that them?” Luke asked. He was pointing to a man and a woman in the 
shade of a large stone fountain. 

I shielded my eyes from the sun with one hand. The woman was tall, with 
dark hair. The man was short and blond. 

“Yes! That’s them!” I cried happily. I started running to the fountain, calling 
to them, “Mom! Dad!” 

The boys came racing after me. 

“Mom! Dad! Hey!” I shouted happily. 

They both turned around, surprised expressions on their faces. 

“Oh!” I cried out when I saw it wasn’t them. I stopped short, and Luke 
bumped right into me. 

“Sorry,” I told the confused couple. “We thought you were someone else.” 

The three of us hurried across the plaza. I could hear the wail of wolf howls 
from the Werewolf Village. The ice cream cart stood lonely and deserted near the 
entrance to the Doom Slide. 

“Where are they?” Clay asked, whining. “I’m starting to get hungry.” 

“Yeah. It’s way past lunchtime,” I agreed. 

“They could be anywhere,” Luke said unhappily, kicking a pebble across 
the pavement. “They could be anywhere in this giant park.” 

I sighed. “Let’s look for them in the shade. The sun is really getting hot.” 

We headed toward the shade of the Doom Slide building. Suddenly, two 
green-costumed Horrors came into view. Their big yellow eyes bulged in front of 
their heads. 

Without thinking, I went running up to them. “Have you seen our parents?” 
I asked breathlessly. 

They stared at me in surprise. “Your parents?” one of them repeated. 

“Yeah.” I nodded. “My mom has black hair. My dad is kind of short and he 
has blond hair.” 

“Hmmmm.” The two Horrors glanced at each other. 

“Mom was wearing a bright yellow sundress,” I told them. 

“And Dad had a Chicago Cubs cap on his head,” Luke added. 

“Oh, yeah. Right,” one of the Horrors, a woman, replied. 

“You saw them?” I asked eagerly. 

She nodded. “Yeah. I remember them. They left. They left about half 
hour ago.” 

“Huh?” I gaped at her in disbelief. 

“They asked me to give you a message,” the Horror said. 

“Message? What message?” I asked. 

“Good-bye,” the Horror replied. 

16 

“You’re wrong!” I cried. “They wouldn’t leave.” 

“About half an hour ago,” the Horror repeated. She shrugged her shoulders 
under the bulky monster costume. “I was at the gate when they left.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

The two Horrors turned and began walking toward a small white shed at the 
edge of the plaza. 

“Hey, wait!” I called, chasing after them. “You made a mistake. Our parents 
wouldn’t leave without us.” 

They disappeared into the shed. The door slammed behind them. 

I turned back to Luke and Clay. They stared at me blankly. 

“She was wrong,” I told them. “Mom and Dad are still here. I know it.” 

“Then why did she say—” Clay started, but his voice broke. I could see that 
he was very worried and upset. Beads of sweat ran down his pink forehead. 

Luke tried to make a joke. “I guess that means we have the whole park to 
ourselves!” he exclaimed, forcing a smile. 

“Very funny,” I replied sarcastically. “We also have no money, and we’re 
about three hundred miles from home.” 

“We could call somebody,” Luke suggested. 

“No phones,” Clay muttered. He lowered his head, shoved his hands into 
the pockets of his shorts, and turned away from us. 

“Oh, right,” Luke remembered. “They told Dad there are no phones in the 
park.” 

“That’s crazy,” I said heatedly. “They’re liars. The Horrors are all liars.” 

“I guess that’s their job,” Luke said. “Telling us lies to scare us to death. 
That’s why they call it HorrorLand.” 

“They should call it DumbLand,” Clay muttered bitterly. 

“But it’s so cool!” Luke protested. “I love being scared out of my wits. 
Don’t you?” He gave Clay a hard shove. 

“No,” Clay replied softly. He made no attempt to shove Luke back. 

“Well, she was lying about Mom and Dad,” I insisted, gazing at the white 
shed. “She was just trying to scare us. Mom and Dad are still here. We just have 
to find them.” 

“Come on, let’s go,” Luke urged. “I hope we find them soon. I’m getting 
really hungry.” 

We wandered through the park for what seemed like hours. We searched through 
dark, mysterious woods and strange monster villages. We passed through a 
carnival area with dozens of scary-looking rides. 

On the other side of Vampire Village, we passed a building marked Monster 
Zoo. It was closed. But we could hear the most terrifying grunts, howls, and 
moans coming from inside. 

A long yellow building had a sign outside that proclaimed: GUILLOTINE 
MUSEUM, PLEASE HOLD ON TO YOUR HEAD. Luke wanted to go inside, 
but Clay and I talked him out of it. 

HorrorLand was surprisingly empty. We passed several Horrors scurrying 
along the paths in their bright green costumes. And we saw a few families 
wandering around, always with crying kids. 

The rides in the carnival area were all running empty. All of the food stands 
and restaurants were empty, too. 

We walked clear across to the other end of the park. I was feeling more and 
more worried. 

Why hadn’t we run into Mom and Dad? 

Surely we should have seen them by now. 

Clay had become very quiet. I could tell he was really scared. Even Luke 
trudged along with his shoulders slumped and his head down. 

By the time we found ourselves back at the Alligator Pond, I was feeling 
pretty bad. I crossed the grassy shore and walked up to the edge of the brown 
water. 

“What do you think happened to those teenagers who went swimming 
here?” Luke asked, staring across the pond. “Think the alligators ate them?” 

“Maybe,” I replied. I wasn’t really listening to him. I was thinking about 
Mom and Dad. 

“Hey, look!” Clay cried, pointing to the water. 

I saw two long, greenish-brown logs floating toward us on top of the water. 
It took me a while to realize that the logs were alligators. 

“Big ones!” Clay declared in a hushed whisper. 

“Better step back,” I warned them. 

All three of us were standing at the water’s edge. The alligators floated 

silently just below the surface of the still water, hardly creating a ripple. 

“Mom and Dad didn’t leave without us,” I repeated for the thousandth time. 

“But we searched everywhere,” Luke said quietly. 

“They didn’t leave without us,” I said. “They would never leave without us. 
So...” I hesitated. I was thinking hard, and my thoughts were all frightening. 

“So?” Clay asked eagerly. 

“So if they’re not in the park,” I continued, “it means something happened 
to them. Something bad happened to them.” 

Clay gasped. Luke narrowed his blue eyes at me. “What do you mean, 
Lizzy?” he asked. 

“I mean maybe this place really is evil,” I said. “And maybe the Horrors or 
somebody did something bad to Mom and Dad.” 

I stared down at the brown alligator backs gliding so smoothly, so 
effortlessly toward us. 

“That’s crazy,” Luke muttered. 

I knew it was crazy. But I had no other explanation. 

“I have such a bad feeling about this park,” I told them. “A real bad 
feeling.” 

And as I said that, I felt strong hands grab me from behind and push me 
into the Alligator Pond. 

17 

I screamed. 

Then I realized I wasn’t being tossed into the water. 

The hands were holding on to my shoulders. 

I spun around. “Dad!” I cried. 

“Lizzy!” he exclaimed, still holding on to me. “Where have you guys 
been?” 

“We’ve searched this entire park twelve times!” Mom declared. She was 
standing behind us on the grass, hands pressed tensely on her waist. 

“We were looking for you!” I cried. 

“They told us you left!” Luke said. 

“We were kind of scared,” Clay added. 

We all started talking at once. I was so happy to see them. And I could see 
that Luke and Clay were really happy, too. 

I had imagined all sorts of terrible things happening to Mom and Dad. It 
wasn’t like me to let my imagination run away like that. 

But HorrorLand was such a scary place. It was impossible not to have scary 
thoughts here. 

“I want to go home,” I said. 

“Did you find a phone?” Clay asked. “Did you find a car?” 

Dad shook his head. “No. No phones. The guy in the monster costume 
didn’t lie. There are no phones in the park.” 

“But the Horrors were very nice to us,” Mom broke in. “They told us not to 
worry about a thing.” 

“They said to just come to the ticket booth when we were ready to leave,” 
Dad reported. 

Mom ran a hand tenderly through Luke’s hair. “Did you go on any rides or 
anything?” 

“We did a lot of scary stuff,” Luke told her. 

“Very scary,” Clay added. 

“I’m really hungry,” Luke said. 

Dad glanced at his watch. “It’s way past lunchtime. I think we’re all 

hungry.” 

“The restaurants and foodstands are all on the other side of the park,” Mom 

said. 

“Can we just eat lunch and then leave?” I asked eagerly. I still had a bad 
feeling about the place. I wanted to get away from HorrorLand, far away. 

“Your mom and I have spent all our time searching for you,” Dad said, 
wiping sweat off his sunburned forehead with one hand. “We haven’t had any 
fun at all.” 

“We should all at least go on one ride together before we leave,” Mom said. 

“I just want to go,” I urged. “I really do.” 

“Lizzy, that’s not like you,” Mom scolded. 

“She’s scared,” Luke told them. “She’s a chicken.” 

“Maybe there’s a ride that will take us to the front of the park,” Dad 
suggested. “We could all take it, then have some lunch and leave.” 

“That sounds good,” Mom said. She stared at me. “Okay with you?” 

“I guess,” I told her, sighing. “It’s just that the rides here are all too scary. 
They aren’t any fun.” 

Luke laughed. “They’re too scary for Lizzy—but not for Clay and me,” he 
said. “Right, Clay?” 

“I was a little scared in the Bat Barn,” Clay confessed. 

We headed away from the Alligator Pond, across the grassy shore to the 
paved walkway. A couple of costumed Horrors walked past, chattering in low 
voices. 

A girl’s high-pitched shrieks of terror floated in the air from somewhere in 
the distance. The same frightening cry repeated over and over. 

Wolf howls rose up in front of us. And from a speaker hidden somewhere in 
the trees, I heard evil laughter, a hideous cackle that repeated over and over. 

“It’s like being in a horror movie,” Mom commented. 

“Very clever,” Dad added, walking with a hand on my shoulder. “It’s 
strange that we never heard of this park.” 

“They should put some ads on TV,” Mom said. “Then they’d get more 
people to come here.” 

We passed by a tall, narrow green building with a sign in front that read: 
FREE FALL, THE ONLY BUNGEE JUMP WITHOUT A CORD. 

“Want to try that?” Dad asked, squeezing my shoulder and grinning at me. 

“I don’t think so,” I quickly replied. 

Luke was way ahead of us. He turned around and walked backward, 
waiting for us to catch up. “Mom and Dad should try the Doom Slide,” he said, 
grinning. “It’s awesome!” 

Had he really forgotten how terrified he was? 

“I don’t think they’d like it,” I said quietly. 

“Maybe we could find something that’s just a little scary,” Clay suggested. 

Dad laughed. “Are you having a good time, Clay?” 

Clay hesitated. “A little,” he replied finally. 

“I’m having a great time!” Luke declared. 

The path curved along a narrow brown river. Millions of tiny white insects 
flitted over the surface of the water. Catching the bright sunlight, they looked 
like little sparkling diamonds. 

A small brown boathouse came into view. Behind it, I could see slender 
canoes bobbing beneath a wooden dock. 

A sign beside the boathouse read: COFFIN CRUISE. 

A RELAXING FLOAT TO THE GRAVE. 

“This might be fun,” Mom said, her eyes on the small boats. 

“I think the river flows toward the front of the park,” Dad said. “Let’s take 
it!” 

Luke cheered and went running to the dock. 

I lingered behind the others. When I finally stepped out onto the dock, it 
took me a while to realize that the objects bobbing in the brown water weren’t 
canoes—they were coffins! 

They were made of black polished wood. The lids were pulled back, 
revealing red satin interiors. Each coffin was big enough for one person. 

I felt a cold chill run down my back. “We’re really going to climb into 
coffins?” I asked. 

“They look comfy,” Mom said, smiling at me. “The water is flat and gentle, 
Lizzy. It won’t be a scary ride.” 

“Me first!” Luke cried, running to the end of the wooden dock. 

Two costumed Horrors appeared to help us into the coffins. “Lie back. 
Enjoy the ride,” one of them said. 

“It will be your last,” the other Horror added with a low chuckle. 

When we were all inside coffins, the Horrors untied them and gave us a 
hard push away from the dock. 

Here I am, I thought, lying in my coffin. 

Here we all are, my entire family, on our backs in our coffins. 

The coffin floated gently, bobbing in the water. I stared up at the bright blue 
sky. Trees shimmered on both banks as I floated past. 

It was so pretty, so relaxing. 

Why did I think something terrible was about to happen? 

18 

Lying on my back, I couldn’t see the others over the coffin sides. But I could 
hear the splash of their coffins around mine. 

“This is nice,” Mom said. “Very relaxing.” 

“It’s boring!” Luke declared from up ahead of me. “Where’s the scary 
part?” 

“It’s just a nice ride in a coffin,” Dad said. “Do you think we’re really 
floating? Or do you think the coffin is on some kind of track?” 

“I could float like this for hours,” Mom said. 

“The rides here are pretty long,” Clay told her. 

“Is that a hawk up in the sky?” Dad asked. “Can everyone see it?” 

Shielding my eyes from the sun with one hand, I searched the sky. Directly 
above, a dark shadow hovered high in the sky, a little bigger than a dot. 

“It’s not a hawk. I’ll bet it’s a vulture!” Luke declared. “It sees the coffins, 
and it’s waiting to eat our flesh!” He laughed. 

“Luke—where do you get these hideous ideas?” Mom demanded. 

“Maybe Luke should live in HorrorLand!” Dad exclaimed. “We could get 
him one of those green monster costumes, and he’d fit right in perfectly!” 

“He doesn’t need a costume!” I joked. I was starting to feel a little better. 
The ride was gentle and relaxing. And I figured nothing terrible could happen 
with my whole family around. 

I settled back on the coffin bottom, my hands resting at my sides, and stared 
up dreamily at the bird circling high in the clear sky. The coffin bobbed gently, 
making soft splashing sounds. 

So pleasant... 

So quiet... 

And then, before I could utter a sound, the coffin lid slammed shut over me. 
And I was trapped in total darkness. 

19 

“Hey!” I shouted. My voice was muffled by the heavy lid over me. 

I could hear the dull thud of the other coffin lids slamming shut. 

“Hey—let me out!” 

I pushed against the lid with both hands. But it wouldn’t budge. 

I took a deep breath and tried again. This time, I pushed with my hands and 
my feet. The heavy lid still didn’t move. 

My heart was pounding so hard, I thought my chest would explode. The air 
inside the closed coffin was already getting hot and stuffy. 

“Open up! Open up!” I screamed. 

I tried pushing the lid again. I could hear Clay’s muffled cries in the coffin 
next to mine. The poor guy was screaming his head off. 

I let out a loud groan as I pushed up with all my strength. The lid wouldn’t 
give an inch. 

Calm down, Lizzy. Calm down, I instructed myself. It’s just a stupid ride. 
The coffin lid will open any second. 

Breathing hard, I waited. 

I counted to ten. 

I counted to ten again. 

The lid didn’t snap open. 

I tried shutting my eyes and counting to fifty. When I reach fifty, I told 
myself, I’ll open my eyes, and the lid will be open. 

“...twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four...” I counted out loud. My voice 
sounded tiny and choked. It was getting hard to breathe. The air began to feel 
really stale. 

I stopped counting at twenty-five and opened my eyes. The lid hadn’t 
popped open. 

It’s so hot in here, I thought. The sun is beating down on the lid. There’s no 
air, and I’m going to fry! 

I tried to scream, but no sound came out. 

I gasped for air. 

Outside, I could hear muffled shouts and cries. 

Was that my mother screaming like that? 

“It’s just a ride,” I said out loud. “Just a stupid ride. The lid is going to pop 
— now! ” 

But it didn’t. 

The air was so hot, so hot and stale. 

Why didn’t the lid open? 

Why? 

I tried to force back my panic, but I couldn’t. My entire body was shaking 
and shivering. I felt cold perspiration drip down my forehead. 

“Something has gone wrong!” I cried out loud. “The lid is supposed to open 
—but it doesn’t!” 

Frantically, I pushed up with both hands. My arms ached from pushing so 
hard. But the lid didn’t move. 

The coffin bobbed and rocked in the water. 

I lowered my hands in defeat. I sucked in a mouthful of the hot, stale air. 
My chest was heaving. My body trembled. 

And then I felt my legs start to itch. A tingly feeling down near my ankles. 

Moving up my legs. 

An itchy, crawly feeling. 

Something was crawling slowly up my legs. 

Something small and prickly. 

“Ohh.” I let out a low, terrified groan. 

Spiders! 

20 

I tried to scratch my legs, but my arms weren’t long enough. Unable to move or 
bend in the cramped coffin, I couldn’t reach down to them. 

The tingling moved higher. 

I wanted to scream, but I started to cough. 

And then the coffin lid popped open. Bright sunlight made me shut my 

eyes. 

“Oh!” I pulled myself up to a sitting position. Blinking against the light, I 
saw the others already scrambling up out of their coffins. 

I scratched my legs furiously. To my surprise, there were no spiders. No 
bugs of any kind. 

The coffin had pulled up to a small dock. I braced both hands against the 
sides of the coffin and heaved myself to my feet. 

“Let’s get out of here!” I heard Clay cry. 

“That was horrible /” my mom shrieked. 

Luke didn’t say anything. His face was pale, and his black hair was matted 
to his forehead with sweat. 

“They really went too far!” Dad said angrily. “I’m going to complain.” 

“Let’s just go!” Mom told him. 

We all scrambled onto the dock. I helped pull Clay up. Then I took several 
deep breaths of fresh air. 

Dad ran off the dock toward the open plaza, and the rest of us hurried after 
him. “To the ticket booth!” he called back to us. “Right up there!” He pointed. 

The coffin ride had taken us to the front of the park. I could see the front 
gate and the row of green ticket booths to the right. 

“That ride was really gross!” Clay said, shaking his head. 

“My legs got all itchy. I thought it was ants!” Luke declared. 

“I thought it was spiders!” I told him. 

“I wonder how they did that,” Luke said thoughtfully. 

“I don’t care,” I replied. “I just want to get out of here. I hate this place!” 

“So do I,” Clay agreed. 

“They just go too far,” Mom said breathlessly, jogging to keep up with us as 

we followed Dad. “It isn’t any fun when a ride is that scary. I really had trouble 
breathing.” 

“So did I,” I told her. 

“Hey, how do we get home?” Luke suddenly demanded, staring at Mom. 
“Our car blew up.” 

“I think those people in the monster costumes will lend us a car,” Mom 
replied. “They told your father just to come to the ticket booth.” 

“Can we stop and get pizza?” Luke asked. 

“Let’s get out of this place and then worry about lunch,” Mom told him. 

The main plaza was totally empty. Not another living person. 

We followed Dad to the first ticket booth. He turned back to us, making a 
disappointed face. “Closed,” he said. A metal grate had been pulled over the 
window. 

Dad was breathing hard from running all the way. He pushed his blond hair 
off his sweaty forehead with both hands. “Over here,” he said. 

We followed him to the next ticket booth. Also closed. 

Then the next. Closed. 

It didn’t take us long to discover that all of the ticket booths were closed. 

“Weird,” Luke said, shaking his head. 

“Don’t they expect any more visitors today?” Mom asked Dad. “How can 
they just close up like that?” 

Dad shrugged. “We’ll have to ask someone.” His eyes searched the empty 
grounds. 

I turned and checked out the plaza along with him. Still no one in sight. No 
visitors. No Horrors. 

“Let’s try over there,” Dad said. He started walking to a low green building 
that stood beyond the ticket booths. It looked like some kind of office. 

It was closed, too. Dad tried the door. It was locked. 

Dad scratched his head. “What’s going on here? Where’d everyone 
disappear to?” he demanded. 

Mom took his arm. “It’s very strange,” she said softly. 

I glanced at Luke and Clay. They were standing tensely side by side on the 
walk in front of the office. Neither of them spoke. 

“Are you sure these are the right ticket booths?” I asked. 

“Yes,” Dad replied wearily. “This is the front entrance.” 

“So where can everyone be?” Mom asked, chewing her lower lip. 

“Maybe we can find someone in the parking lot,” I suggested. “You know. 
A parking attendant or something. They’ll be able to tell us how to get a car to 
go home.” 

“Good idea, Lizzy,” Dad said. He patted the top of my head, the way he 
used to when I was a little girl. 

I waited for Luke to make fun of me. But he didn’t say a word. I guess he 
was too worried and upset. 

“Come on,” I urged. I turned and ran past the empty ticket booths. The tall 
metal front gate to HorrorLand stood just beyond the booths. 

I stopped for a second to read a sign on the side of one of the ticket booths. 
It said: NO EXIT, NO ONE LEAVES HORRORLAND ALIVE! 

“Ha-ha,” I said sarcastically. “These signs are a riot, aren’t they?” 

I jogged the rest of the way and reached the gate first. I pulled it, and it 
wouldn’t open. So I tried pushing it. 

It didn’t move. 

Then I saw the heavy chain and the large steel padlock on the gate. 

Swallowing hard, I turned back to the others. 

“We’re locked in!” I told them. 

21 

“What?” Dad stared at me, his face twisted in confusion. I don’t think he 
believed me. 

“We’re locked in!” I repeated. I lifted the heavy metal padlock with both 
hands and then let it fall back with a loud clang against the bars of the gate. 

“But that’s impossible!” Mom cried, raising her hands to her cheeks. “They 
can’t lock people inside an amusement park!” 

“Maybe it’s another joke,” Luke suggested. “Everything in this place turns 
out to be a joke. Maybe this is one, too.” 

I lifted the heavy padlock again. “It doesn’t look like a joke, Luke,” I said 
unhappily. 

“Then there must be another gate where they want us to exit,” Mom 
suggested. 

“Maybe,” Dad said doubtfully. “Maybe there’s a side exit. But I haven’t 
seen one.” 

“What are we going to do?” Clay asked, whining. His face was red, and he 
was breathing hard. 

“Where is everyone?” Luke demanded, whining, too. “They’ve got to let us 
leave. They’ve got to!” 

“Let’s try to stay calm,” Dad said, putting a hand on Luke’s shoulder. 
“There’s no reason to panic. This is a strange place, but we’re not in any 
danger.” 

“He’s right,” Mom broke in. “There’s no reason to be afraid. We’ll be out of 
here and on our way home in no time.” She forced a smile. 

“As soon as we get out, I’ll buy you guys pizzas and big, cold drinks,” Dad 
promised. “And we’ll all have a good laugh about our terrifying adventures 
today in HorrorLand.” 

“But how do we get out?” Luke demanded shrilly. 

“Well...” Dad rubbed his chin. 

“Do you think we could climb the fence?” I asked. 

We all raised our eyes to the top of the iron fence. It was way over our 
heads. It must have been about twenty feet tall. 

“I can’t climb that!” Clay cried. “I’d fall!” 

“It’s too high,” Mom said quickly. 

“Bad idea,” I murmured. 

A large white cloud drifted over the sun. Our shadows grew longer over the 
pavement. The air quickly grew cooler. 

I felt a chill run down my back. 

“There’s got to be a way out of this stupid park!” I cried angrily. I hoisted 
up the padlock and slammed it against the bars of the gate. 

“Hold on, Lizzy,” Dad said soothingly. “We just have to find one of those 
costumed park workers. They’ll tell us how to get out.” 

“Uh... Dad...” I turned and saw Luke grab Dad’s arm. “Here they come.” 

We all uttered astonished cries as we saw the Horrors crossing the plaza. 
Dozens of them. They moved quickly, with a steady rhythm. Silently. 

A few seconds before, the plaza had been empty. Now it was filled with 
green-costumed Horrors marching toward us, spreading out, preparing to 
surround us. 

I could feel the panic rise up from my stomach. My knees began to shake. I 
stared in horror at them as they drew closer, closer. I couldn’t speak. I couldn’t 
move. 

“What are they going to do?” Clay cried, his features twisted in terror. He 
slipped behind Dad. “What are they going to do to us?” he cried. 

22 

We huddled together as the Horrors marched silently toward us. The only sound 
was the soft thud of their monster feet on the pavement, and their long purple 
tails dragging on the ground. 

“There are hundreds of them!” Mom murmured. She grabbed Dad’s arm 
with one hand. She slipped her other arm around my shoulders and pulled me 
closer. 

We had our backs against the iron fence. We stared helplessly at the 
grinning green faces, the bulging yellow eyes, which appeared to be laughing 
cruelly at us. 

Finally, they stopped a few feet in front of us. 

The plaza was still and silent. Terrifyingly silent. 

The sun was still hidden behind the big cloud. Two large blackbirds 
swooped low in the gray sky. 

We stared at the Horrors, and they stared back at us. 

I swallowed hard, leaning against my mother. I could feel her entire body 
trembling. 

I took a deep breath and then cried out: “What do you want?” The sound of 
my own voice startled me. 

One of the Horrors, a young woman, stepped forward. 

Frightened, I tried to back up. But my back was already pressing against the 
fence. 

“What do you want?” I repeated in a trembling voice. 

The costumed Horror stared at us one by one. “I want to thank you,” she 
said in a cheery voice. 

“Huh?” I uttered. 

“I’m the HorrorLand MC. We all want to thank you for being our guests 
today.” She flashed us a warm smile. 

“You mean we can go ? ” Luke demanded, half hidden behind my dad. 

“Of course,” the Horror said, grinning warmly. “But first we all want to 
thank you for appearing on HorrorLand Hidden Camera. ” 

The dozens of Horrors behind her broke into applause and loud cheers. 

“Huh? You mean this is some kind of show?” Dad demanded, frowning. 

“See the cameras?” the MC asked. She gestured up to two tall poles in the 
plaza. 

Raising my eyes to the top, I saw two TV cameras. 

“You mean we were on TV?” Luke cried. 

“Since the moment you arrived,” the MC replied. “Our hidden cameras 
followed you everywhere. From the hilarious scene where we blew up your car, 
our cameras were with you. And I know our home audience loved the terrified 
expressions on your faces and all of your horrified screams as you took our 
HorrorLand rides!” 

“Now, wait a minute,” Dad said angrily. He took a step forward. His hands 
were balled into tense fists at his sides. “You say this is a TV show? How come 
I’ve never seen it?” 

“We’re seen every weekend on The Monster Channel,” the Horror replied. 

“Oh,” Dad replied quickly, lowering his eyes. “We don’t have cable.” 

“You should get it,” the Horror told him. “You’re missing a lot of great 
scary shows on The Monster Channel.” 

The Horrors all clapped and cheered. 

“Well, you’ve been very good sports,” the MC continued, her yellow eyes 
bouncing in front of her head as she talked. “We’ve enjoyed having you. And to 
show our appreciation, we have a brand-new car waiting for you in the parking 
lot!” 

More cheers and applause from the Horrors. 

“Anew car? Excellent!” Luke exclaimed. 

“Does that mean we can leave?” Clay asked timidly. 

The Horror nodded. “Yes, it’s time for you to leave. The real exit is right 
over there, through that doorway.” 

She pointed to a tall green building near the end of the fence. I saw a yellow 
door on the side. 

“Take the yellow door,” the Horror instructed. “And thanks again for 
appearing on HorrorLand Hidden Camera /” 

As all the Horrors clapped their big green hands, we stepped away from the 
fence and hurried toward the exit. “I can’t believe we were on TV the whole 
time!” Mom declared. 

“And we’re getting a new car!” Luke exclaimed happily. He started 
jumping up and down. Then he leaped onto Clay’s back, nearly knocking him 

over. 

I laughed. It was good to see the old Luke back with us. 

“We’ve got to get cable!” Luke told Dad. “I want to see The Monster 
Channel. It’s got to be awesome!” 

“We’ll have to order it so we can see ourselves,” Mom said. 

I reached the yellow door first and pulled it open. I stepped into an 
enormous room, with white walls that shone under the bright white lights from 
the ceiling. 

“Is this the exit?” I cried. 

As soon as we were all inside, the door slammed shut with a bang that 
made my heart skip. 

Then all the lights went out. 

“Welcome to the HorrorLand Challenge!” boomed a deep, frightening voice 
over a loudspeaker. 

“Huh?” I gazed blindly around, trying to see something—anything—in the 
total darkness. 

“You have one minute to go through the Monster Obstacle Course,” the 
voice thundered. “Please keep in mind that the games are now over. This is real. 
You’re playing for your life!” 

23 

“We’ve been tricked!” I heard Dad cry angrily. And then he shouted at the top of 
his lungs, “Let’s get out of here!” 

“Run!” the deep voice boomed over the loudspeaker. “You have fifty-six 
seconds.” 

Dad started to shout again. But we stopped when a dim light came up, and a 
disgusting four-armed creature stepped toward us. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out without even realizing it. 

The size of a gorilla, the monster had huge green eyes surrounded by thick 
red fur over its face. Saliva drooled from its mouth. And as it opened its jaws 
wider, two rows of long fangs slid over its thin purple lips. 

“Don’t just stand there! Run! This is an obstacle course!” the voice boomed 
impatiently. “You have fifty seconds to live! At least make a good race of it.” 

The monster uttered a low growl and lumbered toward us in the dim light. 
Its jaws were opened wide as if preparing to bite. Its four enormous clawed 
hands swiped at the air in front of it. 

I was too stunned to move, too frightened to run. 

But suddenly, I felt a hand grab mine and tug me hard. 

It was Dad, I realized, trying to pull me to safety. 

I heard the boys screaming in fear. I felt Mom brush beside me as we 
started to stumble forward. 

“Run! Run!” the deep voice urged over the shrieks of the two boys. 

I couldn’t see where I was running. The light was so dim, so shadowy. I 
saw only a blur now, a blur of running feet, of moving shadows. 

The monster let out a deafening roar. I covered my ears and kept running. 

Its four clawed hands swiped at Dad. Missed. 

We hurtled past it. 

Only to face two giant birds, at least ten feet tall. They looked like cranes. 
They squawked and flapped their enormous wings. It sounded like canvas tents 
flapping in a strong wind. 

“Ohh! Help!” 

Was that me shrieking like that? 

Was I really being wrapped in their hot, flapping wings? Smothered? 

Choked? 

“No—p/ease!” 

How did I break away? 

Was I being chased now by six growling piglike creatures with sharp, 
pointed teeth curling from their twisted mouths? 

The screams and terrified shrieks of my family rose over the beating birds’ 
wings, the monstrous growls and grunts. 

I heard Dad cry out. And in the dim light, I saw him struggling to free 
himself from the four-armed creature. 

“No!” I screamed as I felt something warm wrap around my ankle. A fur- 
covered snake! 

I screamed again and kicked wildly, sending it flying into the darkness. 

But before I could move away, another furry snake spun around my leg, 
tightening quickly. 

I bent and pulled at it as it hissed in protest. 

I tossed it aside. 

“Run! Run!” the voice on the loudspeaker boomed. “Twenty seconds to 
live!” 

More monsters loomed in front of us. Disgusting yellow lizardlike creatures 
with dark flicking tongues like bullwhips. A hopping furry ball that roared as it 
hopped, sharp teeth poking out of three mouths. 

Hissing snakes, enormous buzzing insects with glowing red eyes, more 
gmnting pig monsters. Then a giant bearlike creature came at us on two legs. It 
tossed its dark, round head back and laughed like a hyena as its paws punched 
the air. 

“Help me!” I heard Luke shriek. And then I saw him disappear, wrapped 
inside the beating wings of one of the giant birds. 

The bird cawed in triumph as its wings tightened around my brother. 

“Ten seconds!” the voice boomed. 

“No!” I cried. I lunged toward the bird, grasped the beating wing, and 
pulled it open. 

Luke slid out, and we both began to run. 

Monsters growled, and flapped, and grunted, and roared. 

“Are we... going to make it?” Luke asked in a tiny voice. 

I didn’t have a chance to answer. 

Two powerful paws grabbed me around the waist, hoisted me high in the 

air, then slammed me to the floor. 

I landed hard on my stomach. My forehead hit the floor. 

Dizzy and hurt, I looked up in time to see an enormous elephantlike 
creature about to flatten me with its huge furry back foot. 

I’m not going to make it, I realized. 

I’m not going to make it. 

24 

The enormous flat foot lowered over me slowly, steadily. The monster was 
taking its time. 

It all seemed to be happening in slow motion. 

I wanted to move. I wanted to roll out from under it. 

But the fall had taken my breath away. I lay there gasping, watching the 
monster foot coming down to crush me. 

“Ohhh.” I couldn’t catch my breath. I couldn’t squirm away. 

I could feel the heat of the monster foot. I could smell its putrid sweat. 

The foot pressed down on my stomach. 

I shut my eyes and waited for the pain. 

The jarring blast of a buzzer made my eyes shoot open. 

The monster raised its heavy foot from my body. The floor shook under its 
weight as it began to lumber away. 

Am I alive? I wondered. 

Or am I only dreaming that I’m still alive? 

Is that creature really leaving without crushing me? 

The buzzer echoed in my ear. Then it abruptly stopped. The loudspeaker 
crackled on. 

“Time’s up!” a woman’s voice said. The voice of the HorrorLand MC who 
had led us to this terrifying obstacle course. 

“Time is up. What a thrilling race!” she gushed. 

I groaned and started to pull myself up. In the dim light, I saw that all of the 
monsters had vanished. 

“That was a tough battle,” the MC continued over the loudspeaker. “Do we 
have any survivors?” 

“Yes, we do,” the deep, booming voice replied. 

“How many survivors do we have in there?” the woman asked. 

“Three,” the booming voice replied. “Three survivors out of five.” 

25 

A cold chill ran down my body. 

I opened my mouth in a silent cry of shock and leaped to my feet. 

Three out of five? 

Did that mean that two of us were dead? 

My chest still ached. My knees were trembling. I squinted into the dim 
light, searching desperately for the others. 

Halfway across the room, I saw Luke and Clay. They were huddled 
together, walking as if in a daze toward the far wall. 

“Hey!” I tried to call to them. But my voice came out a choked whisper. 

Where were Mom and Dad? 

Were they both killed by the monsters? 

Three out of five. Three out of five. 

“Nooooooooo!” I finally found my voice and let out a horrified wail that 
echoed off the walls. 

“Excuse me. A slight mistake,” the deep voice boomed. “Make that five out 
of five survivors.” 

“Five out of five!” the HorrorLand MC exclaimed. “A new record. We’ve 
never had a perfect score before. Let’s give them a round of applause, 
everyone!” 

I took a deep breath and held it, trying to stop my trembling. 

They’re okay! I thought happily. Mom and Dad are okay. 

And then I saw them. They had their arms around Luke and Clay and were 
making their way toward me. 

“We’re okay!” I cried, rushing to them, my arms outstretched. “We’re 
okay!” 

All five of us huddled in the center of the dark room, hugging each other 
and sobbing. 

Dad’s arm was bleeding from a deep gash. One of the monsters had clawed 

him. 

Aside from that, we were shaken but not hurt. 

“Now what?” Luke asked in a trembling voice. “Are they going to let us 

go?” 

“They can’t get away with this,” Dad said angrily. “They can’t do this to 
people and get away with it. I don’t care if it is TV!” 

“Those monsters were real!” I exclaimed with a shudder. “It wasn’t a fake. 
They were really trying to kill us.” 

“How do we get out?” Luke demanded. “Will they let us out?” 

We all started chattering at once, our voices high and frightened. 

Suddenly, the ceiling lights flashed on, flooding the room with bright light. 
And the MC’s voice broke through our frightened conversation. “Let’s bring our 
winners out with a round of applause! ” she announced cheerfully. 

We all cried out as the floor began to tilt beneath us. I grabbed on to Dad, 
and we started to slide. 

The floor tilted down like a sliding board. And we slid out of the room— 
and landed in the plaza outside. 

Still feeling dazed, I jumped quickly to my feet as the HorrorLand MC 
hurried to greet us. The big crowd of Horrors behind her was clapping and 
cheering. 

“You can’t do this to us!” I screeched. 

I was so angry, I didn’t know what I was doing. I just totally freaked. 

I leaped at the woman, grabbed the top of her mask, and started to pull it off 
with both hands. 

“You can’t do this! You can’t!” I shrieked. “Let me see your face! Let me 
see who you really are!” 

Using all of my strength, I gave the mask a hard tug. 

Then I screamed and let go as I realized the truth. 

26 

She wasn’t wearing a mask! 

The monstrous green face was her face. 

She wasn’t wearing a monster costume. None of the Horrors were wearing costumes, I realized. 

I stepped back, raising my hands in horror as if trying to shield myself. 
“You—you’re really monsters!” I stammered. 

They nodded back at me, pleased grins on their ugly faces. Their yellow eyes bobbed gleefully. 

“You—you’re all monsters!” I screamed. “But—but you said this was a TV show,” I stammered to the Horror MC. 

Her bulging yellow eyes gazed at me. “We’re happy to say it is the top- rated show on The Monster Channel,” she said cheerily. “Thanks to great contestants like you and your family. The Monster Channel is watched by nearly two million monsters all over the world.” 

“But—but—” I stammered, taking another step back. 

“People don’t always take us seriously,” she continued. “People come to HorrorLand and think it’s all a big joke. People laugh at the signs around the park. They laugh at the rides and attractions. But it’s all very serious to us. All of it.” 

My father stepped up beside me, shaking a fist angrily. “But you can’t do this to innocent people!” he shouted. “You can’t bring people into this park to torture them, and—and—” 

“Oh, I’m sorry. Our time is up,” the MC interrupted, shaking her enormous green head. “I’m sad to say it’s time to say good-bye to our special guests for this week.” 

“Now, wait—” Dad shouted, raising both hands for quiet. 

The crowd of Horrors silently pushed forward. We had no choice but to start moving with them. 

“Let me show you people the way we say good-bye on HorrorLand Hidden Camera, ” the MC said. 

Dad tried to hold back, to resist, but several Horrors bumped against him. They were bumping all of us now, pushing us toward what appeared to be a round purple pond just beyond the plaza. 

We couldn’t fight back. There were too many of them. 

We couldn’t run. They had us surrounded. 

They drove us like sheepdogs herding cattle. In a few seconds, we were standing at the edge of the purple pond. 

A foul smell rose up from the pond. The purple liquid bubbled and gurgled, making a sick sucking sound. 

“Let us go!” Luke cried shrilly. “We want to go home!” 

The HorrorLand MC ignored his frantic pleas and stepped to the edge of the gurgling pond. “Saying good-bye is always sad,” she said. “So we try to have a little fun with our farewells.” 

“Just let us go!” Luke insisted. Dad put a hand on his shoulder to try to comfort him. 

We all stared at the MC as she raised a large rock in one hand and held it over the disgusting, bubbling pond. “Watch,” she instructed us with a smile. 

She let the rock drop into the pond. 

As soon as it touched the thick surface, it was pulled down with a loud sucking sound. 

“See how easy it is to say good-bye?” the Horror said, turning to us. “Now, will you jump in—or do you want to be pushed?” 

27 

Silently, the Horrors began moving in on us. Closer. Closer. 

Backing up, Clay tripped over my foot and nearly fell into the gurgling 
purple pit. I grabbed him and held on to him until he regained his balance. 

All five of us were standing at the edge of the pit. 

The sour odor swept over me. I felt sick. The thick purple slime lapped up 
at my ankles as if reaching out to grab me. 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried. I didn’t know what I expected them to do. We were 
all helpless. 

I knew we weren’t going to escape this time. 

Without realizing it, we were all holding hands. 

“Will you jump in—or do you want to be pushed?” The MC repeated her 
question. 

“I’m real sorry,” Dad murmured to us, ignoring her. “I’m real sorry I 
brought you here. I—I didn’t know...” His voice broke. He lowered his eyes. 

“Dad, it’s not your fault!” I told him, squeezing his hand. 

And as I squeezed his hand, I had an idea. 

A wild idea. A stupid idea. A really crazy idea. 

I knew I had to try it. It was the only idea I had. 

“People laugh at everything in the park,” the HorrorLand MC had told us. 
“But it’s all very serious to us,” she’d said. 

All very serious ... 

Very serious... 

She stood right in front of me now, waiting for us to jump to our deaths, 
eager for us to get sucked down into the purple slime. 

I knew this was my last chance. I knew it was crazy. 

But I knew I had to try it. 

I stepped up to the MC, reached out, and pinched her arm as hard as I could. 

28 

Her mouth opened wide, and she let out a startled gasp. 

She tried to pull her arm away. But I held on and pinched harder. “The Mad Pincher strikes again!” I shouted, remembering Luke’s annoying cry. 

Her yellow eyes rolled around crazily. “No!” she pleaded. 

Harder. Harder. 

And then I was the one to cry out as her mouth opened wide, and, with a loud whoosh, a rush of air escaped her lips. 

I leaped back. 

As the air rushed from her mouth, she appeared to deflate, just like a balloon. 

I gaped in amazement as she folded helplessly to the ground. 

An angry cry rose up from the crowd of Horrors. “Inflate her!” one of them yelled. “Inflate her immediately!” 

They began moving in on us, growling and grumbling menacingly. 

“Pinch them!” I shouted to my family. “Pinch them! The ‘No Pinching’ signs that we thought were so stupid—they were serious! The Horrors deflate if they’re pinched!” 

A Horror stepped up, arms outstretched to push me into the pond. I pinched his arm hard, and a few seconds later, he deflated. 

I heard the whoosh of air escaping to my right and saw that Luke had deflated one, too. 

Whoosh! Another one deflated and folded to the pavement. 

That’s all it took. 

The plaza filled with frightened cries and gasps of horror. 

The alarmed Horrors turned and ran. Stampeded is a better word. They scattered through the park, screaming as they ran. 

Taking a long, deep breath, I happily watched them flee. “See? I always come through in a pinch!” I said, amazing myself by making a joke. 

I don’t think anyone else in my family heard me. They were shouting for joy, hugging each other, jumping up and down. 

“Let’s get out of here!” I shouted. I started running toward the front gate. The others followed close behind. 

The gate was open now. I guess the Horrors had opened it, figuring the only place we were heading was to the bottom of the purple pond. 

Without looking back, we ran out into the empty parking lot. 

And stopped. 

“No car,” I murmured. 

In all the excitement, I had forgotten that our car had been blown up. 

I let out a weary sigh. I felt as if I were deflating, just like the Horrors. 
“Now what?” I asked, staring across the enormous flat parking lot. 

“It’s too far to walk!” Luke wailed. “How do we get out of here?” 

“The buses!” Mom cried, pointing. I turned my eyes to the row of purple- and-green buses parked on the side of the lot. They glowed under the bright afternoon sun. 

“Yeah!” Dad cried excitedly. “Maybe we can start one up and get away from here!” 

We started jogging over the pavement to the buses. “Cross your fingers,” Dad called, leading the way. “Maybe they leave the keys in them. It’s our only chance!” 

“Hurry!” Luke shouted suddenly. “They’re coming!” 

My heart leaped in my chest. I turned back toward the gate. 

Sure enough, the Horrors were pouring out of the park, chasing after us. “Give up! You cannot escape!” one of them screamed. 

“No one ever escapes!” another Horror shouted. 

“Hurry!” Luke cried. “Hurry! They’re going to catch us!” 

29 

With the Horrors close behind, shouting and threatening us, we ran full speed toward the row of buses. 

My heart was pounding almost as loud as my sneakers against the pavement. My throat ached, and I had a sharp pain in my side. 

But I kept running. 

“You cannot escape!” 

“Stop now!” 

“Give up!” 

The angry cries of the Horrors sounded even closer. But I didn’t turn back to see if they were catching up. 

The door to the first bus was open. Dad got there first and scrambled up the steps and inside. 

Mom stepped in, followed by the two boys. 

I pulled myself inside and the bus door slid shut behind me. “Dad—the keys!” I choked out. 

“Yes! They’re here!” he cried happily. “Hold on! We’re getting away!” 

The engine coughed, then started up with a roar. Dad lowered his foot on the gas pedal, and the bus shot forward. I stumbled down the aisle and fell into a seat behind Luke and Clay. 

“Hurry! They’re coming! They’re coming!” Luke and Clay were screaming in unison. 

I could hear the angry shouts of the Horrors through the closed bus windows. 

“We’re okay!” Dad cried, leaning over the big steering wheel. “We’re okay! We’re outta here!” 

“Yes!” I shouted happily. “Yes!” 

We all started to cheer. We kept cheering until we were out of the parking lot and back on the highway. 

We laughed and celebrated all the way home. 

The drive took hours and hours, but we didn’t care. We were safe! We had escaped! 

It was night when Dad pulled the bus up our driveway. “Home, sweet 



home!” I cried joyfully. 

We all piled eagerly out of the bus. I took a deep breath and stretched. The 
air smelled so sweet and fresh. A full moon made the front lawn shine. 

Then I saw him. It was a Horror, and he was clinging to the back of our bus. 
“Oh, no!” I cried out. 

“What are you doing there?” Dad demanded. 

“Did you ride there the whole way home?” Luke asked in disbelief. 

I shrank back as the Horror let go of the bus and slid to the ground. His 
yellow eyes studied us menacingly. He moved toward us quickly. 

Clay and Luke hid behind Dad. Mom’s mouth dropped open in fright. 

“What do you want?” I cried. 

He reached out his green hand. “Here,” he said. “We forgot to give you 
your free passes for next year!” 



WHY I'M AFRAID 
OF BEES 

1 

If you’re afraid of bees, I have to warn you—there are a lot of bees in this story. 
In fact, there are hundreds. 

Up until last month, I was afraid of bees. And when you read this story, 
you’ll see why. 

It all started in July when I heard a frightening buzz, the buzz of a bee. 

I sat up straight and searched all around. But I couldn’t see any bees 
anywhere. The scary buzzing sound just wouldn’t stop. In fact, it seemed to be 
getting louder. 

“It’s probably Andretti again,” I told myself. “Ruining my day, as usual.” 

I’d been reading a stack of comic books under the big maple tree in my 
back yard. Other kids might have better things to do on a hot, sticky summer 
afternoon—like maybe going to the pool with their friends. 

But not me. My name is Gary Lutz, and I have to be honest. I don’t have 
many real close friends. Even my nine-year-old sister, Krissy, doesn’t like me 
very much. My life is the pits. 

“Why is that?” I constantly ask myself. “What exactly is wrong with me? 
Why do all the kids call me names like Lutz the Klutz? Why does everybody 
always make fun of me?” 

Sometimes I think it might be because of the way I look. That morning, I’d 
spent a long time studying myself in the mirror. I’d stared at myself for at least 
half an hour. 

I saw a long, skinny face, a medium-sized nose, and straight blond hair. Not 
exactly handsome, but not terrible. 

Bzzzzzz. 

I can’t stand that sound! And it was coming even closer. 

I flopped over on my stomach. Then I peered around the side of the maple 
tree. I wanted to get a better view of my neighbor’s yard. 

Oh, no, I thought. I was right. The buzzing sound was coming from Mr. 
Andretti’s bees. My neighbor was at it again. He was always hanging out in the 
back by his garage, messing with those bees of his. 

How could he handle them every day without worrying about getting 
stung? I asked myself. Didn’t they give him the creeps? 

I climbed to my knees and edged a few inches forward. Even though I 
wanted to get a better look at Mr. Andretti, I didn’t want him to see me. 

The last time he caught me watching him, he made a big deal out of it. He 
acted as if there were some kind of law against sitting outside in your own back 
yard! 

“What’s this?” he bellowed at the top of his lungs. “Did someone start a 
neighborhood watch committee without informing me? Or is the FBI recruiting 
ten-year-old spies these days?” 

This last remark really steamed me, because Mr. Andretti knows perfectly 
well that I’m twelve years old. After all, my family has lived next door to him for 
my entire life. Which is bad luck for me. Mainly since I’m afraid of bees. 

I might as well confess it right away. I’m scared of a few other things, too, 
such as: dogs, big mean kids, the dark, loud noises, and swimming in the ocean. 
I’m even scared of Claus. That’s Krissy’s dumb cat. 

But, most of all, I’m scared of bees. Unfortunately, with a beekeeper for a 
neighbor, there are always bees around. Hairy, crawly, buzzing, stinging bees. 

“Meow!” 

I jumped up as Claus the cat came creeping up behind me. “Why do you 
have to stalk me like that?” I cried. 

As I spoke, Claus moved forward and wrapped himself around my leg. 
Then he dug his long, needle-sharp claws into my skin. 

“Ouch!” I screamed. “Get away from me!” I cannot understand how Krissy 
can love that creature so much. She says he only jumps on me because he “likes” 
me. Well, all I can say is that I don’t like him! And I wish he would keep away 
from me! 

When I finally managed to chase Claus away, I went back to studying my 
neighbor. Yes, I’m scared of bees. And I’m fascinated by them, too. 

I can’t seem to stop watching Mr. Andretti all the time. At least he keeps his 
hives in a screened-in area behind his garage. That makes me feel pretty safe. 
And he acts as if he knows what he’s doing. In fact, he acts as if he’s the world’s 
greatest living expert on bees! 

Today, Mr. Andretti was wearing his usual bee outfit. It’s a white suit, and a 
hat with a wire-screen veil hanging down to protect his face. His clothes are tied 
with string at the wrists and ankles. He looks just like some kind of alien 
creature out of a horror movie. 

As my neighbor carefully opened and closed the drawerlike sections of his 

hanging hives, I noticed he wasn’t wearing any gloves. 

Once, when I was with my dad, Mr. Andretti had explained this to us. “It’s 
like this, Lutz,” he said. Lutz is my father, Ken Lutz. Naturally, during this entire 
conversation, Mr. Andretti had acted as if I wasn’t even there. 

“Your average beekeepers usually wear gloves,” he explained. “A lot of the 
brave ones use gloves with no fingers and thumbs so they can work with the 
bees more easily.” 

Mr. Andretti thumped himself on the chest and went on. “But your truly 
outstanding beekeeper—such as myself—likes to work with his bare hands. My 
bees trust me. You know, Lutz, bees are really a lot smarter than most people 
realize.” 

Oh, sure, I said to myself at the time. If they’re really so smart, why do they 
keep coming back to your hive and letting you steal all their honey from them? 

Bzzzzzz. 

The humming from Mr. Andretti’s hives suddenly grew louder and more 
threatening. I stood up and walked over to the fence between our two back yards. 
I gazed into the screened-in area to see what was going on. 

Then I gasped out loud. 

Mr. Andretti’s white suit didn’t appear white anymore. It had become black! 

Why? Because he was totally covered with bees! 

As I stared, more and more of the insects oozed out of their hives. They 
crawled all over Mr. Andretti’s arms and chest, and even on his head. 

I was so grossed out, I thought I might puke! 

Mr. Andretti’s hat and veil shimmered and bulged as if they were alive! 

Wasn’t he scared of all those stingers? 

As I leaned over the fence, Andretti suddenly yelled at me: “Gary—look 
out/” 

I froze. “Huh?” 

“The bees!” Mr. Andretti screamed. “They’re out of control! Run!” 

2 

I never ran so fast in my life! I charged across the yard and stumbled up the back 
steps of my house. 

I flung open the screen door and almost fell into the house. Then I stopped 
and leaned against the kitchen table, gasping for air. 

When I finally caught my breath, I listened hard. I could still hear the angry 
buzzing of the bees from the next yard. Then I heard something else. 

“Haw haw haw!” 

Somebody was laughing out there. And it sounded suspiciously like Mr. 
Andretti. 

Slowly, I turned around and peered out through the screen door. My 
neighbor was standing at the bottom of the back steps. He’d taken off his bee 
veil, and I could see that he had a huge grin on his face. 

“Haw haw! You should have seen the expression on your face, Gary. You 
never would believe how funny you looked! And the way you ran! 

I stared at him. “You mean your bees weren’t escaping?” 

Mr. Andretti slapped his knee. “Of course they weren’t! I have complete 
control of those bees at all times. They come and go, bringing nectar and pollen 
back from the flowers.” 

He paused to wipe some sweat off his forehead. “Of course, sometimes I 
have to go out and recapture a few lost bees with my net. But most of them know 
my hives are really the best home they can possibly have!” 

“So this was all a joke, Mr. Andretti?” I tried to sound angry. But that’s hard 
to do when your voice is shaking even harder than your knees! “It was supposed 
to be funny?” 

“I guess that’ll teach you to get a life and stop staring at me all day!” he 
replied. Then he turned and walked away. 

I was so angry! What a mean trick! 

It was bad enough having kids my age pick on me all the time. But now the 
grown-ups were starting in! 

I pounded my fist on the kitchen table just as my mother walked into the 
room. “Hi, Gary,” she said, frowning. “Try not to destroy the furniture, okay? I 
was just about to make myself a sandwich. Would you like one?” 

“I guess so,” I muttered, sitting down at the table. 

“Would you like the usual?” 

I nodded. “The usual” was peanut butter and jelly, which I never get tired 
of. For a snack, I usually like taco chips, the spicier the better. As I waited for 
my sandwich, I ripped open a new bag of chips and started chewing away. 

“Uh-oh.” Mom was rummaging through the refrigerator. “I’m afraid we’re 
out of jelly. Guess we’ll have to use something else.” 

She pulled out a small glass jar. “How about this with your peanut butter?” 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Honey.” 

“Honey!” I shrieked. “No way!” 

Later, I was feeling lonely. I wandered over to the school playground. As I 
walked by the swing set, I saw a bunch of kids I knew from school. 

They were standing around on the softball diamond, choosing up sides for a 
game. I joined them. Maybe, just maybe, they’d let me play. 

“Gail and I are captains,” a boy named Louie was saying. 

I walked over and stood at the edge of the group. I was just in time. 

One by one, Louie and Gail picked players for their teams. Every kid was 
chosen. Every kid except one, that is. I was left standing by myself next to home 
plate. 

As I slumped my shoulders and stared down at the ground, the captains 
starting fighting over me. “You take him, Gail,” Louie said. 

“No. You take him.” 

“No fair. I always get stuck with Lutz!” 

As the two captains argued over who was going to be stuck with me, I 
could feel my face getting redder and redder. I wanted to leave. But then they all 
would have said I was a quitter. 

Finally, Gail sighed and rolled her eyes. “Oh, all right,” she said. “We’ll 
take him. But remember the special Lutz rule. He gets four strikes before he’s 
out!” 

I swallowed hard and followed my teammates out onto the diamond. At that 
point, luck was with me. Gail sent me to the outfield. 

“Go way out in right, Lutz,” Gail ordered. “By the back fence. Nobody ever 
hits it out there.” 

Some kids might be angry about being stuck so far away from the action. 

But I was grateful. If no balls were hit to me, I wouldn’t have a chance to drop 
them the way I always did. 

As I watched the game, my stomach slowly tied itself into a tight knot. I 
was last in the batting order. But when my turn at the plate finally came around, 
the bases were loaded. 

I picked up the bat and wandered out toward the plate. A groan rose up 
from my teammates. “Lutz is up?” somebody cried in disbelief. 

“Easy out!” yelled the girl playing first base. “No batter, no batter, no 
batter!” Everyone on the other team hooted and laughed. Out of the corner of my 
eye I saw Gail put her face in her hands. 

I ground my teeth together and started praying. Please let me get a walk. 
Please let me get a walk. I knew I could never hit the ball. So a walk was my one 
and only hope. 

Of course I struck out. 

Four straight strikes. 

“Lutz the Klutz!” I heard someone cry. Then a lot of kids laughed. 

Without looking back, I marched off the baseball diamond and away from 
the playground. I was heading home toward the peace and quiet of my own 
room. It might not be perfect, I thought. But at least at home no one teased me 
about being a klutz. 

“Hey, look, guys!” a voice shouted as I turned onto my street. 

“Hey—wow—it’s Lutz the Klutz!” someone else answered. 

“Lookin’ good, dude!” 

I couldn’t believe my bad luck. The three voices belonged to the biggest, 
meanest, toughest creeps in the entire neighborhood—Barry, Marv, and Karl. 
They’re my age, but at least five times as big! 

These guys are gorillas! I mean, their knuckles drag on the sidewalk! 

And when they’re not swinging back and forth on a tire swing in their 
gorilla cage, what’s their favorite activity? 

You guessed it. Beating me up! 

“Give me a break, guys,” I pleaded. “I’m having a bad day.” 

They laughed. 

“You want a break, Lutz?” one of them shouted menacingly. “Here!” 

I only had time to blink as I watched a huge, mean-looking fist heading 
right for my nose. 

3 

A long, painful ten minutes later, I walked through the back door of my house. 
Fortunately, my mom was somewhere upstairs. She didn’t see my bloody nose, 
scratched, bruised arms, and torn shirt. 

All I needed was for her to start fussing over me and threatening to call the 
other boys’ parents. If that happened, Barry, Marv, and Karl really would kill me 
the next time they saw me. 

As I crept up the stairs, Claus the cat came leaping out at me. 

“Yowl!” 

“Whoooooa!” I was so shocked, I almost fell back down the stairs. “Get 
away from me, you monster!” 

I pushed the cat away and hurried down the hall to the bathroom. I gazed 
into the mirror and almost heaved. I looked like road kill! 

I rinsed off my nose with ice-cold water. Then I cleaned off all the blood 
and staggered to my room. 

I took off my ripped-up T-shirt and hid it behind my bed. Then I put on a 
winter shirt with long sleeves. It would be hot, but it would hide my scratched 
arms. 

Downstairs in the kitchen, I found Mom and Krissy. Mom was getting out 
mixing bowls and eggs, and Krissy was tying a big apron around her waist. As 
usual, Claus was purring and wrapping himself around Krissy’s legs. Why did he 
act like such an innocent little kitten around her, and such a monster around me? 

“Hi, Gary,” my mom said to me. “You want to help us make peanut butter 
cookies?” 

“No, thanks,” I said. “But I’ll lick the bowl for you later.” I walked over to 
the table and picked up the bag of taco chips I’d left there before. 

“Well, at least you can help by getting that new jar of peanut butter out of 
the cupboard and opening it for me,” Mom said. “This recipe calls for a lot of 
peanut butter.” 

“Sounds good,” I said. “Just so long as it doesn’t have any honey in it.” 

I opened the cupboard door and took out the peanut butter. I tried to twist 
off the cap. I twisted as hard as I could, but the top just wouldn’t move. I banged 
the jar on the countertop and tried again. Still no luck. 

“Do you have a wrench or something around, Mom?” I asked. “This thing 
just won’t budge.” 

“Maybe if you ran hot water on it,” my mother began. 

“Oh, puh-lease!” Krissy said with a snort. Wiping her hands on her apron, 
she crossed the room and grabbed the jar away from me. 

With two fingers, she twisted off the cap. 

Then she started laughing her head off. My mom started laughing, too. 

Can you believe it? My own mother was laughing at me! 

“I guess you forgot to eat your oat bran this morning,” Mom said. 

“I’m leaving,” I muttered to Mom and Krissy. “Forever.” 

The two of them were laughing together. I don’t think they even heard me. 

Totally miserable, I stepped out the front door and slammed it hard behind 
me. I decided to ride my bike around the block a few times. When I went around 
to the side of the house and got it out of the garage, I started to cheer up a little 
bit. 

My bike is really awesome. It’s a new, blue, twenty-one speed, and it’s real 
sleek and cool. My dad gave it to me for my twelfth birthday. 

I jumped on my bike and headed down the driveway. As I turned onto the 
street, I saw some girls walking down the sidewalk. Out of the corner of my eye, 
I recognized them. 

Wow! I thought. It’s Judy Donner and Kaitlyn Davis! 

Both Judy and Kaitlyn go to my school. They’re really pretty and very 
popular. 

To be honest, I’ve had a major crush on Judy since the fourth grade. And 
once, at the fifth-grade picnic, she actually smiled at me. At least, I think it was 
at me. 

So when I saw those girls walking down the street, I decided it was a good 
time to try to be really cool. 

I flipped my baseball cap around so the brim was at the back of my head. 
Then I folded my arms across my chest and started pedaling no-handed. 

As I passed them, I glanced over my shoulder and flashed my most 
glamorous smile at Judy and Kaitlyn. 

Before my beautiful smile faded, I felt a tug at my sneaker. I realized 
instantly that my shoelace was caught in the chain! 

A horrible grinding sound filled the air. The bike jerked and lurched from 
side to side—and I lost control! 

“Gary—!” I heard Judy shriek. “Gary—look out for that car!” 

4 

CRAAAAAAACK. 

I didn’t see the lamppost until I hit it. 

As I toppled off my bike and shot sideways through the air, I heard the 
sound of metal crumpling, ripping, and shredding. 

I landed on my face in a deep, warm puddle of mud. 

I heard the car rumble past me. 

Slowly, I pulled my face out of the mud. 

Guess I didn’t look too cool, I thought bitterly. Maybe at least I’ll get a little 
sympathy. 

No way. 

I could hear Judy and Kaitlyn laughing behind me on the sidewalk. “Nice 
bike, Gary!” one of them called. They hurried away. 

I had never been so humiliated in all my life. If I could have, I would have 
put down roots in that mud puddle and turned myself into a tree. It might not be 
the most exciting life in the world. But at least no one laughs at a tree. 

I’m serious. At that moment, I would have happily traded lives with a tree. 
Or a bird. Or a bug. Or just about any other living object on the planet. 

With that sad thought, I decided to get myself up and out of there before 
anyone else came along. It took all my strength to peel my wrecked bicycle off 
the lamppost. Luckily, I didn’t have far to drag it. 

For the second time in the same afternoon, I crept into my house and up the 
stairs so I could get cleaned up before anyone saw me. Now, as I studied my 
reflection in the bathroom mirror, I saw there was no way I could hide all my 
cuts and scrapes from my mom. 

“Oh, who cares?” I moaned as I washed the mud off my face and hands. 
“Who cares if Mom sees them? I’ll be doing her a favor by giving her something 
else to laugh at. It’ll really make her day!” 

I went back into my room and changed into my last clean shirt. Then I 
glanced around, trying to find something to do. 

I decided to boot up my computer. Playing with my computer is one of the 
few things I really like. When I’m lost in the world of a computer game, 
sometimes I can actually forget I’m a total jerk named Gary Lutz. Nobody in a 

computer game ever calls me Lutz the Klutz. 

I turned on the computer and decided to have another try at the Planet 
Monstro Fantasy game I’d been stuck on for two days. Monstro is a really cool 
game. 

When you play it, you’re a character named The Warrior, and you’re 
trapped on the planet Monstro. You have to get yourself out of all kinds of scary 
situations. 

Before I started to play, I thought I’d check Computa Note, one of the 
electronic bulletin boards I’m connected to on the computer. 

I’d left a message there on Monday, asking if anyone knew how to defeat 
the two-headed dragon that kept eating me on the thirteenth moon of Monstro. 
Sometimes other people in the country who are playing the same game will send 
each other hints. 

When I accessed Computa Note, I saw the following computer-game- 
related messages on the screen: 

To Arnold in Milwaukee: Have you tried rubbing smashed-up eucalyptus leaves 
all over yourself in the rain forest game? It’s an ecologically correct way of 
repelling the poisonous ants in EcoScare 95. From Lisa in San Francisco 

To R from Sacramento: The only way to escape from the flood on your spaceship 
in SpaceQuest 20 is to inflate your suit and float away. From L in St. Louis 

To Gary in Millville: Try stabbing the dragon between the eyes. It worked for 
me. From Ted in Ithaca 

Oh, terrific, I thought. I’d been trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But 
the creature always ate me before I could do it! What was “Ted in Ithaca” doing 
that I wasn’t? 

I decided to leave another electronic note, asking Ted to explain what he 
meant. But, as I started typing, I noticed another message at the very bottom of 
the computer screen. 

I read it. Then I read it again very carefully: 

TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 
Change places with someone for a week! 

5 

What could that mean? 

I pressed the Enter button so I could read what was next. I desperately 
wanted more information about the message. This is what I saw: 

TAKE A VACATION FROM YOURSELF. 

Change places with someone for a week! 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS 
113 Roach Street, Suite 2-B 
or call 1-800-555-SWAP 

How could it possibly work? I asked myself. How could two people change lives 
without getting into all kinds of trouble? 

I had to admit it sounded totally crazy. 

Crazy, but interesting. 

I yawned and scratched the back of my head. 

“Ouch!” My hand grazed one of the painful bumps I’d gotten from Barry, 
Marv, and Karl. 

It really hurt. But the stab of pain helped me make up my mind. I was 
definitely ready for some changes in my life. 

“I don’t want to spend the rest of my life getting beat up!” I told myself. 
“Or crashing into lampposts, either! Or being the last person chosen for the 
team!” 

I took out a piece of paper and copied the address from the screen. As I did, 
I realized it was only a few blocks from my school. I knew just where it was. I 
could stop by the Person-to-Person office the next day. 

I’m really going to check it out, I decided. 

Making up my mind like that improved my mood a lot. I was beginning to 
feel almost cheerful when I went back downstairs. But not for long. When my 
family sat down in the dining room for dinner, my father noticed my banged-up 
face. 

“Gary!” he exclaimed. “What in the world happened to you?” 

“Er,” I said. “I had a little accident on my bike.” I winced as I said the word 
“bike”. I was thinking about the mangled wreck in the corner of the garage. 

“I don’t believe that for a minute,” Mom said. “I’m sure you’ve been 
fighting with those big kids in the neighborhood again. Why in the world can’t 
you children learn to settle your disagreements peacefully?” 

Krissy started laughing so hard, she almost choked on her tuna casserole. 
“Gary doesn’t have any disagreements with those guys, Mom!” she said. “They 
just like to beat him up!” 

My mother shook her head angrily. “Well, I think that’s just outrageous!” 
she said. “I have a good mind to call those boys’ parents up right now and give 
them a piece of my mind!” 

I groaned loudly. “I’m telling you, Mom, I really had an accident with my 
bike. If you don’t believe me, go check it out in the garage.” 

Then my father did believe me. He started lecturing me about bike safety 
and why I should have been wearing my helmet and how I was going to have to 
pay to have the bike fixed with my own money. 

After a while, I stopped paying much attention. As I pushed my casserole 
around on my plate, all I could think about was my plan for changing my life 
with Person-to-Person Vacations. 

The sooner the better, I thought. The sooner I get out of this life, the better 
off I’ll be. 

We finished dinner, and I went upstairs to play on my computer again. I 
spent the rest of the evening with my Planet Monstro game. 

I kept trying to stab the dragon between the eyes. But even though I 
followed Ted from Ithaca’s advice, I couldn’t do it. The dragon ate me twenty- 
three times. 

Finally, I gave up and crawled into bed. I was so wiped out, I started 
drifting off to sleep almost right away. I turned over and pulled the blanket up 
under my chin. I curled up into a ball. The toes on my right foot touched 
something. 

“Huh?” I said out loud. “What is that down there?” 

My heart pounded in my chest. 

Slowly, I moved my toes again. 

“Ohhhhhh.” My blood turned into ice. 

I jumped out of bed and let out a bloodcurdling scream. 

6 

Frantically, I ripped the blankets off my bed. In the dim light coming in through 
the window, I could see the rat—fat and hairy, its red eyes gleaming at me. 

I screamed again. 

Then I heard laughter down the hall. Krissy’s laughter. 

My stomach sank. I made my way to the switch and turned on the light. 

Sure enough. The rat still stared at me from my bed. But now I recognized 
it. A gray rubber rat. One of Claus’ favorite toys. 

In her room down the hall, Krissy squealed with laughter. 

“I’m going to get you, you little brat!” I screamed. I thought about going 
down the hall and really thumping her. But I quickly decided against it. 

Even though Krissy is only nine, she happens to be pretty strong. There was 
an excellent chance she could beat me up. 

With an angry growl, I grabbed the rat off my bed and heaved it into the 
corner of my room. Then, my heart still pounding with rage, I turned off the light 
and climbed back under the covers. 

“Tomorrow,” I promised myself in the dark room. “Tomorrow, you, Gary 
Lutz, are going to check out that ad and find out if you can change your life. 
Even if it’s only for a week, it has to be better than this miserable life you have 
now!” 

The next day I kept my promise to myself. After breakfast, I walked the six 
blocks to Roach Street and started reading the street numbers, trying to find 
number 113. 

I guess I was looking for some kind of big, glass office building. But when I 
finally found number 113, it was on a small, gray building that looked something 
like my dentist’s office. A little sign on the outside read: 

PERSON-TO-PERSON VACATIONS, 

Suite 2-B 

I opened the door and walked up a flight of steps. At the top, I opened another 
door and went into a kind of waiting room with beige carpeting and tan leather 

chairs. 

A dark-haired woman sat behind a big glass window. She smiled at me 
when I came in, and I walked over to talk to her. 

“Good afternoon,” she said into a microphone. 

I jumped. Even though the woman was right in front of me, her voice came 
out through a speaker on the wall. 

“Uh... um,” I stammered nervously. “I came about the message on the 
electronic bulletin board?” 

“Oh, yes,” the woman replied with another smile. “A lot of people learn 
about us from their computers. Pardon me for staying behind this glass shield. 
But the equipment behind me is so delicate, we have to be very careful about 
protecting it.” 

I peered over the woman’s shoulder. I could see gleaming metal counters 
and a wall of electronic equipment, including what appeared to be heart 
monitors, video screens, X-ray machines, and cameras. It looked like something 
right out of Star Trek! 

I suddenly had a heavy feeling in my stomach. Maybe this is a bad idea, I 
thought. “Y-you probably don’t like kids hanging around in here,” I stammered. I 
started backing away toward the door. 

“Not true,” she said. “Many of our customers are young people such as you. 
A lot of kids are interested in changing places with someone else for a week. 
What did you say your name was?” 

“Gary. Gary Lutz.” 

“Nice to meet you, Gary. My name is Ms. Karmen. How old are you. About 
twelve?” 

I nodded. 

“Come over here for a minute,” Ms. Karmen said, motioning with her hand. 

Cautiously, I walked back over to the glass booth. She opened a little slot at 
the bottom of her window and pushed out a book. I picked it up and saw that it 
was a photo album, like the one my parents have from their wedding. 

I opened it and started looking through it. “It’s kids!” I exclaimed. “All 
about my age.” 

“Correct,” said Ms. Karmen. “They’re all interested in switching lives with 
someone else for a week.” 

“Wow.” I studied the album. 

A lot of the kids in the pictures looked big and strong. And cool. Kids like 

that wouldn’t be afraid of anything, I told myself. I wondered what it would be 
like to be one of them. 

“You can pick a boy—or even a girl, for that matter—to trade places with 
for a week,” Ms. Karmen was saying. 

“But how does it work?” I asked. “Do I just go take over somebody’s room 
and live in his house for a week? Go to his school? Wear his clothes?” 

The woman laughed. “It’s far more interesting than that, Gary. With our 
getaway vacations, you actually become the other person for a week.” 

“Huh?” 

“What we have,” the woman explained, “is a safe, painless way to switch 
one person’s mind into another person’s body. So, while you’ll know you’re 
really you, no one else will recognize you. Not even the other boy’s parents!” 

I was still confused. “But... what about my body? Does it get stored here?” 

“No, no. We here at Person-to-Person will find someone else to take over 
your body for the week. Your parents will never even know you’re gone!” 

I looked down at my skinny body and wondered who could possibly want 
to borrow it for a week. Ms. Karmen leaned forward in her chair. “So what do 
you say? Are you interested, Gary?” 

I stared into her dark brown eyes and swallowed hard. I broke into a cold 
sweat. This whole thing was really weird—and scary! “Uh,” I said. “I don’t 
know. I mean I’m just not sure.” 

“Don’t feel bad,” Ms. Karmen said. “Many people take some time to get 
used to the idea of a body switch. You can think it over for as long as you wish.” 

She took out a small camera. “But in the meantime, would you mind if I 
took your picture? That way, we can find out if anyone is interested in being in 
your body for a week.” 

“Well, I guess it’s okay,” I replied. 

She snapped the picture, and the flash went off in front of my eyes. “But 
I’m still not sure I want to go through with it.” 

“There’s no obligation,” Ms. Karmen said. “Why don’t we leave it this 
way? You fill out a form describing yourself. Then I’ll put your picture into our 
display album. And, when we find someone to take your place, I’ll call you to 
see if you’ve made up your mind.” 

“Okay,” I replied. What harm could that do? I asked myself. There was no 
way she would ever find anybody who’d want my body for a week! 

I spent a few minutes filling out the form. I had to write down my name and 

address. Then I had to tell all about my hobbies, and how well I did in school, 
and things like that. When I was finished, I handed it to Ms. Karmen, said good¬ 
bye, and headed out the door. 

I made it most of the way home without getting into trouble. A block and a 
half from my house, I ran into my three most unfavorite people in the world— 
Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

“Hey, guys!” Barry cried with an ugly smile. “The Klutz is up and walking 
around. That must mean we didn’t do a very good job of pounding him 
yesterday.” 

“No,” I insisted. “You did a good job. You did a very good job, guys!” 

I guess they didn’t believe me. They all jumped me at once. 

When they were finally finished—about five minutes later—I lay on the 
ground and watched them walk away through one swollen black eye. 

“Have a nice day!” Marv called back to me. All three of them roared with 
laughter. 

I sat up and pounded the ground with my fist. 

“I’m sick of this!” I wailed. “I want to be somebody else —anybody else!” 

Slowly and painfully, I dragged myself to my feet. “I’m doing it,” I decided. 
“And nobody’s going to stop me. Tomorrow I’m going to call Person-to-Person 
Vacations. I want them to put me into somebody else’s body. As soon as they 
can!” 

7 

I spent the next few days changing my Band-Aids and hoping the woman from 
Person-to-Person Vacations would call me. 

At first, I ran to answer the phone every time it rang. But of course it was 
never for me. Usually, it was one of Krissy’s dumb friends, wanting to giggle 
and gossip. 

One afternoon, I was reading a science-fiction book in my usual spot 
behind the big maple tree. I heard a sound, and peered around from behind the 
tree. 

Sure enough, there was Mr. Andretti walking across the lawn. He was 
dressed in his beekeeping outfit. As I watched, Mr. Andretti went to the 
screened-in area off the garage and started opening up the little doors to his 
beehives. 

Bzzzzzz. 

I covered my ears, but I couldn’t shut out the loud, droning hum. How I 
hated that sound! It was just so frightening. 

I shivered and decided it was time to go back inside. 

As I climbed to my feet, a bullet-sized object shot right by my nose. A bee! 

Were the bees escaping for real this time? 

I gasped and stared over at Andretti’s house. Then I almost choked. There 
was a big hole in the screen around the beekeeping area. 

A lot of bees were flying out! 

“Ow!” I cried out as a bee landed on the side of my head and buzzed loudly 
into my ear. 

Frantically, I batted it away. Then I ran toward the house. For one wild 
moment, I thought about calling the police or maybe the paramedics. 

But, as I slammed the back door, I heard an all-too-familiar sound. “Haw 
haw haw!” 

Once again, Mr. Andretti was laughing at me. 

I pounded my fist into my other hand. Oh, how I’d like to sock that guy in 
the nose! I thought. 

I was interrupted by the sound of the phone ringing. 

“Give me a break!” I cried as I stomped off to answer it. “Don’t Krissy’s 

moron friends have anything better to do than talk on the phone all day long?” 

“Whaddya want?” I snarled into the mouthpiece. 

“Is this Gary?” a woman’s voice asked. “Gary Lutz?” 

“Uh... yes,” I answered in surprise. “I’m Gary.” 

“Hi, Gary. This is Ms. Karmen. From Person-to-Person Vacations? 
Remember me?” 

My heart started thumping in my chest. “Yes. I remember,” I answered. 

“Well, if you’re still interested, we’ve found a match for you!” 

“A match?” 

“Correct,” said Ms. Karmen. “We’ve found a boy who wants to switch 
bodies with you for a week. Are you interested?” 

I hesitated for a few seconds. But, then, as I gazed out the back door of the 
kitchen, I saw a big, fat bee throwing itself against the outside of our screen 
door. “Haw haw!” Mr. Andretti’s scornful laughter boomed across the back yard. 

My mouth tightened into a thin line. “Yes,” I said firmly. “I’m really 
interested. When can we make the switch?” 

“Why, we could do it now,” said Ms. Karmen. “If that’s all right with you.” 

My pulse raced as I thought. My parents were both out for the afternoon, 
and Krissy was playing at a friend’s house. The timing was perfect. I’d never get 
another chance like this! 

“Now is great!” I exclaimed. 

“Terrific, Gary. It will take me about twenty minutes to get to your house.” 

“I’ll be waiting.” 

The next twenty minutes seemed to take forever. While I waited, I paced back 
and forth in the living room, wondering what my new body would be like. 

What would my new parents be like? My house? My clothes? Would I 
actually have some friends this time around? 

By the time Ms. Karmen arrived, I was a wreck. When the doorbell rang, 
my hand was sweating so much, I could barely turn the doorknob to let her in. 

“Let’s go in the kitchen,” Ms. Karmen suggested. “I like to set up my 
equipment on a table.” She opened a small case and took out some black boxes 
with monitors on them. 

I showed her the way to the kitchen. “So who’s this kid who wants to 
switch places with me?” I asked. 

“His name is Dirk Davis.” 

Dirk Davis! I thought excitedly. Even his name sounded cool. “What does 
he look like?” 

Ms. Karmen opened up a white photo album. “Here’s his picture,” she said, 
passing it to me. 

I looked down at a picture of a tall, athletic-looking blond boy in black 
Lycra bike shorts and a blue muscle shirt. I blinked in surprise. 

“He looks like a surfer or something!” I cried. “Why in the world does he 
want to switch bodies with me? Is this some kind of trick?” 

Ms. Karmen smiled. “Well, to be honest, it’s not exactly your body he’s 
interested in, Gary. He wants your mind. You see, Dirk needs someone who is 
good in math. He has some very hard math tests coming up in summer school. 
He wants you to take them for him.” 

“Oh,” I said. I felt relieved. “Well, I usually do pretty well on math tests.” 

“We know that, Gary. Person-to-Person does its homework. You’re very 
good at math. Dirk’s good at skateboarding.” 

I sat down at the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

A bee buzzed right under my nose. “Hey!” I yelled, jumping back up. 
“How’d that bee get in here?” 

Ms. Karmen glanced up from her equipment. “Your back door is open just a 
bit. Now please sit down and try to relax. I need to fasten this strap around your 
wrist.” 

With a nervous glance at the back door, I sat back down. Ms. Karmen 
strapped a black band around my wrist. Then she started fiddling with some 
wires attached to one of her machines. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew in front of me, and I wiggled around in my chair. 

“Please sit still, Gary. Otherwise the equipment won’t work.” 

“Who can sit still with all these bees buzzing around in here?” I asked. I 
lowered my eyes and saw three fat bees walking across the table. 

Bzzzzzz. 

Another bee flew past my right eye. 

“What’s up with these bees?” I was starting to panic. 

“Don’t pay any attention to them,” Ms. Karmen said, “and they won’t 
bother you.” She made one more adjustment to her machine. “Besides, Dirk 
Davis isn’t afraid of bees. And, as soon as I flip this switch, you won’t be, 

either!” 

“But...!” 

ZZAAAAPPPP! 

A blinding white light flashed in front of my eyes. 
I tried to cry out. 

But my breath caught in my throat. 

The light grew brighter, brighter. 

And then I sank into a deep pool of blackness. 

8 

Something was wrong. 

Colors returned. But they were a total blur. 

I struggled to make everything come clear. But I couldn’t seem to focus on 
anything. 

My new body didn’t feel right, either. I was lying on my back, and I felt 
light as a feather, light enough to float away. 

Could this be Dirk Davis’ tall, muscular body? It certainly didn’t feel like it! 

Was this some kind of trick? I asked myself. Was the picture of Dirk Davis 
a phony? Was he really a lot smaller than he looked in the photo album? 

I reached out one of my hands and tried to touch my stomach. But my hand 
felt really weird, too. It was small, and my arm seemed to be bending in several 
places at once! 

What’s going on? I wondered, trembling with fright. 

Why do I feel so weird? 

“Whooooa!” I cried out as I finally managed to touch my body. “Yuck.” My 
skin was soft. And it was covered with a fine layer of fuzz. 

“Help! Ms. Karmen! Help! Something’s wrong!” I tried to shout. 

But there was something wrong with my voice. It came out all tiny and 
squeaky. Little mouse squeaks. 

I rolled over onto my stomach and tried to get up. I spread my arms to 
balance myself. 

I gasped as I realized my feet weren’t even touching the ground! 

I was flying! 

“What’s happening to me?” I cried in my squeaky little voice. I floated 
forward and crashed into a kitchen cupboard. 

“Ow! Help me!” 

I moved my strange new arms and realized I had some control over which 
way I flew. I felt some weird muscles in my back going into action. Testing my 
new muscles, I flew over to the kitchen window. 

Exhausted, I landed on the sill. I turned my head to one side. Then I gasped 
in fright. 

A hideous monster was reflected in the window glass! 

The creature had two huge glaring eyes. And it was staring right at me. 

I tried to scream. But I was too terrified to utter a sound. 

I—I have to get away! I decided. 

I moved my feet and started to run. The monster in the glass ran, too. 

I stopped and stared at the window glass. The monster stopped and stared 
back at me. 

“Oh, no! Please—no!” I cried. “Please don’t let it be true!” I reached up and 
tried to cover my eyes. The creature in the window did the same thing. 

And suddenly I knew the hideous truth. The monster in the mirror—it was 
me. 

Ms. Karmen had messed up. Totally. 

And now I was trapped inside the body of a bee! 

9 

I don’t know how long I stood there. 

I couldn’t stop staring at my reflection. 

I kept waiting to come out of this nightmare. I kept waiting to blink my 
eyes and find myself in Dirk Davis’ big, muscular body. 

But I didn’t look at all like Dirk Davis. 

I had two giant eyes—one on either side of my head—and two skinny little 
antennas sticking out of my forehead. 

My mouth was truly disgusting. I had some kind of long tongue, which I 
soon discovered I could move all around and make longer and shorter if I 
wanted. Which I didn’t. 

My body was covered with thick, black hair. I had three legs on either side 
of my body. And let’s not forget the wings sticking out of my shoulders! 

“This is the pits!” I cried. “I’m a bug! I’m a disgusting, hairy bug! Ms. 
Karmen—something went wrong! Help me!” 

Creeeeak. 

Slam! 

What was that? 

Oh, no! I realized that Ms. Karmen had just gone out the kitchen door. 

“No—wait! Wait!” I squeaked. She was my only hope! 

I had to catch her. I had to tell her what had happened! 

“Ms. Karmen!” I squeaked. “Ms. Karmen!” 

Frantically, I flew out of the kitchen into the living room. Out the window, I 
could see her car still parked out in front of the house. 

But the front door to the outside was shut. And bees can’t open doors. I was 
trapped inside my own house! 

The back door! I remembered. Ms. Karmen had said it was open just a bit. 

Yes! That was how all those bees got into the house in the first place! 

I fluttered my new wings and flew back into the kitchen. As I soared, I 
realized I was getting more and more control over my flight pattern. 

But I didn’t care about that right now. All I knew was that I had to get to 
Ms. Karmen before she drove away. 

I darted out the tiny opening in the back door. “Ms. Karmen!” I shouted as I 
flew around the side of the house. “Ms. Karmen! Help me! You messed up! I’m 
a bee! Help me!” 

My voice was so tiny, she couldn’t hear me. She opened her car door and 
started to climb behind the wheel. My only chance for a normal life was about to 
drive away! 

What could I do? How could I get her attention? 

Thinking quickly, I flew right toward her head. “Ms. Karmen!” I shouted in 
her ear. “It’s me. Gary!” 

Ms. Karmen uttered a startled cry. Then she drew back her hand and 
swatted me. Hard. 

“Ow!” My entire body vibrated with pain. The force of her swat sent me 
falling to the street. I hit the pavement with a painful splat. 

I shook my head, trying to clear my eyes. That’s when I realized I had an 
extra set of tiny eyes arranged in a kind of triangle on the top of my head. I used 
them to gaze straight up. 

And then I screamed in terror. 

I saw the tire rolling toward me. 

Ms. Karmen was about to drive right over me. I was about to be squashed 
like the bug that I was! 

10 

“Oh!” I froze in panic. 

Even with my blurred bee vision, I could see the deep treads in the tire as it 
rolled steadily toward me. 

Closer. Closer. 

I have to move! I told myself. 

Fly away! Fly away! 

But in my panic, I forgot how to use my new muscles. 

I—Fm going to be squashed! I realized. 

I uttered a final, weak cry. 

And the car stopped. 

“Huh?” My entire body was trembling. But somehow I managed to pull 
myself up. Up into the air. 

Yes. I was flying now. 

I could see Ms. Karmen inside the car. She was fastening her seat belt. She 
had stopped the car to put on her seat belt! 

“Hey, seat belts really do save lives!” I told myself. 

I called out to her. But of course she couldn’t hear me. I watched the car roll 
away until it was a blur of color. 

Then, exhausted and terrified, I buzzed over to a nearby lilac bush and 
dropped onto a leaf. “That was too close!” I told myself, in between gasps for 
air. “I’m going to get killed out here!” 

A green caterpillar inched its way up onto a nearby stem and started 
chewing noisily on the leaf I was resting on. I’d never really examined a 
caterpillar before. Up close, they’re real ugly. They look a little bit like dragons. 
Only scarier. 

“Keep away from me!” I yelled in my tiny voice. The caterpillar didn’t 
even turn its head. Maybe it didn’t hear me. 

I forgot all about the caterpillar when I heard footsteps coming up the front 
walk. I turned my head and used my sideways eye to see who it was. 

“Mom!” I screamed. “Mom! Over here!” 

She couldn’t hear me. She hurried up the steps and into the house. 

Suddenly, I was overcome by a wave of sadness. My own mother didn’t 
recognize me! 

Desperately, I fluttered my wings and flew away from the leaf. I made my 
way to the front of the house, and started buzzing around the front windows. 

I had my wings under complete control by now. But the scene I saw inside 
the house was enough to make me fall down onto the ground again. 

My mother stood in the living room talking to me! Or at least, that’s what 
she thought. Only I knew it couldn’t be me. / was stuck outside. But who was in 
there with my mom? Had Dirk Davis managed to get inside my body? 

I landed on the ledge and stared into the house. My mom was talking. The 
boy was nodding and laughing. He said something to her. If I stared closely, I 
could read his lips. 

“Hey, did you buy taco chips? I’m really starving, Mom.” 

That had to be Dirk talking inside my body. 

My mom smiled at him and patted him on the arm. I read his lips and saw 
that he was calling her “Mom” again. How could he do that? How could he call 
my mother “Mom”? 

If bees could cry—which I now know they can’t—I would have started 
bawling right then and there. Who did that boy think he was? For that matter, 
what kind of mom did I have, who couldn’t even tell that a total stranger was 
living inside her son’s body? 

As I watched “myself” and my mom chatting in the living room, I totally 
lost it. Like a crazed maniac, I started bashing my insect body into the window. 

“Buzz!” I cried. “Buzz! Buzz! Buzz! It’s me, Gary. Look out here! Help 

me!” 

Again and again, I smashed myself up against the glass. But no one inside 
the house noticed. 

After a few minutes, Mom brought the new me a bag of taco chips. I 
watched “Gary” rip the bag open and take out a handful of chips. Crumbs fell on 
the living room carpet as he crunched the spicy chips. 

I realized I was starving. 

But what do bees eat? I asked myself. Desperately, I tried to remember 
everything I’d ever read about the creatures. 

I thought of the hungry caterpillar, crunching away on the leaf. But I was 
almost positive bees didn’t eat leaves. 

But what did they eat? Other bugs? Ugh! The thought made me shudder. I’d 

die before I’d eat a bug! 

I buzzed around the yard, hoping to see something—anything—I could use 
for food. As I flew, I found that I was getting used to my strange new vision and 
learning how to work my different sets of eyes. 

I remembered something I’d once read in an old picture book called The 
Big Book of Bees. It said that bee eyes each have thousands of tiny lenses 
crowded together. But, because they don’t have pupils, they can’t really focus 
their eyes. 

Interesting, I thought. But not very helpful. If I could remember about bees’ 
eyesight, why couldn’t I remember what they ate? 

I settled onto another bush to think. And suddenly, I became aware of a 
wonderful odor nearby. I turned my head and saw a beautiful yellow flower. 

Then I remembered something else I’d read. “Pollen,” I said out loud. 
“Bees eat pollen. And they get it from flowers!” 

Excitedly, I flew up into the air and started hovering over the yellow 
blossom. I tried to open my mouth—before I remembered I didn’t have that kind 
of mouth anymore! 

Instead, I had my long, weird tongue. But how was I supposed to use it to 
get the stuff out of the flower? 

I didn’t have a clue! 

As I hummed around in the air, I realized I was becoming more and more 
exhausted. If I didn’t get something to eat soon, I was going to faint. 

I started to feel dizzy. I hardly knew where I was. 

I became more and more confused. My brain got so fuzzy, I even began to 
wonder if I’d ever actually been a boy at all. Maybe I’d really been a bee for my 
entire life, and I’d just dreamed about being a boy. 

Slam! 

Somebody closed a car door nearby, and I was startled out of my mental 
fog. I swiveled my head to look. 

Dad! 

He was closing the garage door. Now he was walking across the driveway 
and heading toward the back door of the house. 

“Dad!” I screamed. “Dad. It’s me. Gary! Help me!” 

“Hi, Gary,” Dad said. 

11 

“Dad! You can hear me!” I cried joyfully. “Dad—you’ve got to help me!” 

My heart sank when Dad walked right past me and started talking to the 
fake Gary. 

Desperately, I started buzzing round and round their heads. 

“Looks like Andretti’s lost one of his workers,” my dad laughed. He 
swatted at me with his rolled-up newspaper. 

A near miss. I darted away. 

“Uh, right,” the fake Gary laughed, pretending he knew what Dad was 
talking about. “Andretti.” 

“Let’s help get dinner on,” my dad said. He put a friendly hand on my 
former shoulder. “Okay, son?” 

“Sure thing, Dad.” 

Like best pals, my dad and his phony son crossed the lawn and opened the 
screen door. 

“Wait!” I shouted. “Wait!” 

Like a space rocket, I shot through the air after them. If I really put the 
speed on, I thought I could make it through the door before it closed. Fast, faster, 
and... 

BLAM! 

The screen door banged shut, right on top of my tiny bee body. Once again, 
I sank into a deep pool of blackness. 

“Ohhhhhh. Where am I? What happened? Am I still a bee?” 

Dazed, I fought my way back to the real world. When I was able to get my 
eyes open, I realized I was still a bee—a small, frail, slightly damaged bee— 
who’d just narrowly missed being scrunched by a screen door. 

Now I was lying on my back on the grass in our yard. My six legs were 
thrashing the air. 

“I was a klutz as a human—and I’m a klutz as a bee!” I wailed. I tried to 
flip myself over. “I’ve only been a bee for an hour, and I’ve almost been killed. 
Twice!” 

I suddenly knew what I had to do. I had to get to Ms. Karmen’s office and 
tell her what had happened. 

I didn’t know if I could do it. But I knew I had to try. 

I let out a small grunt, and with a huge effort, flipped over onto my 
stomach. Using all five of my eyes, I checked myself out. Both sets of wings 
seemed to be working. And all my six legs were still there. 

“Okay,” I told myself. “You can do it. Just fly to the Person-to-Person office 
and go inside.” 

I flapped my wings and started to take off into the air. But I’d only risen 
about an inch up off the ground when I heard a sound that made my blood run 
cold. 

It was Claus the cat. With his long, sharp claws extended, he leaped through 
the air. 

I let out a squeal as he pounced on me, grabbed me in one paw, and began 
to tighten his claws around my body. 

12 

As the cat’s claws closed around me, I saw his hideous mouth gape open. 

Sting him! Sting him! 

The thought burned into my mind. 

But something held me back. Something told me not to use my stinger. 

I suddenly remembered something else I’d read in The Big Book of Bees. 
Honeybees die once they use their stingers! 

No way! I thought. 

I was still hoping to come out of this alive. And back in my old body. 

So, if using my stinger was out, I’d have to use my wits instead. 

With a loud gnashing of his teeth, Claus snapped his huge mouth shut. He 
lowered his head, preparing to snap up his furry prize—me. 

At just the right moment, I burst out of his claws and ducked out from 
under his gnashing teeth. 

I tried to shoot off through the air. But the cat whipped out his paw and 
batted me down. 

Claus was playing with me as if I were one of the chewed-up catnip mouse 
toys Krissy always gives him for Christmas. 

With my last burst of strength, I spread my wings, shot up through the air, 
and flew as fast as I could. A backwards look out of one of my eyes told me that 
I’d left the surprised cat sitting in the grass. 

For one second, I experienced a wonderful sensation of triumph. “You did 
it, Gary!” I crowed to myself. “You, a tiny little bee, managed to fight off a great 
big vicious cat!” 

I was so pleased with myself, I decided to take a little victory lap. I spread 
my wings out wide and began a big, slow circle in the air. 

Whap! 

Oh, no! Now what? 

I’d crashed right into something! But what was it? It wasn’t hard, like a 
wall or a tree. Instead, it was soft and clinging, like cloth. And my feet were all 
tangled up in it. 

I struggled to squirm free. I wiggled and pushed. But my legs were caught. 

I was trapped. 


“Haw haw haw!” 

The booming laughter made my entire body shake. 

I suddenly realized where I was. 

I was caught in Andretti’s net. 

A wave of despair made me slump against the white netting. 
I knew exactly what would happen next. 

He would put me in his hives—and I would never get away. 

13 

“Time to go back home now, my little buzzing babies,” Mr. Andretti sang. “Time 
to get back to work, my honeys.” He started to laugh at his stupid pun. “My 
honeys! Haw haw! Oh, my, wasn’t that a good one?” 

Bzzzzz. Bzzzzzzz. 

From the loud humming sounds in my ears, I knew I wasn’t the only bee 
Andretti had caught in his net. In fact, out of my right eye, I could see another 
bee who looked just like me. He loomed right in front of me, and wiggled his 
antennas in my face. 

Whooa! What a monster! 

My wiry legs began trembling with fright. I twisted myself around and 
around, struggling to get away from him. 

I finally got myself turned the other way. But then I saw I was facing 
another bee. And another. Each one looked scarier than the last. 

They all had big, bulging eyes and creepy antennas! And they all buzzed 
menacingly at me. 

The frightening hum grew louder and louder as Mr. Andretti caught more 
bees in the net. Suddenly, the net began to shake. Up and down, up and down— 
like a violent earthquake—until I couldn’t even think straight! 

As the net shook, I lost my footing and fell into a big, squirming cluster of 
bees at the bottom of the net. 

Whooooa! I stumbled over the pile of wriggling, hairy bees. And as I 
staggered in terror, bees fell on top of me. 

A crawling, buzzing nightmare! 

I’ve never been so terrified. I screamed in my tiny voice. I tried to climb up 
the side of the net, but my feet were stuck under another bee’s body. How I hated 
the feel of his disgusting fuzz! 

In my terror, I knew I had to escape. I had to get away from here. I had to 
get to Ms. Karmen’s office and beg her to help me. 

Then I had the most terrifying thought of all. If I couldn’t escape, I 
suddenly realized, I would remain a bee for the rest of my life! 

As Mr. Andretti carried me and the other bees across his back yard, I started 
buzzing and shivering with panic. How could this have happened to me? I asked 

myself. How could I ever have been so stupid as to try to change bodies with 
somebody else? Why wasn’t I happy with the perfectly good body I’d already 
had? 

Mr. Andretti opened the door to the screened-in area off the side of his 
garage. “We’re back now, my little honeys,” he cooed. 

The net started to shake, and I figured out that Mr. Andretti was slowly 
turning it inside out. One by one, he started plucking us—his prisoners—off the 
side of the mesh cloth and plopping each one back inside his hanging drawer 
hives. 

As Andretti reached for the bees, they started buzzing louder than ever. 
Finally, it was my turn to be plucked out of the net. 

When I saw the ends of Andretti’s grasping fingers reaching for me, I hung 
back, clinging to the net. I suddenly remembered his bragging speech about how 
he never used gloves because his bees “trusted” him. 

I watched his fingers stretch toward me. 

It would be so cool to plunge my stinger into his soft, plump skin, I thought. 

Should I do it? 

Should I sting him? 

Should I? 

14 

I didn’t sting him. 

I really didn’t want to die. 

Sure, things really looked terrible for me right now. But I was still clinging 
to a shred of hope. 

Maybe, somehow, I’d find my way out of this bee prison and back into my 
own body. It didn’t seem very likely. But I was determined to keep on trying. 

“In you go, my fuzzy little friend,” Mr. Andretti said. He opened up one of 
the removable drawerlike parts of his hive and dropped me in. 

“Ohhhh,” I moaned. It was so dark inside the hive. And so confusing. 

Where should I go? What should I do? 

The air was hot and wet. Everywhere I turned, I was surrounded by a 
deafening, droning hum. 

“I—I can’t stand it!” I cried. I could feel myself totally losing it! 

All around me, bees scurried around in the darkness. I stayed where I was, 
too frightened to move. 

I suddenly realized I was still very hungry. If I didn’t get something to eat, I 
knew I’d never be able to find a way out of here! 

I spun around and started trying to explore. 

Out of my left eye, I saw another bee glaring at me. I froze in my tracks. 
Did bees attack each other inside their hives? I wondered. 

I didn’t remember reading anything about that in my bee book. But this bee 
really looked ready for a fight. 

“Please leave me alone,” I begged in my tiny voice. “Please give me a 
break.” 

The bee glared back at me. I’ve never seen such big, angry-looking eyes! 

Slowly, I started backing away from him. “Uh...” I squeaked nervously. 
“I’ve got to be going now. I... um... I have to get to work.” 

The bee bulged his eyes and waved his antennas in a threatening way. I was 
sure he planned to sting me. I turned and flew away as fast as I could. I tried to 
hide. 

I was so frightened, I couldn’t even make myself move. What if I bumped 
into another bee? I couldn’t even stand to think about what might happen if I did. 

I realized I had to move. I had to find something to eat. 

Shaking with fear, I tiptoed out into the open. I took a nervous look around. 

On the far wall, I could see a large cluster of bees, busily building 
something. A honeycomb! 

And where there was a honeycomb, I told myself, there was honey. 

I’ve always hated the sweet, sticky goo. But I knew I had to eat some. Right 
away! 

As quietly as I could, I crept over and joined the bee workers. Out of the 
corner of my eye, I saw them doing really gross things with their mouths. 

First, they used their legs to pick little flakes of waxy-looking stuff off their 
abdomens. Then they crammed the wax into their mouths and started working 
their jaws up and down like little chewing machines. Finally, they spit out the 
wax and used it to build part of the honeycomb they were working on. 

“Yuck!” It looked so disgusting. It made me sick! 

But what choice did I have? I had to eat some honey—even if it was 
covered with bee spit. 

I turned my head and practiced sucking my tongue up and down. Then I 
slurped up a big puddle of honey. 

Amazing! For the first time in my life, I actually liked that stuff. Soon, I 
was sucking it down as if it were chocolate milk. 

After a while, I got quite good with my tongue, which was actually more of 
a bendable tube than a tongue. It was really the perfect tool for guzzling honey. 

If I ever made it back to the outside world, I thought I’d now be pretty good 
at using it for gathering nectar and pollen. Why, I might turn out to be the best 
worker in the whole hive! 

I tried to smile, and then I almost gagged on my honey. 

What was happening to me? 

What was I thinking? I was actually starting to feel like a bee! 

I had to get out of this place. Before it was too late! 

I wanted to start searching for an escape route right away. But I suddenly 
felt so tired. So completely worn out... 

Was it the honey? Or was it the strain of so much fear? 

I could barely keep my eyes open. The droning hum grew louder. 

With a weary sigh, I sank against a clump of hairy bodies. 

I sank into the warm darkness of the hive, surrounded by the steady buzz. 
Breathing the sweet aroma of the honey, I sank beside my furry brothers and 

sisters. 

I’m one of them now, I told myself weakly. I’m not a boy anymore. I’m 
bee. A buzzzzzzzzzing bee. A bee sinking into the warm, dark hive. My home. 
Sinking... sinking... 

15 

I woke up with a start and tried to brush a bee away from my face. It took me a 
few moments to remember. I wasn’t lying in my back yard anymore, trying to 
keep the bees away from me. I was a bee—a bee trapped inside a hive! 

I jumped up, took a step, and immediately came face to face with another 
bee! I couldn’t tell if he was the same one I’d seen the night before. But he 
looked just as angry. His big eyes were bulging with rage. And he was moving 
deliberately toward me. 

As fast as I could, I spun around and flew away. Of course, I had no idea 
where I was going. 

The hive seemed to be made up of a lot of long, dark hallways. All around 
me, groups of bees were building honeycombs. As they worked, they kept up a 
steady buzz. The sound was really driving me off the wall! 

I began searching for a way out. I wandered in and out, in and out 
throughout the dark, sticky honeycombs. 

From time to time, I shot out my tongue and lapped up some honey. I was 
getting a little tired of the sweet stuff. But I knew I had to keep up my strength if 
I wanted to try to break out of the hive. 

As I searched for a way to escape, I noticed that every single bee seemed to 
have an assigned job, either building honeycombs, caring for the babies of the 
queen or whatever. And the little bugs never stopped working! They were “busy 
as bees” from morning till night. 

Darting through the tangled darkness, I began to lose hope. 

There’s no way out, I decided. No way out. 

I sank unhappily to the sticky hive floor. And as I dropped, three large bees 
moved in front of me. 

They buzzed angrily, bumping up against me with their hairy, damp bodies. 
It was easy to tell these bees were angry with me. 

Maybe it was because I wasn’t doing my “job.” But what was my job? How 
could I tell the bees I didn’t know what I was supposed to be doing? 

I tried to slip past them, but they moved to block my path. 

Three tough bees. They made me think of Barry, Marv, and Karl. 

I shrank back as one of them pointed his stinger at me. 

He was getting ready to kill me! And I didn’t even know what I’d done! 

I screamed and whirled around. As fast as my six legs would carry me, I 
darted back down the narrow passageway and turned another corner. 

“Oh!” I bumped hard into another bee. Luckily, he was hurrying off 
somewhere, and barely seemed to notice me. 

I gasped with relief. And then an idea came to me. Where was that bee 
going in such a hurry? Was he taking something somewhere? Could he be going 
to an area I hadn’t searched yet? 

I decided to follow him and find out. I needed to learn everything I could 
about the hive. Maybe, just maybe, it would help me escape. 

I hurried after the bee. I thought I’d find him quickly. But he was already 
long gone. 

I searched in and out among the different honeycombs, but I couldn’t find 
him anywhere. After a while, I gave up. 

Way to go, Lutz the Klutz, I scolded myself. I felt worse than ever. 

I shot out my tongue and slurped up a big helping of honey to keep myself 
going. Then I began my endless searching again. 

“Whoooa!” I stopped when I reached an area that looked familiar. I was 
pretty sure it was the place where Andretti had dropped me when he first put me 
into the hive. 

All at once, a large group of angrily buzzing bees crowded against me. 

“Hey—!” I protested as they shoved me forward. 

They replied with a sharp, rising buzz. 

What were they doing? Were they attacking me? Were they all going to 
sting me at once? 

They had me surrounded. I couldn’t run away. 

But how could I possibly fight off all these bees? I was doomed, I realized. 
Finished. Sighing in defeat, I closed my eyes and started to shake. 

And waited for them to swarm over me. 

16 

I waited to be crushed. 

And waited some more. 

When I opened my eyes, the angry bees had moved to the side of the hive. 
They weren’t paying any attention to me. 

I saw a single bee, standing in the center of the hive floor. He was 
performing a kind of jumping, twisting, hip-hop dance. 

How weird! I thought. The other bees were watching intently, as if this were 
the most interesting thing in the world. 

“Those bees didn’t care about me,” I told myself. “They were trying to get 
me out of the way so this bee could do his dance.” 

I realized I’d wasted a lot of time. I had to keep searching for an escape 
route. 

I tried to push myself away from the group of bees, but the hive floor had 
become too crowded to move. 

The bee danced faster and faster. He moved his body toward the right. All 
the other bees stared intently at him. 

What was going on? 

At that moment, something from my old Big Book of Bees came back to 
me. I remembered that bees send out scouts to find their food. Then the scouts 
“dance” to tell the other bees where to go get it! 

If the scout was reporting on where to get food, it meant he’d just been out 
of the hive. That meant there had to be a way out of this place! 

I was so excited, / almost started dancing! 

But I didn’t have a chance because, suddenly, all the bees in the hive rose 
up like a dark cloud. I spread my wings and flew up with them. 

As I followed, the bees formed a single, orderly line and shot out through a 
tiny hole in a far, upper corner of the hive. 

I buzzed around until I found the end of the line. Then I got ready to escape. 

Would I make it? 

The very last bee in line, I shot out of the tiny hole into open space. For a 
few seconds, I watched the other bees floating away, busily hunting for nectar 
and pollen. 

I knew I looked just like them. The difference was that they would willingly 
return to Andretti’s hive. But I never, ever would. At least, not if I could help it. 

“I’m out!” I cried joyfully in my tiny voice. “I’m out! I’m free!” 

Dazzled by the sudden bright light of the outer world, I flew around and 
around in the beekeeping area. Then I headed for the hole I’d seen in the screen 
when I was still in my own body. 

I knew it was on the wall that faced my family’s yard. But when I flew over 
to it, I stopped and gasped in disappointment. 

The hole had been patched up. Mr. Andretti had fixed it! 

“Oh, no!” I wailed. “I can’t be trapped! I can’the!” 

My heart started thumping crazily. My whole body was vibrating. 

I forced myself to calm down and look around. 

None of the other bees were in the screened-in area anymore. They’d 
already gone outside to collect pollen. And that meant there had to be another 
way out. 

I wasn’t thinking clearly because I was exhausted, worn out from all my 
flying around. I sat down on top of the hive to rest. 

At that instant, the door between the beekeeping area and the garage 
opened. “Good morning, my little bee friend,” Mr. Andretti’s voice boomed. 
“What are you doing, lying around on top of the hive? Why aren’t you busy 
inside making me some honey? Are you sick? You know we can’t have any sick 
bees around here.” 

As I gazed up weakly, Mr. Andretti moved closer. His huge, dark shadow 
fell over me. 

I tried to curl up into a ball and disappear. But it was no use. His large 
fingers were stretching right toward me! 

I yelled in terror. But of course, he couldn’t hear me. What is he going to do 
to me? I asked myself. What does he do with sick bees? 

17 

What does he do with sick bees? I wondered again, quivering in terror. 

He probably throws them in the garbage, I thought. Or even worse—he 
feeds them to his pet bird or frog. 

Despite my weariness, I knew I couldn’t wait around to find out. I had to 
get out of there! 

Just as Mr. Andretti’s fingers were about to fold around me, I shot up into 
the air and buzzed around his head. At the same instant, I saw some other bees 
flying in through a tiny hole in the screen. It was in the corner, near the ceiling. 

I buzzed Mr. Andretti’s face one more time. Then I raced toward the hole. 
As I tried to squeeze myself out the exit hole, I crashed right into another bee 
who was flying in. He glared at me and gave me an angry buzz. 

Frightened, I backed off and clung to the screen. I had to wait for a long 
fine of bees to come back inside. It seemed to take them forever. 

When I was finally sure the last bee had come in, I leaped forward and shot 
out of the hole. I was out in the open sky! 

“This time I really am free!” I screamed in celebration, forgetting my 
weariness. “And Andretti’s never going to catch this bee again!” 

I landed on a leaf and let the morning sun warm my back and wings. It was 
a beautiful day—a beautiful day for finding somebody who could help me get 
back into my human body! 

Like a rocket, I shot straight up into the air and gazed around. I recognized 
the familiar creak of my father opening the back door of my house. 

Panting hard, I raced forward. 

My father called, “Good-bye, hon! Tell the kids I’ll see them tonight!” over 
his shoulder and let go of the door. 

I darted into the house. The door slammed hard. Another near miss. 

I hummed with happiness. It felt so good to be back in my own house and 
out of that dark, sticky hive! I landed on the counter and gazed around at the old, 
familiar walls. 

Why hadn’t I ever realized how nice my house was before? 

Step, step, step. 

Someone was coming into the kitchen! I flew up onto the windowsill for a 

better look. 

Krissy! 

Maybe I could get her to listen to me. 

“Krissy! Krissy!” I buzzed. “Over here by the window. It’s me, Gary!” 

To my delight, she turned and stared in my direction. 

“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “Yes—it’s me! It’s me!” 

“Oh, terrific,” Krissy groaned. “One of Andretti’s dumb bees got in here 
again.” 

Okay, so it wasn’t exactly the reaction I’d been hoping for. But she’d still 
noticed me! Maybe, I thought, if I flew right onto her shoulder and spoke into 
her ear, she’d be able to understand me! 

My heart vibrating my entire body, I lifted myself up off the windowsill and 
soared toward my sister. “Krissy!” I buzzed as I approached her shoulder. “You 
have to listen to me!” 

“Aaaaiii!” 

Krissy screeched so loud, I was afraid the glass in the windows would 
shatter. “Get away from me, bee!” 

She started thrashing her hands in the air, trying to bat me away. 

“Ow!” I cried out as she slapped me. Stung with pain, I lost control and 
landed with a thud on the tiled countertop. 

I raised my eyes in time to see Krissy grab a flyswatter from out of the 
broom closet. 

“No, Krissy, no!” I screamed. “Not that! You don’t want to do that to your 
own brother!” 

My sister lifted up the flyswatter and thwacked it down right next to me. I 
could feel the rush of air from it. And I felt the entire counter shake. 

I screamed and quickly rolled to one side. 

Krissy, I knew, was a menace with a flyswatter. 

She was the champion in our family. She never missed. 

The eyes on top of my head spun in terror. And in the gray blur, I could see 
the shape of the flyswatter, rising up to slap me again. And again. 

18 

“Stop, Krissy!” I screamed. “Stop! You’re squashing me!” 

With a strangled gasp, I toppled off the counter. I hit the floor hard and 
struggled dizzily to my feet. 

Now I started to get angry. Why did Krissy have to be so bloodthirsty? 
Couldn’t she just open a window and shoo me out? 

Buzzing weakly, I floated up off the floor. Regaining my strength, I began 
darting wildly around the room, crashing into the walls and cupboards to show 
Krissy how upset I was. Then I shot out of the kitchen. 

In a rage, I headed up the stairs to my room. If my sister wouldn’t help me, 
I’d get someone else to help. Namely, the new Gary! 

The morning sun was high in the sky. But “Gary” was still sound asleep in 
my bed. 

Seeing him lying there so peacefully, so completely at home, made me even 
angrier. 

“Wake up, you slug!” I buzzed at him. He didn’t move. His mouth hung 
open as he slept, making him look like a real jerk. 

“Yuck! What a creep!” I was sure my mouth never hung open when I slept! 

I decided to take action. I landed on “Gary’s” head and started walking 
around on his face. I was sure my little insect legs would tickle him and wake 
him up. 

Nothing. He didn’t move. 

Even when I stuck a leg up his nose, “Gary” slept without stirring. 

“Why is he so wrecked?” I wondered. “Has he been wearing out my body?” 

Furious, I ran across “Gary’s” face and climbed down through his hair. 
Then I crawled onto his ear. “BUZZ!” I shouted as loudly as I could. “BUZZ! 
BUZZ! BUZZ!” 

Incredible as it seems, the new “Gary” didn’t even budge. 

Just my luck. Dirk Davis was turning out to be the world’s soundest 
sleeper! 

I sighed and gave up. I crawled off “Gary’s” ear and flew around my old 
room, gazing down at my bed, my dresser, and my computer. 

“My computer!” I cried excitedly. “Maybe I can put a message on the 

screen! Maybe I can tell my parents what has happened to me!” 

I swooped down to the computer, buzzing eagerly. 

Yes! The computer had been left on. 

What luck! I knew I wasn’t heavy enough to push the Power button. 

Would I be strong enough to type? 

A clear blue screen greeted me on the monitor. My heart pounding, I 
lowered myself to the keyboard and started hopping around on the letters. 

Yes! I was heavy enough to make the keys go up and down. 

I paused, resting on the Enter key. 

What should I type? What message should I put on the screen? 

What? What? What? 

As I frantically thought, I heard “Gary” stir behind me on the bed. He let 
out a groan. He was waking up. 

Quick! I told myself. Type something! Type anything! 

He’ll see it as soon as he gets out of bed. 

I hopped over to the letters and began to jump up and down, spelling out 
my desperate message. 

It was hard work. My bee eyes weren’t made for reading letters. And I kept 
leaping up and falling in the cracks between the keys. 

After eight or nine jumps, I was gasping for air. 

But I finished my message just as “Gary” sat up in bed and stretched. 
Floating up in front of the monitor, I struggled to read what I had typed: 

I AM NOT BEE. I AM GARY. HELO ME. 

Through my blurred vision, I saw that I missed the P in HELP and hit the O 
instead. I wanted to go back and fix it. But I was totally wiped out. I could barely 
buzz. 

Would they understand? 

Would they read the message and see me standing on top of the monitor and 
understand? 

“Gary” would understand. I knew he would. Dirk Davis would figure it out. 
I climbed wearily to the top of the monitor and watched him climb out of 

bed. 

Here he comes, I saw eagerly. He brushed his hair out of his eyes. He 
yawned. He stretched again. 

Over here! I urged. 

Dirk — please—check out the computer monitor! 

Dirk—over here! 

He picked up a crumpled pair of jeans off the floor and pulled them on. 
Then he found a wrinkled T-shirt to go with it. 

Come on, Dirk! I pleaded, hopping up and down on top of the monitor. 
Read the screen—please ? 

19 

Would he read it? 

Yes! Rubbing his eyes, “Gary” shuffled over to the computer. 

Yes! Yes! 

I nearly burst for joy as I watched him squint at the screen. “Go ahead, 
Gary! Read it! Read it!” I squeaked. 

He squinted at the screen some more, frowning. “Did I leave that thing on 
overnight?” he muttered, shaking his head. “Wow. I must be losing it.” 

He reached down and clicked off the power. Then he turned and made his 
way out of the room. 

Stunned, I toppled off the monitor, landing hard on the desk beside the 
keyboard. All that work for nothing. 

What was “Gary’s” problem, anyway? Doesn’t he know how to read? 

I’ve got to talk to him, I told myself, pulling myself together. I’ve got to 
communicate with him somehow. 

I lifted my wings and floated up after him. I followed him through the 
kitchen, and then slipped through the back door with him. 

As he strode across the grass, I started buzzing around his head. But he 
didn’t pay any attention to me. 

He crossed the yard and opened our garage door. Then he went inside and 
brought out my old skateboard. 

I hadn’t used that skateboard in at least two years. My uncle had given it to 
me for my tenth birthday, and I almost broke my leg trying to ride it. After that, I 
put it away and refused to touch it again. 

“Don’t get on that thing!” I yelled at “Gary”. “It’s dangerous. You might 
hurt my body. And I want it back in one piece!” 

Of course “Gary” didn’t even notice me. Instead, he carried the skateboard 
out in front of the house and put it down on the ground. 

A short while later, Kaitlyn and Judy walked up the sidewalk. I waited for 
them to start giggling and making fun of the new me. 

“Hi, Gary,” Kaitlyn said. She brushed some curly hair off her forehead and 
smiled. “Are we late for our skateboarding lesson?” 

“Gary” flashed her a big smile. “No way, Kaitlyn,” he answered in my 

voice. “Want to head over to the playground like we did yesterday?” 

I couldn’t believe my ears. Skateboarding lesson? Head over to the 
playground like we did yesterday? What was going on around here? 

“I hope you don’t mind, Gary,” Judy said. “We told some of the other kids 
—like Gail and Louie—how good you are. They all said they can’t wait to take a 
lesson from you, too. Is that okay? Because if it isn’t, we can call them, and—” 

“No problem, Jude,” “Gary” broke in. “Let’s get going, okay?” The new 
“me” hopped onto his skateboard and smoothly rolled his way down the 
sidewalk. Judy and Kaitlyn hurried after him. 

For a second, I was too shocked to move. But then I decided to follow 
them. 

As I swooped after them, I kept muttering to myself, “I can’t believe it! 
Lutz the Klutz is giving skateboard lessons at the playground? Everybody’s 
waiting for him to show up? What is going on?” 

A few minutes later, the four of us had reached the playground. Sure 
enough, a whole gang of kids was waiting there for “Gary”. He put down his 
skateboard and started giving everybody pointers on “boarding”, as he called it. 

I buzzed over to him and started shouting in his ear again. “Dirk!” I 
shouted. “Dirk Davis! It’s me. The real Gary Lutz!” 

Very casually, he swatted me away. 

I tried to speak to him again. This time he swatted me really hard, sending 
me spinning to the ground. 

Trying to shake off the pain, I gave up. Dirk isn’t going to help me, I 
realized. 

Ms. Karmen is my only hope. After all, she was the one with all the 
equipment. She was the only person who could reverse what she had done. 

I flew onto a tree and tried to figure out which way to fly. When you’re an 
insect, everything looks different to you. Things that seem small to a person 
appear huge to a bee. So I wanted to be sure I didn’t get myself mixed up and fly 
off in the wrong direction. 

Standing on a big leaf, I gazed up and down the block until I was sure I 
knew which way to go. As I got ready to take off, a large shadow suddenly 
loomed over my head. At first, I thought it was a small bird. But then I realized it 
was a dragonfly. 

“Stay calm,” I told myself. “A dragonfly is an insect, isn’t it? And insects 
don’t eat each other, right?” 

I guess no one had told the dragonfly. 

Before I could move, it zoomed down, wrapped its teeth around my middle, 
and bit me in two. 

20 

I uttered a last gasp and waited for everything to go dark. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that the dragonfly had turned and 
buzzed off in the other direction. 

My imagination was running away with me. That’s what always happened 
when I got overtired. 

I took a deep breath, grateful to still be in one piece. I decided I had to use 
my remaining strength to get to Ms. Karmen at the Person-to-Person Vacations 
office. 

I rose up into the air, looked both ways for oncoming dragonfly traffic, then 
fluttered away. 

After a long, tiring trip, I floated past a street sign that told me I’d made it 
to the right block. Roach Street. 

I buzzed along the sidewalk until I came to the Person-to-Person building. 
Then I sat down on the stoop and tried to figure out how I was going to get 
inside. 

Luckily, as I rested on the warm cement, I saw a mailman marching up the 
street, stopping at each house along his route. Quickly, I flew over to the Person- 
to-Person entrance and checked it out. Just as I’d hoped, there was a mail slot in 
the middle of the door. 

I buzzed over to the doorknob, and waited for my chance. Slowly, the 
mailman trudged up to the building. 

“Hurry up!” I screamed at him. “Do you think I have all day here?” Of 
course he couldn’t hear me. 

He fumbled around in his bag and pulled out a bundle of letters. Then, 
slowly, he reached out and pushed open the mail slot. 

Before the mailman had a chance to react, I swooped down in front of his 
nose and buzzed right through the mail slot. As I zipped along, I heard him gasp, 
and I knew he’d seen me. But for once, luck was with me. I moved so quickly, 
there hadn’t been any time for the mailman to try to swat me. 

My luck held when I flew up the stairs. 

I’d just reached the top when the door to Person-to-Person Vacations 
opened, and a girl about my age came out. She had long, curly red hair and had a 

serious, thoughtful expression on her face. Was she thinking of trading places 
with someone? 

“Go home!” I shouted at her. “And don’t come back. Stay away from this 
place! Just look what happened to me!” 

Even though I was screaming, the girl didn’t even turn her head. But she 
left the door open just long enough for me to buzz into the Person-to-Person 
office. 

I flew across the waiting room and saw Ms. Karmen, sitting in the same 
chair she’d been in when I first met her. 

I shot right toward her—and smacked into something hard. 

Pain roared through my body. I dropped to the floor, dizzy and confused. 

As my head began to clear, I remembered the glass wall separating Ms. 
Karmen from the waiting area. Like some kind of brainless June bug, I’d crashed 
right into it! 

I shook myself to clear my mind. “Ms. Karmen!” I yelled. “Ms. Karmen. 
It’s me—Gary Lutz. Look what happened! Can you help me? Can you?” 

21 

Ms. Karmen didn’t even glance up from her paperwork. Once again, I realized 
no one could hear my squeaky insect voice. 

With a defeated moan, I sank down onto the seat of the chair and curled up 
into a tiny ball. I’d come all this way for nothing, I realized. I’d found the one 
person in the world who might be able to help me. And she couldn’t even hear 
me! 

“I give up,” I whispered sadly. “It’s hopeless. I have to get used to the idea 
of being a bee forever! There’s no way I’ll ever get my old body back.” 

I had never been so miserable in all my life. I wished someone would come 
along, drop into the chair, and sit on me! 

A strange sound startled me from my unhappy thoughts. I sat up straight 
and listened hard. 

“Whoo-ah. Whoo-ah. ” It almost sounded like someone breathing. But how 
could that be? It was so loud! 

I floated up off the chair and buzzed around the room, trying to find out 
where the sound was coming from. I had circled the room twice before I figured 
it out. 

Ms. Karmen was bending over to pick up something she’d dropped on the 
floor. Her nose and mouth were only inches from the top of her desk. And the 
microphone she used to talk to people had picked up the sounds of her breathing! 

Suddenly, I had a brilliant idea. If I could get to the other side of the glass, I 
could use the microphone to make Ms. Karmen hear me. 

I swooped over to the wall and flew straight up to the ceiling. No luck 
there. The sheet of glass went all the way up. There was no space for me to 
wedge myself through to the other side. 

I buzzed down to the place where the glass met the top of Ms. Karmen’s 
desk. Yes! There was a small slot in the glass. I remembered how she had passed 
through the book of photographs on my first visit to the office. 

The slot wasn’t very large. But it was plenty big enough for my round little 
bee body. 

I shot through the hole and jumped up on top of the microphone. 

“Ms. Karmen!” I shouted, putting my mouth next to the hard metal. “Ms. 

Karmen!” 

Her eyes opened wide. Her mouth dropped open in confusion. She stared 
out into the waiting room, searching for the person speaking. 

“It’s Gary Lutz!” I called out. “And I’m down here on your microphone.” 

Ms. Karmen stared down at the microphone. Then her eyes narrowed in 
fear. “What’s going on? Who’s doing this? Is this a joke?” 

“No!” I cried. “It’s no joke at all. It’s really me—Gary Lutz!” 

“But—but—” she stammered, but no other words came out. “What’s the 
joke? How are you doing that?” 

Her voice was so loud, the sound waves nearly blasted me off the 
microphone. 

“You don’t have to yell!” I cried. “I can hear you.” 

“I don’t believe this!” she exclaimed in a trembling voice. She stared down 
at me. 

“It’s all your fault!” I shouted angrily. “You messed up the transfer 
operation. When you made the switch, one of my neighbor’s bees must have 
gotten into the machine. So, instead of putting me into Dirk Davis’ body, you put 
me into a bee! ” 

Ms. Karmen blinked. Then she slapped her forehead. “Well that explains 
it!” she cried. “That explains why Dirk Davis’ body has been behaving so 
strangely.” 

She picked up some papers on her desk and started putting them into her 
briefcase. “I really must apologize,” she said. “I feel really bad, Gary. We’ve 
never had a mix-up like this before. I hope... I hope it’s at least been interesting 
for you.” 

“Interesting?” I shrieked. “It’s been a nightmare! You wouldn’t believe 
what I’ve been through. I’ve been attacked by screen doors, cats, flyswatters— 
you name it! You yourself almost ran me over with your car!” 

All the color drained from her face. “Oh, no,” she cried, her voice a 
whisper. “I’m so sorry. I—I didn’t know.” 

“Well, what about it?” I asked her impatiently. 

“What about what?” 

“What about getting me back into my body! Can you do it right away?” 

Ms. Karmen cleared her throat. “Well, I could,” she replied slowly. 
“Normally, I could transfer you right back. But there’s a slight problem in your 
case.” 

“What kind of problem?” I demanded. 

“It’s Dirk Davis,” Ms. Karmen replied. “It seems he’s become very attached 
to your old body. He likes your house and your parents, too. In fact, he even 
likes your sister, Krissy!” 

“So?” I cried. “So what’s that supposed to mean?” 

Ms. Karmen stood up and pushed in her desk chair. “It means,” she said, 
“that Dirk Davis is refusing to give up your old body. He says he absolutely 
won’t go back to his old life. He plans to keep your body forever.” 

22 

“WHAT?” I screamed, hopping up and down angrily on the microphone. 

“Just what I said,” Ms. Karmen said. “Dirk Davis wants to keep your body 
for the rest of his life.” 

“But he can’t do that, can he?” 

“It is very upsetting,” she replied, biting her lower lip. “It wasn’t what he 
said in our original agreement. But if he refuses to get out of your body and your 
life, there’s really nothing I can do.” 

Ms. Karmen gazed down at me sympathetically. “I’m so sorry about this, 
Gary,” she said softly. “I guess I’ll have to be more careful in the future.” 

“What about my future? What am I supposed to do now?” I wailed. 

Ms. Karmen shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe you could go back, wait in 
the hive—and maybe Dirk Davis will change his mind.” 

“Back to the hive?!” My antennas stood straight on end, quivering with 
rage. “Do you have any idea what it’s like in there? Cramped together with those 
hairy bees in the darkness? Listening to that deafening buzz day and night?” 

“It’s a way of staying alive,” Ms. Karmen replied bluntly. 

“I—I don’t care!” I stammered. “I’m never going back there! Never!” 

“This is tragic. Tragic!” Ms. Karmen cried. “I’ll give your case some 
thought tonight, Gary. I promise. Maybe I can come up with a way of getting 
your body away from Dirk.” 

She crossed the room and opened the office door. “I’m so upset. So upset,” 
she murmured. Then she disappeared out the door, slamming it behind her. 

Trembling with anger at Dirk Davis, I hopped down to the desk. “Hey, 
wait!” I called after her. “You’ve locked me in!” 

Ms. Karmen was so upset, she forgot about me! 

I rose up into the air and started after her. But, then, I happened to glance 
back down at her desk. Dirk Davis’ questionnaire was right on top of a pile of 
papers. His address was next to his name. He lived at 203 Eastwood Avenue. 

Eastwood Avenue was near the computer store, so I knew where it was. 
“Maybe the old Dirk Davis will know how to get my body back!” I told myself. 

It was worth a try. I ducked through the slot in the glass and flew around the 
waiting room. 

No exit. No open window. No crack in the door. 

Once again, I was trapped. 

Frantically, I buzzed all around the waiting room. Then I went back through 
the slot in the glass. I checked out the whole equipment room. Every window 
was closed tight. 

I flew past a calendar and happened to see the date. “Oh, no!” I cried. “It’s 
Friday! It’s the weekend. Ms. Karmen might not come back to work for two 
whole days.” 

In two days, I realized, I would starve to death! 

I had to get out! I went over to the far wall and noticed another door I 
hadn’t seen before. I zipped through it. 

The room turned out to be a tiny bathroom. With one small window. Which 
was open just a crack. It was all I needed. 

“Hurray!” I yelled. I shot out through the window and sailed into the open 
air. Then I turned right and headed for Eastwood Avenue. Luckily, it wasn’t very 
far away. All this flying around was really beginning to wear me out. 

I found Dirk Davis’ house without any trouble. When I got there, I saw 
“Dirk” himself—or whoever he was now—standing in the front yard. I 
recognized him from the picture I’d seen in the Person-to-Person album. 

“Hey!” I yelled to him. “Hey, er... Dirk!” 

The tall, good-looking boy turned around and stared at me. His mouth 
moved, and it looked as if he was saying something. 

But I couldn’t understand any words. All I heard was a humming sound. 

“I’m Gary Lutz!” I cried in my little voice. “Can you help me get Dirk 
Davis out of my body?” 

The boy stared at me. Then he grinned. 

I was confused. What was he grinning about? 

“Hey, you can hear me! ” I cried. 

Now “Dirk” motioned with his hand. 

“You want me to follow you?” I asked. I felt excited. “Are you taking me 
someplace where we can get help?” 

“Dirk” grinned again. Then he turned and walked around the corner of the 
house. I didn’t know where we were going. But I knew I had to follow him. 

I found “Dirk” in the back yard. “Hum,” he said to me. “Hum.” He pointed 
to a big rosebush and grinned. Then he stuck his nose deep inside one of the 
blossoms. “Hummmmmmmmm,” he said. “Yummmmmm.” 

I gaped at him in shock. “Of course!” I cried. 

“You got the bee’s mind when I got the bee’s body!” 

“Dirk” didn’t say anything. But when he pulled his face out of the rose, the 
end of his nose was covered with yellow pollen. 

“Dirk” looked a little surprised. And disappointed. I guess he missed his 
long, sucking tongue—the tongue that was now hanging off the front of my face. 

“You can’t help me,” I muttered to him. “You’re in worse shape than I am!” 

“Hum?” he replied. “Hum?” 

He looked kind of silly with that yellow nose. But I felt sorry for him. He 
and I had the wrong brains in the wrong bodies. I knew exactly how he felt. 

“I’m going to go get help for both of us,” I told him. “If I get my body 
back, maybe you’ll get yours, too.” 

With a loud buzz, I flew out of the Davises’ yard. As I left, I thought I heard 
“Dirk” buzz back at me. I glanced over my wing and saw him sticking his face 
into another rose. Maybe this time he’d have better luck getting the pollen out. 

I headed toward my own house. This time I planned to make Dirk Davis 
give me my body back. Or else. 

As I turned up my street, I suddenly heard a familiar voice coming from 
behind a tree. 

“Don’t mess with me! Don’t mess with me, man!” 

I couldn’t believe it. The voice belonged to Marv. But who was he talking 
to? 

I shot around the tree to find out. To my surprise, I saw that Marv was 
talking to me—or, Dirk Davis, in my body. Barry and Karl were right beside 
him. 

Look out, Dirk! I thought. Run! Run! 

Please don’t let them wreck my body! 

But I was too late. 

Barry, Marv, and Karl were closing in on him, about to give him the 
pounding of his life. 

23 

I flew closer. 

“Look out, Dirk! Look out!” I squeaked. 

But to my surprise, the three hulking creeps weren’t moving in on “Gary”— 
they were backing away from him! 

“Don’t mess with me!” Marv cried. “I said I was sorry.” 

“We apologized,” Barry whined. “Don’t hit us again, Gary! Please!” 

Karl whimpered behind him, nursing a bloody nose. 

“You guys are losers,” I heard “Gary” tell them. “Take a hike. Go get a 

life.” 

“Okay! Okay!” Marv cried. “Just no more rough stuff, okay, Gary?” 

“Gary” shook his head and walked away. 

I don’t believe this! I thought gleefully. Barry, Marv, and Karl were afraid 
of me! 

I decided I’d have some fun with them, too. 

I swooped down and landed on Barry’s nose, buzzing as loudly and 
menacingly as I could. 

“Yowwwww!” he shrieked in surprise—and swatted himself on the nose. 

I was too fast for him. I was already on Karl’s ear. 

Karl cried out and toppled backwards into a thorny rosebush. 

Then I buzzed round and around Marv. 

“Get away!” he shouted angrily. 

And I flew right into his mouth. 

His scream nearly deafened me. But it was worth it. 

Marv started spitting and choking and gagging. 

I flew up into the air, laughing so hard, I nearly popped my antennas. That 
was the most fun I’d had since becoming a bee! 

I watched the three gorillas run away. Then I flew up the block to my house. 

“Gary” had left the window open, and I was able to shoot in. He was lying 
on my bed, reading one of my comic books and eating crackers with honey on 
them. 

The honey smelled really good, and I realized I was hungry again. I 

reminded myself to stop by a flower and get a snack the next time I went 
outside. 

But, meanwhile, I had work to do. I flew over and landed on Gary’s 
earlobe. 

“Hey, you! Dirk Davis!” I yelled at the top of my little voice. “I need to talk 
to you!” 

He reached a hand up and flicked me off his face. I fell down and landed 
with a bounce on the bed. 

I buzzed angrily and shot right back up to his earlobe. “Hey, you! I want my 
body back! You have to get out of it. Now!” 

“Gary” folded up his comic book and swung it at me. I buzzed with rage 
and frustration. I wasn’t going to give up this time. No way! I had to make him 
hear me. 

I rocketed up in the air and landed on the top of his head. Then I climbed 
down to his other earlobe and tried one more time. “I’m not leaving you alone 
till you get out of my body!” I screeched. “Do you hear me?” 

He sighed and shrugged his shoulders. “Will you please quit bothering 
me?” he asked. “Can’t you see I’m trying to relax?” 

“You can hear me?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” he muttered. “I can hear you okay.” 

“You can?” I was so surprised, I almost fell off his ear. 

“Yes, I can hear you perfectly. Weird, huh? I’m not sure why. But I think 
some bee cells got mixed up with my human cells during our electronic transfer. 
I can hear all kinds of little bug noises now.” 

“Your human cells? Those are my human cells!” I cried. 

Dirk shrugged. 

“Enough chitchat,” I told him. “When do you plan to get out of my body?” 

“Never,” he replied. He picked up his comic book and started reading it 
again. “I like your body. I can’t understand why you gave it up to go become a 
bee.” 

“That wasn’t my idea!” I screamed. 

“You’ve got a good life here,” he continued. “I mean, you have great 
parents. Krissy is an okay sister. And Claus is an awesome cat. Too bad you 
didn’t know all that when you were in your body. Which is now my body!” 

“It’s not your body! It’s mine! Give it back!” I started to buzz furiously all 
around his head, swooping down in front of his nose, crashing into his ears, 

batting my wings in his eyes. 

Dirk Davis didn’t even flinch. 

“What’s the matter with you, anyway?” I yelled. “You’re me now. You’re 
supposed to be scared of bees!” 

“Gary” laughed. “You’ve forgotten something,” he said. “I’m not you. I’m 
just inside your body. I’m still me inside. And I’m not the least bit afraid of 
bees!” 

“And, now,” he went on, “take a hike, okay? Buzz off. I’m busy.” 

Frozen with anger and disappointment, I slumped on the bedspread without 
moving. “Gary” raised the comic book up into the air. “I’d hate to swat you,” he 
said. “But I will if I have to!” 

I dodged away just as the comic book slapped down on the bedspread. Then 
I shot back out the window. 

For a few minutes, I flew aimlessly around, lost in my sad thoughts. Finally, 
I remembered how hungry I was. I perched on top of a big, orange lily blossom 
and started sucking up some nectar. 

Not bad, I told myself as I drank. But honey on crackers would be much 
better. 

“What am I supposed to do now?” I asked myself. “Am I really doomed to 
be a bee for the rest of my life?” I pulled my head out of the orange blossom and 
looked around. “And how long is the rest of my life anyway?” 

I remembered a page from The Big Book of Bees. 

“The life of the average bee is not very long. While the queen can live 
through as many as five winters, the workers and drones die off in the fall.” 

In the fall? 

It was already nearly August! 

If I stayed in this bee body, I had only a month or two at most! 

I gazed sadly up at my house. “Gary” had turned the light on in my room, 
and it twinkled in the early evening dusk. 

How I wished I could be up there! Why, why had I ever been stupid enough 
to think I’d be better off in someone else’s body? 

Then I heard a buzz. I peered over the blossom. Sure enough, I saw a bee. 

He hopped up onto the flower. Two other bees quickly joined him. Then 
three more. They buzzed angrily. 

“Go away!” I cried. 

I tried to fly away. 

But before I could lift off, they all swarmed over me. 

I couldn’t move. The bees had taken me prisoner. 

“Don’t take me back to the hive!” I shrieked. “Don’t take me back!” 
But to my horror, they started to drag me away. 

24 

I struggled to squirm away. But they turned their stingers on me. 

Were they some kind of bee police? Did they think I was trying to escape 
the hive? 

I didn’t have a chance to discuss it with them. They lifted me up into the air. 
There were bees in front of me, bees behind, and bees on all sides. 

We flew past my bedroom window. “Help!” I called. 

“Gary” glanced up from his plate of crackers and honey. He smiled and 
waved at me. 

I was so angry, I thought I might explode. 

But then an idea came to me. A crazy idea. A desperate idea. 

I buzzed as loudly as I could. Then I darted out of line and shot into the 
open bedroom window. 

Were the others following me? Were they? 

Yes! 

They didn’t want to let me escape. 

“Gary” sat up when he saw me and my buzzing followers. He rolled up his 
comic book, preparing to swat us. 

I circled the room, and the other bees followed. 

“Get out! Get out!” “Gary” screamed. 

There weren’t enough of us, I decided. I needed a huge swarm. 

I flew back out the window. The others buzzed after me. 

Now I was the head bee. As fast as I could, I led my group back to Mr. 
Andretti’s garage, and in through the hole in the screen. 

I hesitated at the hive entrance. I took a deep breath. 

Was I really going to go back inside? 

I knew I had no choice. “Go for it, Lutz!” I shouted to myself. 

I shot in through the entrance hole. 

Then I began flying crazily through the hive, buzzing angrily, bumping the 
walls, bumping other bees. 

The hive stirred to life. 

The buzzing grew to a dull roar. Then a loud roar. Then a deafening roar! 

Round and round I raged, flying faster, faster, throwing myself frantically 
against the sticky hive walls, tumbling, darting, buzzing furiously. 

The entire hive was in an uproar now. 

I had turned the bees into an angry swarm. 

Out of the hive I flew. Out into the darkening evening. Out through the hole 
in the screen, up, up, and away. 

And the bees swarmed after me, like a black cloud against the gray-blue 

sky. 

Up we soared. Up, up. 

A buzzing, swarming funnel cloud. 

Up, up. 

I led them up to the bedroom window. 

Tumbling over each other, raging through the air, we swarmed into 
“Gary’s” room. 

“Huh?” He jumped off the bed. 

He didn’t have time to say a word. 

I landed in his hair. The raging swarm followed, buzzing angrily, 
surrounding him, covering his head, his face, his shoulders. 

“H-help!” His weak cry was drowned out by the roar of the bees. “Help 

me!” 

I dropped down onto the tip of Gary’s nose. “Have you had enough?” I 
demanded. “Are you ready to give me back my body?” 

“Never!” he cried. “I don’t care what you do to me! You’ll never get your 
body back! It’s mine, and I’m keeping it forever!” 

Whoooa! I could not believe my ears. 

I mean, he was covered in bees! And still he wouldn’t listen to reason! 

I didn’t know what to do. 

The other bees were starting to lose interest. 

Some of them drifted to the plate of honey. Most of them floated back out 
the open window. 

“You can’t get away with this, Dirk!” I screamed. 

With a furious wail, I whirled around. Then I stabbed my razor-sharp 
stinger deep into the side of “Gary’s” nose. 

“Owwwwwww!” He let out a high-pitched shriek and grabbed at his nose. 
Then he staggered backwards and fell over onto the bed. 

“Yaaaaay!” I cried out in celebration. 

For one instant, I felt triumphant. 

A tiny bee had defeated a huge enemy! I was victorious! I had won a fight 
against a giant! 

My celebration didn’t last very long. 

I suddenly realized what I had done. And I remembered what happens to a 
honeybee after it stings someone. 

“I’m going to die,” I murmured weakly. “I stung someone, and now I’m 
going to die!” 

25 

Weaker. 

I felt the strength drain from me. 

Weaker and weaker. 

“What have I done?” I asked myself. “I gave up my life for the chance to 
sting Dirk Davis! Why was I such a jerk?” 

I struggled to keep my wings moving, struggled to stay in the air. 

I knew I was doomed. But I wanted to stay alive as long as I could. Maybe, 
I thought, as I felt my strength fading, maybe I’ll have a chance to tell my family 
good-bye. 

“Mom! Dad! Krissy!” I buzzed faintly. “Where are you?” 

It was hard to breathe. I felt so tired, so weak. 

I floated out the window and sank to the grass below. 

I thought I recognized the shape of the old maple tree where I used to read 
books and spy on Mr. Andretti. But my sight was so bad, it was hard to be sure 
about anything. The whole world swirled in gray shadow. 

I could no longer hold up my head. The gray shadows grew darker and 
darker. 

Until the world faded completely from view. 

I sat up slowly. The ground spun beneath me. 

Where was I? 

My back yard? 

I blinked, struggling to bring it all into focus, waiting for my eyes to clear. 

“There’s the old maple tree!” I cried. “And there’s my house! And there’s 
Mr. Andretti’s house!” 

Was I alive? 

Was I really alive, sitting in my back yard, seeing all the familiar places? 

Did I have my strength back? 

I decided to test it. I tried to spread my wings and fly up into the air. 

But for some reason, my wings didn’t seem to be working. My body felt 
heavy and strange. 

I frowned and looked down, inspecting myself to see what was wrong. 
“Whoooa!” I cried out in surprise. Instead of six legs, I saw two arms and two 
legs and my skinny old body. 

Breathlessly, I reached up to touch my face. My extra eyes were gone—and 
so were my antennas, and my layer of feathery fuzz. Instead, I felt hair! And 
smooth, human skin! 

I jumped up and shouted for joy. “I’m a person again! I’m me! I’m me!” 

I threw my arms around my chest and gave myself a hug. Then I danced 
around the back yard, testing my arms and legs. 

They worked! They all worked! 

I couldn’t get over how wonderful it was to be human again! 

“But how did it happen?” I asked myself. “What happened to Dirk Davis?” 

For a chilling instant, I wondered if Dirk had been forced into a bee’s body 
the way I had. 

Probably not, I decided. 

But what had happened? 

How did I get my body back? 

Was it the bee sting? Did the shock of the sting send us all back to the 
bodies we belonged in? 

“I’ve got to call Ms. Karmen and find out!” I realized. 

But for now, all I wanted to do was see my family. 

I hurried up the back steps and into the house. As I ran through the kitchen, 
I crashed right into Krissy. As usual, she was carrying Claus under one arm. 

“Watch where you’re going!” Krissy snapped at me. 

She probably expected me to snap back at her and try to push her out of my 
way. But instead I grabbed her shoulders and gave her a big hug. Then I planted 
a kiss on her cheek. 

“Yuck! Gross!” she cried and wiped the cheek with her hand. 

I laughed happily. 

“Don’t give me your cooties, creep!” Krissy cried. 

“You’re a creep!” I replied. 

“No, you’re a creep!” she repeated. 

“You’re a jerk!” I shouted. 

It felt so good to be calling her names again! 

I gleefully called her a few more things. Then I hurried upstairs to see my 
parents. 

I met them as they were coming out of my room. 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried. I hurried to them, planning to throw my arms around 
them. 

But they thought I was just trying to get into my room. “Don’t go in there, 
Gary,” warned my dad. “You left your window open again, and a swarm of bees 
got in there.” 

“You’d better go next door,” Mom said. “Get Mr. Andretti. He’ll know how 
to get them out.” 

I couldn’t hold back any longer. I threw my arms around my mother’s neck 
and gave her a big kiss. “Mom, I missed you so much!” 

My mother hugged me back, but I saw her exchange a curious look with my 
dad. “Gary?” she asked. “Are you okay? How could you miss me when you’ve 
been right here in this house?” 

“Well...” I thought fast. “I meant that I missed spending time with you. We 
really need to do more things together.” 

My mother spread one hand over my forehead. “No. No temperature,” she 
told my father. 

“Gary,” Dad said impatiently. “Would you mind running over and getting 
Mr. Andretti? If we don’t get those bees out of your room, you’ll never be able 
to go to sleep tonight!” 

“Bees?” I said casually. “Hey, no problem. I’ll take care of them.” 

I reached out and started to open my door. Before I could, Dad grabbed my 
arm. “Gary!” he cried in alarm. “What’s the matter with you? There are bees in 
your room! B-E-E-S. Don’t you remember—you’re scared of bees!” 

I stared back at him and thought about what he’d said. To my surprise, I 
realized I was no longer the slightest bit scared of bees! In fact, I was actually 
looking forward to seeing them again. 

“No problem, Dad,” I told him. “I guess I must have outgrown that, or 
something.” 

I opened the door and went into my room. Sure enough, there was the old 
swarm, buzzing away over the plate of honey and crackers on the bed. 

“Hi, guys!” I said cheerfully. “Time to leave now!” 

I walked over to the bed and waved my hands at them, trying to shoo them 
back out the window. A few of them buzzed angrily at me. 

I laughed to myself. Then I picked up the plate of crackers and honey and 
dumped it out the window. “Go get it!” I told them. 

I shooed them gently out the window. 

“Good-bye!” I called to them as they left. “Thanks! Take good care of the 
honeycombs! I’ll try to come visit as soon as I can!” 

When the last bee was gone, I turned around and saw my parents. They 
were standing absolutely motionless in the doorway, staring at me, frozen with 
shock. 

“Dad?” I said. “Mom?” 

My dad blinked and seemed to come back to life. He crossed the room and 
put a hand on my shoulder. “Gary? Are you feeling all right?” 

“Just fine,” I replied, grinning happily. “Just fine.” 

26 

That whole crazy adventure happened about a month ago. 

Now it’s nearly fall. I’m sitting in my favorite place under the maple tree in 
the back yard, reading a book and chomping down taco chips. 

I just love coming out here. All the fall flowering plants are in bloom, and 
the yard is really pretty. 

I’ve been spending the last few days of my summer vacation relaxing back 
here. Of course, I also go to the playground a lot. 

The other day I ran into that girl with the red hair I saw coming out of the 
Person-to-Person office. We started talking, and I didn’t trip over my own feet or 
anything. She seems very nice. I hope she doesn’t plan to switch lives with 
anybody else! 

That conversation and a lot of things have made me realize that my short 
life as a bee really changed me. 

First of all, it taught me to appreciate my family for the first time ever. My 
parents are pretty nice. And my sister is okay. For a sister. 

And now, I’m not scared of any of the things I used to be scared of. 
Yesterday, I walked right by Marv, Barry, and Karl, and I didn’t bat an eye. 

In fact, when I remembered how I buzzed them, I almost burst out laughing. 

I’m not at all scared of them anymore. And I’m different in other ways, too. 

I’m a lot better at sports and bike riding and things. And I’m a great 
skateboarder now. In fact, I still give lessons. Judy and Kaitlyn hang around me 
all the time. And Gail and Louie, too. 

The other day, I actually ran into Dirk Davis at the playground. At first, I 
didn’t want to talk to him. But then he turned out to be pretty nice. 

He apologized to me. “I’m sorry I tried to steal your body,” he said. “But 
things didn’t turn out so well for me, either. That bee flunked all my math tests 
in summer school!” 

We both had a good laugh about that. And now Dirk and I are friends. 

So all in all, my life is back to normal. 

I feel terrific, totally normal. 

In fact, I feel much better than normal. 

It’s so great to sit here in the back yard, reading and relaxing, smelling the 

fresh fall air, enjoying the flowers. 

Mmmmmm. 

Those hollyhocks are really awesome. 

Excuse me a moment while I get up and take a closer look. 

That blossom down near the ground is so perfect. 

I think I’ll get down on my knees to take a quick taste. 

Do you know how to suck the pollen out? 

I’ve figured out the best way. It’s not as hard as it looks. 

You just pucker your lips and stick your tongue way out like this, see? 

Then you dip your face down into the blossom and suck up all the pollen 
you want. 

Try it. 

Go ahead. 

Mmmmmmmm. 

Go ahead. It’s easy. Really! 


MONSTER BLOOD II 


1 

Evan Ross backed into the corner of the den as he stared at his dog Trigger. 

The tan cocker spaniel lowered his head and stared back at Evan with wet, 
brown eyes. The old dog’s tail began to wag excitedly. 

“Trigger—” Evan cried angrily. “Did you eat Monster Blood again?” 

The dog’s tail began wagging faster. Trigger let out a low bark that rumbled 
like thunder. 

Evan’s back pressed against the dark-paneled den wall. 

Trigger took a few heavy steps toward him, panting hard. His huge pink 
tongue, as big as a salami, hung out of his enormous mouth. 

“Did you?” Evan demanded. “Did you eat more Monster Blood?” 

The answer to Evan’s question was obvious. 

Trigger had been normal cocker spaniel size that morning. Now the dog 
stared down at Evan, as big as a pony. 

Trigger’s furry paws, the size of elephant hooves, thudded on the den 
carpet. His enormous tail pounded louder than a bass drum against the side of a 
leather couch. 

Evan covered his ears as Trigger let out an excited, high-pitched bark that 
shook the den walls. “Stay! Stay!” Evan shouted. 

The enormous dog panted hard, his tail wagging furiously. 

Oh, no! Evan thought in horror. He wants to play! 

“Sit!” Evan screamed. “Sit!” 

But Trigger didn’t know how to sit. For ten years —seventy dog years !— 
Evan had tried to teach Trigger to sit on command. 

But Trigger just didn’t get it. 

“Where did you find the Monster Blood?” Evan demanded. “We all saw it 
disappear into thin air. Gone. It was just gone. You know that stuff makes you 
grow. And grow and grow and grow. Where did you find it?” 

Trigger tilted his big head at an angle, as if trying to understand Evan’s 
words. Then, wagging his huge tail excitedly, he started to run to Evan. 

No! Evan thought. He’s going to jump on me! He’s going to jump! If he 
jumps, he’ll crush me! 

An enormous glob of drool escaped Trigger’s open mouth and hit the carpet 
with a loud smack. 

“Sit!” Evan cried, his voice choked with panic. “Sit, boy! Sit!” 

Trigger hesitated, staring down at Evan. To Evan’s horror, the dog was 
growing even bigger. Trigger was now as tall as a horse! 

Where did he find the container of Monster Blood? Evan wondered, his 
back pressed against the wall. Where? 

The dog’s brown eyes gaped at Evan like shimmering, dark pools. Trigger 
uttered another deafening bark that shook the whole house. 

“Yuck!” Evan cried, squeezing his nose with two fingers. The dog’s breath 
rushed at him like a strong wind. And it smelled as sour as a dead mouse. 

“Back! Get back, Trigger!” Evan pleaded. 

But Trigger had never learned that command, either. 

Without warning, the giant dog leaped at Evan. 

“Down! Down!” Evan shrieked. 

Trigger’s mouth gaped open. The dog’s huge tongue licked the side of 
Evan’s face. The tongue felt scratchy and hot. Evan’s carrot-colored hair was 
matted down with sticky dog saliva. 

“No—please!” Evan screamed. “I’m only twelve! I’m too young to die!” 

He started to scream again. But Trigger’s big teeth clamped around his 
waist, cutting off his breath. 

“Trigger—put me down! Put me down!” Evan choked out. 

The dog’s wagging tail sent a lamp crashing to the floor. 

The teeth held Evan gently but firmly. He felt himself being lifted off the 
floor. 

“Put me down! Put me down!” 

Why wouldn’t the stupid dog listen? 

Evan thrashed his arms and legs frantically, trying to squirm free. But 
Trigger held on tightly. 

The dog’s enormous paws pounded on the carpet. He carried Evan through 
the hall and across the kitchen. Then he lowered his head and butted the kitchen 
screen door open. 

The door slammed hard behind them. Trigger began trotting over the grass. 

“Bad dog! Bad dog!” Evan cried. His voice came out in a tiny squeak. 

Had Trigger grown even bigger? 

Evan was at least three feet off the ground now! 

“Put me down! Down!” he cried. 

Evan watched the green grass of the back yard bounce beneath him. Trigger 
was panting as he walked. The panting sounds made Evan’s whole body vibrate. 
He realized his jeans and T-shirt were soaked from dog saliva. Trigger doesn’t 
mean to hurt me, Evan told himself. He’s just being playful. Thank goodness 
he’s such an old dog. His teeth aren’t very sharp. 

The dog stopped at the edge of the flower garden in the back of the yard. 
He lowered Evan nearly to the ground, but didn’t let go. 

His paws began to churn up the soft dirt. 

“Let me down!” Evan shrieked. “Trigger—listen to me!” 

Breathing hard, his hot, sour breath pouring over Evan, the big dog 
continued to dig. 

A wave of horror swept over Evan as he realized what Trigger was doing. 
“No!” Evan shrieked. “Don’t bury me, Trigger!” 

The dog dug faster, its front paws churning furiously. The soft dirt flew past 
Evan’s face. 

“I’m not a bone!” Evan cried frantically. “Trigger—I’m not a bone! Don’t 
bury me, Trigger! Please—don’t bury me!” 

2 

“Don’t bury me. Please don’t bury me!” Evan murmured. 

He heard laughter. 

He raised his head and glanced around—and realized that he wasn’t home 
in his back yard. He was sitting in his assigned seat in the third row near the 
window in Mr. Murphy’s science class. 

And Mr. Murphy was standing right at Evan’s side, his enormous, round 
body blocking the sunlight from the window. “Earth calling Evan! Earth calling 
Evan!” Mr. Murphy called, cupping his chubby pink hands over his mouth to 
make a megaphone. 

The kids all laughed. 

Evan could feel his face growing hot. “S-sorry,” he stammered. 

“You seem to have been somewhere in Daydream Land,” Mr. Murphy said, 
his tiny black eyes twinkling merrily. 

“Yes,” Evan replied solemnly. “I was dreaming about Monster Blood. I—I 
can’t stop thinking about it.” 

Ever since his frightening adventure the past summer with the green, sticky 
stuff, Evan had been dreaming and daydreaming about it. 

“Evan, please,” Mr. Murphy said softly. He shook his round, pink head and 
made a “tsk-tsk” sound. 

“Monster Blood is real!” Evan blurted out angrily. 

The kids laughed again. 

Mr. Murphy’s expression grew stern. His tiny eyes locked onto Evan’s. 
“Evan, I am a science teacher. You don’t expect a science teacher to believe that 
you found a can of sticky green gunk in a toy store that makes things grow and 
grow.” 

“Y-yes, I do,” Evan insisted. 

“Maybe a science-fiction teacher would believe it,” Mr. Murphy replied, 
grinning at his own joke. “Not a science teacher.” 

“Well, you’re dumb!” Evan cried. 

He didn’t mean to say it. He knew immediately that he had just made a 
major mistake. 

He heard gasps all around the big classroom. 

Mr. Murphy’s pink face darkened until it looked like a red balloon. But he 
didn’t lose his temper. He clasped his chubby hands over the big stomach of his 
green sportshirt, and Evan could see him silently counting to ten. 

“Evan, you’re a new student here, isn’t that right?” he asked finally. His 
face slowly returned to its normal pink color. 

“Yes,” Evan replied, his voice just above a whisper. “My family just moved 
to Atlanta this fall.” 

“Well, perhaps you’re not familiar with the way things work here. Perhaps 
at your old school the teachers liked it when you called them dumb. Perhaps you 
called your teachers ugly names all day long. Perhaps—” 

“No, sir,” Evan interrupted, lowering his head. “It just slipped out.” 

Laughter rang through the classroom. Mr. Murphy glared sternly at Evan, 
his face twisted in an angry frown. 

Give me a break, Evan thought unhappily. Glancing quickly around the 
room, Evan saw a sea of grinning faces. 

I think I’m in trouble again, Evan thought glumly. Why can’t I keep my big 
mouth shut? 

Mr. Murphy glanced up at the wall clock. “School is nearly over,” he said. 
“Why don’t you do us all a little favor, Evan, to make up for the time you made 
us waste today?” 

Uh oh, Evan thought darkly. Here it comes. 

“When the bell rings, go put your books away in your locker,” Mr. Murphy 
instructed. “Then come back here and clean Cuddles’ cage.” 

Evan groaned. 

His eyes darted to the hamster cage against the wall. Cuddles was 
scratching around in the wood shavings on the cage floor. 

Not the hamster! Evan thought unhappily. 

Evan hated Cuddles. And Mr. Murphy knew it. This was the third time Mr. 
Murphy had made Evan stay after school and clean out the gross, disgusting 
cage. 

“Perhaps while you clean the hamster cage,” Mr. Murphy said, returning to 
his desk, “you can think about how to do better in science class, Evan.” 

Evan jumped to his feet. “I won’t do it!” he cried. 

He heard shocked gasps all around him. 

“I hate Cuddles!” Evan screamed. “I hate that stupid, fat hamster!” 

As everyone stared in amazed horror, Evan ran over to the cage, pulled 

open the door, and grabbed Cuddles up in one hand. 

Then, with an easy, graceful motion, he flung the hamster across the room 
—and out the open window. 

3 

Evan knew he was having another daydream. 

He didn’t jump up screaming and throw the hamster out the window. 

He only thought about it. Everyone thinks about doing crazy, wild things 
once in a while. 

But Evan would never do anything that crazy. 

Instead, he said, “Okay, Mr. Murphy.” Then he sat quietly in his seat, 
staring out the window at the puffy white clouds in the bright blue sky. 

He could see his own reflection staring back at him in the glass. His curly, 
carrot-colored hair looked darker in the reflection. So did the freckles that dotted 
his cheeks. 

His expression was mournful. He hated being made fun of in front of the 
entire class. 

Why am I always getting myself into trouble? he wondered. Why can’t Mr. 
Murphy ever give me a break? Didn’t the teacher realize how hard it was to be 
the new kid in school? How am I supposed to make new friends if Murphy is 
always making me look like a total jerk in class? 

Bad enough that no one believed him about the Monster Blood. 

Evan had eagerly told the kids in his new school about it. How he had 
stayed with his great-aunt the past summer. How he and a girl he met named 
Andy had found the blue container of Monster Blood in a creepy, old toy store. 

And how the green, yucky Monster Blood had started to grow and grow. 
How it had bubbled out of its container, outgrown a bucket, outgrown a bath tub! 
And just kept growing and growing as if it were alive! 

And Evan had told kids how Trigger had eaten just a little of the Monster 
Blood—and had grown nearly as big as a house! 

It was such a frightening, amazing story. Evan was sure his new friends 
would find it really cool. 

But, instead, they just thought he was weird. 

No one believed him. They laughed at him and told him he had a sick 
imagination. 

Evan became known around his new school as the kid who made up stupid 
stories. 

If only I could prove to them that the story is true, Evan often thought sadly. 
If only I could show them the Monster Blood. 

But the mysterious green gunk had vanished from sight before Evan left his 
great-aunt’s house. Not a trace of it had been left. Not a trace. 

The bell rang. Everyone jumped up and headed for the door, talking and 
laughing. 

Evan knew that a lot of his classmates were laughing at him. Ignoring them, 
Evan picked up his backpack and started to the door. 

“Hurry back, Evan,” Mr. Murphy called from behind his desk. “Cuddles is 
waiting!” 

Evan growled under his breath and stepped out into the crowded hallway. If 
Murphy loves that stupid hamster so much, why doesn’t he ever clean out the 
cage? he wondered bitterly. 

A group of kids laughed loudly as Evan passed by. Were they laughing at 
him? Evan couldn’t tell. 

He started jogging to his locker—when something hit his leg just above the 
ankle. His feet flew out from under him, and he toppled face down onto the hard 
tile floor. 

“Hey—!” Evan cried angrily. 

He stared up at a big, tough-looking kid from his class named Conan 
Barber. All the kids called him Conan the Barbarian. For good reason. 

Conan was twelve, but he looked about twenty years older! He was taller 
and wider and stronger and meaner than any kid in the school. 

He wasn’t a bad-looking guy, Evan grudgingly admitted. He had wavy, 
blond hair, blue eyes, and a handsome face. He was very athletic-looking, and 
played all the sports at school. 

He was an okay guy, Evan thought wistfully. 

Except that he had one very bad habit. Conan loved to live up to his 
nickname. 

He loved being Conan the Barbarian. 

He loved strutting around, pounding kids who weren’t his size—which 
included everyone! 

Evan had not hit it off with Conan. 

He met Conan on the playground a few weeks after moving to Atlanta. 
Eager to make a good impression, Evan told him the whole Monster Blood story. 

Conan didn’t like the story. He stared back at Evan with his cold, blue eyes 

for a long, long time. Then his expression hardened, and he murmured through 
clenched teeth: “We don’t like wise guys down here in Atlanta.” 

He gave Evan a pretty good pounding that day. 

Evan had tried to stay away from Conan ever since. But it wasn’t easy. 

Now he gazed up at Conan from his position on the floor. “Hey—why’d 
you trip me?” Evan demanded shrilly. 

Conan grinned down at him and shrugged. “It was an accident.” 

Evan tried to decide whether it was safer to stand up or to stay down on the 
floor. If I stand up, he’ll punch me, he thought. If I stay down here, he’ll step on 
me. 

Tough choice. 

He didn’t get to make it. Conan reached down and, with one hand, pulled 
Evan to his feet. 

“Give me a break, Conan!” Evan pleaded. “Why can’t you leave me 
alone?” 

Conan shrugged again. It was one of his favorite replies. His blue eyes 
twinkled merrily. “You’re right, Evan,” he said, his grin fading. “I shouldn’t have 
tripped you.” 

“Yeah,” Evan agreed, straightening his T-shirt. 

“So you can pay me back,” Conan offered. 

“Huh?” Evan gaped at him. 

Conan stuck out his massive chest. “Go ahead. Hit me in the stomach. I’ll 
let you.” 

“Whoa. No way,” Evan replied, trying to back up. He stumbled into a group 
of kids. 

“Go ahead,” Conan urged, following after him. “Hit me in the stomach. As 
hard as you can. It’s only fair.” 

Evan studied his expression. “You really mean it?” 

Conan nodded, tight-lipped. He stuck out his chest. “As hard as you can. 
Go ahead. I won’t hit back. I promise.” 

Evan hesitated. Should he go ahead and do it? 

I may never get a chance like this again, he thought. 

A lot of kids were watching, Evan realized. 

If I hit him really hard, if I hurt him, if I make him cry out—then maybe 
kids around here will have a little respect for me. 

I’ll be Evan the Giant Killer. The guy who pounded Conan the Barbarian. 

He balled his hand into a tight fist and raised it. 

“Is that your fist?” Conan cried, laughing. 

Evan nodded. 

“Oooh—this is going to hurt!” Conan cried sarcastically. He made his knees 
tremble. 

Everyone laughed. 

I may surprise him, Evan thought angrily. 

“Go ahead. As hard as you can,” Conan urged. He sucked in a deep breath 
and held it. 

Evan pulled his arm back and swung his fist as hard as he could. 

The fist made a solid thud as it hit Conan’s stomach. 

It felt like hitting a concrete wall. 

Evan’s hand throbbed with pain. 

“Hey—!” a man’s voice called angrily. 

Startled, Evan spun around—to see Mr. Murphy glaring at him. 

“No fighting!” Mr. Murphy yelled at Evan. 

The teacher came bouncing up to them and stepped between the two boys. 
Huffing for breath, he turned to Conan. “Why did Evan hit you?” he demanded. 

4 

Conan shrugged. His blue eyes went wide and innocent. “I don’t know, Mr. 
Murphy,” he replied in a tiny, forlorn voice. “Evan just walked up and hit me as 
hard as he could.” 

Conan rubbed his stomach and uttered a short whimper. “Ow. He really hurt 

me.” 

Mr. Murphy narrowed his beady black eyes at Evan. His chubby face turned 
bright red again. “Evan, I saw the whole thing. I really don’t understand you,” he 
said softly. 

“But Mr. Murphy—” Evan started. 

The teacher raised a hand to silence him. “If you were angry about what 
happened in class,” Mr. Murphy said, “you shouldn’t take it out on other kids.” 

Conan rubbed his stomach tenderly. “I hope Evan didn’t break anything!” 
he murmured. 

“Do you want to see the nurse?” Mr. Murphy asked. 

Conan shook his head. Evan could see he was having trouble keeping a 
straight face. “I’ll be okay,” he said, and staggered away. 

What a phony! Evan thought bitterly. 

Did Conan know the whole time that Murphy was standing there? Probably. 

“Go take care of Cuddles,” Mr. Murphy told Evan, frowning. “And try to 
shape up, Evan. I’m going to be watching you.” 

Evan muttered a reply and trudged back into the classroom. Sunlight 
streamed in through the wall of windows. A strong breeze made the window 
shade flap over the open window near the teacher’s desk. 

Feeling angry and upset, his stomach churning, Evan made his way through 
the empty room to the hamster cage. Cuddles wrinkled his nose in greeting. The 
hamster knew the routine by now. 

Evan gazed into the metal cage at the brown-and-white creature. Why do 
people think hamsters are cute? he wondered. 

Because they wrinkle their noses? Because they run around and around on 
wheels like total jerks? Because of their cute little buck teeth? 

Cuddles stared up at him with his little black eyes. 

He has Mr. Murphy’s eyes, Evan thought, chuckling to himself. Maybe 

that’s why Murphy likes him so much. 

“Okay, okay. So you’re kind of cute,” Evan told the hamster. “But I know 
your secret. You’re just a big fat rat in disguise!” 

Cuddles wrinkled his nose again in reply. 

With a loud sigh, Evan went to work. Holding his breath because he hated 
the smell, he pulled out the bottom tray. 

“You’re a messy little guy,” he told the hamster. “When are you going to 
learn to clean up your own room?” 

Still holding his breath, he dumped out the old newspaper shavings and 
replaced them with fresh shavings from the box in the supply closet. 

He returned the bottom tray to its place as Cuddles watched with great 
interest. Then he poured fresh water into the water bottle. 

“How about some sunflower seeds?” Evan asked. He began to feel a little 
more cheerful, knowing his job was almost finished. 

He removed the seed cup from the cage and made his way across the room 
to the supply closet to get fresh sunflower seeds. 

“Okay, Cuddles,” he called, “these look yummy!” 

He started to carry the seeds back to the cage. Halfway across the room, 
Evan stopped and uttered a startled gasp. 

The cage door hung wide open. 

The hamster was gone. 

5 

A choking sound escaped Evan’s lips as he stared at the empty cage. 

His eyes darted frantically around the room. “Cuddles? Cuddles?” he called 
in a frightened voice. 

Why am I yelling? he asked himself, spinning around in a total panic. The 
dumb hamster doesn’t know its name! 

He heard footsteps out in the hall. 

Mr. Murphy? 

No, please—no! Evan pleaded silently. 

Don’t let it be Mr. Murphy. Don’t let him return until I have Cuddles safely 
back in his cage. 

Cuddles was Mr. Murphy’s most precious possession. He had told this to 
the class time and again. 

Evan knew that if anything happened to Cuddles, Mr. Murphy would be on 
Evan’s case for the rest of the year. No—for the rest of his life! 

Evan froze in the center of the room, listening hard. 

The footsteps passed by the room. 

Evan started breathing again. 

“Cuddles? Where are you, Cuddles?” he called in a trembling voice. “I have 
some delicious sunflower seeds for you.” 

He spotted the furry, brown-and-white creature on the chalk tray under the 
front chalkboard. 

“There you are! I see you!” Evan whispered, tiptoeing toward it. 

Cuddles was busily chewing on something. A small piece of white chalk. 

Evan tiptoed closer. “I have seeds for you, Cuddles,” he whispered. “Much 
tastier than chalk.” 

Cuddles held the stick of chalk in his front paws, turning it as he chewed. 

Evan crept closer. Closer. 

“Look. Seeds.” He held the plastic seed cup toward the hamster. 

Cuddles didn’t look up. 

Evan crept up closer. Closer. 

Close enough to dive forward— 

—and miss! 

The hamster dropped the chalk and scampered down the chalk tray. 

Evan made another frantic grab—and came up with nothing but air. 

Letting out a frustrated groan, Evan saw the hamster dive to the floor and 
scamper behind Mr. Murphy’s desk. The hamster’s feet skidded and slid on the 
linoleum floor, its toenails clicking loudly. 

“You can’t get away! You’re too fat!” Evan cried. He dropped to his knees 
and peered under the desk. 

He could see Cuddles staring back at him from the darkness. The animal 
was breathing rapidly, its sides swelling with each breath. 

“Don’t be scared,” Evan whispered soothingly. “I’m going to put you back 
in your nice, safe cage.” 

He crawled quickly to the desk. 

The hamster stared back at him, breathing hard. It didn’t move—until Evan 
reached for him. Then Cuddles scampered away, his tiny paws sliding on the 
floor. 

Evan jumped angrily to his feet. “Cuddles—what’s your problem?” he 
demanded loudly. “This isn’t a stupid game!” 

It wasn’t a game at all, Evan knew. 

If he didn’t get the hamster back in the cage, Mr. Murphy would flunk him 
for sure. Or suspend him from school. Or get his family kicked out of Atlanta! 

Calm down, Evan urged himself. Don’t panic. 

He took a deep breath and held it. 

Then he saw the hamster on the window ledge just inside the open window. 

Okay, Evan—go ahead and panic! he told himself. 

This was definitely panic time. 

He tried to call to the hamster. But his voice came out a choked whisper. 

Swallowing hard, Evan edged slowly toward the window ledge. 

“Come here, Cuddles,” he whispered. “Please, Cuddles—come here.” 

Closer, closer. 

Almost close enough to reach the hamster. 

Almost close enough. 

“Don’t move, Cuddles. Don’t move.” 

He reached out his hand slowly. Slowly. 

Cuddles glanced back at him with his soft black eyes. 

Then the hamster jumped out the window. 

6 

Evan hung back for only a second. 

Then he jumped out the window after the hamster. 

Luckily, the science classroom was on the ground floor. Evan landed face 
down in a low evergreen hedge. Struggling and squirming, it took him a while to 
climb to his feet. 

He took several steps over the grass, then turned and stared back along the 
bottom of the long hedge. “Cuddles—are you under there?” 

Evan squatted down to get a better view. The hedge stretched the entire 
length of the school building. Cuddles could hide under there forever. 

And if I don’t find him, Evan told himself bitterly, I’d better hide under 
there forever, too! 

To the right, Evan could hear voices from the playground. Happy, shouting 
voices. Carefree voices. 

Still squatting, he turned toward the happy voices—and saw a fat brown 
ball wobbling over the grass toward the playground. 

No. Not a ball. “Cuddles!” 

That fat hamster isn’t getting away this time! Evan decided, jumping up and 
starting to chase after the creature. I’ll catch him if I have to sit on him! 

A picture flashed into Evan’s mind of Cuddles, flat as a pancake after Evan 
had sat upon him. A little, round, furry hamster rug. 

Despite his panic, the thought of Cuddles as a rug brought a smile to Evan’s 
perspiring face. 

As he ran, he kept his eyes on Cuddles. The hamster was wobbling rapidly 
over the grass toward the playground. 

“Oh, no!” Evan cried out in horror as Cuddles darted in front of two girls 
speeding across the grass on bikes. 

Laughing together, they didn’t even see the hamster. 

Cuddles is about to be road kill! Evan thought, shrinking back. He shut his 
eyes and waited for the squish. 

But the bikes rolled smoothly on. And when they had passed, Evan spotted 
Cuddles continuing his journey to the playground unharmed. 

“Cuddles—come back here!” he shouted furiously. 

The hamster appeared to speed up. He tumbled onto the baseball diamond, 
all four paws scurrying over the dirt of the third-base line. 

Several kids stopped their game to stare. 

“Stop him! Grab the hamster!” Evan shouted desperately. 

But the kids only laughed. 

“Know how to catch him?” a joker named Robbie Greene called to Evan. 
“Make a sound like a sunflower seed!” 

“That’s an old joke!” a girl called to Robbie. 

“Thanks for your help!” Evan shouted sarcastically. He ran over the 
pitching mound and had crossed second base when he realized he had lost sight 
of Cuddles. 

He stopped and spun around, his heart thudding wildly in his chest. He 
searched the grass of the infield. “Where—where is he?” he stammered. “Do you 
see him?” 

But the kids had returned to their softball game. 

I can’t lose him now! Evan told himself, choked with panic. I can’t! 

Sweat poured down Evan’s forehead. He mopped it with one hand, 
brushing back his curly, red hair. His T-shirt clung wetly to his back. His mouth 
felt dry as cotton. 

Jogging into the outfield, he searched the grass. 

“Cuddles?” 

No sign of him. 

A round, brownish lump in the grass turned out to be someone’s baseball 
glove. 

“Cuddles?” 

A kickball game was underway on the opposite diamond. Kids were 
shouting and cheering. Evan saw Bree Douglas, a girl from his class, slide hard 
into second base just before the ball. 

“Has—has anyone seen Cuddles?” Evan gasped, trotting onto the diamond. 

Kids turned to gawk at him. 

“Out here?” Bree called, brushing off the knees of her jeans. “Evan, did you 
take the hamster out for a walk?” 

Everyone laughed. Scornful laughter. 

“He—he got away,” Evan replied, panting. 

“Is this what you’re looking for?” a familiar voice called. 

Evan turned to see Conan Barber, a pleased smile on his handsome face, his 

blue eyes gleaming. 

Gripping it by its furry back, Conan held the hamster up in one hand. 
Cuddles’ four legs scurried in midair. 

“You—you caught him!” Evan cried gratefully. He let out a long sigh of 
relief. “He jumped out the window.” 

Evan reached out both hands for the hamster, but Conan jerked Cuddles out 
of his reach. “Prove it’s yours,” Conan said, grinning. 

“Huh?” 

“Can you identify it?” Conan demanded, his eyes burning into Evan’s, 
challenging Evan. “Prove this hamster is yours.” 

Evan swallowed hard and glanced around. 

Kids from the kickball game were huddling near. They were all grinning, 
delighted with Conan’s mean joke. 

Evan sighed wearily and reached again for the hamster. 

But Conan was at least a foot taller than Evan. He lifted the hamster high 
above Evan’s head, out of Evan’s reach. 

“Prove it’s yours,” he repeated, flashing the others a grin. 

“Give me a break, Conan,” Evan pleaded. “I’ve been chasing this stupid 
hamster for hours. I just want to get him back in his cage before Mr. Murphy—” 

“Do you have a license for him?” Conan demanded, still holding the 
squirming hamster above Evan’s head. “Show me the license.” 

Evan jumped and stretched both hands up, trying to grab Cuddles away. 

But Conan was too fast for him. He dodged away. Evan grabbed air. 

Some kids laughed. 

“Give him the hamster, Conan,” Bree called. She hadn’t moved from 
second base. 

Conan’s cold blue eyes sparkled excitedly. “I’ll tell you how you can get the 
hamster back,” he told Evan. 

“Huh?” Evan glared at him. He was getting really tired of Conan’s game. 

“Here’s how to get old Cuddles back,” Conan continued, holding the 
hamster tightly against his chest in one hand and petting its back with the other. 
“Sing a song for it.” 

“Hey—no way!” Evan snapped. “Give it to me, Conan!” 

Evan could feel his face growing even hotter. His knees started to tremble. 
He hoped no one could see it. 

“Sing ‘Row, Row, Row Your Boat’, and I’ll give you Cuddles. Promise,” 

Conan said, smirking. 

Some kids laughed. They moved closer, eager to see what Evan would do. 

Evan shook his head. “No way.” 

“Come on,” Conan urged softly, stroking the hamster’s brown fur. “'Row, 
Row, Row Your Boat.’ Just a few choruses. You know how it goes, don’t you?” 

More cruel laughter from the others. 

Conan’s grin grew wider. “Come on, Evan. You like to sing, don’t you?” 

“No, I hate singing,” Evan muttered, his eyes on Cuddles. 

“Hey, don’t be modest,” Conan insisted. “I’ll bet you’re a great singer. Are 
you a soprano or an alto?” 

Loud laughter. 

Evan’s hands tightened into hard fists at his sides. He wanted to punch 
Conan, and punch him and punch him. He wanted to wipe the grin off Conan’s 
handsome face with his fists. 

But he remembered what it had felt like to punch Conan. It had felt like 
hitting the side of a truck. 

He took a deep breath. “If I sing the stupid song, will you really give me 
back the hamster?” 

Conan didn’t reply. 

Evan suddenly realized that Conan wasn’t looking at him anymore. No one 
was. They had all raised their eyes over Evan’s shoulder. 

Confused, Evan spun around—to face Mr. Murphy. 

“What is going on here?” the teacher demanded, his tiny black eyes moving 
from Evan to Conan, then back to Evan. 

Before Evan could reply, Conan held up the hamster. “Here’s Cuddles, Mr. 
Murphy,” Conan said. “Evan let him get away. But I rescued Cuddles just as he 
was going to get run over.” 

Mr. Murphy let out a horrified gasp. “Run over?” he cried. “Cuddles? Run 
over?” 

The teacher reached out his chubby pink hands and took the hamster from 
Conan. He held the hamster against his bulging shirt and petted it, making 
soothing sounds to it. 

“Thank you, Conan,” Mr. Murphy said after calming Cuddles. He glared at 
Evan. “I’m very disappointed in you, Evan.” 

Evan started to defend himself. But Mr. Murphy raised a hand to silence 
him. “We’ll talk about it tomorrow. Right now I must get poor Cuddles back into 

his cage.” 

Evan slumped to the ground. He watched Mr. Murphy carry the hamster 
back to the school building. Mr. Murphy waddles just like the hamster, Evan 
realized. 

Normally, that thought would have cheered him up. 

But Evan was far too unhappy to be cheered up by anything. 

Conan had embarrassed him in front of all the others. And the big, grinning 
hulk had managed to get Evan in trouble with Mr. Murphy twice in one 
afternoon! 

The kickball game had started up again. Evan climbed slowly to his feet 
and began trudging to the school building to get his backpack. 

He couldn’t decide who he hated more—Cuddles or Conan. 

He had a sudden picture of Cuddles stuffed inside a muffin tin, being baked 
in an oven. 

Even that lovely thought didn’t cheer Evan up. 

He pulled his backpack out of the locker and slung it over his shoulder. 
Then he slammed the locker shut, the sound clanging down the empty hallway. 

He pushed open the front door and headed for home, walking slowly, lost in 
his unhappy thoughts. 

What a horrible day, he told himself. At least nothing worse could happen 
to me today. 

He had just crossed the street and was making his way on the sidewalk in 
front of a tall hedge—when someone leaped out at him, grabbed his shoulders 
hard from behind, and pulled him roughly to the ground. 

Evan let out a frightened cry and gazed into his attacker’s face. “You!” he 
cried. 

7 

“Here’s a little advice, Evan,” Andy said, grinning down at him. “Don’t go out 
for the wrestling team.” 

“Andy!” Evan cried, staring up at her in surprise. “What are you doing 
here?” 

She reached out both hands and helped tug him to his feet. Then she tossed 
back her short, brown hair with a flick of her head. Her brown eyes flashed 
excitedly. 

“Didn’t you read any of my letters?” she demanded. 

Evan had met Andy the past summer, when he’d stayed with his great-aunt 
for a few weeks. He and Andy had become good friends. 

She was with him when he bought the container of Monster Blood. She 
shared the whole frightening Monster Blood adventure with him. 

Evan liked Andy because she was funny, and fearless, and kind of crazy. He 
never could predict what she would do next! 

She didn’t even dress like other girls Evan knew. Andy loved bright colors. 
Right now she was wearing a sleeveless magenta T-shirt over bright yellow 
shorts, which matched her yellow sneakers. 

“I told you in my last letter that my parents were sent overseas for a year,” 
Andy said, giving Evan a playful shove. “I told you they were sending me to 
Atlanta to live with my aunt and uncle. I told you I’d be living just three blocks 
away from you!” 

“I know. I know,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “I just didn’t expect to see 
you jump out of the hedge at me.” 

“Why not?” Andy demanded, her dark eyes exploring his. 

Evan didn’t know how to answer that question. 

“Glad to see me?” Andy asked. 

“No,” he joked. 

She pulled up a thick blade of grass and stuck it in the corner of her mouth. 
They began walking toward Evan’s house. 

“I’m starting at your school on Monday,” she told him, chewing on the 
blade of grass. 

“Thrills and chills,” he replied, snickering. 

She shoved him off the sidewalk. “I thought people were supposed to be 
polite in the South.” 

“I’m new here,” Evan replied. 

“How’s Trigger?” she asked, kicking a pebble across the sidewalk. 

“Good,” Evan told her. 

“Like to talk a lot?” she asked sarcastically. 

“I’m in a bad mood,” he confessed. “It hasn’t been the greatest day.” 

“It couldn’t be as bad as the day the Monster Blood went berserk!” Andy 
exclaimed. 

Evan groaned. “Don’t mention Monster Blood to me. Please!” 

She studied him. Her expression turned serious. “What’s wrong, Evan? You 
look really upset,” she said. “Don’t you like it here?” 

He shook his head. “Not much.” 

As they walked, he told her about all the trouble he was having in his new 
school. He told her about Mr. Murphy and Cuddles, and how the teacher was 
always on his case. 

And he told her about Conan the Barbarian, and how Conan was always 
picking on him, always getting him into trouble, always playing tricks on him 
and making him look bad. 

“And no one will believe me about the Monster Blood,” Evan added. 

They were standing at the bottom of his driveway. They glanced up at 
Evan’s new house, a two-story red brick house with a sloping red tile roof. The 
late afternoon sun dipped behind a large puff of cloud, and a broad shadow 
rolled across the lawn. 

Andy’s mouth dropped open. The blade of grass fell out. “You told kids 
about the Monster Blood?” she asked in surprise. 

Evan nodded. “Yeah, why not? It’s a cool story, isn’t it?” 

“And you expected kids to believe you?” Andy cried, slapping her 
forehead. “Didn’t they just think you were weird?” 

“Yeah,” Evan replied bitterly. “They all think I’m weird.” 

Andy laughed. “Well, you are weird!” 

“Thanks a bunch, Annnndrea!” Evan muttered. He knew she hated to be 
called by her real name. 

“Don’t call me Andrea,” she replied sharply. She raised a fist. “I’ll pound 
you.” 

“Annnnnndrea,” he repeated. He ducked away as she swung her fist. “You 

punch like a girl!” he exclaimed. 

“You’ll bleed like a boy!” she threatened, laughing. 

He stopped. He suddenly had an idea. “Hey—you can tell everyone I’m not 
weird!” 

“Huh? Why would I do that?” Andy demanded. 

“No. Really,” Evan said excitedly. “You can tell everyone at school that the 
Monster Blood was real. That you were there. That you saw it.” 

Andy’s expression suddenly changed. Her dark eyes lit up, and a sly grin 
crossed her face. “I can do better than that,” she said mysteriously. 

Evan grabbed her shoulder. “Huh? What do you mean? What do you mean 
you can do better?” 

“You’ll see,” she replied, teasing him. “I brought something with me.” 

“What? What is it? What do you mean?” Evan demanded. 

“Meet me tomorrow after school,” she told him. “At that little park over 
there.” 

She pointed to the next block. A narrow park, only a few blocks long, ran 
along the bank of a shallow creek. 

“But what is it?” Evan cried. 

She laughed. “I love torturing you!” she declared. “But it’s a little too easy.” 

Then she turned and headed down the street, running at full speed. 

“Andy—wait!” Evan called. “What have you got? What did you bring?” 

She didn’t even turn around. 

8 

Evan dreamed about Monster Blood that night. 

He dreamed about it nearly every night. 

Tonight he dreamed that his dad had eaten a glob of it. Now Mr. Ross 
wanted to go to his office, but he had grown too big to fit through the door. 

“You’re in trouble now, Evan!” Mr. Ross bellowed, making the whole 
house shake. “Big trouble!” 

Big trouble. 

The words stuck in Evan’s mind as he sat up in bed and tried to shake away 
the dream. 

The curtains flapped silently in front of his open bedroom window. Pale 
yellow stars dotted the charcoal sky. Staring hard, Evan could see the Big 
Dipper. Or was it the Little Dipper? He never could remember. 

Shutting his eyes and settling back on the pillow, Evan thought about Andy. 
He was glad she had come to stay in Atlanta for a while. She could be a real 
pain. But she was also a lot of fun. 

What did she want to show him in the park after school? 

Probably nothing, Evan guessed. It was probably just a dumb joke. Andy 
loved dumb jokes. 

How can I get her to tell the kids at school about Monster Blood? he 
wondered. How can I get Andy to tell everyone that I didn’t make it up, that it’s 
true? 

He was still thinking about this problem as he fell back into a restless sleep. 

The next day at school wasn’t much better than the last. 

Somehow during free reading period, Conan had crept under the table and 
tied Evan’s sneaker laces together. When Evan got up to go to the water 
fountain, he fell flat on his face. He scraped a knee, but no one cared. The kids 
laughed for hours. 

“Evan’s mommy tied his shoes funny this morning!” Conan told everyone. 
And they laughed even harder. 

In science class, Mr. Murphy called Evan over to the hamster cage. “Look 
at poor Cuddles,” the teacher said, shaking his round head solemnly. 

Evan peered down into the metal cage. Cuddles was curled up in a corner 
under a pile of shavings. The hamster was trembling and breathing in short 
gasps. 

“Poor Cuddles has been like that ever since yesterday,” Mr. Murphy told 
Evan with an accusing frown. “Cuddles is sick because of your carelessness.” 

“I—I’m sorry,” Evan stammered. He stared hard at the quivering hamster. 
You’re faking—aren’t you, Cuddles? Evan thought. You’re faking just to get me 
in trouble! 

The hamster twitched and stared up at him with mournful, black eyes. 

When Evan sat back down in his seat, he felt cold water seep through the 
back of his jeans. With a startled cry, he jumped right back up. Someone— 
probably Conan—had poured a cup of water on his chair. 

That had the class laughing for at least ten minutes. They stopped only 
when Mr. Murphy threatened to keep everyone after school. 

“Sit down, Evan,” the teacher ordered. 

“But, Mr. Murphy—” Evan started. 

“Sit down—now!” Mr. Murphy insisted. 

Evan dropped back down into the wet chair. What choice did he have? 

Andy was waiting for Evan by the trickling brown creek that rolled through the 
tiny park. The old sassafras trees bent and whispered in a hot breeze. A tall 
Georgia pine leaned over the water as if trying to reach across the creek. 

Andy was wearing a bright blue T-shirt over lime-green short-shorts. She 
had been staring at her reflection in the muddy creek water. She spun around 
smiling as Evan called to her. 

“Hey, how’s it going?” he called. He stepped up beside her and dropped his 
backpack to the ground. 

“How was school?” Andy asked. 

“Same as always,” Evan replied, sighing. Then his expression brightened. 
“What did you bring?” he asked eagerly. 

“You’ll see.” She clasped a hand over his eyes. “Shut your eyes, Evan. And 
don’t open them until I say.” 

He obediently shut his eyes. But when she pulled her hand away, he opened 
them a tiny crack, just enough to see. He watched her go behind the pine tree and 
pick up a small brown paper bag. 

She carried the bag over to him. “You’re peeking—aren’t you?” she 

accused him. 

“Maybe,” he confessed, grinning. 

She punched him playfully in the stomach. He cried out and his eyes shot 
open. “What’s in the bag?” 

Grinning, Andy handed the bag to him. 

He pulled it open, peered inside—and his mouth dropped open in shock. 

The familiar blue can, about the size of a can of soup. 

“Andy—you—you—” Evan stammered, still staring wide-eyed into the 

bag. 

He reached in and pulled out the plastic can. 

He read the faded label: MONSTER BLOOD. 

Then he read the words in tiny type below it: SURPRISING MIRACLE 
SUBSTANCE. 

“I saved it,” Andy said, beaming proudly. 

Evan couldn’t get over his shock. “You brought Monster Blood! I don’t 
believe it! You brought Monster Blood!” 

“No.” She shook her head. “It’s empty, Evan. The can is empty.” 

His face fell. He sighed in total disappointment. 

“But you can show the can to everyone,” Andy insisted. “That will prove 
you didn’t make it up. It will prove that Monster Blood really exists.” 

Evan sighed again. “What good is an empty can?” he groaned. 

He pulled off the top, peered inside—and screamed. 

9 

With a trembling hand, Evan tilted the can so that Andy could see inside. 

“Oh, no!” she shrieked, pulling her hands to her cheeks. 

The can was half full. 

Inside, a green glob of gooey Monster Blood shimmered in the sunlight like 
lime jell-o. 

“But it was empty!” Andy protested, staring into the can. “I know it was!” 

Evan shook the can. The green glob inside quivered. 

“There must have been a tiny speck in there,” Evan guessed. “Down at the 
bottom of the can. And now it’s growing and growing again.” 

“Great!” Andy declared. She slapped him on the back so hard, he nearly 
dropped the blue can. 

“Great? What’s so great?” he demanded shakily. 

“Now you can show this to the kids at your school,” she replied. “Now 
they’ll have to believe you.” 

“I guess,” Evan replied in a low voice. 

“Oh! I have a better idea!” she exclaimed, her dark eyes lighting up 
mischievously. 

“Uh-oh,” Evan moaned. 

“Slip a little glob of it in that guy Conan’s lunch tomorrow. When he starts 
to grow as big as a hippo, everyone will see that the Monster Blood is real.” 

“No way!” Evan cried. He cupped the blue can in both hands, as if 
protecting it from Andy. “Conan is already big enough!” he told her, taking a 
step back. “I don’t want him to grow another inch. Do you know what he could 
do to me if he became a giant?” 

Andy laughed and shrugged. “It was just an idea.” 

“A bad idea,” Evan said sharply. “A really bad idea.” 

“You’re no fun,” she teased. She leaped forward and tried to wrestle the can 
from his hands. 

He spun around, turning his back to her, and hunched over, protecting the 

can. 

“Give it to me!” she cried, laughing. She started tickling his sides. “Give it! 
Give it!” 

“No!” he protested, breaking free. He ran to the safety of a tall evergreen 
shrub. 

“It’s mine!” Andy declared, coming after him, hands at her waist. “If you’re 
not going to use it, hand it back.” 

Evan stood his ground. His expression turned serious. “Andy, don’t you 
remember?” he demanded shrilly. “Don’t you remember how scary this stuff 
was? Don’t you remember how dangerous it was? All the trouble it caused?” 

“So?” she replied, her eyes on the blue can. 

“We have to get rid of it,” Evan told her firmly. “We can’t let it out of the 
can. It will grow and grow and never stop.” 

“But I thought you wanted to show it to the kids to prove that it’s real.” 

“No,” Evan interrupted. “I changed my mind. This stuff is too dangerous. 
We have to get rid of it.” He locked his eyes on hers, his features tight with fear. 
“Andy, I’ve had nightmares every night because of this stuff. I don’t want any 
new nightmares.” 

“Okay, okay,” she muttered. She kicked at an upraised tree root. Then she 
handed him the brown paper bag. 

Evan clicked the top back on the can of Monster Blood. Then he shoved the 
can into the bag. “Now how do we get rid of it?” he wondered out loud. 

“I know. Dump it in the creek,” Andy suggested. 

Evan shook his head. “No good. What if it gets out and pollutes the creek?” 

“This creek is already polluted!” Andy exclaimed. “It’s just a big mud 
puddle!” 

“It isn’t deep enough,” Evan insisted. “Someone will find the can and pull it 
out. We can’t take a chance.” 

“Then how do we get rid of it?” Andy asked, twisting her face in 
concentration. “Hmmmm. We could eat it ourselves. That would get rid of it!” 

“Very funny,” Evan muttered, rolling his eyes. 

“Just trying to be helpful,” Andy said. 

“You’re about as helpful as a toothache!” Evan shot back. 

“Ha-ha. Remind me to laugh at that sometime,” she replied, sticking her 
tongue out at him. 

“How can we get rid of it?” Evan repeated, gripping the bag in both hands. 
“How?” 

“I know!” a boy’s voice called, startling them both. 

Conan Barber stepped out from behind a tall shrub. 

“You can give it to me!” he declared. He reached out a big, powerful- 
looking hand to grab the bag. 

10 

Evan swung the paper bag behind his back. 

Conan lumbered toward them over the tall grass. His eyes were narrowed 
menacingly at Evan. 

How long has he been hiding there? Evan wondered. Did he hear us talk 
about the Monster Blood? Is that why he wants the bag? 

“Hi, I’m Andy,” Andy chirped brightly. She stepped in between the two 
boys and flashed Conan a smile. 

“Andy is a boy’s name,” Conan said, making a disgusted face. He turned 
his hard stare on her, challenging her. 

“And what kind of a name is Conan?” Andy shot back, returning his stare. 

“You know me?” Conan asked, sounding surprised. 

“You’re famous,” Andy replied dryly. 

Conan suddenly remembered Evan. He stuck out his big paw. “I’ll take the 
bag now.” 

“Why should I give it to you?” Evan demanded, trying to keep his voice 
calm and steady. 

“Because it’s mine,” Conan lied. “I dropped it here.” 

“You dropped an empty bag here?” Evan asked. 

Conan swatted a fly from his blond hair. “It isn’t empty. I saw you put 
something in it. Hand it over. Now.” 

“Well... okay.” Evan handed him the paper bag. Conan eagerly reached 
inside. 

His hand came out empty. 

He peered inside the bag. Empty. 

He stared hard at Andy, then at Evan. 

“I told you it was empty,” Evan said. 

“Guess I made a mistake,” Conan muttered. “Hey, no hard feelings. Shake.” 
Conan reached out his big right hand to Evan. 

Evan reluctantly stuck out his hand. 

Conan slid his hand over Evan’s and began to tighten his grip. Harder. 
Harder. 

Evan’s fingers cracked so loudly, they sounded like a tree falling! 

Conan squeezed Evan’s hand harder and harder until Evan screamed in 
pain. When Conan finally let go, the hand looked like a slab of raw hamburger. 

“Nice handshake you got there!” Conan exclaimed, grinning. 

He snapped his finger against Andy’s nose, then headed off quickly toward 
the street, taking long strides, laughing to himself. 

“Great guy,” Andy muttered, rubbing her nose. 

Evan blew on his hand, as if trying to put out a fire. “Maybe I can learn to 
be left-handed,” he murmured. 

“Hey—where’s the Monster Blood?” Andy demanded. 

“I—I dropped it,” Evan replied, still examining his hand. 

“Huh?” She kicked away a clump of weeds and stepped over to him. 

“I thought I could shove the can into my back jeans pocket while Conan 
was talking to you,” Evan explained. “But it slipped out of my hand. I dropped 
it.” 

He turned, bent over, and picked it up from the tall grass. “Good thing it 
didn’t roll or anything. Conan would have seen it.” 

“He wouldn’t know what to do with it if he had it,” Andy said. 

“What are we going to do with it?” Evan demanded. “It’s already caused us 
trouble. We’ve got to hide it, or throw it away, or—or—” 

He pulled open the lid. “Oh, wow! Look!” He held the can up to Andy’s 
face. The green goo had grown nearly to the top of the can. “It’s starting to grow 
a lot faster. I guess because we exposed it to the air.” 

Evan slammed the lid on tight. 

“Let’s bury it,” Andy suggested. “Here. Right under this tree. We’ll dig a 
deep hole and bury it.” 

Evan liked the idea. It was simple and quick. 

They squatted down and began digging with their hands. The dirt beneath 
the tree was soft. The hole grew deep before they had worked up a sweat. 

Evan dropped the blue can of Monster Blood into the hole. Then they 
quickly covered it with dirt, smoothing it out until it was impossible to tell a hole 
had been dug. 

“This was a good plan,” Andy said, climbing to her feet, playfully wiping 
the dirt off her hands on the back of Evan’s T-shirt. “If we need it, we’ll know 
where it is.” 

Evan’s red hair was matted to his forehead with sweat. He had a wide smear 

of dirt across his freckled forehead. “Huh? Why would we need it?” he 
demanded. 

Andy shrugged. “You never know.” 

“We won’t need it,” Evan told her firmly. “We won’t.” 

He was very, very wrong. 

11 

“Hey, Dad, what’s up?” Evan stepped into the garage. 

Mr. Ross stopped hammering and turned around. He smiled at Evan. “Want 
to see my newest work?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. Every weekend, his father spent hour after hour 
in his garage workshop, banging away on large sheets of metal, making what he 
called his “works”. 

He chiseled and hammered and sawed, and put a lot of effort into his 
sculptures. But to Evan, they all looked like banged-up sheets of metal when 
they were finished. 

Mr. Ross took a few steps back to admire his current project. He lowered 
his heavy mallet in one hand and pointed with the chisel he held in his other 
hand. “I used brass for this one,” he told Evan. “I call it ‘Autumn Leaf’.” 

Evan studied it thoughtfully. “It looks like a leaf,” he lied. It looks like Dad 
mined a perfectly good piece of brass, he thought, trying to keep a straight face. 

“It’s not supposed to look like a leaf,” Mr. Ross corrected Evan. “It’s 
supposed to look like my impression of a leaf.” 

“Oh.” Evan scratched his curly, red hair as he studied it some more. “Neat, 
Dad,” he said. “I see what you mean.” 

Then something else caught his eye. “Hey—what’s this?” 

Evan carefully stepped over several jagged, bent shards of metal. He made 
his way to another metal sculpture and ran his hand over the smooth, shiny 
surface. It was an enormous aluminum cylinder that rested above a flat wooden 
base. 

“Go ahead. Spin it,” Mr. Ross instructed, smiling proudly. 

Evan pushed the cylinder with both hands. It spun slowly over the wooden 

base. 

“I call it ‘The Wheel’,” his father told him. 

Evan laughed. “That’s cool, Dad. You invented the wheel!” 

“Don’t laugh!” Mr. Ross replied, grinning. “That sculpture was accepted at 
the annual arts competition at your school. I have to take it to the auditorium 
later this week.” 

Evan gave “The Wheel” another spin. “I’ll bet no one else made a wheel 

that really spins,” he told his father. “You can’t lose with this, Dad,” he teased. 

“Sarcasm is the lowest form of humor,” Mr. Ross muttered with a frown. 

Evan said good-bye and made his way out of the garage, stepping carefully 
over the jagged pieces of brass and tin. As he headed to the house, he could hear 
the clang clang clang as his dad hammered away on his impression of a leaf. 

In the halls after school on Monday, Evan hurried around a corner and bumped 
right into Andy. “I can’t talk now,” he told her breathlessly. “I’m late for 
basketball tryouts.” 

He glanced down the long hall. It was nearly empty. The gym door opened, 
and he could hear the thump of basketballs against the floor. 

“How come you’re late?” Andy demanded, blocking his path. 

“Murphy kept me after class,” Evan told her with a groan. “He put me on 
permanent hamster duty. I have to take care of Cuddles every afternoon for the 
rest of my life.” 

“Bad news,” Andy murmured. 

“No. That’s the good news,” Evan replied bitterly. 

“What’s the bad news?” 

“The bad news is that Mr. Murphy is also the basketball coach!” 

“Well, good luck,” she said. “Hope you make the team.” 

Evan ran past her, his heart pounding. 

Mr. Murphy is such a rat, he thought unhappily. He’ll probably keep me off 
the team because I’m late to practice—even though it’s his fault I’m late! 

Evan took a deep breath. No. Stop thinking like that, he scolded himself. 

Think positive. I’ve got to think positive. 

Sure, I’m not as tall as the other guys. Maybe I’m not as big or as strong. 
But I’m a good basketball player. And I can make this team. 

I can make this team. I know I can! 

Having finished his pep talk to himself, Evan pulled open the double gym 
doors and stepped into the huge, brightly lit gym. 

“Think fast!” a voice called. 

Evan felt his face explode with pain. 

Then everything went black. 

12 

When Evan opened his eyes, he found himself staring up at about twenty guys 
and Mr. Murphy. 

He was stretched out fiat on his back on the gym floor. His face still hurt. A 
lot. 

He reached a hand up and touched his nose. To his dismay, it felt like a 
wilted leaf of lettuce. 

“You okay, Evan?” Mr. Murphy asked quietly. As the teacher leaned over 
Evan, the whistle that was on a string around his neck bumped against Evan’s 
chest. 

“Did my face explode?” Evan asked weakly. 

Some of the guys snickered. Mr. Murphy glowered at them angrily. Then he 
turned back to Evan. “Conan hit you in the face with the basketball,” he 
reported. 

“He’s got bad reflexes, Coach,” Evan heard Conan say from somewhere 
above him. “He should’ve caught the ball. I really thought he’d catch it. But he’s 
got bad reflexes.” 

“I saw the whole thing,” Conan’s friend, a huge hulk of a kid named Biggie 
Malick, chimed in. “It wasn’t Conan’s fault. Evan should’ve caught the ball. It 
was a perfect pass.” 

Perfect, Evan thought with a sigh. He touched his nose again. This time, it 
felt like a lump of mashed potatoes. At least it isn’t broken, he thought glumly. 

Evan’s basketball tryout went downhill from there. 

Mr. Murphy helped him to his feet. “You sure you want to try out?” he 
asked. 

Thanks for the support, Evan thought bitterly. 

“I think I can make the team,” he said. 

But Conan, Biggie, and the other guys had other ideas. 

During the ball-handling tryout, Evan confidently began dribbling across 
the floor. Halfway to the basket, Biggie bumped him hard—and Conan stole the 
ball away. 

They blocked Evan’s shots. They stole his passes. 

They bumped him every time he moved, sending him sprawling to the 

hardwood floor again and again. 

A fast pass from Conan caught Evan in the mouth. 

“Oops! Sorry!” Conan yelled. 

Biggie laughed like a hyena. 

“Defense! I want to see defense!” Mr. Murphy shouted from the sidelines. 

Evan lowered himself into a defensive stance. As Conan dribbled the ball 
toward him, Evan prepared to defend the basket. 

Conan drove closer. Closer. 

Evan raised both hands to block Conan’s shot. 

But to Evan’s surprise, Conan let the ball bounce away. In one swift motion, 
he grabbed Evan by the waist, leaped high in the air, and stuffed Evan into the 
basket. 

“Three points!” Conan shouted in triumph. 

Biggie and the other guys rushed to congratulate Conan, laughing and 
cheering. 

Mr. Murphy had to get a stepladder to help Evan down. 

His hand on Evan’s shoulder, the teacher led him to the side. “You’re just 
not tall enough, Evan,” he said, rubbing his pink chins. “Don’t take it personally. 
Maybe you’ll grow. But for now, you’re just not tall enough.” 

Evan didn’t say a word. He lowered his head and sadly slumped out of the 

gym. 

Conan came running up to him at the door. “Hey, Evan, no hard feelings,” 
he said. He stuck out his big, sweaty hand. “Shake.” 

Evan held up his hand to show Andy. “It looks like a wilted petunia,” she said. “I 
can’t believe I fell for Conan’s stupid handshake trick twice!” Evan wailed. It 
was the next afternoon. Evan and Andy had walked from school to the small 
park near their houses. Evan had complained about Mr. Murphy and Conan and 
the other basketball players the whole way. 

The late afternoon sun beamed down on them as they walked. Andy 
stopped to watch two monarch butterflies, their black-and-gold wings fluttering 
majestically as they hovered over a patch of blue and yellow wildflowers along 
the creekbed. 

Even the trickling brown creek looked pretty on this bright day. Tiny white 
gnats sparkled like diamonds in the sunlight over the shimmering water. 

Evan kicked at a fallen tree branch. Everything looked dark to him today. 

Dark and ugly. 

“It just wasn’t fair,” he grumbled, kicking the branch again. “It wasn’t a fair 
tryout. Mr. Murphy should have given me a better chance.” 

Andy tsk-tsked, her eyes on the sparkling creek. 

“Someone should teach Mr. Murphy a lesson,” Evan said. “I wish I could 
think of some way of paying him back. I really do.” 

Andy turned to him. A devilish grin crossed her face. “I have a plan,” she 
said softly. “A really neat plan.” 

“What is it?” Evan demanded. 

13 

“What’s your idea?” Evan demanded again. 

Andy grinned at him. She was wearing a long, lime-green T-shirt over a 
Day-Glo orange T-shirt, pulled down over baggy blue shorts. The sunlight made 
all the colors so bright, Evan felt like shielding his eyes. 

“You might not like it,” Andy said coyly. 

“Try me,” Evan replied. “Come on. Don’t keep me in suspense.” 

“Well...” Her eyes wandered over to the tree where they had buried the 
Monster Blood. “It has to do with the Monster Blood,” she said reluctantly. 

He swallowed hard. “That’s okay. Go on.” 

“Well, it’s a pretty simple plan. First, we dig up the Monster Blood,” Andy 
said, watching his reaction. 

“Yeah?” 

“Then we take some to school,” she continued. 

“Yeah?” 

“Then we feed it to Cuddles.” 

Evan’s mouth dropped open. 

“Just a little bit!” Andy quickly explained. “We feed Cuddles a tiny glob of 
it. Just enough to make him the size of a dog.” 

Evan laughed. It was a terrible idea, a truly evil idea—but he loved it! 

He slapped Andy on the back. “You’re bad, Andy!” he cried. “You’re really 
bad!” 

Andy grinned proudly. “I know.” 

Evan laughed again. “Can you see the look on Murphy’s face when he 
comes in and sees his precious little hamster has grown as big as a cocker 
spaniel? What a riot!” 

“So you’ll do it?” Andy asked. 

Evan’s smile faded. “I guess,” he replied thoughtfully. “If you promise 
we’ll only use a tiny bit. And we’ll bury the rest right away.” 

“Promise,” Andy said. “Just enough to play our little joke on Mr. Murphy. 
Then we’ll never use the stuff again.” 

“Okay,” Evan agreed. 

They shook hands solemnly. 

Then they hurried to the tree. Evan searched the entire park, squinting 
against the bright sunlight. He wanted to make sure no one was spying on them 
this time. 

When he was sure the park was empty, he and Andy dropped to their knees 
under the tree and began scooping the dirt off the hole with their hands. 

They had dug nearly two feet down when they realized the hole was empty. 

“The Monster Blood!” Evan cried. “It—it’s gone!” 

14 

“We must be digging under the wrong tree,” Evan said, sweat pouring down his 
freckled forehead. 

Andy pushed a wet strand of brown hair off her face with a dirt-covered 
finger. “No way.” She shook her head. “This is the right tree. And the right 
hole.” 

“Then where is the Monster Blood?” Evan demanded shrilly. 

They both came up with the answer to his question at the same time: 
“Conan!” 

“He must have watched us bury it,” Evan said, his eyes darting around the 
park as if he expected to see Conan jump out from behind a bush. “I thought he 
hurried away awfully fast that afternoon. He knew the paper bag wasn’t empty.” 

Andy agreed. “He hid and watched us bury it. Then he waited till we were 
gone, and dug it up.” 

They both stared into the empty hole in horrified silence. 

Andy broke the silence. “What is Conan going to do with it?” she asked, 
her voice just above a whisper. 

“Probably eat it so he can grow bigger and pound me harder,” Evan replied 
bitterly. 

“But he doesn’t know what Monster Blood does,” Andy said. “He doesn’t 
know how dangerous it is.” 

“Of course he does. I told him all about it,” Evan replied. He slammed his 
hand against the tree trunk. “We have to get it back!” 

Before science class the next afternoon, Evan found Conan in the hall. He and 
Biggie were standing next to Evan’s locker. They were laughing loudly about 
something, slapping each other high-fives. 

Conan wore a tight blue muscle shirt and baggy faded denim jeans with 
enormous holes at the knees. Biggie had wavy brown hair down to his shoulders. 
He wore a sleeveless white T-shirt and tight-fitting black denims. 

They look like a couple of tag-team wrestlers! Evan thought as he stepped 
between them. 

“Hey, look—it’s Air Evan!” Conan joked. “King of the slam dunk!” 

He and Biggie guffawed loudly. Conan gave Evan a slap on the back that 
sent him sprawling into Biggie. 

“Uh... Conan? Did you find something in the park?” Evan asked, 
struggling to regain his balance. 

Conan narrowed his eyes at Evan and didn’t reply. 

“Did you find something that belongs to Andy and me?” Evan repeated. 

“You mean like your brains ?” Conan exclaimed. He and his tag-team 
partner roared with laughter over that gem. 

“Why don’t we dribble him to class?” Biggie asked Conan. “Coach Murphy 
would like to see us get in some extra practice.” 

Conan laughed gleefully at that idea. 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” Evan said sarcastically. “Look, Conan—that stuff you 
took. It’s really dangerous. You have to give it back.” 

Conan opened his eyes in wide-eyed innocence. “I really don’t know what 
you’re talking about, Evan. Did you lose something?” 

“You know I lost something,” Evan replied sharply. “And I want it back.” 

Conan flashed a sly grin at Biggie. Then he turned back to Evan, his 
expression hardening. “I don’t know what you mean, Evan,” he said. “Really. I 
don’t know what you and that girl lost. But tell you what. I’m a nice guy. I’ll 
help you look for it.” 

He grabbed Evan around the waist with both hands. Biggie pulled Evan’s 
locker door open. 

“I’ll help you look for it in your locker,” Conan said. 

He shoved Evan inside the locker and slammed the door shut. 

Evan started pounding on the metal door, shouting for help. 

But the bell had rung. Evan knew the hall was empty. There was no one to 
hear his cries. 

He decided to try fiddling with the latch. But it was too dark to see 
anything. And he was so jammed in, he couldn’t raise his arms. 

Finally, two girls happened to walk by, and they pulled open the locker 

door. 

Evan came bursting out, red-faced, gasping for air. 

The girls’ laughter followed him all the way to Mr. Murphy’s class. “You’re 
late,” the teacher said sternly, glancing up at the wall clock as Evan staggered in. 

Evan tried to explain why. But all that escaped his lips was a whistling 
wheeze. 

“I’m really tired of you disrupting my class, Evan,” Mr. Murphy said, 
rubbing his nearly bald head. “I’m afraid I’ll be seeing you after school again. 
You can give Cuddles’ cage a double cleaning. And while you’re at it, you can 
scrub the chalkboards and clean out all the test tubes, too.” 

* * * 

“It’s so dark,” Evan whispered. 

“It usually gets dark at night,” Andy replied, rolling her eyes. 

“The streetlight is out,” Evan said, pointing. “And there’s no moon tonight. 
That’s why it’s so dark.” 

“Hide! ” Andy whispered. 

They ducked behind the hedge as a car rolled slowly past. Evan shut his 
eyes as the white headlights moved over him. When the car turned the corner, 
they climbed to their feet. 

It was a little after eight o’clock. They were standing in the street in front of 
Conan’s house. Leaning against the low hedge, they stared across the sloping 
front lawn into the large picture window in the front of the house. 

The lamp in the living room was lit, casting a dim rectangle of orange light 
that spilled onto the front yard. The old trees at the sides of the small brick house 
whispered in a hot breeze. 

“Are we really doing this?” Evan asked, huddling close to Andy. “Are we 
really going to break into Conan’s house?” 

“We’re not going to break in,” Andy whispered. “We’re going to sneak in.” 

“But what if the Monster Blood isn’t there?” Evan asked, hoping she 
couldn’t see his knees trembling. 

“We have to look, don’t we?” Andy shot back. 

She turned to study his face. He saw that she was frightened, too. “The 
Monster Blood will be there,” she told him. “It’s got to be.” 

Bending low, she started to creep across the dark yard to the house. 

Evan hung back. “You checked it out?” he called to her. “Everyone is really 
gone?” 

“His parents left right after dinner,” Andy told him. “Then I saw Conan go 
out about ten minutes ago,” 

“Where?” Evan demanded. 

“How should I know?” she asked sharply, putting her hands on her waist. 

“He left. The house is empty.” She came back and tugged Evan’s arm. “Come 
on. Let’s sneak into Conan’s room, get the Monster Blood, and get out of here!” 

“I can’t believe we’re doing this,” Evan said, sighing. “We—we could be 
arrested!” 

“It was your idea!” Andy reminded him. 

“Oh. Yeah. Right.” He took a deep breath and held it, hoping it would help 
calm him down. “If we don’t find it right away, we get out of there—right?” 

“Right,” Andy agreed. “Now come on.” She gave him a little shove toward 
the house. 

They took a few steps over the dew-wet grass. 

They both stopped when they heard the low barking. 

Andy grabbed Evan’s arm. 

The barking grew louder. They could hear the dog’s heavy paws pounding 
the ground, approaching fast. 

Two angry eyes. A loud warning bark. Another. 

The dog attacked at full speed. 

“Run!” Evan cried. “Conan has a guard dog!” 

“Too late to run!” Andy shrieked. 

15 

The dog barked again. 

Evan cried out and threw up his hands as the dog leaped for his throat. 

The dog wasn’t as big as Evan had thought—but it was strong. 

It licked his face, pressing its wet snout into his cheek. 

It licked his chin. And then his lips. 

“Yuck!” Evan cried, laughing. “Trigger—how did you get here?” 

Evan pulled the cocker spaniel off him and lowered it to the ground. Its 
stubby tail wagging furiously, Trigger started jumping on Andy. 

“Your dumb dog scared me to death,” she moaned. 

“Me, too,” Evan admitted. “I didn’t hear him following us, did you?” 

Andy squatted down and gave Trigger a few quick pats. Then she glanced 
down the street. 

“Let’s get inside,” she said. “Conan or his parents could be back any 
minute.” 

Trigger pranced along as they made their way over the grass to the front 
door. The house loomed much bigger and darker as they crept onto the stoop. 

“Down, Trigger. Stay down,” Evan whispered. “You can’t come in with us.” 

Andy tried the front door. “Locked.” 

Evan groaned. “Now what?” 

“We try the back door, of course,” Andy replied. She had already jumped 
down off the stoop and was heading around the side of the house. 

“You’ve done this before—haven’t you?” Evan demanded, following her. 

“Maybe,” she replied, grinning at him in the dark. 

A loud howl somewhere nearby made them both stop. 

“What was that?” Evan cried. 

“A werewolf,” Andy told him calmly. “Or maybe a cat.” 

They both laughed. Nervous laughter. 

The back door was locked, too. But the kitchen window was open a crack. 
Evan pushed it open wider, and they crept into the dark kitchen. 

Holding his breath, Evan could hear every sound. Their sneakers scraped 
noisily against the linoleum. The refrigerator hummed. Water swirled in the 

dishwasher. 

I can even hear the pounding of my heart, Evan thought. What am I doing? 
Have I really broken into Conan’s house? 

“This way,” Andy whispered. “His room is probably upstairs.” 

Evan kept against the wall as he followed Andy to the front stairs. They 
passed the small living room, bathed in orange light. The floorboards creaked 
under their shoes. Evan stumbled over a pile of old newspapers stacked in the 
narrow hallway. 

Up the wooden stairs. The banister squeaked under Evan’s hand. A 
Venetian blind rattled against an open window, startling him. 

“Sure is dark,” Andy muttered as they reached the top of the stairs. 

Evan tried to reply, but his breath caught in his throat. 

Holding onto the wall, he followed Andy to the first bedroom. She fumbled 
until she found a light switch, then clicked it on. The ceiling light revealed that 
they had found Conan’s room. 

They both stood in the doorway, waiting for their eyes to adjust to the light. 
Then they quickly glanced around. 

The walls of the small, square room were filled with posters of sports stars. 
The biggest poster, above Conan’s bed, showed Michael Jordan jumping about 
ten feet in the air as he slam-dunked a basketball. A bookshelf against one wall 
held very few books—but was loaded with sports trophies that Conan had won 
on various teams. 

Suddenly, Andy started to laugh. 

Evan turned to her, startled. “What’s so funny?” 

She pointed to Conan’s bed. “Look—he still has a teddy bear!” 

Evan turned his eyes to the bed, where a forlorn-looking, nearly flat, one- 
eyed teddy bear rested on the pillow. “Conan the Barbarian?” he cried, laughing. 
“He sleeps with a teddy bear?” 

A loud creak made them cut their laughter short. 

They listened hard, their eyes wide with fear. “Just the house,” Evan 
whispered. 

Andy shivered. “Enough fooling around. Let’s find the Monster Blood and 
get out of here.” 

They moved into the center of the room. “Where do you think he hid it?” 
Evan asked, pulling open the closet door. 

“He didn’t,” Andy replied. 

“Huh?” Evan spun around. 

Andy had the blue can of Monster Blood in her hand. Grinning, she held it 
up to show Evan. 

Evan let out a surprised cry. “You found it? Where?” 

“Right on this shelf,” she replied, pointing. “He put it next to his tennis 
trophies.” 

Evan hurried over to her and took the blue can from her hand. As he held it 
up to examine it, the lid popped off. 

The green Monster Blood began bubbling over the top of the can. 

“It’s growing fast!” Evan declared. 

Andy stooped down and picked up the lid. She handed it to Evan. “Put it 
back on. Hurry.” 

Evan tried pushing the lid back on. It kept slipping off. 

“Hurry up,” Andy urged. “We’ve got to go.” 

“The Monster Blood—it’s up over the top,” Evan cried. 

“Shove it down,” Andy instructed. 

Evan tried pushing the green gunk down into the can, pressing against it 
with the palm of his hand. Then he tried pushing it with three fingers. 

He gasped as he felt the green goo tighten around his fingers and start to 
pull them down. 

“It—it’s got me!” Evan stammered. 

Andy’s mouth dropped open. “Huh?” 

“It’s got my fingers!” Evan cried shrilly. “It won’t let go!” 

As Andy hurried to help him, they both heard the front door slam. 

“Someone’s home!” Evan whispered, tugging to pull his fingers free. 
“We’re caught!” 

16 

Andy froze in the center of the room, her eyes wide with horror. 

Evan nearly dropped the can of Monster Blood. The sticky green substance 
tightened its grip on his fingers, making loud sucking sounds. 

But Evan only cared about the sounds coming from downstairs. 

“I’m home!” he heard Conan shout. 

“We’re home, too!” It was a woman’s voice, probably Conan’s mother. 

“They’re all home,” Evan whispered. 

“We’re dead meat!” Andy murmured. 

“I’m going upstairs,” Conan called to his parents. 

Evan let out a terrified cry as he heard Conan’s heavy footsteps on the 
stairs. “Andy—wh-what do we do?” he stammered. 

“The window!” she replied. 

They both lunged toward the open window and peered out. A narrow 
concrete ledge stretched just beneath the window. 

Without hesitating, Andy raised a leg over the windowsill and climbed out 
onto the ledge. “Evan—hurry!” she whispered, gesturing frantically. 

Evan was still desperately trying to pull his fingers from the bubbling green 
goo. Andy reached in through the window and grabbed him by the shoulder. 
“Evan—!” 

He heard Conan’s footsteps in the upstairs hall just outside the bedroom. 

Using his free hand for support, Evan scrambled out the window and joined 
Andy on the narrow ledge. 

“D-don’t look down,” Andy instructed in a trembling whisper. 

Evan didn’t obey. He glanced down. The ground seemed very far below. 

They each stood on a side of the window—Andy to the left, Evan the right. 
They pressed their bodies against the brick wall—and listened. 

They heard Conan step into the room. 

Did he notice that the light had been turned on? 

No way to tell. 

Loud rap music suddenly jarred the silence. Conan had turned on his boom 
box. He started chanting off-key along with the music. 

Evan pressed as tightly against the side of the house as he could. 

Go back downstairs, Conan, he pleaded silently. Please—go back 
downstairs! 

How will Andy and I ever get away from here? he wondered, feeling all of 
his muscles tighten in panic. 

Despite the hot night air, a cold chill ran down Evan’s back. He shuddered 
so hard, he nearly toppled off the ledge. 

The blue can stuck to his hand. The Monster Blood sucked at his fingers. 
But he couldn’t worry about that now. 

He could hear Conan moving around inside the room. Was he dancing to 
the loud music? 

Evan glanced across the window at Andy. Her eyes were shut. Her face was 
clenched in a tight frown. 

“Andy—!” Evan whispered. He knew that Conan couldn’t hear a whisper 
over the booming music. “Andy—it’ll be okay. As soon as he leaves, we’ll jump 
inside and sneak down the stairs.” 

Andy nodded without opening her eyes. “Did I ever tell you I’m afraid of 
heights?” she whispered. 

“No,” Evan replied. 

“Well, remind me to tell you!” 

“We’ll be okay,” he murmured. 

Clinging to the side of the house, Evan kept repeating those words to 
himself. “We’ll be okay. We’ll be okay. We’ll be okay.” 

Then Trigger started to bark. 

A low bark of surprise at first. And then a louder series of barks, insistent 
barks, excited barks. 

Evan swallowed hard. He glanced down to the ground. 

Trigger was peering up at him, jumping against the side of the house, as if 
trying to reach the ledge. The dog barked louder with each jump. 

“Trigger—no!” Evan called down in a frantic whisper. 

That only made the dog bark more furiously. 

Did Conan hear it? Could he hear Trigger’s ferocious barks over the music? 

“Trigger—stop! Go home! Go home!” 

Suddenly the music stopped. 

Trigger’s excited barks rose up even louder against the new silence. 

Conan must hear them now, Evan realized. 

The cocker spaniel threw himself wildly against the side of the house, 
trying to get up to Evan and Andy. Despite Evan’s frantic signals to be quiet, the 
dumb dog barked his head off. 

Evan’s breath caught in his throat as he heard Conan making his way to the 
window. 

A second later, Conan stuck his head out. “What’s going on?” he shouted. 

Evan’s knees buckled. He started to fall. 

17 

Evan clung to the brick wall and stopped his fall. 

He stared at Conan’s blond hair poking out the window. Evan was close 
enough to reach out and touch it. 

“Shut up down there!” Conan shouted. 

That made Trigger bark even louder. 

He’s going to see us, Evan thought, trembling all over. 

There’s no way Conan won’t see us. 

“Conan—come downstairs!” Mrs. Barber’s voice floated up from 
downstairs. “Conan—come down and have your cake and ice cream. You said 
you were dying for dessert!” she called. 

Conan’s head disappeared back into the bedroom. “There’s some stupid dog 
barking down there,” he called to his mother. 

Clinging to the side of the house, struggling to keep his quivering knees 
from buckling again, Evan shut his eyes and listened. 

He heard Conan’s footsteps cross the room. The bedroom light went out. 

Silence. 

“He—left,” Evan choked out. 

Andy let out a long breath. “I can’t believe he didn’t see us out here.” 

Evan glanced down to the ground. Trigger had finally stopped barking. But 
he continued to stand and stare up at them, his front paws against the side of the 
house, his stubby tail spinning like a propeller. 

“Dumb dog,” Evan muttered. 

“Let’s go,” Andy urged. She didn’t wait for Evan. She practically did a 
swan dive into the house. 

It took Evan a few moments to get his legs to work. Then he ducked his 
head and climbed through the window after Andy. 

Holding his breath, he led the way on tiptoe to the bedroom door. He 
stopped and listened. 

Silence. No one in the dark hallway. 

He could hear the Barbers’ voices downstairs in the kitchen. 

He and Andy made their way to the top of the stairs. Then, holding tightly 

to the banister, they crept halfway down. 

Evan stopped to listen again. Andy bumped right into him, nearly sending 
him sailing down the stairs. “Shhh!” she cried. 

They could hear Conan talking to his parents in the kitchen. He was 
complaining about the other guys on the basketball team. “They’re all wimps,” 
Evan heard Conan say. 

“Well, that’ll make you look even better,” Mr. Barber replied. 

Evan took another deep breath and held it. Then he made his way down to 
the bottom of the stairs. 

Almost out, he thought, his entire body shaking. Almost out of here. 

He reached for the front doorknob. 

“Conan, go upstairs and get your math book,” he heard Mr. Barber say. “I 
want to see the homework you had trouble with.” 

“Okay,” Conan replied. His chair scraped against the floor. 

Andy grabbed Evan’s shoulder. 

They stared in frozen horror at each other—one foot away from escape— 
and waited to be caught. 

18 

“Conan—don’t go now. Get the book later,” Mrs. Barber chimed in. Then they 
heard her scold Conan’s father: “Let the boy have his cake and ice cream.” 

“Fine, fine,” Mr. Barber replied. “He can show me the book later.” 

Conan’s chair scraped back into place under the table. 

Evan didn’t wait another second. 

He jerked open the front door, pushed open the screen door, and burst out of 
the house like a rocket. 

He could hear Andy gasping as she ran behind him. And then he could hear 
Trigger’s shrill yips as the dog followed, too. 

Down the Barbers’ front lawn, into the street. Their sneakers slapped the 
pavement as they ran full speed through the darkness. 

They didn’t stop until they reached Evan’s driveway. 

Evan leaned against his family’s mailbox and struggled to catch his breath. 
He raised his hand to wipe the sweat off his forehead—and saw the blue can still 
stuck there. 

“Help me,” he pleaded. He reached out his hand to Andy. 

She was breathing hard, too. Her eyes kept darting back down the street, as 
if she expected Conan to be chasing after them. 

“Close one,” she murmured. She turned to Evan. Her eyes glowed excitedly 
in the light from the streetlamp. “That was fun!” 

Evan didn’t agree. In his opinion, it was far too scary to be fun. And here he 
was, still stuck to the can of Monster Blood. 

He pushed his hand toward Andy. “Pull it off,” he told her. “I think you 
need both hands. I can’t do it.” 

She grabbed the can in both hands. The green gunk bubbled over the sides, 
making loud sucking sounds. 

Andy tugged. Then tugged harder. Then she took a deep breath, leaned 
back, and tugged with all her might. 

The Monster Blood finally let go of its grip on Evan’s fingers. The can slid 
off with a loud pop. Andy went tumbling back onto the pavement. 

“Ow!” Evan held up his three fingers and tried to examine them under the 
streetlight. They were all wrinkled and pruney, the way they looked when he had 

been swimming for an hour or two. 

“Yuck! That stuff is so gross!” he cried. 

Andy climbed slowly to her feet. She still cradled the Monster Blood can in 
both hands. “At least we got it back,” she murmured. 

“Yeah. Now we can bury it again,” Evan said, still examining his fingers. 
“Huh? Bury it?” Andy pulled the can away, as if protecting it from Evan. 
“You heard me,” Evan said firmly. “It’s just too dangerous to mess with, 
Andy. Take it home and bury it in your back yard, okay?” 

Andy stared down at the can. She didn’t reply. 

“Bury it,” Evan repeated. “Take it home and bury it. Promise?” 

“Well...” Andy hesitated. Then she said, “Okay. Promise.” 

Evan woke up with a bad sore throat the next morning. 

His mother worried that he might be coming down with the flu. So she kept 
him home from school. Evan spent the day reading comic books and watching 
MTV. His sore throat disappeared by midafternoon. 

He returned to school the next day, feeling refreshed and ready to see 
everyone. 

The good feeling lasted until he stepped into Mr. Murphy’s science class 
near the end of the day. Evan had to walk past the hamster cage to get to his seat. 
As he neared the cage, he peered in. 

That’s weird, he thought. Where’s Cuddles? 

When did Mr. Murphy get a rabbit? 

A rabbit?! 

He stopped and leaned closer to the cage. 

Familiar black eyes stared up at him. A familiar pink nose twitched at him. 

It was Cuddles, Evan realized. 

Cuddles had grown as big as a rabbit! 

19 

Evan leaned over the hamster cage, staring at the giant-sized Cuddles, as the bell 
rang. He turned to see that the other kids had all taken their seats. 

“Evan, I see you’re examining your victim,” Mr. Murphy said from the 
front of the room. 

“I—uh—” Evan couldn’t think of a reply. “Victim?” 

Mr. Murphy angrily narrowed his beady black eyes at Evan. “You’ve been 
overfeeding Cuddles, Evan. Look how fat he has become.” 

Almost as fat as you! Evan wanted to say. 

Evan knew that Cuddles’ weight problem wasn’t his fault. 

And it had nothing to do with overeating. 

Cuddles had grown to triple-hamster size because of Monster Blood. 

“When I find Andy, I’ll strangle her!” Evan muttered. 

“What did you say, Evan?” Mr. Murphy demanded. 

Evan could feel his face turning bright red. He hadn’t meant to talk out 

loud. 

“Uh... nothing,” he replied, totally embarrassed. He slunk to his seat. 

Andy has gone too far this time, he thought bitterly. She promised she’d 
bury the Monster Blood. She promised! 

And now she’s turned Cuddles into a fat freak! And Murphy thinks it’s all 
my fault! 

“Please stay after school,” Mr. Murphy told Evan, “so we can discuss 
Cuddles’ diet.” 

Evan heard some kids snickering. He knew they were laughing at him. 

He saw Conan and Biggie at their seats in the back. Conan was twitching 
his nose, puffing out his cheeks, pretending to be a fat hamster. Biggie was 
laughing his head off. 

Evan stared at the hamster all through class. Cuddles appeared to grow right 
before Evan’s eyes. With each breath, the hamster seemed to puff up wider and 
taller. 

Its black eyes were as big as marbles now. They stared back at Evan, as if 
accusing him. 

When the hamster moved to its water tube, the entire cage rattled and 

shook. 

Please don’t grow anymore! Evan pleaded silently, staring at the shaking 
cage. Please stop right now, Cuddles. Okay? 

The hamster breathed noisily. Wheezing gasps. Evan could hear Cuddles 
panting all the way across the room. 

The cage shook again as Cuddles turned around. Evan watched in horror as 
the cage nearly toppled off its table. 

I’ll kill Andy! Evan thought bitterly. How could she do this to me? 

When the bell rang, the other kids all gathered up their books and headed 
out the door. Evan stood up and walked over to Cuddles’ cage. 

Panting loudly, Cuddles stared up at him. He’s too big to fit on his wheel, 
Evan realized. If he grows any more, he’ll burst out of the cage! 

How much Monster Blood did Andy feed him? Evan wondered. He had to 
find out. 

He turned to Mr. Murphy, who was reading over some papers at his desk. 
“I’ve got to find someone,” Evan called up to him. “I’ll be right back.” 

“Don’t take too long,” the teacher replied without looking up. 

Evan hurried from the room—and ran into Conan. “Hey, I was looking for 
you,” Conan said, sidestepping to the right, then the left, and stretching out both 
arms to keep Evan from getting away. 

“No time now,” Evan said sharply. But Conan wouldn’t let him pass. “I’m 
kind of in a hurry,” Evan told him. “I don’t have time to be stuffed into my 
locker right now.” 

A big grin crossed Conan’s handsome face. “Hey, I’m sorry about that,” he 
said, his blue eyes twinkling. 

“Huh? You’re sorry?” Evan’s mouth dropped open in shock. 

“Yeah. No hard feelings,” Conan said, lowering his eyes. “Shake.” 

Evan stuck out his hand. Then remembered Conan’s crushing handshake. 
He tried to pull back his hand. 

Too late. 

Conan gripped it tightly and began to squeeze. As he squeezed Evan’s hand, 
his grin grew wider and wider. 

Down the hall, Evan saw Andy heading out the door. He tried to call to her. 
But all that came out of his mouth was a squeak of pain. 

Andy disappeared out the front door of the school. 

The bones in Evan’s hand cracked and crunched. 

When Conan finally let go, the hand looked like a sad lump of soft red clay. 

“Wow! That’s some handshake you’ve got!” Conan cried, laughing. He 
pretended his hand hurt. He shook it hard and blew on it. “You killed me that 
time! You been working out or something?” 

Conan headed off to basketball practice, laughing and shaking his hand. 

He really cracks himself up, Evan thought. An angry cry burst from his 
throat. He slammed his good hand into a locker. He was so furious, he thought 
he could feel steam pouring out his ears. 

“Evan—you’re keeping me waiting!” Mr. Murphy called in a singsong 
from the classroom doorway. 

“Coming,” Evan muttered miserably, and slunk back into the room. 

He tried calling Andy for hours that night. But there was no one home. 

In his sleep, he dreamed that Trigger ate a big glob of Monster Blood and 
grew to giant size. Evan tried to stop him. But the enormous dog took off after 
the mailman. 

It wasn’t much of a chase. Trigger caught the mailman easily. The mailman 
was the size of a hamster. 

Evan woke up drenched with sweat. He glanced at his bedtable clock. Only 
six in the morning. He normally didn’t get up until seven. 

He climbed out of bed, anyway, feeling shaky and scared. 

He decided he had to get to school before everyone else. He had to see if 
Cuddles had grown any bigger. 

“Evan—where are you going?” his mother called sleepily as Evan headed 
out the front door. 

“Uh—school,” Evan replied. He had hoped to sneak out before she woke 
up. 

“So early?” She padded into the room, struggling with the belt to her blue 
cotton robe. 

“Well... I have a science project I need to work on,” Evan told her. It was 
almost the truth. 

“A science project?” She eyed him suspiciously. 

“Yeah. It’s... big!” Evan replied, thinking quickly. “It’s really big! So I 
couldn’t bring it home.” 

“You’re going without any breakfast?” Mrs. Ross demanded, yawning. 

“I’ll grab something at school,” he said. “Later, Mom.” He disappeared out 

the door before she could ask any more questions. 

A red sun was just climbing over the trees in a gray sky. The air still carried 
the chill of the night. The lawns Evan passed shimmered wetly with morning 
dew. 

He jogged the whole way, his backpack flopping heavily on his shoulder. 
There were no other kids on the playground or on the walk heading into the 
building. 

He crept into the school and made his way down the silent, empty hall. His 
sneakers echoed loudly as he trotted toward the science classroom. 

Maybe Cuddles didn’t grow overnight, Evan told himself. 

Maybe he didn’t grow at all. Maybe he shrank. Maybe he shrank back to his 
old size. 

It was possible. 

It was possible that Andy had fed the hamster only a teeny tiny speck of 
Monster Blood. Just enough for Cuddles to swell up to the size of a fat rabbit— 
then shrink right back down to cute, cuddly hamster size. 

It was possible—wasn’t it? 

Yes! Yes! Evan crossed his fingers on both hands. He wished he could cross 
his toes. 

By the time he reached the classroom, he was breathless. His heart thudded 
loudly in his chest. 

He hesitated at the door. 

Please, Cuddles—be small. Be small! 

Then Evan took a deep breath, held it—and stepped inside. 

20 

Evan stepped into the room, staring at the cage against the far wall. At first, he 
didn’t see Cuddles. 

Had Cuddles shrunk? Had he? 

Sometimes prayers are answered, Evan told himself. Sometimes good 
things happen. 

Evan took a few hesitant steps closer. Then a few more steps. 

Every muscle in his body had tensed. He was so frightened, it was actually 
hard to walk. 

He could feel the blood throbbing at his temples. He mopped the cold beads 
of sweat off his forehead. 

He still couldn’t see Cuddles. Where was he? 

Where? 

Gray morning light filtered in through the windows. The floor creaked 
under Evan’s sneakers. 

Evan took another hesitant step toward the cage. 

Another step. 

Then he cried out in horror. 

Evan hadn’t seen Cuddles at first—because Cuddles was too big! 

Cuddles filled the entire cage. 

Evan held back, gaping in disbelief. 

The hamster groaned noisily with every loud breath. It let out several 
disgusting grunts as its body pressed against the wire cage. 

Its big, furry head pushed up against the top of the cage. Evan could see one 
enormous black eye, the size of a jar lid, staring out at him. 

“No!” Evan cried out loud, feeling his knees begin to tremble. “This is 
impossible!” 

The hamster uttered a few more low grunts. 

The cage shook on its table. 

The big black eye glared out at Evan. 

And then as Evan stared in horrified disbelief, the hamster reached up its 
two pink paws. The toes slipped around the wires of the cage. 

Cuddles let out an ugly groan. 

Evan saw its spongy pink nose twitch. He saw a flash of big white teeth. 
Another groan. 

The two front paws pushed against the cage wires. 

The wires bent away. 

Cuddles grunted again, wheezing loudly, excitedly. 

He pushed the cage wires aside. Then he started to squeeze his big, fur- 
covered body through the opening. What do I do? Evan frantically asked 
himself. What do I do now? Cuddles is escaping! 

21 

“So what did you do?” Andy asked. 

They were sitting together in the tall grass of the tiny park, watching the 
brown creek trickle past. The late afternoon sun felt warm on their backs. 
Crickets chirped in the trees behind them. 

Three boys rolled past on bikes on the other side of the creek, heading 
home from school. One of them waved to Evan. He didn’t wave back. 

Andy wore a bright red sleeveless T-shirt over white denim jeans. She had 
slipped off her yellow sneakers and was digging her bare feet into the soft 
ground. 

“So what did you do?” she repeated. 

Evan picked up a hard clump of dirt and tossed it into the creek. Then he 
leaned back, his hands planted firmly behind him on the ground. 

“I got a dog leash,” he told Andy. “In the supply closet.” 

Andy’s eyes widened in surprise. “Murphy keeps a dog leash? What for?” 

Evan shrugged. “He has all kinds of junk back there.” 

“So you put the leash on Cuddles?” 

“Yeah,” Evan told her. “He was just the right size. As big as a dog. Maybe a 
little bigger.” 

“As big as Trigger?” Andy demanded. 

Evan nodded. “Then I tied the other end to the leg of Murphy’s desk—and I 
ran out of there as fast as I could.” 

Andy laughed. But she cut it short when she caught Evan’s angry glare. 
“What happened when you went to science class?” she asked, turning back to the 
creek. 

“I didn’t,” Evan muttered. 

“Huh?” 

“I didn’t go,” Evan said softly. “I was afraid to go. I didn’t want Murphy to 
start blaming me in front of everyone.” 

“So you cut class?” Andy asked, startled. 

Evan nodded. 

“So what did you do?” Andy asked. She pulled up a handful of the tall grass 
and let it sift through her fingers. 

“I sneaked out and came here,” Evan replied, frowning. 

“Everyone was talking about Cuddles all day,” Andy reported. Her dark 
eyes flashed. She couldn’t keep an amused grin off her face. “Everyone had to 
go in and see him. The stupid hamster practically caused a riot!” 

“It isn’t funny,” Evan murmured. 

“It’s kind of funny!” Andy insisted. “Mr. Murphy was bragging that 
Cuddles could beat up any other hamster in the country. He said he was going to 
try to get Cuddles on TV!” 

“Huh?” Evan jumped to his feet. “You mean Mr. Murphy wasn’t upset?” 

“I heard that he was at first,” Andy replied thoughtfully. “But then I guess 
he got used to Cuddles being so big. And he was acting kind of proud. You 
know. Like he had the biggest pumpkin at the fair or something. A blue-ribbon 
winner!” Andy snickered. 

Evan kicked at the grass. “I know he’s going to blame me. I know it!” 

“Everyone was feeding Cuddles carrots all day,” Andy said, not seeming to 
hear Evan’s unhappy wails. “The hamster ate the carrots whole. One big chomp. 
Then it made this really gross swallowing sound. It was a riot.” 

“I can’t believe this!” Evan groaned. He lowered his eyes angrily to Andy. 
“Why did you do it? Why?” 

Andy gazed up at him innocently. “I wanted to give you a laugh,” she 
replied. 

“Huh? A laugh?” he shrieked. 

“You were looking pretty down. I thought it might cheer you up.” 

Evan let out an angry cry. 

“I guess it didn’t cheer you up,” Andy muttered. 

She pulled up another handful of grass and let the blades fall over the legs 
of her white jeans. 

Evan stomped over to the edge of the creek. He kicked a rock into the 
water. 

“Come on, Evan,” Andy called. “You have to admit it’s a little funny.” 

He spun around to face her. “It’s not,” he insisted. “Not funny at all. What if 
Cuddles just keeps growing and growing? Then what?” 

“We could put a saddle on his back and give everyone hamster rides!” She 
giggled. 

Evan scowled and kicked another rock into the creek. “You know how 
dangerous that Monster Blood is,” he scolded. “What are we going to do? How 

are we going to get Cuddles back to hamster size?” 

Andy shrugged. She pulled up another handful of grass. 

The sun sank lower behind the trees. A shadow rolled over them. Two little 
kids chased a white-and-red soccer ball on the other side of the creek. Their 
mother shouted to them not to get wet. 

“Where’s the Monster Blood can?” Evan demanded, standing over Andy. 
“Maybe it tells the antidote on the can. Maybe it tells how to reverse the whole 
thing.” 

Andy shook her head. “Evan, you know it doesn’t say anything on the can. 
No instructions. No ingredients. Nothing.” She climbed to her feet and brushed 
off the legs of her jeans. “I’ve got to get home. My aunt doesn’t know where I 
am. She’s probably having a cow.” 

Evan followed her toward the street, shaking his head. “How big?” he 
muttered. 

She glanced back at him. “What did you say?” 

“How big will Cuddles be tomorrow?” Evan asked in a trembling voice. 
“How big?” 

22 

“Andy—will you hurry up?” 

Evan had agreed to meet Andy at her aunt’s house the next morning so they 
could go to school early. But Andy had found a spot on her jeans and had gone 
back up to her room to change. 

And now they were no longer early. 

“Sorry,” she said, hurtling down the stairs two steps at a time. She had 
changed her entire outfit. Now she had on a red-and-black-striped vest over a 
yellow T-shirt, pulled down over pale blue shorts. 

“Didn’t you leave out a color?” Evan demanded sarcastically, grabbing 
Andy’s backpack for her and hurrying to the front door. 

She made a face at him. “I like bright colors. It suits my personality.” 

“Your personality is late!” he declared. 

She followed him out the door and down the front lawn to the sidewalk. “At 
least I have a personality!” she cried. “What’s your hurry, anyway?” 

Evan didn’t answer. He adjusted his backpack on his shoulder, then began 
running toward school. 

“Hey—wait up!” Andy called, running after him. 

“How much Monster Blood did you give Cuddles, anyway?” Evan 
demanded without slowing his pace. “The whole can?” 

“No way!” Andy called breathlessly. “Just a spoonful. He seemed to like 
it.” 

“I guess he liked being as big as a dog, too,” Evan said, turning the corner. 
The tall, redbrick school building came into view. 

“Maybe he’s back to normal today,” Andy said. 

But as they came near the building, it was easy to tell that things were not 
normal. 

Evan heard a loud crash from the side of the building. It sounded like glass 
shattering. 

Then he heard excited shouts. Loud kids’ voices filled with alarm. 

“What’s going on?” Andy cried. 

They dove up the stairs and burst into the building. Running full speed, they 
turned the corner and made their way to the science classroom. 

Evan reached it a few steps ahead of Andy. Hearing excited shouts and 
cries, he lurched into the room—and then stopped with a startled cry. 

“No! Oh, please—no!” 

“Stand back! Everyone stand back!” a red-faced Mr. Murphy was 
screaming. 

Cuddles uttered a loud grunt and flailed his giant legs wildly in the air. 

“He—he’s ten feet tall!” Evan heard Andy scream at his side. 

“Al-almost!” Evan stammered. 

The grunting, groaning hamster towered over Mr. Murphy. Its pink paws 
batted the air. Its monstrous mouth opened wide, revealing two enormous, sharp 
white teeth. 

“Back! Everyone back!” Mr. Murphy shrieked. 

The terrified kids in the classroom pressed back against the walls. 

Mr. Murphy picked up a wooden chair in one hand, the torn dog leash in the 
other. Holding the chair by the back, he came at the grunting monster like a lion 
tamer. 

“Down, Cuddles! Get down! Sit! Sit!” 

He poked the wooden chair up at the giant hamster and snapped the dog 
leash like a whip. 

Cuddles’ watery black eyes, as big as soccer balls, glared down at the red¬ 
faced teacher. The hamster didn’t seem terribly impressed with Mr. Murphy’s 
lion-tamer act. 

“Down, Cuddles! Get down!” The teacher’s chins quivered, and his big 
belly bounced up and down beneath his tight gray knit polo shirt. 

Cuddles pulled back his huge lips and bared his white teeth. He let out a 
growl that made the light fixtures shake. 

Terrified cries rang out through the room. Evan glanced back to see a 
horrified crowd of teachers and students jammed in the doorway. 

“Down, Cuddles!” 

Mr. Murphy shoved the wooden chair up at the raging hamster. He cracked 
the dog-leash whip near the hamster’s throbbing, fur-covered belly. 

The huge black eyes stared down angrily at Mr. Murphy. The pink hamster 
paws clawed in the air. 

Andy grabbed Evan’s shoulder and held on tight. “This is terrible!” she 
cried. “Terrible!” 

Evan started to reply—but frightened shrieks drowned out his words. 

Cuddles grabbed the chair with both paws. 

“Drop! Drop!” Mr. Murphy screamed. He struggled to hold on to the chair. 

Cuddles pulled the chair. Mr. Murphy desperately held tight. He let the 
leash fall so he could hold on to the chair with both hands. 

The teacher and Cuddles had a short tug-of-war. 

Cuddles won easily. The hamster pulled the chair up, nearly jerking Mr. 
Murphy’s arms out of their sockets. 

With a loud groan, the teacher toppled heavily to the floor. 

Kids screamed. 

Two teachers rushed forward to help the gasping Mr. Murphy to his feet. 

Evan stared up as the hamster raised the wooden chair to its mouth. The 
enormous white teeth opened quickly. The pink nose twitched. The watery black 
eyes blinked. 

Then Cuddles chewed the wooden chair to pieces. 

Splinters rained down on the floor. 

The chomping teeth sounded like a lumberjack’s ax biting into a tree. 

Evan froze in horror along with everyone else in the room. 

Andy was squeezing his shoulder so hard, it hurt. “This is our fault,” she 
murmured. 

“Our fault?” Evan cried. “Our fault?” 

She ignored his sarcasm. He saw the fear in her eyes as she stared up at the 
hamster. Cuddles had turned the chair into toothpicks! 

“We’ve got to do something, Evan,” she whispered, huddled close to him. 

“But what?” Evan replied in a trembling voice. “What can we do?” 

Then, suddenly, he had an idea. 

23 

“Come with me!” Evan cried, tugging Andy’s arm. 

She hesitated, staring up at the giant hamster. “Where?” 

“I have an idea,” Evan told her. “But we have to hurry!” 

Cuddles lumbered over to Mr. Murphy’s desk. The hamster’s heavy 
footsteps made the floor sag. 

“Here, fella! Here!” Mr. Murphy was tossing handfuls of sunflower seeds 
up to Cuddles. Cuddles glared down at him. The seeds were too small to bother 
with. 

“Hurry!” Evan pleaded. He pulled Andy through the frightened crowd of 
kids and teachers at the door. Then he began running full speed toward the 
auditorium. 

“We can’t just run away! We have to do something!” Andy cried. 

“We’re not running away,” Evan called back to her, turning a corner. “My 
father’s sculpture—it’s in the auditorium.” 

“Huh?” Andy’s eyes narrowed in confusion. “Evan—have you totally lost 
it? Why do you want to look at your father’s sculpture now?” 

He burst through the auditorium doors and ran past the dark rows of seats 
toward the stage. Several pieces of sculpture had been set up there. 

“Evan—I don’t get it!” Andy cried, right behind him. 

“Look,” Evan said breathlessly. He pointed to his father’s work near the 
back of the stage. “My dad’s sculpture. It’s just like a hamster wheel—see?” 

Her mouth dropped open as she stared at it. 

“It’s a big metal wheel and it spins,” Evan explained as they pulled 
themselves up onto the stage. “Come on. Help me drag it back to Murphy’s 
room. It’s big enough for Cuddles.” 

“Whoa!” Andy cried. “You want to bring Cuddles a wheel? What for?” 

“To distract him,” Evan replied, grabbing one side of the big sculpture. “If 
we can get Cuddles running on this wheel, it will give us time to figure out 
where to keep him. And it will stop him from chewing the whole school to 
pieces.” 

Andy grabbed hold of the other side, one hand on the wheel, one hand on 
the platform. “Maybe Cuddles will mn so hard, he’ll lose weight. Maybe he’ll 

shrink back to his normal size,” she said. 

Luckily, the platform was on wheels. They rolled the sculpture toward the 
stage door at the side. “I just want to distract him,” Evan said, tugging hard. “I 
just want to give us time to think, to make a plan.” 

“Wow! This is heavy!” Andy cried. They rolled it into the hall. “Heavy 
enough for Cuddles, I guess.” 

“I hope,” Evan replied solemnly. 

By the time they rolled the sculpture to the classroom, the crowd of 
frightened kids and teachers had grown even bigger. “Make way! Make way!” 
they both shouted, pushing their way through the crowd. 

They set the wheel down in the center of the floor and gazed over at 
Cuddles. The hamster had two teachers cornered, their backs pressed against the 
chalkboard. It was gnashing its huge teeth at them, slapping its pink paws 
together as if eager to fight them. 

Evan gasped when he saw Mr. Murphy’s desk, crushed flat on the floor. 

“I—I called the police! ” Mr. Murphy cried, his face beaded with large drops 
of sweat. “I begged them to come. But when I said it was a giant hamster, they 
didn’t believe me! They thought it was a practical joke!” 

“Stand back, everyone!” Evan cried shrilly. “Stand back—please! Let 
Cuddles see the wheel!” 

The giant hamster turned suddenly. The two teachers scrambled away from 
the wall. Kids and teachers screamed and hurried toward the door. 

“Maybe he’ll run on the wheel for a while,” Andy explained to Mr. Murphy. 
“Then we can figure out what to do with him!” 

“He—he sees it!” Mr. Murphy cried breathlessly, all of his chins quivering 
at once. 

Cuddles stared down at the wheel. His stub of a tail thudded loudly against 
the chalkboard. He dropped heavily to all fours and took a lumbering step 
toward the wheel. 

“He sees it. He’s going to it,” Evan murmured softly. 

A hush fell over the room as everyone stared at the hamster. 

Will Cuddles climb inside? Evan wondered, holding his breath. 

Will he run on the wheel? 

Will my plan work? 

24 

The hamster sniffed the wheel. Its pink nose twitched. It uttered a low grunt. 

Then it raised itself back onto its hind legs. The hamster’s massive shadow 
fell over the room. 

With another disgusting grunt, it picked the sculpture up in its front paws 
and raised it to its face. 

“No!” Evan cried. “Cuddles—no!” 

The metal clanged as Cuddles bit into the wheel. Evan saw deep tooth 
marks in the aluminum. Cuddles bit down again. Then, seeing that he couldn’t 
chew the wheel up, he pulled it apart, holding the sculpture in his paws and 
twisting it furiously with his teeth. 

Then he tossed the mangled wheel away. It slammed into a window, 
shattering it into a thousand pieces. 

“Back to the drawing board,” Andy muttered to Evan. 

Evan shook his head glumly. That plan was a bust, he told himself. Now 
what? 

He didn’t have time to think about it. 

He heard shrill cries and shrieks of terror. 

“Put him down! Cuddles—put him down!” Mr. Murphy was screaming. 

Evan turned and saw that the giant hamster had picked up a kid. 

Conan! 

Cuddles held Conan in both paws and was raising him toward his gaping 
mouth. 

“Drop! Drop!” Mr. Murphy was shouting. 

Conan thrashed his arms and legs. “Help me! Ohhh, hellllp me!” he 
shrieked. He started to cry. Gasping sobs. Tears rolled down his red cheeks. 

“Helllllp! Mommmmmy! Mommmmmy! Hellllp me!” 

Normally Evan would have enjoyed watching Conan cry like a baby. But 
this was too serious. Cuddles could chew Conan in half! Evan realized. 

He grabbed Andy. “Where’s the Monster Blood?” 

“Huh? In my locker. I hid it under a bunch of stuff in my locker. Why?” 

“I need it,” Evan said. “Come on. I have another idea.” 

“I hope it’s better than the last one,” Andy muttered. 

They hurried to the door, then glanced back. 

Cuddles was playing with Conan, tossing him from paw to paw, licking him 
with his huge, pink tongue. Conan was wailing his head off. 

Evan led the way to Andy’s locker. “I’m going to eat some Monster Blood,” 
he told her, thinking out loud. “I’ll eat a lot. I’ll grow bigger than Cuddles.” 

“I get it,” Andy said, running beside him. “You’ll turn yourself into a giant. 
You’ll make yourself as big as Cuddles.” 

“No,” Evan replied. “Bigger. Much bigger. I’ll make myself so big that 
Cuddles will look hamster size. Then I’ll stuff him in the supply closet and lock 
the door.” 

“It’s a stupid plan,” Andy said. 

“I know,” Evan agreed. 

“But it’s worth a try,” Andy added. 

Evan swallowed hard and didn’t reply. He was staring across the hall at 
Andy’s locker. 

“Oh, no!” Andy cried out when she saw what Evan was gaping at. 

The locker door bulged as if about to burst open. And green goo poured out 
from the sides and the bottom. 

“The Monster Blood—it outgrew my locker!” Andy cried. 

Evan ran up to it and grabbed the door handle. He started to tug. “Is it 
locked?” 

“No,” Andy replied, hanging back. 

Evan tugged. He tugged harder. With a loud groan, he tugged with both 
hands. “It won’t open!” he cried. 

“Let me try it,” Andy said. 

But before she could step forward, the locker door burst open with a loud 
whoooosh. 

Sticky, green gunk splashed over Evan. 

He didn’t have a chance to cry out. 

It poured over him like a tall, cresting ocean wave. 

An ocean wave of Monster Blood. 

It’s burying me! Evan realized. 

The huge, sticky glob splashed out of the locker, plopped over him, 
smothering him, choking him. 

It’s sucking me in! I can’t move! 

I can’t move! 

25 

Evan shut his eyes as the heavy, green gunk rolled over his head. He shot his 
arms out, trying to push it away. 

As it swept over him, he fell to his knees. Kicking and thrashing, it forced 
him down to the floor. 

I’m stuck inside, he thought. Stuck inside... 

He felt hands grab his ankles. 

The hands tugged hard. 

He began to slide. Over the floor. Over the thick layer of Monster Blood. 

“I’ve got you!” he heard Andy cry. “I’ve got you out!” 

He opened his eyes. He saw her pulling him, tugging him out of the thick 
green gunk by the ankles. 

It clung to his clothes and his skin. But he was out. 

“Thanks,” he murmured weakly. He climbed shakily to his feet. 

He could hear Conan screaming and crying back in the classroom. There 
was still time to save him, Evan realized. 

He pulled a hunk of Monster Blood off the quivering green mound—and 
jammed it into his mouth. 

“I’m going to be sick,” Andy groaned, holding her stomach. 

Evan swallowed and reached for another mouthful. “It doesn’t taste bad,” 
he told her. “A little lemony.” 

“Don’t eat too much!” she cried, half-covering her eyes as she watched him 
swallow another mouthful. 

“I have to grow big enough so that Cuddles is hamster size compared to 
me,” Evan said. He grabbed another hunk. 

He could already feel himself start to grow. His head was already over the 
tops of the lockers. 

Back in the classroom, Conan let out another terrified wail. 

“Let’s go!” Evan boomed. His voice thundered deeply in his new, larger 
body. He could feel himself growing taller. Taller. 

He had to lower his head to get through the classroom door. 

Kids and teachers moved out of his way, crying out their surprise and 

alarm. 

He crossed the room, passed Mr. Murphy, and stepped up to the giant 
hamster. “I’m as big as Cuddles!” Evan called down to Andy. 

He reached out and lifted Conan from Cuddles’ paws. Cuddles reached out 
to take Conan back. But Evan lowered him gently to the floor. 

“Hellllp me! Helllp me! ” Conan ran bawling from the room. 

Evan turned to face the hamster. They stared at each other eye to eye. 

Cuddles’ huge pink nose twitched. He sniffed Evan, inhaling so hard that 
Evan was nearly sucked forward. 

Evan took a step back. 

Keep growing! he urged himself. I’ve got to keep growing! 

Cuddles eyed him warily, still sniffing. His watery black eyes stared hard as 
if trying to figure out if Evan was friend or foe. 

“Don’t you remember me, Cuddles?” Evan said softly. “Remember, I’m the 
one who fed you after school every day?” 

Keep growing! he silently urged himself. 

Why aren’t I growing any taller? 

Down below, he could see Andy, Mr. Murphy, and the others huddled 
against the far wall, staring up at the two giants in hushed terror. 

Keep growing! Keep growing! 

There was no way he could pick Cuddles up now, Evan realized. They were 
exactly the same height. And Cuddles outweighed him by at least a ton! 

Keep growing! 

“What’s wrong, Andy?” Evan called down to her in a trembling voice. “I 
ate tons of the stuff. Why did I stop growing?” 

“I don’t know!” she called up to him. Her voice sounded as tiny as a 
mouse’s squeak. 

He saw that she had the blue can in her hand. She was turning it over, 
reading the label. “I don’t know, Evan!” she shouted. “I don’t know why you’re 
not growing!” 

Then, as Evan turned back to face Cuddles, the hamster reached out and 
grabbed his waist with both front paws. 

“Ow!” Evan cried as the hamster tried to lift him off the floor. 

Gazing up, he saw the gaping hamster mouth open, the sharp white teeth 
emerge. 

Evan squirmed desperately, pulling himself loose. Then he wrapped both 

arms around the hamster’s middle. 

They started to wrestle. Evan fought hard, but the hamster overpowered 
him. Cuddles rolled Evan onto his back on the floor. 

Evan spun quickly away, climbed to his feet, and pulled the hamster down. 

The two giants wrestled over the floor, surrounded by the shrill screams of 
teachers and kids. 

Grow bigger! Grow bigger — now! Evan pleaded. 

But it was too late, he saw. 

The hamster lowered its hot, furry body over him. Evan could feel the 
creature’s booming heartbeat as it pressed him to the floor. 

Then its teeth rose up over Evan’s head. 

The hamster’s mouth opened wide. 

The teeth swung down. 

A wave of hot, sour hamster breath blew down over Evan. 

He shut his eyes. 

“Sorry,” he murmured to Andy. 

He held his breath and waited for the teeth to clamp down. 

26 

Evan heard a pop, like the sound of a cork flying off a bottle. 

Still sprawled on his back on the floor, Evan opened his eyes. 

“Huh?” Cuddles had disappeared. Vanished. 

Evan stared up at the startled faces of kids and teachers against the wall. 
“Wh-where’s Cuddles?” he stammered. 

Andy stood frozen like a statue, her mouth open. 

Evan slowly realized that she was nearly as big as he was. In fact, everyone 
was about his size. 

He pulled himself up to a sitting position. “Hey—I’m back to my normal 
size! ” he cried. He shook his head hard as if trying to shake away his close call 
with the giant hamster. 

“There’s Cuddles!” Andy cried, pointing. 

Evan turned to see Cuddles huddled against the wall. “He’s a little hamster 
again!” Evan exclaimed happily. He took three quick steps, bent down, and 
grabbed Cuddles between his hands. “Gotcha!” 

Holding the hamster in front of him, he turned back to Andy and the others. 
“What happened? Why did we shrink back?” 

Andy was studying the blue Monster Blood can. Suddenly she tossed back 
her dark hair, her brown eyes lit up, and she started to laugh. “It’s the expiration 
date!” she cried happily. “The expiration date on the can—it’s today! The 
Monster Blood stops working today! The magic has worn out!” 

Evan let out a whoop of joy. 

Mr. Murphy, a wide grin on his round face, hurried over and put his arm 
around Evan’s shoulders. “Fine job, Evan! Fine job!” he exclaimed. “You saved 
the school. I’m proud of you!” 

“Thanks, Mr. Murphy,” Evan replied awkwardly. 

“You’ll never make a basketball player now that you’re short again,” Mr. 
Murphy said, smiling. “But that was quite a good match with Cuddles. Have you 
ever thought of trying out for the wrestling team?” 

Andy came to Evan’s house for dinner that night. He greeted her at the door, 
eager to tell her how all the kids had apologized for not believing him about the 

Monster Blood. 

But before he could say anything, she held up a large brown envelope and 
grinned at him. 

“What’s that?” he asked, following her into the living room. 

“It’s a present my parents sent me from Europe,” she replied, her grin 
growing wider. “You won’t believe what it is.” 

She started to pull open the envelope. But the front doorbell rang. 

Evan hurried to see who it was. 

“Mr. Murphy!” he cried in surprise. 

“Hi, Evan,” the teacher said, his round body nearly filling the entire front 
stoop. “Hope I’m not interrupting your dinner.” 

“No,” Evan replied. “Want to come in?” 

“No thanks,” Mr. Murphy replied. His expression turned solemn. “I came 
by because I thought you should have some sort of reward, Evan. You were a 
real hero at school today.” 

“Aw, not really,” Evan said awkwardly. He could feel his face growing hot 
and knew he was blushing. 

What kind of reward? Evan wondered, staring back at the teacher. A cash 
reward? 

Mr. Murphy raised the hamster cage into Evan’s view. “I’ve decided to 
reward you with Cuddles,” the teacher said. “I know how fond of him you are.” 

“No, please!” Evan started to plead. 

“It’s a small token,” Mr. Murphy said. “To show how grateful I am. How 
grateful we all are.” 

“Please—no—!” 

But before Evan realized it, the hamster cage was in his hand, and Mr. 
Murphy was waddling back down the driveway to his car. 

“He gave you Cuddles?” Andy asked as Evan returned to the living room 
carrying the cage. He set it down on the coffee table. 

“It’s my reward,” Evan told her, rolling his eyes. “Do you believe it?” 

“Well, you won’t believe this!” Andy declared. “Look what my parents 
found in Europe!” 

She reached into the envelope and pulled out a blue plastic can. “It’s 
Monster Blood!” 

“Oh, no!” Evan wailed. 

“They wrote that they remembered how much fun I had with the old can,” 

Andy said, holding up the blue container. “So when they saw this can in a toy 
store in Germany, they decided to send me a new one.” 

Evan’s eyes went wide with fear. “You—you’re not going to open it?” he 
demanded warily. 

“Already did,” Andy replied. “Just to take a look. But I’m not going to use 
it. Really. I promise.” 

Evan started to say something—but he was interrupted by his mother’s call 
from the kitchen. “Dinnertime, you two! Wash your hands and come to the 
table!” 

Andy set the can of Monster Blood down on the desk in the corner. They 
obediently hurried to wash their hands. 

They had a lively dinner. There was lots to talk about. They laughed and 
joked about all that had happened at school. It was easy to laugh about it now 
that it was all over. 

After dinner, Evan and Andy returned to the living room. 

Andy was the first to see that the door to the hamster cage was wide open. 
The cage was empty. 

Evan was the one who spotted Cuddles on the desk. 

“Cuddles—what are you eating?” he cried. “What are you eating?” 


DEEP TROUBLE 

1 

There I was, two hundred feet under the sea. 

I was on the hunt of my life. The hunt for the Great White Stingray. 

That’s what they called him at Coast Guard Headquarters. But, me, I called 
him Joe. 

The giant stingray had already stung ten swimmers. People were afraid to 
step into the water. Panic spread all up and down the coast. 

That’s why they sent for me. 

William Deep, Jr., of Baltimore, Maryland. 

Yes, William Deep, Jr., world-famous twelve-year-old undersea explorer. 
Solver of scary ocean problems. 

I captured the Great White Shark that terrorized Myrtle Beach. I proved he 
wasn’t so great! 

I fought the giant octopus that ate the entire California Championship 
Surfing Team. 

I unplugged the electric eel that sent shock waves all over Miami. 

But now I faced the fight of my life. Joe, the Great White Stingray. 

Somewhere down deep under the sea, he lurked. 

I had everything I needed: scuba suit, flippers, mask, oxygen tank, and 
poison-dart gun. 

Wait—did something move? Just behind that giant clam? 

I raised my dart gun and waited for an attack. 

Then, suddenly, my mask clouded. I couldn’t breathe. 

I strained for breath. No air came. 

My oxygen tank! Someone must have tampered with it! 

There was no time to lose. Two hundred feet down—and no air! I had to 
surface—fast! 

I kicked my legs, desperately trying to pull myself to the surface. 

Holding my breath. My lungs about to burst. I was losing strength, getting 
dizzy. 

Would I make it? Or would I die right here, deep under the ocean, Joe the 
Stingray’s dinner? 

Panic swept over me like an ocean tide. I searched through the fogged mask 
for my diving partner. Where was she when I needed her? 

Finally, I spotted her swimming up at the surface, near the boat. 

Help me! Save me! No air! I tried to tell her, waving my arms like a 
maniac. 

Finally she noticed me. She swam toward me and dragged my dazed and 
limp body to the surface. 

I ripped off my mask and sucked in mouthfuls of air. 

“What’s your problem, Aqua Man?” she cried. “Did a jellyfish sting you?” 

My diving partner is very brave. She laughs in the face of danger. 

I struggled to catch my breath. “No air. Someone—cut off—tank—” 

Then everything went black. 

2 

My diving partner shoved my head back under the water. I opened my eyes and 
came up sputtering. 

“Get real, Billy,” she said. “Can’t you snorkel without acting like a total 
jerk?” 

I sighed. She was no fun. 

My “diving partner” was really just my bratty sister, Sheena. I was only 
pretending to be William Deep, Jr., undersea explorer. 

But would it kill Sheena to go along with it just once? 

My name actually is William Deep, Jr., but everybody calls me Billy. I’m 
twelve—I think I mentioned that already. 

Sheena is ten. She looks like me. We both have straight black hair, but mine 
is short and hers goes down to her shoulders. We’re both skinny, with knobby 
knees and elbows, and long, narrow feet. We both have dark blue eyes and thick, 
dark eyebrows. 

Other than that, we’re not alike at all. 

Sheena has no imagination. She was never afraid of monsters in her closet 
when she was little. She didn’t believe in Santa Claus or the tooth fairy, either. 
She loves to say, “There’s no such thing.” 

I dove underwater and pinched Sheena’s leg. Attack of the Giant Lobster 
Man! 

“Stop it!” she screamed. She kicked me in the shoulder. I came up for air. 

“Hey, you two,” my uncle said. “Be careful down there.” 

My uncle stood on the deck of his sea lab boat, the Cassandra. He peered 
down at Sheena and me snorkeling nearby. 

My uncle’s name is George Deep, but everybody calls him Dr. D. Even my 
dad, who is his brother, calls him Dr. D. Maybe that’s because he looks just the 
way a scientist should. 

Dr. D. is short, thin, wears glasses and a very serious, thoughtful 
expression. He has curly brown hair and a bald spot at the back of his head. 
Anyone who saw him would say, “I bet you’re a scientist.” 

Sheena and I were visiting Dr. D. on the Cassandra. Every year our parents 
let us spend our summer vacation with Dr. D. It sure beats hanging out at home. 

This summer, we were anchored just off a tiny island called Ilandra, in the 
Caribbean Sea. 

Dr. D. is a marine biologist. He specializes in tropical marine life. He 
studies the habits of tropical fish and looks for new kinds of ocean plants and 
fish that haven’t been discovered yet. 

The Cassandra is a big and sturdy boat. It is about fifty feet long. Dr. D. 
uses most of the space for labs and research rooms. Up on deck is a cockpit, 
where he steers the boat. He keeps a dinghy tied to the starboard, or right side of 
the deck, and a huge glass tank on the port, or left side. 

Sometimes Dr. D. catches very big fish and keeps them temporarily in the 
glass tank—usually just long enough to tag the fish for research, or care for them 
if they are sick or injured. 

The rest of the deck is open space, good for playing catch or sunbathing. 

Dr. D.’s research takes him all over the world. He isn’t married and doesn’t 
have any kids. He says he’s too busy staring at fish. 

But he likes kids. That’s why he invites me and Sheena to visit him every 
summer. 

“Stick close together, kids,” Dr. D. said. “And don’t swim off too far. 
Especially you, Billy.” 

He narrowed his eyes at me. That’s his “I mean it” look. He never narrows 
his eyes at Sheena. 

“There’ve been reports of some shark sightings in the area,” he said. 

“Sharks! Wow!” I cried. 

Dr. D. frowned at me. “Billy,” he said. “This is serious. Don’t leave the 
boat. And don’t go near the reef.” 

I knew he was going to say that. 

Clamshell Reef is a long, red coral reef just a few hundred yards away from 
where we were anchored. I’d been dying to explore it ever since we got there. 

“Don’t worry about me, Dr. D.,” I called up to him. “I won’t get into 
trouble.” 

Sheena muttered under her breath, “Yeah, right.” 

I reached out to give her another lobster pinch, but she dove under water. 

“Good,” said Dr. D. “Now don’t forget—if you see a shark fin, try not to 
splash around a lot. Movement will attract it. Just slowly, steadily return to the 
boat.” 

“We won’t forget,” said Sheena, who had come up behind me, splashing 

like crazy. 

I couldn’t help feeling just a little bit excited. I’d always wanted to see a 
real, live shark. 

I’d seen sharks at the aquarium, of course. But they were trapped in a glass 
tank, where they just swam around restlessly, perfectly harmless. 

Not very exciting. 

I wanted to spot a shark’s fin on the horizon, floating over the water, closer, 
closer, heading right for us.... 

In other words, I wanted adventure. 

The Cassandra was anchored out in the ocean, a few hundred yards away 
from Clamshell Reef. The reef surrounded the island. Between the reef and the 
island stretched a beautiful lagoon. 

Nothing was going to stop me from exploring that lagoon—no matter what 
Dr. D. said. 

“Come on, Billy,” Sheena called, adjusting her mask. “Let’s check out that 
school of fish.” 

She pointed to a patch of tiny ripples in the water near the bow of the boat. 
She slid the mouthpiece into her mouth and lowered her head into the water. I 
followed her to the ripples. 

Soon Sheena and I were surrounded by hundreds of tiny, neon-blue fish. 

Underwater, I always felt as if I were in a faraway world. Breathing through 
the snorkel, I could live down here with the fish and the dolphins, I thought. 
After a while, maybe I would grow flippers and a fin. 

The tiny blue fish began to swim away, and I swam with them. They were 
so great-looking! I didn’t want them to leave me behind. 

Suddenly, the fish all darted from view. I tried to follow, but they were too 

fast. 

They had vanished! 

Had something scared them away? 

I glanced around. Clumps of seaweed floated near the surface. Then I saw a 
flash of red. 

I floated closer, peering through the mask. A few yards ahead of me I saw 
bumpy red formations. Red coral. 

Oh, no, I thought. Clamshell Reef. Dr. D. told me not to swim this far. 

I began to turn around. I knew I should swim back to the boat. 

But I was tempted to stay and explore a little. After all, I was already there. 

The reef looked like a red sand castle, filled with underwater caves and 
tunnels. Small fish darted in and out of them. The fish were bright yellow and 
blue. 

Maybe I could swim over and explore one of those tunnels, I thought. How 
dangerous could it be? 

Suddenly, I felt something brush against my leg. It tickled and sent a tingle 
up my leg. 

A fish? 

I glanced around, but I didn’t see anything. 

Then I felt it again. 

A tingling against my leg. 

And then it clutched me. 

Again I turned to see what it was. Again I saw nothing. 

My heart began to race. I knew it was probably nothing dangerous. But I 
wished I could see it. 

I turned and started back for the boat, kicking hard. 

But something grabbed my right leg—and held on! 

I froze in fear. Then I frantically kicked my leg as hard as I could. 

Let go! Let go of me! 

I couldn’t see it—and I couldn’t pull free! 

The water churned and tossed as I kicked with all my strength. 

Overcome with terror, I lifted my head out of the water and choked out a 
weak cry: “Help!” 

But it was no use. 

Whatever it was, it kept pulling me down. Down. 

Down to the bottom of the sea. 

3 

“Help!” I cried out again. “Sheena! Dr. D.!” 

I was dragged below the surface again. I felt the slimy tentacle tighten 
around my ankle. 

As I sank underwater, I turned—and saw it. 

It loomed huge and dark. 

A sea monster! 

Through the churning waters, it glared at me with one giant brown eye. The 
terrifying creature floated underwater like an enormous, dark green balloon. Its 
mouth opened in a silent cry, revealing two rows of jagged, sharp teeth. 

An enormous octopus! But it had at least twelve tentacles! 

Twelve long, slimy tentacles. One was wrapped around my ankle. Another 
one slid toward me. 

NO! 

My arms thrashed the water. 

I gulped in mouthfuls of air. 

I struggled to the surface—but the huge creature dragged me down again. 

I couldn’t believe it. As I sank, scenes from my life actually flashed before 
my eyes. 

I saw my parents, waving to me as I boarded the yellow school bus for my 
first day of school. 

Mom and Dad! I’ll never see them again! 

What a way to go, I thought. Killed by a sea monster! 

No one will believe it. 

Everything started to turn red. I felt dizzy, weak. 

But something was pulling me, pulling me up. 

Up to the surface. Away from the tentacled monster. 

I opened my eyes, choking and sputtering. 

I stared up at Dr. D! 

“Billy! Are you all right?” Dr. D. studied me with concern. 

I coughed and nodded. I kicked my right leg. The slimy tentacle was gone. 

The dark creature had vanished. 

“I heard you screaming and saw you thrashing about,” said Dr. D. “I swam 
over from the boat as fast as I could. What happened?” 

Dr. D. had a yellow life jacket over his shoulders. He slipped a rubber 
lifesaver ring over my head. I floated easily now, the life ring under my arms. 

I had lost my flippers in the struggle. My mask and snorkel dangled around 
my neck. 

Sheena swam over and floated beside me, treading water. 

“It grabbed my leg!” I cried breathlessly. “It tried to pull me under!” 

“What grabbed your leg, Billy?” asked Dr. D. “I don’t see anything around 
here—” 

“It was a sea monster,” I told him. “A huge one! I felt its slimy tentacle 
grabbing my leg.... Ouch!” 

Something pinched my toe. 

“It’s back!” I shrieked in horror. 

Sheena popped out of the water and shook her wet hair, laughing. 

“That was me, you dork!” she cried. 

“Billy, Billy,” Dr. D. murmured. “You and your wild imagination.” He 
shook his head. “You nearly scared me to death. Please—don’t ever do that 
again. Your leg probably got tangled in a piece of seaweed, that’s all.” 

“But—but—!” I sputtered. 

He dipped his hand in the water and pulled up a handful of slimy green 
strings. “There’s seaweed everywhere.” 

“But I saw it!” I shouted. “I saw its tentacles, its big, pointy teeth!” 

“There’s no such thing as sea monsters,” said Sheena. Miss Know-It-All. 

“Let’s discuss it on the boat,” my uncle said, dropping the clump of 
seaweed back in the water. 

“Come on. Swim back with me. And stay away from the reef. Swim around 
it.” 

He turned around and started swimming toward the Cassandra. I saw that 
the sea monster had pulled me into the lagoon. The reef lay between us and the 
boat. But there was a break in the reef we could swim through. 

I followed them, thinking angry thoughts. 

Why didn’t they believe me? 

I had seen the creature grab my leg. It wasn’t a stupid clump of seaweed. It 
wasn’t my imagination. 

I was determined to prove them wrong. I’d find that creature and show it to 

them myself—someday. But not today. 

Now I was ready to get back to the safety of the boat. 

I swam up to Sheena and called, “Race you to the boat.” 

“Last one there is a chocolate-covered jellyfish!” she cried. 

Sheena can’t refuse a race. She started speeding toward the boat, but I 
caught her by the arm. 

“Wait,” I said. “No fair. You’re wearing flippers. Take them off.” 

“Too bad!” she cried, and pulled away. “See you at the boat!” I watched her 
splash away, building a good lead. 

She’s not going to win, I decided. 

I stared at the reef up ahead. 

It would be faster just to swim over the reef. A shortcut. 

I turned and started to swim straight toward the red coral. 

“Billy! Get back here!” Dr. D. shouted. 

I pretended I didn’t hear him. 

The reef loomed ahead. I was almost there. 

I saw Sheena splashing ahead of me. I kicked extra-hard. I knew she’d 
never have the guts to swim over the reef. She’d swim around the end of it. I 
would cut through and beat her. 

But my arms suddenly began to ache. I wasn’t used to swimming so far. 

Maybe I can stop at the reef and rest my arms for a second, I thought. 

I reached the reef. I turned around. Sheena was swimming to the left, 
around the reef. I figured I had a few seconds to rest. 

I stepped onto the red coral reef— 

—and screamed in horror! 

4 

My foot burned as if it were on fire. The throbbing pain shot up my leg. 

I screamed and dove into the water. 

When I surfaced, I heard Sheena yelling, “Dr. D.! Come quick!” 

My foot burned, even in the cold ocean water. 

Dr. D. came up beside me. “Billy, what’s the problem now?” he demanded. 
“I saw him do something really stupid,” Sheena said, smirking. 

If my foot hadn’t been burning up, I definitely would have punched out her 
lights. 

“My foot!” I moaned. “I stepped on the reef—and—and—” 

Dr. D. held on to the lifesaver ring around my waist. “Ow. That’s painful,” 
he said, reaching up to pat my shoulder. “But you’ll be all right. The burning will 
stop in a little while.” 

He pointed to the reef. “All that bright red coral is fire coral.” 

“Huh? Fire coral?” I stared back at it. 

“Even I knew that!” Sheena said. 

“It’s covered with a mild poison,” my uncle continued. “When it touches 
your skin, it burns like fire.” 

Now he tells me, I thought. 

“Don’t you know anything ?” Sheena asked sarcastically. 

She was asking for it. She really was. 

“You’re lucky you only burned your foot,” Dr. D. said. “Coral can be very 
sharp. You could have cut your foot and gotten poison into your bloodstream. 
Then you’d really be in trouble.” 

“Wow! What kind of trouble?” Sheena asked. She seemed awfully eager to 
hear about all the terrible things that could have happened to me. 

Dr. D.’s expression turned serious. “The poison could paralyze you,” he 

said. 

“Oh great,” I said. 

“So keep away from the red coral from now on,” Dr. D. warned. “And stay 
away from the lagoon, too.” 

“But that’s where the sea monster lives!” I protested. “We have to go back 

there. I have to show it to you!” 

Sheena bobbed in the blue-green water. “No such thing, no such thing,” she 
chanted. Her favorite phrase. “No such thing—right, Dr. D.?” 

“Well, you never know,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “We don’t know all of 
the creatures that live in the oceans, Sheena. It’s better to say that scientists have 
never seen one.” 

“So there, She-Ra,” I said. 

Sheena spit a stream of water at me. She hates it when I call her She-Ra. 
“Listen, kids—I’m serious about staying away from this area,” said Dr. D. 
“There may not be a sea monster in that lagoon, but there could be sharks, 
poisonous fish, electric eels. Any number of dangerous creatures. Don’t swim 
over there.” 

He paused and frowned at me, as if to make sure I’d been paying attention. 
“How’s your foot feeling, Billy?” he asked. 

“It’s a little better now,” I told him. 

“Good. Enough adventure for one morning. Let’s get back to the boat. It’s 
almost lunchtime.” 

We all started swimming back to the Cassandra. 

As I kicked, I felt something tickle my leg again. 

Seaweed? 

No. 

It brushed against my thigh like— fingers. 

“Cut it out, Sheena,” I shouted angrily. I spun around to splash water in her 

face. 

But she wasn’t there. She wasn’t anywhere near me. 

She was up ahead, swimming beside Dr. D. 

Sheena couldn’t possibly have tickled me. 

But something definitely did. 

I stared down at the water, suddenly gripped with terror. 

What was down there? 

Why was it teasing me like that? 

Was it preparing to grab me again and pull me down forever? 

5 

Alexander DuBrow, Dr. D.’s assistant, helped us aboard the boat. 

“Hey, I heard shouting,” Alexander said. “Is everything okay?” 

“Everything is fine, Alexander,” said Dr. D. “Billy stepped on some fire 
coral, but he’s all right.” 

As I climbed up the ladder, Alexander grabbed my hands and pulled me 
aboard. 

“Wow, Billy,” he said. “Fire coral. I accidentally bumped into the fire coral 
my first day here. I saw stars. I really did, man. You sure you’re okay?” 

I nodded and showed him my foot. “It feels better now. But that wasn’t the 
worst thing that happened. I was almost eaten by a sea monster!” 

“No such thing, no such thing,” Sheena chanted. 

“I really saw it,” I insisted. “They don’t believe me. But it was there. In the 
lagoon. It was big and green and—” 

Alexander smiled. “If you say so, Billy,” he said. He winked at Sheena. 

I wanted to punch out his lights, too. 

Big deal science student. What did he know? 

Alexander was in his early twenties. But, unlike Dr. D., he didn’t look like a 
scientist. 

He looked more like a football player. He was very tall, about six feet four 
inches, and muscular. He had thick, wavy blond hair and blue eyes that crinkled 
in the corners. He had broad shoulders, and big, powerful-looking hands. He 
spent a lot of time in the sun and had a smooth, dark tan. 

“I hope you’re all hungry,” Alexander said. “I made chicken salad 
sandwiches for lunch.” 

“Oh. Great,” Sheena said, rolling her eyes. 

Alexander did most of the cooking. He thought he was good at it. But he 
wasn’t. 

I went below deck to my cabin to change out of my wet bathing suit. My 
cabin was really just a tiny sleeping cubby with a cupboard for my things. 
Sheena had one just like it. Dr. D. and Alexander had bigger cabins that they 
could actually walk around in. 

We ate in the galley, which was what Dr. D. called the boat’s kitchen. It had 

a built-in table and built-in seats, and a small area for cooking. 

When I entered the galley, Sheena was already sitting at the table. There 
was a big sandwich on a plate in front of her, and one waiting for me. 

Neither of us was too eager to try Alexander’s chicken salad. The night 
before, we had had Brussels sprouts casserole. For breakfast this morning, he 
served us whole wheat pancakes that sank to the bottom of my stomach like the 
Titanic going down! 

“You first,” I whispered to my sister. 

“Uh-uh,” Sheena said, shaking her head. “You try it. You’re older.” 

My stomach growled. I sighed. There was nothing to do but taste it. 

I sank my teeth into the sandwich and started chewing. 

Not bad, I thought at first. A little chicken, a little mayonnaise. It actually 
tasted like a regular chicken salad sandwich. 

Then, suddenly, my tongue started to burn. My whole mouth was on fire! 

I let out a cry and grabbed for the glass of iced tea in front of me. I downed 
the entire glass. 

“Fire coral!” I screamed. “You put fire coral in the chicken salad!” 

Alexander laughed. “Just a little chili pepper. For taste. You like it?” 

“I think I’d rather have cereal for lunch,” Sheena said, setting down her 
sandwich. “If you don’t mind.” 

“You can’t have cereal for every meal,” Alexander replied, frowning. “No 
wonder you’re so skinny, Sheena. You never eat anything but cereal. Where’s 
your spirit of adventure?” 

“I think I’ll have cereal, too,” I said sheepishly. “Just for a change of pace.” 

Dr. D. came into the galley. “What’s for lunch?” he asked. 

“Chicken salad sandwiches,” said Alexander. “I made them spicy.” 

“Very spicy,” I warned him. 

Dr. D. glanced at me and raised an eyebrow. “Oh, really?” he said. “You 
know, I’m not very hungry. I think I’ll just have cereal for lunch.” 

“Maybe Billy and I could make dinner tonight,” Sheena offered. She poured 
cereal into a bowl and added milk. “It’s not fair for Alexander to cook all the 
time.” 

“That’s a nice idea, Sheena,” said Dr. D. “What do you two know how to 
make?” 

“I know how to make brownies from a mix,” I offered. 

“And I know how to make fudge,” said Sheena. 

“Hmm,” said Dr. D. “Maybe I’ll cook tonight. How does grilled fish 
sound?” 

“Great!” I said. 

After lunch, Dr. D. went into his office to go over some notes. Alexander led 
Sheena and me into the main lab to show us around. 

The work lab was really cool. It had three big glass tanks along the wall 
filled with weird, amazing fish. 

The smallest tank held two bright yellow sea horses and an underwater 
trumpet. The underwater trumpet was a long, red-and-white fish shaped like a 
tube. There were also a lot of guppies swimming around in this tank. 

Another tank held some flame angelfish, which were orange-red like fire, 
and a harlequin tusk-fish, with orange-and-aqua tiger stripes for camouflage. 

The biggest tank held a long, black-and-yellow snakelike thing with a 
mouth full of teeth. 

“Ugh!” Sheena made a disgusted face as she stared at the long fish. “That 
one is really gross!” 

“That’s a black ribbon eel,” said Alexander. “He bites, but he’s not deadly. 
We call him Biff.” 

I snarled through the glass at Biff, but he ignored me. 

I wondered what it would be like to come face to face with Biff in the 
ocean. His teeth looked nasty, but he wasn’t nearly as big as the sea monster. I 
figured William Deep, Jr., world-famous undersea explorer, could handle it. 

I turned away from the fish tanks and stood by the control panel, staring at 
all the knobs and dials. 

“What does this do?” I asked. I pushed a button. A loud horn blared. We all 
jumped, startled. 

“It honks the horn,” Alexander said, laughing. 

“Dr. D. told Billy not to touch things without asking first,” said Sheena. 
“He’s told him a million times. He never listens.” 

“Shut up, She-Ra!” I said sharply. 

“You shut up.” 

“Hey—no problem,” said Alexander, raising both hands, motioning for us 
to chill out. “No harm done.” 

I turned back to the panel. Most of the dials were lit up, with little red 
indicators moving across their faces. I noticed one dial that was dark, its red 

indicator still. 

“What’s this for?” I asked, pointing to the dark dial. “It looks like you 
forgot to turn it on.” 

“Oh, that controls the Nansen bottle,” Alexander said. “It’s broken.” 

“What’s a Nansen bottle?” asked Sheena. 

“It collects samples of seawater from way down deep,” said Alexander. 

“Why don’t you fix it?” I asked. 

“We can’t afford to,” said Alexander. 

“Why not?” asked Sheena. “Doesn’t the university give you money?” 

We both knew that Dr. D.’s research was paid for by a university in Ohio. 

“They gave us money for our research,” Alexander explained. “But it’s 
almost gone. We’re waiting to see if they’ll give us more. In the meantime, we 
don’t have the money to fix things.” 

“What if the Cassandra breaks down or something?” I asked. 

“Then I guess we’ll have to put her in dry dock for a while,” said 
Alexander. “Or else find a new way to get more money.” 

“Wow,” said Sheena. “That would mean no more summer visits.” 

I hated to think of the Cassandra just sitting on a dock. Even worse was the 
thought of Dr. D. being stuck on land with no fish to study. 

Our uncle was miserable whenever he had to go ashore. He didn’t feel 
comfortable unless he was on a boat. I know, because one Christmas he came to 
our house to visit. 

Usually Dr. D. is fun to be with. But that Christmas visit was a nightmare. 

Dr. D. spent the whole time pacing through the house. He barked orders at 
us like a sea captain. 

“Billy, sit up straight!” he yelled at me. “Sheena, swab the decks!” 

He just wasn’t himself. 

Finally, on Christmas Eve, my dad couldn’t take it anymore. He told Dr. D. 
to shape up or ship out. 

Dr. D. ended up spending a good part of Christmas Day in the bathtub 
playing with my old toy boats. As long as he stayed in the water, he was back to 
normal. 

I never wanted to see Dr. D. stranded on land again. 

“Don’t worry, kids,” Alexander said. “Dr. D. has always found a way to get 
by.” 


I hoped Alexander was right. 

I studied another strange dial, marked Sonar Probes. 

“Hey, Alexander,” I said. “Will you show me how the sonar probes work?” 

“Sure,” said Alexander. “Just let me finish a few chores.” 

He walked over to the first fish tank. He scooped out a few guppies with a 
small net. 

“Who wants to feed Biff today?” 

“Not me,” said Sheena. “Yuck!” 

“No way!” I said as I stepped to a porthole and peered out. 

I thought I heard a motor outside. So far we had seen very few other boats. 
Not many people passed by Ilandra. 

A white boat chugged up to the side of the Cassandra. It was smaller but 
newer than our boat. A logo on the side said Marina Zoo. 

A man and a woman stood on the deck of the zoo boat. They were both 
neatly dressed in khaki pants and button-down shirts. The man had a short, neat 
haircut, and the woman’s brown hair was pulled back in a ponytail. She carried a 
black briefcase. 

The man waved to someone on the deck of the Cassandra. I figured he had 
to be waving at Dr. D. 

Now Sheena and Alexander stood beside me at the porthole, watching. 

“Who’s that?” Sheena asked. 

Alexander cleared his throat. “I’d better go see what this is about,” he said. 

He handed Sheena the net with the guppies in it. “Here,” he said. “Feed 
Biff. I’ll be back later.” 

He left the lab in a hurry. 

Sheena looked at the squirming guppies in the net and made a face. 

“I’m not going to stay here and watch Biff eat these poor guppies.” She 
stuck the net in my hand and ran out of the cabin. 

I didn’t want to watch Biff eat the poor fish, either. But I didn’t know what 
else to do with them. 

I quickly dumped the guppies into Biff’s tank. The eel’s head shot forward. 
His teeth clamped down on a fish. The guppy disappeared. Biff grabbed for 
another one. 

He was a fast eater. 

I dropped the net on a table and walked out of the lab. 

I made my way down the narrow passageway, planning to go up on deck 
for some air. 

I wondered if Dr. D. would let me do some more snorkeling this afternoon. 

If he said yes, maybe I would swim toward the lagoon, see if I could find 
any sign of the sea monster. 

Was I scared? 

Yes. 

But I was also determined to prove to my sister and uncle that I wasn’t 
crazy. That I wasn’t making it up. 

I was passing Dr. D.’s office when I heard voices. I figured Dr. D. and 
Alexander must be in there with the two people from the zoo. 

I paused for just a second. I didn’t mean to eavesdrop, I swear. But the man 
from the zoo had a loud voice, and I couldn’t help but hear him. 

And what he said was the most amazing thing I had ever heard in my 
whole, entire life. 

“I don’t care how you do it, Dr. Deep,” the man bellowed. “But I want you 
to find that mermaid!” 

6 

A mermaid! 

Was he serious? 

I couldn’t believe it. Did he really want my uncle to find a real, live 
mermaid? 

I knew Sheena would start chanting, “No such thing, no such thing.” But 
here was a grown man, a man who worked for a zoo, talking about a mermaid. It 
had to be real! 

My heart started to pound with excitement. I might be one of the first 
people on Earth ever to see a mermaid! I thought. 

And then I had an even better thought: What if I was the one to find her? 

I’d be famous! I’d be on TV and everything! 

William Deep, Jr., the famous sea explorer! 

Well, after I heard that, I couldn’t just walk away. I had to hear more. 

Holding my breath, I pressed my ear to the door and listened. 

“Mr. Showalter, Ms. Wickman, please understand,” I heard Dr. D. saying. 
“I’m a scientist, not a circus trainer. My work is serious. I can’t waste my time 
looking for fairy tale creatures.” 

“We’re quite serious, Dr. Deep,” said Ms. Wickman. “There is a mermaid in 
these waters. And if anyone can find her, you can.” 

I heard Alexander ask, “What makes you think there’s really a mermaid out 
there?” 

“A fisherman from a nearby island spotted her,” replied the man from the 
zoo. “He said he got pretty close to her—and he’s sure she’s real. He saw her 
near the reef —this reef, just off Ilandra.” 

The reef! Maybe she lives in the lagoon! 

I leaned closer to the door. I didn’t want to miss a word of this. 

“Some of these fishermen are very superstitious, Mr. Showalter,” my uncle 
scoffed. “For years there have been stories... but no real reason to believe them.” 

“We didn’t believe the man ourselves,” said the woman. “Not at first. But 
we asked some other fishermen in the area, and they claim to have seen the 
mermaid, too. And I think they’re telling the truth. Their descriptions of her 
match, down to the smallest detail.” 

I could hear my uncle’s desk chair creak. I imagined him leaning forward as 
he asked, “And, how, exactly, did they describe her?” 

“They said she looked like a young girl,” Mr. Showalter told him. “Except 
for the”—he cleared his throat—“the fish tail. She’s small, delicate, with long, 
blond hair.” 

“They described her tail as shiny and bright green,” said the woman. “I 
know it sounds incredible, Dr. Deep. But when we spoke to the fishermen, we 
were convinced that they really saw a mermaid!” 

There was a pause. 

Was I missing something? I pressed my ear to the door. I heard my uncle 
ask, “And, why, exactly, do you want to capture this mermaid?” 

“Obviously, a real, live mermaid would be a spectacular attraction at a zoo 
like ours,” said the woman. “People from all over the world would flock to see 
her. The Marina Zoo would make millions of dollars.” 

“We are prepared to pay you very well for your trouble, Dr. Deep,” said Mr. 
Showalter. “I understand you are running out of money. What if the university 
refuses to give you more? It would be terrible if you had to stop your important 
work just because of that.” 

“The Marina Zoo can promise you one million dollars,” said the woman. “If 
you find the mermaid. I’m sure your lab could run for a long time on that much 
money.” 

A million dollars! I thought. How could Dr. D. turn down that kind of 
money? 

My heart pounded with excitement. I pushed against the door, straining to 

hear. 


What would my uncle’s answer be? 

7 

Leaning hard against the door, I heard Dr. D. let out a long, low whistle. “That’s 
quite a lot of money, Ms. Wickman,” I heard him say. 

There was a long pause. Then he continued. “But even if mermaids existed, 
I wouldn’t feel right about capturing one for a zoo to put on display.” 

“I promise you we would take excellent care of her,” replied Mr. Showalter. 
“Our dolphins and whales are very well cared for. The mermaid, of course, 
would get extra-special treatment.” 

“And, remember, Dr. Deep,” said Ms. Wickman. “If you don’t find her, 
someone else will. And there’s no guarantee that they will treat the mermaid as 
well as we will.” 

“I suppose you’re right,” I heard my uncle reply. “It would certainly be a 
big boost to my research if I found her.” 

“Then you’ll do it?” asked Mr. Showalter eagerly. 

Say yes, Dr. D.! I thought. Say yes! 

I pressed my whole body against the door. “Yes,” my uncle answered. “If 
there really is a mermaid, I’ll find her.” 

Excellent! I thought. 

“Very good,” said Ms. Wickman. 

“Excellent decision,” Mr. Showalter added enthusiastically. “I knew we had 
come to the right man for the job.” 

“We’ll be back in a couple of days to see how the search is going. I hope 
you’ll have some good news by then,” Ms. Wickman said. 

“That’s not much time,” I heard Alexander remark. 

“We know,” Ms. Wickman replied. “But, obviously, the sooner you find 
her, the better.” 

“And, please,” Mr. Showalter said, “please keep this a secret. No one must 
know about the mermaid. I’m sure you can imagine what would happen if—” 

CRASSSSSSSH! 

I lost my balance. I fell against the door. 

To my shock, it swung open—and I tumbled into the room. 

8 

I landed in a heap in the center of the cabin floor. 

Dr. D., Mr. Showalter, Ms. Wickman, and Alexander all gaped at me with 
their mouths open. I guess they hadn’t expected me to drop in. 

“Uh... hi, everyone,” I murmured. I felt my face burning, and knew that I 
was blushing. “Nice day for a mermaid hunt.” 

Mr. Showalter jumped to his feet angrily. He glared at my uncle. “This was 
supposed to be a secret!” 

Alexander strode across the room and helped me to my feet. “Don’t worry 
about Billy,” he said. He put a protective arm around me. “You can trust him.” 

“I’m very embarrassed,” Dr. D. told his visitors. “This is my nephew, Billy 
Deep. He and his sister are visiting me for a few weeks.” 

“Can they keep our secret?” asked Ms. Wickman. 

Dr. D. turned his gaze on Alexander. Alexander nodded. 

“Yes, I’m sure they can,” said Dr. D. “Billy won’t say anything to anyone. 
Right, Billy?” 

He narrowed his eyes at me. I really do hate it when he does that. But this 
time I couldn’t blame him. 

I shook my head. “No. I won’t tell anyone. I swear.” 

“Just to be on the safe side, Billy,” said Dr. D., “don’t mention the mermaid 
to Sheena. She’s too young to have to keep a big secret like this.” 

“I promise,” I replied solemnly. I raised my right hand as if swearing an 
oath. “I won’t breathe a word to Sheena.” 

This was so cool! 

I knew the biggest secret in the world—and Sheena wouldn’t have a clue! 

The man and woman from the zoo exchanged glances. I could see they 
were still worried. 

Alexander said, “You really can trust Billy. He’s very serious for someone 
his age.” 

You bet I’m serious, I thought. 

I’m William Deep, Jr., world-famous mermaid catcher. 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman seemed to relax a little. 

“Good,” said Ms. Wickman. She shook hands with Dr. D., Alexander, and 
me. 

Mr. Showalter gathered up some papers and put them into the briefcase. 
“We’ll see you in a few days, then,” said Ms. Wickman. “Good luck.” 

I won’t need luck, I thought, watching them roar away on their boat a few 
minutes later. 

I won’t need luck because I have skill. And daring. 

My head spun with all kinds of exciting thoughts. 

Would I let Sheena be on TV with me after I single-handedly captured the 
mermaid? 

Probably not. 

That night I sneaked off the boat and slipped into the dark water. I swam 
noiselessly toward the lagoon. 

I glanced back at the Cassandra. It floated quietly. All the portholes were 

dark. 

Good, I thought. No one is awake to notice that I’m gone. No one knows 
I’m out here. No one knows I’m swimming in the sea at night, all alone. 

Swimming steadily, easily, under the silvery moonlight, I made my way 
around the reef and into the dark lagoon. 

I slowed my stroke just past the reef. 

My eyes darted eagerly around the lagoon. The waves lapped gently under 
me. The water sparkled as if a million tiny diamonds floated on the surface. 
Where was the mermaid? 

I knew she was there. I knew I would find her here. 

From deep below me, I heard a low rumble. 

I listened hard. The sound, faint at first, grew louder. 

The waves tossed as the sound became a steady roar. 

It rumbled like an earthquake. An earthquake on the ocean floor. 

The waves tumbled and tossed. I struggled to stay on top of them. 

What was happening? 

Suddenly, from the middle of the lagoon, a huge wave swelled. It rose 
higher, like a gigantic geyser. 

Higher. Over my head. As tall as a building! 

A tidal wave? 

No. 

The wave broke. 

The dark creature pushed up underneath it. 

Water slid off its grotesque body. Its single eye stared out darkly at me. Its 
tentacles writhed and stretched. 

I screamed. 

The monster blinked its muddy brown eye at me. 

I tried to turn and swim away. 

But it was too fast. 

The tentacles whipped out—and grabbed me, tightening, tightening around 
my waist. 

Then a slimy, cold tentacle wrapped around my neck and started to squeeze. 

9 

“I—I can’t breathe!” I managed to choke out. 

I tugged at the tentacle twining around my throat. 

“Help me—somebody!” 

I opened my eyes—and stared up at the ceiling. 

I was lying in bed. 

In my cabin. 

The sheet was wrapped tightly around me. 

I took a deep breath and waited for my heart to stop thudding. A dream. 

Only a dream. 

I rubbed my eyes, lifted myself, and peered out the porthole. The sun was 
just rising over the horizon. The sky was morning red. The water a hazy purple. 

Squinting past the reef, I saw the lagoon. Perfectly still. Not a sea monster 
in sight. 

I wiped the sweat from my forehead with my pajama sleeve. 

No need to be afraid, I told myself. It was just a dream. A bad dream. 

I shook my head, trying to forget about the sea monster. 

I couldn’t let it scare me. I couldn’t let it stop me from finding that 
mermaid. 

Was anyone up? Had I yelled out loud in my sleep? 

I listened carefully. I could hear only the creaking of the boat, the splash of 
waves against its side. 

The pink morning sunlight cheered me. The dark water looked inviting. 

I slipped into my bathing suit and crept out of my cabin as quietly as I 
could. I didn’t want anyone to hear me. 

In the galley I saw a half-empty pot of coffee sitting on the warmer. That 
meant Dr. D. was already up. 

I tiptoed down the passageway and listened. I could hear him puttering 
around in the main lab. 

I grabbed my snorkel, flippers, and mask and went up on deck. Nobody up 
there. 

The coast was clear. 

Silently, I climbed down the ladder, slipped into the water, and snorkeled 
toward the lagoon. 

I know it was crazy to sneak away like that. But you can’t imagine how 
excited I was. Even in my wildest daydreams as William Deep, Jr., undersea 
explorer, I never thought I would see a real, live mermaid! 

As I snorkeled toward the lagoon, I tried to imagine what she would look 

like. 

Mr. Showalter had said she looked like a young girl with long, blond hair 
and a green fish tail. 

Weird, I thought. 

Half-human, half-fish. 

I tried to imagine my own legs replaced by a fish tail. 

I’d be the greatest swimmer on Earth if I had a fish tail, I thought. I could 
win the Olympics without even practicing. 

I wonder if she’s pretty? I thought. And I wonder if she can talk! I hope she 
can. She can tell me all kinds of secrets of the oceans. 

I wonder how she breathes underwater? 

I wonder if she thinks like a human or like a fish? 

So many questions. 

This is going to be the greatest adventure of my life, I thought. After I’m 
famous, I’ll write a book about my undersea adventures. I’ll call it Courage of 
the Deep, by William Deep, Jr. Maybe someone will even turn it into a movie. 

I raised my head and saw that I was nearing the reef. I concentrated on 
keeping away from it. I didn’t want to touch that fire coral again. 

I couldn’t wait to explore the lagoon. I was so excited, I forgot all about the 
terrifying dream I had had the night before. 

I kicked my legs carefully, watching out for red coral. 

I was nearly past the reef when I felt something brush my leg. 

“Oh!” I cried out and swallowed a mouthful of salty water. 

Sputtering and choking, I felt something wrap around my ankle. 

As it grabbed at me, it scratched my ankle. 

This time I knew for sure it wasn’t seaweed. 

Seaweed doesn’t have claws! 

10 

Ignoring the panic that nearly froze me, I kicked and thrashed with all my 
strength. 

“Stop it! Stop kicking me!” a voice screamed. 

The mermaid? 

“Hey—!” I cried out angrily as Sheena’s head appeared beside me. 

She pulled up her snorkeling mask. “I didn’t scratch you that hard!” she 
snapped. “You don’t have to go crazy!” 

“What are you doing here?” I cried. 

“What are you doing here?” she demanded nastily. “You know Dr. D. told 
us not to swim here.” 

“Then you shouldn’t be here —should you?” I shouted. 

“I knew you were up to something, so I followed you,” Sheena replied, 
adjusting her mask. 

“I’m not up to anything,” I lied. “I’m just snorkeling.” 

“Sure, Billy. You’re just snorkeling at six-thirty in the morning exactly 
where you’re not supposed to —and where you burned your foot on that fire 
coral yesterday. You’re either up to something, or you’re totally crazy!” She 
squinted at me, waiting for a response. 

What a choice! I was either up to something, or crazy. Which should I 
admit to? 

If I admitted I was up to something, I’d have to tell her about the mermaid 
—and I couldn’t do that. 

“Okay,” I said with a casual shrug. “I guess I’m crazy.” 

“Well, big news,” she muttered sarcastically. “Come on back to the boat, 
Billy,” said Sheena. “Dr. D. will be looking for us.” 

“You go back. I’ll be there in a little while.” 

“Billy,” said Sheena. “Dr. D. is going to be very mad. He’s probably ready 
to hop in the dinghy and search for us right now.” 

I was about to give up and go with her. Then, out of the corner of my eye, I 
saw a big splash on the other side of the reef. 

The mermaid! I thought. That’s got to be her! If I don’t go look for her now, 
I might miss her! 

I turned away from Sheena and started swimming very fast, straight for the 

reef. 

I could hear Sheena screaming, “Billy! Come back! Billy!” 

I thought I heard an extra note of panic in her voice, but I ignored it. Just 
Sheena trying to scare me again, I thought. 

“Billy!” she screamed again. “Billy!” I kept on swimming. No way I was 
going to stop now. But as it turned out, I should have listened to her. 

11 

Swimming fast, I raised my head, searching for a good place to swim safely over 
the fire coral. 

I saw another splash. Across the lagoon. Near the shore. 

That’s got to be the mermaid! I thought excitedly. 

I stared hard, trying to catch a glimpse of her. 

I thought I saw some kind of fin. 

I made my way past the reef into the deep, still waters of the lagoon. I 
strained to see the mermaid, but my mask had fogged. 

Rats! I thought. What a time for my mask to start leaking! 

I came up for air and pulled off the mask. I hoped I wouldn’t lose sight of 
the mermaid because of this. 

I wiped the water from my eyes and, leaving the mask wrapped around my 
wrist, stared toward the lagoon. 

That’s when I saw it. A few hundred yards away. 

Not the green fish tail of a mermaid. 

The fin I saw was a gray-white triangle sticking straight up in the water. 

The fin of a hammerhead shark. 

As I stared in horror, the fin turned in the water, and then ripped toward me, 
moving steady and straight as a torpedo. 

12 

Where was Sheena? 

Was she still behind me? 

I glanced back. I could see her in the distance, splashing back to the boat. 

I was forced to forget about Sheena as the gray fin swiftly moved closer. 

I thrashed my arms in the water, trying to swim away. 

When the shark swam right past me, I stopped thrashing. 

Would it go away? Would it leave me alone? 

My heart in my throat, I started swimming in the other direction, toward the 
reef. Away from the shark. 

I kept my eyes on that fin. 

It began to turn. The shark’s fin streamed toward me in a wide arc. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a terrified groan as I realized it was circling me. 

Now I didn’t know which way to go. The shark swam between me and the 
boat. If I could turn around and climb on to the reef, maybe I would be safe. 

The huge fin slid closer. 

I plunged toward the reef. I knew I had to keep distance between me and 
the shark. 

Suddenly, the fin shot up in front of me—between me and the reef. 

The shark kept circling, closing in, swimming faster and faster, making the 
circle smaller as he swam. 

I was trapped. But I couldn’t stay still. I couldn’t just float there, waiting for 
the shark to eat me. 

I had to fight. I kicked my legs in a panic as I swam toward the reef. 

I was nearer to the reef now. But the shark’s circles grew smaller, smaller. 

I breathed in quick, shallow gasps. I couldn’t think clearly. I was too 
terrified. The same two words echoed in my brain: The shark. The shark. 

Over and over again. The shark. The shark. 

The shark swam around me in a tight circle. His tail swished, sending up 
waves of water over me. 

The shark. The shark. 

I stared at the monster in wide-eyed horror. He swam so close, I could see 

him clearly. He was big—at least ten feet long. His head was wide and hideous, 
long like the head of a hammer, with an eye on each end. 

I heard my voice quivering, “No... no...” 

Something cold brushed my leg. 

The shark. The shark. 

My stomach lurched. I threw my head back and let out a howl of sheer 
terror. 

“Aaaaaiiii!” 

Pain jolted down my spine. 

The shark had bumped me with its snout. My body rose out of the water, 
then hit the surface with a smack. 

I froze. 

The shark was hungry. 

It wanted to fight. 

It circled me again, then zoomed straight for me. 

Its jaws opened. I saw rows and rows of sharp teeth. 

I screamed out a hoarse, “NO!” I thrashed, panicked. I kicked with all my 
strength. 

The razor teeth brushed by, just missing my leg. 

The reef. I had to get to the reef. It was my only chance. 

I dove for the coral. The shark plunged toward me. I dodged it once more. 

I grabbed the red coral. Pain shot through my hand. The fire coral. 

I didn’t care. 

The top of the reef sat just above the surface of the water. I tried to pull 
myself up. My whole body stung. 

I had almost made it. Soon I’d be safe. 

With a mighty kick, I hoisted myself onto the reef—and was yanked back 
into the water. 

My stomach slammed against the side of the reef. I felt a sharp stab of pain 
in my leg. 

I tried to pull my leg away. I couldn’t. 

It was caught in the jaws of the shark. 

My mind screamed with terror. 

The shark. The shark. 

It’s got me! 

13 

My entire body burned with pain. I slipped heavily into the water. 

The shark knew he had me. I had no strength left to fight. 

Then something splashed nearby. 

The shark released my leg and jerked toward the splash. 

I had no time to catch my breath. The shark circled back. It charged at me. 

The gaping jaws moved in for the kill. 

I shut my eyes and let out a shrill scream of terror. 

A second passed. Then another. 

Nothing happened. 

I heard a loud thump. 

I opened my eyes. 

Something had come between me and the shark, a few feet in front of me. 

I stared. The water churned white. A long, shiny green fish tail rose out of 
the water and splashed back down. 

Another fish was fighting the shark! 

The shark rolled over, then attacked. The green fish tail smacked the shark 
hard. The shark went under. 

I couldn’t see what was happening. The water rocked higher, tossing up 
frothy, white waves. 

All around me the water bubbled and churned, white with foam. Over the 
crash of the water, I heard shrill animal squeals. 

Sharks don’t squeal, do they? I thought. What is making that sound? 

The shark surfaced, its toothy jaws gaping. It snapped them at something, 
once, twice. Snapping at air. 

The long, green fish tail rose out of the water and smacked the shark hard. 
A direct hit on its broad hammerhead. 

The shark shut its jaws and sank below the surface. 

Then I heard a loud bump! The water stopped churning. 

A second later, the huge gray fin surfaced a few yards away, speeding off in 
the other direction. 

The shark was swimming away! 

I stared at the green fish tail as it arced over the dark, swelling water. 

As the waters calmed, I heard a low, musical sound. It was beautiful and 
slightly sad. Whistling and humming at the same time. 

It sounded something like a whale. But this creature was much smaller than 
a whale. 

The green tail swung around. Then the creature lifted its head. 

A head with long, blond hair. 

The mermaid! 

14 

Bobbing in the water, I forgot my burning pain as I gaped at her. 

To my amazement, the mermaid looked just as the zoo people had said she 
would. 

Her head and shoulders were smaller than mine, but her flashing green tail 
stretched out, long and powerful. Her wide, sea-green eyes sparkled. Her skin 
gave off a pale pink glow. 

I stared at her, unable to speak. 

She’s real! I thought. And she’s so beautiful! 

At last I found my voice. “You—you saved me,” I stammered. “You saved 
my life. Thank you!” 

She shyly lowered her eyes and cooed at me through shell-pink lips. What 
was she trying to say? 

“What can I do in return?” I asked her. “I’ll do anything I can.” 

She smiled, and uttered that haunting low hum. 

She was trying to talk to me. I wished I could understand her. 

She reached for my hand and examined it, frowning over the red burns from 
the fire coral. Her hand felt cool. She passed it over the palm of my hand, and 
the pain from the burns began to fade away. 

“Wow!” I exclaimed. I must have sounded pretty stupid, but I didn’t know 
what else to say. Her touch was like magic. When she held my hand, I could 
float without treading water. Just as she did. 

Was this another dream? 

I closed my eyes and opened them again. 

I was still floating in the sea, staring at a blond-haired mermaid. 

No. Not a dream. 

She smiled again and shook her head, making those low singing sounds. 

I could hardly believe that only a few minutes before I’d been frantically 
fighting off a hungry shark. 

I raised my head and searched the waters. The shark had vanished. The 
water had calmed, shimmering like gold now under the morning sunlight. And 
there I was, floating in the sea off a deserted island with a real mermaid. 

Sheena will never believe this, I thought. Not in a million years. 

Suddenly, the mermaid flipped her tail and disappeared under the water. 

Startled, I searched around for her. She had left without a trace—not a 
ripple, not a bubble. 

Where did she go? I wondered. Is she gone, just like that? Will I never see 
her again? 

I rubbed my eyes and looked for her again. No sign of her. A few fish 
darted past me. 

She had disappeared so instantly, I began to think I had dreamed her up 
after all. 

Just then, I felt a tiny pinch on my foot. 

“Ouch!” I yelled, quickly pulling away. I began to panic. The shark was 
back! 

Then, behind me, I heard a small splash and a whistlelike giggle. I turned 
around. 

The mermaid smiled mischievously at me. She snapped her fingers in a 
pinching motion. 

“It was you!” I cried, laughing with relief. “You’re worse than my little 
sister!” 

She whistled again and slapped her tail against the surface of the water. 

Suddenly, a dark shadow fell across her face. I raised my eyes to see what it 

was. 

Too late. 

A heavy net dropped over us. Startled, I thrashed my arms and legs. But 
that only tangled them more in the rope. 

The net tightened over both of us. We were thrown together. 

We struggled helplessly as the net jerked us up. 

The mermaid’s eyes widened and she squealed in terror. 

“EEEEEE!” she cried. 

We were being pulled up out of the water. 

“EEEEEEE!” The mermaid’s frightened wail rose like a siren, drowning 
out my feeble cries for help. 

15 

“Billy—I don’t believe it!” 

I gazed up through the holes in the net and recognized Dr. D. and Sheena. 
They struggled to pull us aboard the dinghy. 

Sheena stared down at me and the mermaid in amazement. Dr. D.’s eyes 
were wide, and his mouth hung open. 

“You’ve found her, Billy!” he said. “You’ve actually found the mermaid!” 

“Just get me out of this net!” I cried. Somehow, I didn’t feel so great about 
capturing the mermaid anymore. 

“The zoo people were right,” Dr. D. muttered to himself. “It’s unbelievable. 
It’s astounding. It’s historic....” 

We landed in a heap on the floor of the dinghy. The mermaid squirmed 
beside me in the net, making sharp, angry clicking noises. 

Dr. D. watched her closely. He touched her tail. 

The mermaid flapped it hard against the bottom of the boat. 

“Is there any way this could be a hoax?” he wondered aloud. 

“Billy—is this one of your dumb tricks?” Sheena demanded suspiciously. 

“It’s not a trick,” I said. “Now will you get me out of this net? The ropes are 
digging into my skin.” 

They ignored me. 

Sheena gently reached one finger through the net and touched the scales on 
the mermaid’s tail. “I can’t believe it,” she murmured. “She’s really real!” 

“Of course she’s real!” I cried. “We’re both real, and we’re both very 
uncomfortable!” 

“Well, it’s hard to believe anything you say,” Sheena snapped. “After all, 
you’ve been talking about sea monsters ever since we got here.” 

“I did see a sea monster!” I cried. 

“Quiet, kids,” said Dr. D. “Let’s get our discovery back to the sea lab.” 

He started the dinghy’s motor and we roared back to the big boat. 

Alexander stood on deck, waiting for us. “It’s really true!” he cried 
excitedly. “It’s really a mermaid!” 

Sheena tied the dinghy to the side of the Cassandra while Dr. D. and 

Alexander hoisted me and the mermaid aboard. 

Dr. D. opened the net and helped me out. The mermaid flopped her tail and 
got herself even more tangled in the net. 

Alexander shook my hand. “I’m proud of you, Billy. How did you do it? 
This is amazing.” He gave me a vigorous pat on the back. “Do you realize this is 
the greatest ocean find of the century? Maybe of all time?” 

“Thanks,” I said. “But I didn’t do anything. I didn’t find her —she found 

me. ” 

The mermaid flopped violently on deck. Her squeals became higher- 
pitched, more frantic. 

Alexander’s face fell. “We’ve got to do something for her,” he said 
urgently. 

“Dr. D., you’ve got to let her go,” I said. “She needs to be in the water.” 

“I’ll fill the big tank with seawater, Dr. D.,” said Alexander. He hurried off 
to fill the tank. 

“We can’t let her go just yet, Billy,” said Dr. D. “Not without examining her 
first.” His eyes were shining with excitement. But he saw how upset I was. “We 
won’t hurt her, Billy. She’ll be all right.” 

His eyes dropped to my leg, and he frowned. He kneeled down to look at it. 

“You’re bleeding, Billy,” he said. “Are you okay?” 

“I’m fine,” I said. “But the mermaid isn’t.” 

He ignored me. 

“How did this happen?” asked Dr. D. 

“A shark grabbed my leg,” I told him. “Just as he was about to clamp down, 
the mermaid came. She saved my life. You should have seen her fighting that 
shark.” 

Dr. D. turned to the mermaid as if seeing her for the first time. 

“Wow,” said Sheena. “She fought off a shark? All by herself?” 

The mermaid’s long green tail pounded angrily on the deck of the boat. 

“EEEEE! EEEEEE!” she cried shrilly. She almost sounded as if she were 
screaming. 

“Forget about my leg,” I shouted. “You’ve got to let the mermaid go!” 

Dr. D. stood up, shaking his head. “Billy, I’m a scientist. This mermaid is 
an extremely important discovery. If I let her go, I’d be letting down the entire 
scientific community. I’d be letting down the entire world!” 

“You just want the million dollars,” I muttered. 

I knew it was cruel, but I couldn’t stop myself. I hated seeing the mermaid 
so unhappy. 

Dr. D. looked hurt. 

“That’s not fair, Billy,” he said. “I think you know me better than that.” 

I avoided his gaze. Lowering my head, I pretended to examine the cut on 
my leg. It wasn’t very deep. Alexander had given me some gauze. I pressed it 
against the cut. 

“I only want the money to continue my research,” Dr. D. went on. “I would 
never use this mermaid to get rich.” 

That was true. I knew Dr. D. didn’t care about the money for himself. All he 
wanted was to keep on studying fish. 

“Just think about it, Billy. You’ve found a mermaid! A creature we all 
thought didn’t exist! We can’t just let her go. We’ve got to find out a little bit 
about her,” he said excitedly. 

I said nothing. 

“We won’t hurt her, Billy. I promise.” 

Alexander returned. “The tank is ready, Dr. D.” 

“Thanks.” Dr. D. followed him to the other side of the boat. 

I glanced at Sheena to see whose side she was on. Did she want to keep the 
mermaid? Or let her go? 

But Sheena just stood there, watching. Her face was tense. I could tell she 
wasn’t sure which of us was right. 

But when I looked at the mermaid, I knew I was right. 

She had finally stopped squirming and flipping her tail. Now she lay still on 
the deck, the net draped over her. She was breathing hard and staring out at the 
ocean with watery, sad eyes. 

I wished I’d never tried to find her in the first place. Now all I wanted was 
to find some way to help her get back to her home. 

Dr. D. and Alexander came back. They lifted the mermaid inside the net. 
Alexander lifted her tail, and Dr. D. held her head. 

“Don’t squirm, little mermaid,” Dr. D. said in a soothing voice. “Keep 
still.” 

The mermaid seemed to understand. She didn’t flop around. But her eyes 
rolled wildly, and she uttered low moans. 

Dr. D. and Alexander carried her to the giant glass tank. It stood on the deck 
now, full of fresh seawater. They gently dropped her into the tank, pulling the net 

away as she slid into the water. Then they put a screen top over the tank and 
clamped it shut. 

The mermaid churned the water with her tail. Then, gradually, her tail 
stopped moving. She grew still. 

Her body slumped lifelessly to the bottom of the tank. 

She didn’t move or breathe. 

“Noooo!” An angry cry escaped my lips. “She’s dead! She’s dead! We 
killed her!” 

16 

Sheena had moved to the other side of the tank. “Billy, look—!” she called to 
me. 

I hurried around to her. 

“The mermaid isn’t dead,” Sheena reported, pointing. “Look. She—she’s 
crying or something.” 

My sister was right. The mermaid had slumped to the bottom of the tank 
and had buried her face in her hands. “Now what do we do?” I asked. 

No one answered. 

“We have to find a method of feeding her,” my uncle said, rubbing his chin, 
his eyes on the tank. 

“Do you think she eats like a person or a fish?” I asked. 

“If only she could tell us,” said Alexander. “She can’t talk, can she, Billy?” 

“I don’t think so,” I said. “She just makes sounds. Whistles and clicks and 
hums.” 

“I’ll go down to the lab and get some equipment ready,” said Alexander. 
“Maybe we can find out something about her with the sonar monitor.” 

“Good idea,” said Dr. D. thoughtfully. 

Alexander hurried below. 

“I think I’d better go to Santa Anita for some supplies,” said Dr. D. Santa 
Anita was the nearest inhabited island. “I’ll buy lots of different kinds of foods. 
We can try them out on her until we find something she likes. Would you two 
like anything while I’m there?” 

“How about some peanut butter?” Sheena asked quickly. “There’s no way 
Alexander can ruin a peanut butter sandwich!” 

Dr. D. nodded as he climbed into the dinghy. “Peanut butter it is. Anything 
else? Billy?” 

I shook my head. 

“All right,” Dr. D. said. “I’ll be back in a few hours.” 

He started the motor, and the dinghy sped off toward Santa Anita. 

“It’s so hot,” Sheena complained. “I’m going down to my cabin for a 
while.” 

“Okay,” I said, my eyes on the mermaid. 

It was hot up on deck. There was no breeze, and the white-hot noon sun 
beat down on my face. 

But I couldn’t go below deck. I couldn’t leave the mermaid. 

She floated behind the glass, her long tail drooping. When she saw me, she 
pressed her hands and face to the glass and cooed sadly. 

I waved to her through the glass. 

She cooed and hummed in her low voice, trying to communicate with me. I 
listened, trying to understand. 

“Are you hungry?” I asked her. 

She stared at me blankly. 

“Are you hungry?” I repeated, rubbing my stomach. “Go like this”—I 
nodded my head up and down—“for yes. Do this for no.” I shook my head back 
and forth. 

I stopped and waited to see what she’d do. 

She nodded her head yes. 

“Yes?” I said. “You are hungry?” 

She shook her head no. 

“No? You’re not hungry?” 

She nodded her head yes. Then she shook her head no again. 

She’s just copying me, I thought. She doesn’t really understand. 

I took a step back and studied her in the tank. 

She’s young, I thought. She’s a lot like me. That means she must be hungry. 
And she probably likes to eat what I like. Right? 

Maybe. It was worth a try. 

I hurried down to the galley. I pulled open a cupboard and took out a 
package of chocolate chip cookies. 

Okay, so it’s not exactly seafood, I thought. But who wouldn’t like 
chocolate chip cookies? 

I grabbed a few cookies and stuffed the package back in the cupboard. 
Alexander came through on his way up to the deck. He was carrying some 
equipment in his arms. 

“Getting a snack?” he asked me. 

“For the mermaid,” I told him. “Do you think she’ll like them?” 

He shrugged his broad shoulders and said, “Who knows?” 

He followed me out on deck, carrying the equipment. 

“What’s all that stuff?” I asked him. 

“I thought we could run a few tests on the mermaid, to see what we can find 
out about her,” said Alexander. “But go ahead and feed her first.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Here goes.” 

I held a cookie up to the glass. The mermaid stared at it. I could see that she 
didn’t know what it was. 

“Mmmmm,” I said, patting my stomach. “Yummy.” 

The mermaid patted her tummy, imitating me. She stared out at me blankly 
with those sea-green eyes. 

Alexander reached up and unlatched the screen top. I handed him the 
cookie, and he dropped it into the tank. 

The mermaid watched it falling toward her through the water. She made no 
attempt to grab it. 

By the time it reached her, it was soggy. It fell apart in the tank. 

“Yuck,” I said. “Even I wouldn’t eat it now.” 

The mermaid pushed the soggy cookie pieces away. 

“Maybe Dr. D. will have something she likes when he gets back,” said 
Alexander. 

“I hope so,” I said. 

Alexander began to set up his equipment. He put a thermometer inside the 
tank, and some long white plastic tubes. 

“Oh, man,” Alexander mumbled, shaking his head. “I forgot my notebook.” 

He hurried back down to the lab. 

I watched the mermaid float sadly in her tank, with all the tubes coming out 
of it. She reminded me of the fish down in the lab. 

No, I thought. She’s not a fish. She shouldn’t be treated this way. 

I remembered how she had fought the shark. 

She could have been killed, I thought. Easily. But she fought the shark, 
anyway, just to help me. 

The mermaid cooed. Then I saw her wipe away the tears that had begun to 
mn down her face. 

She’s crying again, I thought, feeling guilty and miserable. She’s pleading 
with me. I put my face against the glass, as close to hers as I could get it. 

I’ve got to help her, I thought. 

I put a finger to my lips. “Ssshhh,” I whispered. “Stay quiet. I have to work 
quickly!” 

I knew I was about to do something that would make Dr. D. very angry. 



My uncle would probably never forgive me. 
But I didn’t care. 

I was going to do what I thought was right. 

I was going to set the mermaid free. 

17 

My hand trembled as I reached up to unlatch the screen at the top of the tank. 
The tank was taller than I was. I wasn’t quite sure how I’d get the mermaid out 
of there. But I had to find a way. 

As I struggled to pull the screen off, the mermaid began to squeal, “Eeee! 
EEEEEE!” 

“Sshh! Don’t make any noise!” I warned her. 

Then I felt a hand grab me by the arm. I gasped, startled. 

A deep voice asked, “What are you doing?” 

I turned around to see Alexander standing behind me. 

I stepped away from the tank, and he let go of my arm. 

“Billy, what were you doing?” he asked again. 

“I was going to let her go!” I cried. “Alexander, you can’t keep her in there! 
Look how unhappy she is!” 

We both stared at the mermaid, who had slumped to the bottom of the tank 
again. I think she knew that I had tried to help her—and that I had been stopped. 

I caught the sadness on Alexander’s face. I could tell he felt sorry for her. 
But he had a job to do. 

He turned to me and put an arm around my shoulders. “Billy, you’ve got to 
understand how important this mermaid is to your uncle,” he said. “He’s worked 
his whole life for a discovery like this. It would break his heart if you let her go.” 

He slowly led me away from the tank. I turned back to look at the mermaid 
again. 

“But what about her heart?” I asked. “I think it’s breaking her heart to be 
stuck in that fish tank.” 

Alexander sighed. “It’s not ideal, I know that. But it’s only temporary. Soon 
she’ll have plenty of room to swim and play in.” 

Sure, I thought bitterly. As an exhibit at the zoo, with millions of people 
gawking at her every day. 

Alexander removed his arm from my shoulders and rubbed his chin. 

“Your uncle is a very caring man, Billy,” he said. “He’ll do his best to make 
sure the mermaid has everything she needs. But it’s his duty to study her. The 
things he can learn from her could help people understand the oceans better— 

and take better care of them. That’s important, right?” 

“I guess so,” I said. 

I knew Alexander had a good point. I loved Dr. D., and I didn’t want to 
spoil his big discovery. 

But, still, the mermaid shouldn’t have to suffer for science, I thought. 

“Come on, Billy,” Alexander said, leading me below deck. “I promised you 
I’d show you how the sonar probes work, didn’t I? Let’s go down to the lab, and 
I’ll give you a demonstration.” 

As we started to climb below, I took one last glance back at the mermaid. 
She was still slumped forlornly at the bottom of the tank. Her head was lowered, 
her blond hair floating limply above it like seaweed. 

The sonar probes weren’t as interesting as I thought they’d be. All they did was 
beep whenever the Cassandra was in danger of running ashore. 

I guess Alexander could tell my mind was not on the sonar probes. “Want 
some lunch?” he asked me. 

Uh-oh. Lunch. I was hungry. But not for spicy chicken salad. 

I hesitated. “Well, I had a big breakfast....” 

“I’ll whip up something special,” Alexander offered. “We can have a picnic 
up on deck with the mermaid. Come on.” 

What could I do? I followed him to the kitchen. 

He opened the small refrigerator and pulled out a bowl. 

“This has been marinating all morning,” he said. 

I looked into the bowl. It was full of thin strips of something white and 
mbbery-looking. They floated in an oily, dark gray liquid. 

Whatever it was, I knew I couldn’t eat it. 

“It’s marinated squid,” said Alexander. “I added some squid ink for extra 
flavor. That’s what makes it gray.” 

“Yum,” I said, rolling my eyes. “I haven’t had squid ink in days!” 

“Don’t be so sarcastic. You might be surprised,” Alexander replied. He 
handed me the bowl. “Take this up on deck. I’ll bring some bread and iced tea.” 

I carried the bowl of squid up and set it down near the mermaid’s tank. 

“How are you doing, Mermaid?” I asked her. 

She flipped her tail a little. Then she opened and closed her mouth, as if she 
were chewing. 

“Hey,” I said. “You are hungry, aren’t you?” 

She kept making that chewing motion. I glanced down at the bowl of squid. 
Who knows? I thought. This might be just what she’d like. 

I stood on a rail and unlatched the top of the tank. Then I dropped in a piece 
of the rubbery squid. 

The mermaid leaped toward it and caught it in her mouth. 

She chewed, then smiled. 

She liked it! 

I gave her some more. She ate it. 

I rubbed my stomach. “Do you like it?” I asked her. I nodded yes. 

She smiled again. Then she nodded yes. 

She understood me! 

“What are you doing, Billy?” Alexander asked. He had come up on deck 
carrying two plates and a loaf of bread. 

“Alexander, look!” I cried. “We communicated!” 

I dropped another piece of squid into the tank. She ate it. Then she nodded 

yes. 

“That means she likes it!” I said. 

“Wow,” murmured Alexander. He put down the plates and picked up his 
notebook. He scribbled some notes. 

“Isn’t that way cool?” I demanded. “I’m a scientist, too—aren’t I, 
Alexander?” 

He nodded, but kept writing. 

“I mean, I’m the first person on Earth to communicate with a mermaid— 
right?” I insisted. 

“If she stays with us long enough, you might be able to talk to her in sign 
language,” he said. “Just think of the things we could learn!” 

He spoke aloud as he wrote, “Likes to eat squid.” Then he put down his 
pencil and said, “Hey, wait! That’s our lunch!” 

Uh-oh, I thought. I hope his feelings aren’t hurt. 

He looked at me. He looked at the bowl. He looked at the mermaid. 

Then he started laughing. 

“At least somebody around here likes my cooking!” he exclaimed. 

About an hour later, Dr. D. returned with the groceries and supplies. Luckily he 
had bought plenty of seafood in Santa Anita. We fed some of it to the mermaid 
for supper. While she ate, Dr. D. checked the readings on the meters Alexander 

had set up in the tank. 

“Interesting,” Dr. D. commented. “She sends out sonar signals through the 
water. Just as whales do.” 

“What does that mean?” asked Sheena. 

“It means there are probably other mermaids like her,” said Dr. D. “She 
must be trying to contact them with underwater sounds.” 

Poor mermaid, I thought. She’s calling to her friends. She wants to be 
rescued. 

I went to my cabin after supper and stared out of the little porthole. 

An orange sun sank slowly into the purple horizon. A wide carpet of gold 
light shimmered in the rolling ocean waters. A cool breeze blew in through the 
porthole. 

I watched the sun drop into the ocean. The sky immediately darkened, as if 
someone had turned off a lamp. 

The mermaid is up there all alone, I thought. She must be so frightened. A 
prisoner. Trapped in a fish tank in the dark. 

The door to my cabin suddenly burst open. Sheena bounded in, panting, her 
eyes wide. 

“Sheena!” I scolded angrily. “How many times do I have to tell you to 
knock first?” 

She ignored me. “But, Billy!” she gasped. “She’s escaped! The mermaid 
escaped!” 

18 

I leaped off my bed, my heart pounding. 

“She’s not there!” Sheena cried. “She’s not in her tank!” 

I darted out of the cabin, up the hatch, and out on deck. 

Part of me hoped she really had escaped to freedom. But part of me wished 
she could stay forever—and make my uncle the most famous scientist in the 
world and me the most famous nephew of a scientist! 

Please let her be okay, I thought. 

Up on deck, my eyes adjusted to the evening darkness. Tiny lights glowed 
all around the edge of the boat. 

I squinted across the deck at the giant fish tank. 

I ran so fast, I nearly toppled overboard. Sheena was right behind me. 

“Hey—!” I cried out when I saw the mermaid floating listlessly in the 
water, her green tail shimmering faintly in the fading light. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that Sheena was laughing. “Gotcha!” 
she shouted gleefully. “Gotcha again, Billy!” 

I groaned long and loud. Another one of Sheena’s stupid tricks. 

“Good one, Sheena,” I said bitterly. “Very clever.” 

“You’re just mad because I fooled you again. You’re so easy to trick.” 

The mermaid raised her eyes to me, and a faint smile formed on her pale 
lips. “Looorrrooo, looorrrooo,” she cooed at me. 

“She really is pretty,” Sheena said. 

The mermaid is hoping I’ll let her go now, I thought. Maybe I should.... 

Sheena could help me, I decided. It would be easier with two of us. 

But would my sister cooperate? “Sheena—”1 began. 

I heard footsteps behind us. “Hey, kids.” It was Dr. D. “It’s almost 
bedtime,” he called. “Ready to go below?” 

“We never go to bed this early at home,” Sheena whined. 

“Maybe not. But I bet you don’t get up so early at home, either. Do you?” 

Sheena shook her head. We all stood at the tank and watched the mermaid 
in silence. She gave her tail a little flick and settled back down at the bottom of 
the tank. 

“Don’t worry about her,” Dr. D. said. “I’ll check on her during the night to 
make sure she’s all right.” 

The mermaid pressed her tiny hands against the glass wall of the tank. Her 
eyes pleaded with us, pleaded with us to set her free. 

“She’ll feel better once she gets to Marina Zoo,” Dr. D. said. “They’re 
building a special lagoon just for her, with a reef and everything. It’ll be exactly 
like the lagoon off Ilandra. She’ll be free to swim and play. She’ll feel at home.” 

I hope so, I thought. But I didn’t feel so sure. 

The Cassandra rocked gently on the waves that night, but I couldn’t fall asleep. 

I lay on my bunk, staring at the ceiling. A pale beam of moonlight fell 
through the porthole and across my face. I couldn’t stop thinking about the 
mermaid. 

I tried to imagine what it would feel like to be trapped in a glass tank for a 
whole day. It probably wouldn’t be that different from being trapped in this tiny 
cabin, I thought, glancing around. My cabin was about as big as a closet. 

It would be terrible, I thought, fiddling with the collar of my pajama top. I 
pushed open the porthole to let in more air. 

The fish tank might not even be the worst of it, I figured. I know Dr. D. 
cares about the mermaid. I know he’d never hurt her. 

But what will happen to her when the zoo people take her away? Who will 
look out for her? 

Sure, they’re building a fancy fake lagoon. But it won’t be the same as the 
real lagoon. And there will be people around, staring at her all the time. They’ll 
probably expect her to perform tricks or something; maybe jump through hoops 
like a trained seal. 

They’ll probably put her in TV commercials, too. And TV shows and 
movies. 

She’ll be a prisoner. A lonely prisoner for the rest of her life. 

This is all my fault. How could I let this happen? 

I have to do something, I decided. I can’t let them take her. 

Just then I thought I heard something—a low hum. I lay very still and 
listened. At first I thought it was the mermaid. But I quickly realized it was a 
motor. 

I heard it chugging softly, from a distance. But slowly the sound moved 
closer. 

A boat. 

I sat up and peered out of the porthole. A large boat pulled quietly up beside 
the Cassandra. 

Who was it? The zoo people? 

In the middle of the night? 

No. It wasn’t the same boat. This boat was much bigger. 

As I peered out the small porthole, I saw two dark figures quietly slip on 
board the Cassandra. Then two more. 

My heart began to race. Who are these people? I wondered. What are they 
doing? 

What should I do? 

Should I sneak up and spy on them? What if they see me? 

Then I heard more strange noises. 

A thud. A muffled cry of pain. 

It came from the deck. 

The deck. Where the mermaid was trapped helplessly in her tank. 

Oh, no! I thought, feeling a chill of panic. They’re hurting the mermaid! 

19 

I charged up to the deck. Sheena ran right behind me. 

Stumbling over a tow rope, I grabbed the rail to steady myself. Then I 
darted blindly to the fish tank. 

The mermaid huddled at the bottom of the tank, her arms wrapped 
protectively around herself. 

I saw four men standing tensely near the tank. All four were dressed in 
black. They had black masks pulled over their faces. 

One of the men held a small club in his hand. 

And a body lay sprawled on the deck, face down. 

Dr. D.! 

Sheena screamed and ran to our uncle. She knelt beside him. “They hit him 
on the head!” she cried. “They knocked him out!” 

I gasped. “Who are you?” I demanded. “What are you doing on our boat?” 

The four men ignored me. 

Two of them unfolded a heavy rope net and spread it over the fish tank. 
Then they let it fall into the tank, draping it over the mermaid. 

“Stop it!” I yelled. “What are you doing?” 

“Be quiet, kid,” the man with the club muttered. He raised the club 
menacingly. 

I watched helplessly as they tightened the net around the mermaid. 

They were kidnapping her! 

“Eeeee! EEEEEeeee!” she squealed in terror and started to thrash her arms, 
struggling to free herself from the heavy net. 

“Stop it! Leave her alone!” I cried. 

One of the men gave a low laugh. The other three still ignored me. 

Sheena was bent over Dr. D., frantically trying to wake him up. I ran to the 
hatch and shouted down into the cabin, “Alexander! Alexander! Help!” 

Alexander was big and strong—maybe strong enough to stop these men. 

I ran back to the tank. The mermaid was trapped in the net. All four men 
worked to lift her out of the tank. She squirmed and fought with all her strength. 

“EEEEEE!” she screamed. The high-pitched squeal hurt my ears. 

“Can’t you get her to shut up?” one of the men cried angrily. 

“Just load her on board,” the one with the club replied sharply. 

“Stop!” I yelled. “You can’t do that!” 

Then I totally lost it. 

Without thinking, I dove toward the four of them. I don’t know what I 
planned to do. I just knew I had to stop them. 

One of them pushed me away easily with one hand. “Stay away—or you’ll 
get hurt,” he muttered. 

“Let her go! Let the mermaid go!” I cried frantically. 

“Forget about the mermaid,” said the man. “You’ll never see her again.” 

I grabbed the rail. My heart was pounding in my chest. I gasped for breath. 

I couldn’t stand the mermaid’s terrified screams. 

I couldn’t let them take her—not without a fight. 

She had saved my life once. Now it was my turn to save hers. 

But what could I do? 

They had lifted the mermaid out of the tank. Three men held her in the net. 
She squirmed and thrashed like crazy, splashing water all over the deck. 

I’ll tackle them, I thought. I’ll knock them over. Then I’ll push the mermaid 
into the ocean and she can swim away to safety. 

Lowering my head like a football player, I took a deep breath and ran right 
at them. 

20 

“Billy—stop!” Sheena screamed. 

I crashed into one of the men holding the net, butting him hard in the 
stomach with my head. 

To my dismay, the man hardly moved. 

He grabbed me with his free hand, lifted me up off the deck, and heaved me 
into the fish tank. 

I splashed into the warm water and came up, choking and sputtering. 

Through the glass, I watched the men toss the mermaid aboard their boat. 
They were getting away! 

I tried to scramble out of the tank, but it was too tall. I kept slipping down 
the wet glass, unable to reach the top. 

I knew there was only one person who could stop the masked men now. 
Alexander. 

Where was he? Hadn’t he heard all the noise? 

“ALEXANDER!” I shouted as loud as I could. But my voice was muffled 
by the glass walls of the tank. 

Then, finally, he appeared on the deck. I saw his big blond head and 
muscular body moving toward me. At last! 

“Alexander!” I cried, scrambling to stay afloat in the tank. “Stop them!” 

I could hear the motor of the other boat begin to rumble. One by one, the 
masked men lowered themselves off our boat. 

Three of them had left the Cassandra. Only one remained on deck. 

Through the glass I watched Alexander run up to him and grab his shoulder. 

Yes! I thought. Get him, Alexander! Get him! 

I’d never seen Alexander hit anyone before. But I knew he could do it if he 
had to. 

But Alexander didn’t hit the masked man. Instead, he asked, “Is the 
mermaid safely on board?” 

The masked man nodded. 

“Good,” Alexander replied. “And have you got the money for me?” 

“Got it.” 

“All right,” Alexander murmured. “Let’s get out of here!” 

21 

I nearly choked on a mouthful of water. 

I just couldn’t believe that Alexander was working with the masked men. 
He had seemed like such a good guy. 

But I knew now that he had arranged the whole thing. He had to be the one 
who had told them the mermaid was on board our boat. 

“Alexander,” I cried, “how could you?” 

He stared at me through the glass. “Hey, Billy, it’s just business,” he said 
with a shrug. “The zoo was going to pay a million dollars for the mermaid. But 
my new bosses will pay twenty million!” A thin smile crossed his face. “You 
know arithmetic, Billy. Which would you choose?” 

“You rat!” I shouted. I wanted to punch him. I stmggled to get out of the 
tank. All I managed to do was splash a lot and get water up my nose. 

Alexander followed the masked man to his boat. I pounded helplessly on 
the glass tank. 

Then I saw Sheena stand up. Lowering my gaze to the deck, I saw that Dr. 
D. was moving. 

Alexander didn’t seem to notice. He stepped over Dr. D.’s body. He didn’t 
even care that Dr. D. could have been hurt badly. 

I watched my uncle reach up and grab Alexander by the ankle. 

“Whoa!” Alexander tripped and fell hard onto his elbows and his knees. 

Sheena screamed and backed up to the rail. 

Maybe there’s still hope, I thought, my heart beating faster. Maybe they 
won’t get away after all. 

Alexander sat up, dazed, rubbing one elbow. “Get them!” he shouted down 
to the masked men. 

Two of the men climbed back aboard the Cassandra and grabbed Dr. D. 
Sheena ran at them, flailing at them with her puny little fists. 

Of course that didn’t do any good. The third masked man grabbed her arms 
and pinned them behind her back. 

“Kick him, Sheena!” I yelled through the glass. 

She tried to kick the man who held her, but he just tightened his grip. She 
couldn’t move. 

“Let them go!” I screamed desperately. 

“What should we do with them?” asked one of the men. 

“Whatever you do, do it quickly,” said Alexander. “We’ve got to get out of 
here.” 

The man who held Sheena glanced in at me. I was frantically treading 
water, trying to stay above the surface. 

“They might call the island police or the Coast Guard,” he said, frowning. 
“We’d better kill them.” 

“Throw them all in the tank!” suggested one of his partners. 

22 

“Alexander!” Dr. D. shouted. “I know you’re not a cruel man. Don’t let them do 
this.” 

Alexander avoided my uncle’s hard stare. “Sorry, Dr. D.,” he muttered. “I 
can’t stop them. If I try to, they’ll kill me, too.” 

Without another word, he lowered himself onto the other boat. 

What a creep, I thought angrily. 

Two of the masked men lifted Dr. D. up high and dropped him into the tank. 
He landed beside me with a splash. 

“Are you okay?” I asked him. 

He rubbed the back of his head and nodded. 

Sheena was next. They tossed her in easily. She flew through the air, 
flailing her arms and legs. Then she plopped into the water. 

The men replaced the screen lid. They clamped it shut. 

I stared out at them, realizing in horror that we had no way to escape. 

The water in the tank was about six feet deep. We all kicked and paddled, 
trying to stay above the surface. There was barely enough room for the three of 
us. 

“All right,” said one of the men. “Let’s go.” 

“Wait!” Dr. D. shouted. “You can’t just leave us here!” 

The three men exchanged glances. “You’re right. We can’t,” said one. 

They stepped toward us. 

So they aren’t heartless monsters after all, I thought. They weren’t going to 
leave us. 

But what were they going to do? 

The first man signaled the other two. They raised their hands to one side of 
the tank. 

“One, two, three—” the first man called out. 

On three, they pushed the tank over the side of the deck. 

We were thrown together. Then our bodies slammed against the side of the 
tank as it dropped into the ocean. 

Ocean water seeped into the tank. 

“The tank—it’s sinking!” cried Dr. D. 

We watched the kidnappers’ boat as it roared away. Our tank rocked in its 
wake. Then it started to sink. 

“We’re going under!” Sheena screamed. “We’re going to drown!” 

23 

All three of us desperately pushed against the screen. I beat my fists against it. 
Dr. D. tried to get his shoulder against it. 

But the tank tilted in the water, and we were all tossed back. 

The screen was made of heavy steel mesh, and clamped onto the top of the 
tank. We couldn’t reach the clamps from inside, so we had to try to break 
through it. 

We pushed with all our strength. It wouldn’t budge. 

The tank slowly sank deeper below the surface of the dark, rolling water. 
The moon disappeared behind a blanket of clouds, leaving us in total darkness. 

We had only a minute or two before the tank dropped completely below the 
surface. 

Sheena started to cry. “I’m so afraid!” she shrieked. “I’m so afraid!” 

Dr. D. pounded his fists against the glass tank wall, trying to break through. 

I ran my hands all along the top of the tank, looking for a weak spot in the 
screen. 

Then I hit something. 

A tiny latch. 

“Look!” I cried, pointing to the latch. 

I fumbled with it, trying to open it. “It’s stuck!” 

“Let me try.” Dr. D. tore at the latch with his fingers. “It’s jammed shut,” he 

said. 

Sheena took a red barrette from her hair. “Maybe we can loosen it with 
this,” she said. 

Dr. D. took the barrette and scraped hard around the latch. 

“It’s working!” he said. 

Maybe there’s hope, I thought. Maybe we’ll get out of here! 

Dr. D. stopped scraping and tugged at the latch. 

It moved! 

It opened! 

“We’re free!” cried Sheena. 

We all pushed at the screen. We pushed again. 

“Come on, kids, push harder,” urged Dr. D. 

We pushed again. The screen didn’t move. The latch hadn’t opened it after 
all. Two other latches held the screen in place. 

Two latches we couldn’t reach. 

We all grew silent. The only sounds now were Sheena’s soft, frightened 
sobs and the steady wash of the waves. 

The water had risen nearly to the top of the tank. Soon it would come 
mshing in on us. 

Suddenly, the ocean darkened. The waters grew choppy, and the tank 
rocked a little faster. 

“What’s that noise?” Sheena asked. 

I listened. 

Through the churning of the water, I heard a strange sound. It was very 
faint, as if coming from far away. 

A shrill, high-pitched whistle. 

“It sounds like a siren,” Dr. D. murmured. “Lots of sirens.” 

The eerie wails rose and fell over the water. 

Louder. Closer. 

The sound—as shrill as the screech of metal—surrounded us. 

Suddenly, dark, shadowy forms swirled around the tank. 

We pressed our faces to the glass. 

“That sound. I’ve never heard anything like it. What can it be?” asked Dr. 
D. 

“It—it’s coming from all around!” I stammered. 

The dark water tossed, churned by the shadowy forms. I peered through the 
foam, straining to see. 

Suddenly, out of the murky water, a face appeared. It pressed itself against 
the glass, right in front of my face! 

I gasped and pulled back. 

Then I saw more faces. We were surrounded by small, girlish faces. Their 
wide eyes peered in at us menacingly. 

“Mermaids!” I shrieked. 

“Dozens of them!” Dr. D. murmured in hushed amazement. 

They churned the water with their long tails. 

Their hair, dark tangles in the black water, floated around their faces. The 
tank rocked harder and harder. 



“What do they want?” cried Sheena, her voice shrill and trembling. 

“They look angry,” Dr. D. whispered. 

I stared out at the mermaids, swirling around us like ghosts. They reached 
out their hands and began clutching at the tank. They smacked their tails on the 
water. The dark waters tossed and churned. 

Suddenly I knew. I knew what they wanted. 

“Revenge,” I murmured. “They’ve come for revenge. We took their friend. 
And now they’re going to pay us back.” 

24 

Shadowy hands pressed against the glass. 

“They’re pulling us under!” Dr. D. cried. 

I gasped in terror, staring out at the hands, black outlines against the glass. 
Then, suddenly, the tank began to rise. Up out of the water, higher and 
higher. 

“Huh? What’s happening?” asked Sheena. 

“They—they’re pushing us back up!” I cried happily. 

“The mermaids aren’t taking revenge—they’re saving us!” Dr. D. 
exclaimed. 

The tank brushed up against the Cassandra. I could see the mermaids’ tiny 
hands working above us. 

The clamps popped open. The screen was pulled off. 

With a happy groan, Dr. D. boosted Sheena up. She scrambled on board the 

boat. 

Then I climbed aboard, and we both helped pull Dr. D. out of the tank. 

We were drenched, shivering from the cold. But we were safe. 

The mermaids swarmed around the boat, their pale eyes peering up at us. 
“Thank you,” Dr. D. called down to them. “Thank you for saving our lives.” 
I realized this was the second time a mermaid had saved my life. I owed 
them more than ever now. 

“We’ve got to get the kidnapped mermaid back,” I said. “Who knows what 
Alexander and those creeps will do to her!” 

“Yeah,” cried Sheena. “Look what they tried to do to us!” 

“I wish we could rescue her,” Dr. D. murmured, shaking his head. “But I 
don’t see how we can. How will we find the kidnappers’ boat in the dark? 
They’re long gone by now.” 

But I knew there had to be a way. I leaned over the rail, peering down at the 
mermaids floating beside us, chattering and cooing in the moonlight. 

“Help us!” I pleaded with them. “We want to find your friend. Please—can 
you take us to her?” 

I held my breath and waited. Would the mermaids understand me? Would 

they be able to help us—somehow? 

The mermaids chattered and whistled to one another. Then one of them—a 
dark-haired mermaid with an extra-long tail—moved to the head of the group. 

She began whistling and clicking to the other mermaids. She seemed to be 
giving orders. 

The three of us stared in amazement as the mermaids began to form a long 
line, one mermaid after the other, stretching far out to sea. 

“Do you think they’re going to lead us to the kidnappers?” I asked. 

“Maybe,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “But how will the mermaids find the 
boat?” He rubbed his chin. “I know. I’ll bet they’ll use their sonar. I wish I had 
time to really listen to those sounds they’re making—” 

“Look, Dr. D!” Sheena interrupted. “The mermaids are swimming away!” 

We watched the dark figures slide away through the rolling black waters. 

“Quick!” I cried. “We’ve got to follow them.” 

“Too dangerous,” Dr. D. replied, sighing. “We can’t fight Alexander and 
four big masked men by ourselves!” 

He paced back and forth on the narrow deck. “We should call the island 
police,” he said finally. “But what would we say? That we’re chasing after a 
kidnapped mermaid? No one would believe us.” 

“Dr. D., we have to follow them. Please!” I pleaded. “The mermaids are 
swimming out of sight!” 

He stared at me for a long moment. “Okay. Let’s get going,” he said finally. 

I hurried to the stern to untie the dinghy. Dr. D. dropped it into the water 
and jumped in. Sheena and I followed. Dr. D. started the motor—and we raced 
after the shimmering line of mermaids. 

The mermaids glided so quickly through the rolling waters, it was hard for 
the small boat to keep up with them. 

About fifteen or twenty minutes later, we found ourselves in a small, 
deserted cove. The moon drifted out of the clouds. It cast pale light on a dark 
boat anchored near the shore. 

Dr. D. cut the motor so the kidnappers wouldn’t hear us approaching. 

“They must be asleep,” he whispered. 

“How can Alexander sleep after what he did to us?” said Sheena. “He left 
us to drown!” 

“Money can make people do terrible things,” Dr. D. replied sadly. “But it’s 
good they think we’re dead. They won’t be expecting us.” 

“But where’s the mermaid?” I whispered, staring at the dark boat, bobbing 
gently under the misty moonlight. 

We drifted silently toward the darkened boat. 

Well, we’ve found the kidnappers, I thought, holding on to the side of the 
dinghy as we drew near. 

There’s just one problem. 

What do we do next? 

25 

The air became very still. The kidnappers’ boat sat gently on the calm, glassy 
waters of the cove. 

“What happened to all the mermaids?” Sheena whispered. 

I shrugged. There was no sign of them. I imagined them swimming way 
down below the surface, hiding. 

Suddenly, at the side of the kidnappers’ boat, I saw ripples in the water. 

Slowly, silently, our dinghy glided toward the boat. I stared at the ripples, 
trying to see what was making them. Then I saw a flash of blond hair in the 
moonlight. 

“The mermaid!” I whispered. “There she is!” 

She was floating in the water, tied to the back of the kidnappers’ boat. 

“They must not have a tank to keep her in,” Dr. D. whispered excitedly. 
“Lucky for us.” 

Suddenly, we saw other figures rippling the water. Mermaids arched up, 
circling the captured mermaid. I saw tail fins raised like giant fans. I saw hands 
reach around the mermaid, hands tugging at the rope that held her. 

The waters tossed quietly as the figures worked. 

“The mermaids are setting her free,” I whispered. 

“What are we going to do?” Sheena asked. 

“We’ll just make sure she gets away safely,” Dr. D. replied. “Then we’ll slip 
away. The kidnappers will never know we were here.” 

We watched the mermaids struggle with the rope as our dinghy washed up 
against the kidnappers’ boat. 

“Come on, mermaids!” Sheena urged under her breath. “Hurry!” 

“Maybe they need some help,” I said. 

Dr. D. began to steer toward the mermaids. 

I gasped as a light flared on the kidnappers’ boat. A match set flame to a 
torch. 

An angry voice boomed, “What do you think you’re doing?” 

26 

I ducked away as the flaming torch was thrust in my face. 

Behind the torch, I could see the kidnapper glaring down at me. He had 
quickly pulled on his black mask. It covered only the top of his face. 

I heard a clambering sound, cries of surprise. Alexander and the other three 
kidnappers appeared on the deck. 

“How did you get here?” demanded the man with the torch. “Why aren’t 
you dead?” 

“We’ve come for the mermaid,” Dr. D. called up to him. “You can’t keep 
her here!” 

The torch swung past my head. I stood up in the dinghy and took a swipe at 
it, trying to knock it into the water. 

“Billy, no!” cried Dr. D. 

The kidnapper pulled the torch away. I fell forward in the dinghy, toppling 
over on Sheena. 

“Give us back the mermaid!” Dr. D. demanded. 

“Finders, keepers,” the kidnapper muttered. “You’ve made a long trip for 
nothing. And now look—your boat is on fire.” 

He lowered the torch to the dinghy and set it aflame. 

27 

The flames flared up, bright orange and yellow against the blue-black sky. They 
spread quickly across the front of the dinghy. 

Sheena uttered a terrified scream and tried to back away from the flames. 

In a panic, she started to leap into the water—but Dr. D. pulled her back. 
“Don’t leave the boat! You’ll drown!” 

The fire crackled. The bright flames shot higher. 

Dr. D. grabbed a yellow life jacket from the bottom of the dinghy and 
started frantically beating out the fire. 

“Billy—get a life jacket!” he yelled. “Sheena—find the bucket. Throw 
water on the flames—hurry!” 

I found a life jacket and beat at the flames. Sheena dumped seawater on 
them as fast as she could. 

Over the crackling flames, I heard Alexander shout, “Get the mermaid 
aboard. Let’s get out of here!” 

“Dr. D.!” I cried. “They’re getting away!” 

Then I heard the kidnappers yelling. “The mermaid! Where’s the 
mermaid?” 

I turned to the side of the boat. The mermaid was gone. Her friends had 
freed her. 

One of the kidnappers reached down from his boat and grabbed me. “What 
did you do with the mermaid?” he demanded. 

“Let him go!” shouted Dr. D. 

I tried to squirm away from the kidnapper. He held me tight. Then I saw 
another kidnapper swing a club at Dr. D.’s head. 

Dr. D. dodged the club. The kidnapper tried to hit him in the stomach. Dr. 
D. dodged again. 

I kicked and squirmed. Sheena tugged at the kidnapper’s hands, trying to 
help me escape. 

The third kidnapper picked her up by the wrists and threw her to the floor 
of the dinghy. 

“Let go of the kids!” pleaded Dr. D. “Alexander! Help us!” 

Alexander didn’t move from his spot on the deck. He stood with his brawny 

arms crossed in front of him, calmly watching the fight. 

The flames had nearly been quenched, but they suddenly flared up again. 

“Sheena—the fire!” I cried. “Put out the fire!” 

She grabbed the bucket and poured seawater everywhere. 

One of the kidnappers kicked the bucket from her hands. It landed in the 
water with a splash. 

Sheena picked up a life jacket and beat the last of the flames out. 

“Drop down into their boat and toss them in the water!” I heard a kidnapper 
shout up above. 

A man started to lower himself to our dinghy. But suddenly he lurched 
forward, his arms flailing. He let out a cry of surprise as his boat began to rock 
violently to the left. It looked as if it had been slammed by a huge wave. 

The kidnappers cried out as their boat began to rock back and forth. Slowly 
at first. Then violently. Gripping the sides of the dinghy, I watched them clinging 
to the rail, screaming in confusion and surprise. 

Dr. D. slowly stood up, trying to see what was happening. 

The boat tossed violently, as if bucking tall waves. 

The mermaids. I could see them now. 

They had surrounded the kidnappers’ ship and were rocking it hard. 

Hard. Harder. The kidnappers hung on helplessly. 

“Mission accomplished!” Dr. D. cried happily. He started up the motor and 
we roared off. 

Turning back, I could see the boat tilting and rocking in the water. And I 
could see our mermaid swimming free, behind the other mermaids in the 
shimmering waves. 

“She got away!” I cried. “She’s free!” 

“I hope she’ll be all right,” said Sheena. 

“We’ll look for her tomorrow,” said Dr. D. as he steered us back to the sea 
lab. “We know where to find her now.” 

Sheena glanced at me. I glanced back. 

Oh, no, I thought. After all this, it can’t be true. 

Is Dr. D. going to catch the mermaid again—and give her to the zoo? 

Sheena and I met in the galley the next morning. Since Alexander was gone, we 
had to fix our own breakfasts. 

“Do you think the mermaid went back to the lagoon?” asked Sheena. 

“Probably,” I replied. “That’s where she lives.” 

She spooned some cereal into her mouth and chewed with a thoughtful look 
on her face. 

“Sheena,” I said, “if someone gave you a million dollars, would you show 
them where the mermaid lives?” 

“No,” Sheena replied. “Not if they wanted to capture her.” 

“Me, neither,” I said. “That’s what I don’t get. Dr. D. is a great guy. I just 
can’t believe he’d—” 

I stopped. I heard a noise. The sound of a motor. 

Sheena listened. She heard it, too. 

We dropped our spoons and ran up on deck. 

Dr. D. was standing on the deck, staring out to sea. 

A boat was approaching. A white boat with Marina Zoo stenciled on the 
side in large letters. 

“The zoo people!” I said to Sheena. “They’re here!” 

What would our uncle do? I wondered with growing dread. Would he tell 
them where the mermaid was? Would he accept the million dollars? 

Sheena and I ducked behind the cockpit. We watched the Marina Zoo boat 
tie up beside the Cassandra. I recognized Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman. 

Mr. Showalter tossed a rope to Dr. D. Ms. Wickman jumped aboard. 

The zoo people smiled and shook Dr. D.’s hand. He nodded at them 
solemnly. 

“We had word from the fishermen on Santa Anita that you found the 
mermaid,” Mr. Showalter said. “We’re ready to take her with us now.” 

Ms. Wickman opened her briefcase and pulled out a slender envelope. 
“Here is a check for one million dollars, Dr. Deep,” she said, smiling. “We’ve 
made it out to you and the Cassandra Research Lab.” 

She held out the check to my uncle. 

I peered out from behind the cockpit. Please don’t take it, Dr. D., I pleaded 
silently. Please don’t take the check. 

“Thank you very much,” my uncle said. He reached out a hand and took the 
check from her. 

28 

“A million dollars means a great deal to me and my work,” Dr. D. said. “Your 
zoo has been very generous. That’s why I’m sorry I have to do this.” 

He raised the envelope and tore it in half. 

The two zoo people gasped in surprise. 

“I can’t take the money,” Dr. D. said. 

“Just what are you saying, Dr. Deep?” Mr. Showalter demanded. 

“You sent me on a wild goose chase,” my uncle replied. “I have searched 
these waters thoroughly ever since you left. With my equipment, I searched 
every inch of the lagoon and all the surrounding waters. I am now more 
convinced than ever before that mermaids do not exist.” 

“Yaaaay!” I screamed to myself. I wanted to jump up and down and cheer 
my head off—but I stayed hidden with Sheena behind the cockpit. 

“But what about the fishermen’s stories?” Ms. Wickman protested. 

“The local fishermen have told mermaid stories for years,” Dr. D. told her. 
“I think they believe they’ve really seen mermaids rising through the mist on 
foggy days. But what they have seen are only fish, or dolphins, or manatees, or 
even swimmers. Because mermaids don’t exist. They’re fantasy creatures.” 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman both sighed in disappointment. 

“Are you sure about this?” Mr. Showalter asked. 

“Completely sure,” my uncle replied firmly. “My equipment is very 
sensitive. It can pick up the tiniest minnow.” 

“We respect your opinion, Dr. Deep,” Mr. Showalter said with some 
sadness. “You’re the leading expert on exotic sea creatures. That’s why we came 
to you in the first place.” 

“Thank you,” said Dr. D. “Then I hope you’ll take my advice and drop your 
hunt for a mermaid.” 

“I guess we’ll have to,” said Ms. Wickman. “Thank you for trying, Dr. 
Deep.” 

They all shook hands. Then the zoo people got back on their boat and 
motored away. 

The coast was clear. Sheena and I came bursting out of our hiding place. 

“Dr. D.!” cried Sheena, throwing her arms around him. “You’re the 

greatest!” 

A wide grin spread over Dr. D.’s face. “Thanks, guys,” he said. “From now 
on, none of us will say anything to anyone about mermaids. Is it a deal?” 

“It’s a deal,” Sheena instantly agreed. 

“Deal,” I said. We all shook hands. The mermaid was our secret. 

I swore I’d never mention the mermaid to anyone. But I wanted to see her one 
last time. I wanted to say good-bye. 

After lunch, Sheena and Dr. D. went to their cabins to nap. We had been up 
for most of the night, after all. I pretended to take a nap, too. 

But once they were asleep, I sneaked out of my cabin and slipped into the 
bright blue water. 

I swam over to the lagoon to search for the mermaid. 

The sun was high in a pale blue sky. It glowed down on the still lagoon 
waters, making them glitter as if covered in gold. 

Mermaid? Where are you? I wondered. 

I was just past the reef when I felt a playful tug on my leg. 

Sheena? I thought. Had she followed me again ? 

I spun around to catch her. 

No one there. 

Seaweed, probably, I thought. I kept swimming. 

A few seconds later, I felt the tug again. Harder this time. 

Hey—it must be the mermaid! I told myself. 

I turned once again to search for her. 

The water rippled. “Mermaid?” I called. A head popped out of the water. A 
gigantic, slimy, dark green head. With one enormous eye. And a mouthful of 
jagged teeth. “The sea monster!” I shrieked. “The sea monster!” Would they 
believe me this time? 


THE SCARECROW 
WALKS AT MIDNIGHT 

1 

“Hey, Jodie—wait up!” 

I turned and squinted into the bright sunlight. My brother, Mark, was still 
on the concrete train platform. The train had clattered off. I could see it snaking 
its way through the low, green meadows in the distance. 

I turned to Stanley. Stanley is the hired man on my grandparents’ farm. He 
stood beside me, carrying both suitcases. “Look in the dictionary for the word 
‘slowpoke’,” I said, “and you’ll see Mark’s picture.” 

Stanley smiled at me. “I like the dictionary, Jodie,” he said. “Sometimes I 
read it for hours.” 

“Hey, Mark—get a move on!” I cried. But he was taking his good time, 
walking slowly, in a daze as usual. 

I tossed my blond hair behind my shoulders and turned back to Stanley. 
Mark and I hadn’t visited the farm for a year. But Stanley still looked the same. 

He’s so skinny. “Like a noodle”, my grandma always says. His denim 
overalls always look five sizes too big on him. 

Stanley is about forty or forty-five, I think. He wears his dark hair in a 
crewcut, shaved close to his head. His ears are huge. They stick way out and are 
always bright red. And he has big, round, brown eyes that remind me of puppy 
eyes. 

Stanley isn’t very smart. Grandpa Kurt always says that Stanley isn’t 
working with a full one hundred watts. 

But Mark and I really like him. He has a quiet sense of humor. And he is 
kind and gentle and friendly, and always has lots of amazing things to show us 
whenever we visit the farm. 

“You look nice, Jodie,” Stanley said, his cheeks turning as red as his ears. 
“How old are you now?” 

“Twelve,” I told him. “And Mark is eleven.” 

He thought about it. “That makes twenty-three,” he joked. 

We both laughed. You never know what Stanley is going to say! 

“I think I stepped in something gross,” Mark complained, catching up to us. 

I always know what Mark is going to say. My brother only knows three 
words— cool, weird, and gross. Really. That’s his whole vocabulary. 

As a joke, I gave him a dictionary for his last birthday. “You’re weird,” 
Mark said when I handed it to him. “What a gross gift.” 

He scraped his white high-tops on the ground as we followed Stanley to the 
beat-up, red pickup truck. “Carry my backpack for me,” Mark said, trying to 
shove the bulging backpack at me. 

“No way,” I told him. “Carry it yourself.” 

The backpack contained his Walkman, about thirty tapes, comic books, his 
Game Boy, and at least fifty game cartridges. I knew he planned to spend the 
whole month lying on the hammock on the screened-in back porch of the 
farmhouse, listening to music and playing video games. 

Well... no way! 

Mom and Dad said it was my job to make sure Mark got outside and 
enjoyed the farm. We were so cooped up in the city all year. That’s why they 
sent us to visit Grandpa Kurt and Grandma Miriam for a month each summer— 
to enjoy the great outdoors. 

We stopped beside the truck while Stanley searched his overall pockets for 
the key. “It’s going to get pretty hot today,” Stanley said, “unless it cools down.” 

A typical Stanley weather report. 

I gazed out at the wide, grassy field beyond the small train station parking 
lot. Thousands of tiny white puffballs floated up against the clear blue sky. 

It was so beautiful! 

Naturally, I sneezed. 

I love visiting my grandparents’ farm. My only problem is, I’m allergic to 
just about everything on it. 

So Mom packs several bottles of my allergy medicine for me—and lots of 
tissues. 

“Gesundheit, ” Stanley said. He tossed our two suitcases in the back of the 
pickup. Mark slid his backpack in, too. “Can I ride in back?” he asked. 

He loves to lie flat in the back, staring up at the sky, and bumping up and 
down really hard. 

Stanley is a terrible driver. He can’t seem to concentrate on steering and 
driving at the right speed at the same time. So there are always lots of quick 
turns and heavy bumps. 

Mark lifted himself into the back of the pickup and stretched out next to the 
suitcases. I climbed beside Stanley in the front. 

A short while later, we were bouncing along the narrow, twisting road that 

led to the farm. I stared out the dusty window at the passing meadows and 
farmhouses. Everything looked so green and alive. 

Stanley drove with both hands wrapped tightly around the top of the 
steering wheel. He sat forward stiffly, leaning over the wheel, staring straight 
ahead through the windshield without blinking. 

“Mr. Mortimer doesn’t farm his place anymore,” he said, lifting one hand 
from the wheel to point to a big, white farmhouse on top of a sloping, green hill. 

“Why not?” I asked. 

“Because he died,” Stanley replied solemnly. 

See what I mean? You never know what Stanley is going to say. 

We bounced over a deep rut in the road. I was sure Mark was having a great 
time in back. 

The road leads through the small town, so small that it doesn’t even have a 
name. The farmers have always called it Town. 

It has a feed store, a combination gas station and grocery store, a white- 
steepled church, a hardware store, and a mailbox. 

There were two trucks parked in front of the feed store. I didn’t see anyone 
as we barreled past. 

My grandparents’ farm is about two miles from town. I recognized the 
cornfields as we approached. 

“The corn is so high already!” I exclaimed, staring through the bouncing 
window. “Have you eaten any yet?” 

“Just at dinner,” Stanley replied. 

Suddenly, he slowed the truck and turned his eyes to me. “The scarecrow 
walks at midnight,” he uttered in a low voice. 

“Huh?” I wasn’t sure I’d heard correctly. 

“The scarecrow walks at midnight,” he repeated, training his big puppy 
eyes on me. “I read it in the book.” 

I didn’t know what to say, so I laughed. I thought maybe he was making a 

joke. 

Days later, I realized it was no joke. 

2 

Watching the farm spread out in front of us filled me with happiness. It’s not a 
big farm or a fancy farm, but I like everything about it. 

I like the barn with its sweet smells. I like the low mooing sounds of the 
cows way off in the far pasture. I like to watch the tall stalks of corn, all swaying 
together in the wind. 

Corny, huh? 

I also like the scary ghost stories Grandpa Kurt tells us at night in front of 
the fireplace. 

And I have to include Grandma Miriam’s chocolate chip pancakes. They’re 
so good, I sometimes dream about them back home in the city. 

I also like the happy expressions on my grandparents’ faces when we come 
mshing up to greet them. 

Of course I was the first one out of the truck. Mark was as slow as usual. I 
went running up to the screen porch in back of their big, old farmhouse. I 
couldn’t wait to see my grandparents. 

Grandma Miriam came waddling out, her arms outstretched. The screen 
door slammed behind her. But then I saw Grandpa Kurt push it open and he 
hurried out, too. 

His limp was worse, I noticed right away. He leaned heavily on a white 
cane. He’d never needed one before. 

I didn’t have time to think about it as Mark and I were smothered in hugs. 
“So good to see you! It’s been so long, so long!” Grandma Miriam cried happily. 

There were the usual comments about how much taller we were and how 
grown up we looked. 

“Jodie, where’d you get that blond hair? There aren’t any blonds in my 
family,” Grandpa Kurt would say, shaking his mane of white hair. “You must get 
that from your father’s side. 

“No, I know. I bet you got it from a store,” he said, grinning. It was his little 
joke. He greeted me with it every summer. And his blue eyes would sparkle 
excitedly. 

“You’re right. It’s a wig,” I told him, laughing. 

He gave my long blond hair a playful tug. 

“Did you get cable yet?” Mark asked, dragging his backpack along the 
ground. 

“Cable TV?” Grandpa Kurt stared hard at Mark. “Not yet. But we still get 
three channels. How many more do we need?” 

Mark rolled his eyes. “No MTV,” he groaned. 

Stanley made his way past us, carrying our suitcases into the house. 

“Let’s go in. I’ll bet you’re starving,” Grandma Miriam said. “I made soup 
and sandwiches. We’ll have chicken and corn tonight. The corn is very sweet 
this year. I know how you two love it.” 

I watched my grandparents as they led the way to the house. They both 
looked older to me. They moved more slowly than I remembered. Grandpa 
Kurt’s limp was definitely worse. They both seemed tired. 

Grandma Miriam is short and chubby. She has a round face surrounded by 
curly red hair. Bright red. There’s no way to describe the color. I don’t know 
what she uses to dye it that color. I’ve never seen it on anyone else! 

She wears square-shaped eyeglasses that give her a really old-fashioned 
look. She likes big, roomy housedresses. I don’t think I’ve ever seen her in jeans 
or pants. 

Grandpa Kurt is tall and broad-shouldered. Mom says he was really 
handsome when he was young. “Like a movie star,” she always tells me. 

Now he has wavy, white hair, still very thick, that he wets and slicks down 
flat on his head. He has sparkling blue eyes that always make me smile. And a 
white stubble over his slender face. Grandpa Kurt doesn’t like to shave. 

Today he was wearing a long-sleeved, red-and-green-plaid shirt, buttoned to 
the collar despite the hot day, and baggy jeans, stained at one knee, held up by 
white suspenders. 

Lunch was fun. We sat around the long kitchen table. Sunlight poured in 
through the big window. I could see the barn in back and the cornfields 
stretching behind it. 

Mark and I told all our news—about school, about my basketball team 
going to the championships, about our new car, about Dad growing a mustache. 

For some reason, Stanley thought that was very funny. He was laughing so 
hard, he choked on his split-pea soup. And Grandpa Kurt had to reach over and 
slap him on the back. 

It’s hard to know what will crack Stanley up. As Mark would say, Stanley is 
definitely weird. 

All through lunch, I kept staring at my grandparents. I couldn’t get over 
how much they had changed in one year. They seemed so much quieter, so much 
slower. 

That’s what it means to get older, I told myself. 

“Stanley will have to show you his scarecrows,” Grandma Miriam said, 
passing the bowl of potato chips. “Won’t you, Stanley?” 

Grandpa Kurt cleared his throat loudly. I had the feeling he was telling 
Grandma Miriam to change the subject or something. 

“I made them,” Stanley said, grinning proudly. He turned his big eyes on 
me. “The book—it told me how.” 

“Are you still taking guitar lessons?” Grandpa Kurt asked Mark. 

I could see that, for some reason, Grandpa Kurt didn’t want to talk about 
Stanley’s scarecrows. 

“Yeah,” Mark answered with a mouthful of potato chips. “But I sold my 
acoustic. I switched to electric.” 

“You mean you have to plug it in?” Stanley asked. He started to giggle, as if 
he had just cracked a funny joke. 

“What a shame you didn’t bring your guitar,” Grandma Miriam said to 
Mark. 

“No, it isn’t,” I teased. “The cows would start giving sour milk!” 

“Shut up, Jodie!” Mark snapped. He has no sense of humor. 

“They already do give sour milk,” Grandpa Kurt muttered, lowering his 

eyes. 

“Bad luck. When cows give sour milk, it means bad luck,” Stanley 
declared, his eyes widening, his expression suddenly fearful. 

“It’s okay, Stanley,” Grandma Miriam assured him quickly, placing a hand 
gently on his shoulder. “Grandpa Kurt was only teasing.” 

“If you kids are finished, why not go with Stanley,” Grandpa Kurt said. 
“He’ll give you a tour of the farm. You always enjoy that.” He sighed. “I’d go 
along, but my leg—it’s been acting up again.” 

Grandma Miriam started to clear the dishes. Mark and I followed Stanley 
out the back door. The grass in the back yard had recently been mowed. The air 
was heavy with its sweet smell. 

I saw a hummingbird fluttering over the flower garden beside the house. I 
pointed it out to Mark, but by the time he turned, it had hummed away. 

At the back of the long, green yard stood the old barn. Its white walls were 

badly stained and peeling. It really needed a paint job. The doors were open, and 
I could see square bales of straw inside. 

Far to the right of the barn, almost to the cornfields, stood the small guest 
house where Stanley lived with his teenage son, Sticks. 

“Stanley—where’s Sticks?” I asked. “Why wasn’t he at lunch?” 

“Went to town,” Stanley answered quietly. “Went to town, riding on a 
pony.” 

Mark and I exchanged glances. We never can figure Stanley out. 

Poking up from the cornfield stood several dark figures, the scarecrows 
Grandma Miriam had started to talk about. I stared out at them, shielding my 
eyes from the sun with one hand. 

“So many scarecrows!” I exclaimed. “Stanley, last summer there was only 
one. Why are there so many now?” 

He didn’t reply. He didn’t seem to hear me. He had a black baseball cap 
pulled down low over his forehead. He was taking long strides, leaning forward 
with that storklike walk of his, his hands shoved into the pockets of his baggy 
denim overalls. 

“We’ve seen the farm a hundred times,” Mark complained, whispering to 
me. “Why do we have to take the grand tour again?” 

“Mark—cool your jets,” I told him. “We always take a tour of the farm. It’s 
a tradition.” 

Mark grumbled to himself. He really is lazy. He never wants to do anything. 

Stanley led the way past the barn into the cornfields. The stalks were way 
over my head. Their golden tassels gleamed in the bright sunlight. 

Stanley reached up and pulled an ear off the stalk. “Let’s see if it’s ready,” 
he said, grinning at Mark and me. 

He held the ear in his left hand and started to shuck it with his right. 

After a few seconds, he pulled the husk away, revealing the ear of corn 
inside. 

I stared at it—and let out a horrified cry. 

3 

“Ohhhh—it’s disgusting !” I shrieked. 

“Gross!” I heard Mark groan. 

The corn was a disgusting brown color. And it was moving on the cob. 
Wriggling. Squirming. 

Stanley raised the corn to his face to examine it. And I realized it was 
covered with worms. Hundreds of wriggling, brown worms. 

“No!” Stanley cried in horror. He let the ear of corn drop to the ground at 
his feet. “That’s bad luck! The book says so. That’s very bad luck!” 

I stared down at the ear of corn. The worms were wriggling off the cob, 
onto the dirt. 

“It’s okay, Stanley,” I told him. “I only screamed because I was surprised. 
This happens sometimes. Sometimes worms get into the corn. Grandpa told me.” 

“No. It’s bad,” Stanley insisted in a trembling voice. His red ears were 
aflame. His big eyes revealed his fear. “The book—it says so.” 

“What book?” Mark demanded. He kicked the wormy ear of corn away 
with the toe of his high-top. 

“My book,” Stanley replied mysteriously. “My superstition book.” 

Uh-oh, I thought. Stanley shouldn’t have a book about superstitions. He 
was already the most superstitious person in the world—even without a book! 

“You’ve been reading a book about superstitions?” Mark asked him, 
watching the brown worms crawl over the soft dirt. 

“Yes.” Stanley nodded his head enthusiastically. “It’s a good book. It tells 
me everything. And it’s all true. All of it!” 

He pulled off his cap and scratched his stubby hair. “I’ve got to check the 
book. I’ve got to see what to do about the corn. The bad corn.” 

He was getting pretty worked up. It was making me feel a little scared. I’ve 
known Stanley my whole life. I think he’s worked for Grandpa Kurt for more 
than twenty years. 

He’s always been strange. But I’ve never seen him get so upset about 
something as unimportant as a bad ear of corn. 

“Show us the scarecrows,” I said, trying to get his mind off the corn. 

“Yeah. Let’s see them,” Mark joined in. 

“Okay. The scarecrows.” Stanley nodded. Then he turned, still thinking 
hard, and began leading the way through the tall rows of cornstalks. 

The stalks creaked and groaned as we passed by them. It was kind of an 
eerie sound. 

Suddenly, a shadow fell over me. One of the dark scarecrows rose up in 
front of us. It wore a tattered black coat, stuffed with straw. Its arms stretched 
stiffly out at its sides. 

The scarecrow was tall, towering over my head. Tall enough to stand over 
the high cornstalks. 

Its head was a faded burlap bag, filled with straw. Evil black eyes and a 
menacing frown had been painted on thickly in black paint. A battered old- 
fashioned hat rested on its head. 

“You made these?” I asked Stanley. I could see several other scarecrows 
poking up from the corn. They all stood in the same stiff position. They all had 
the same menacing frown. 

He stared up the scarecrow’s face. “I made them,” he said in a low voice. 
“The book showed me how.” 

“They’re pretty scary looking,” Mark said, standing close beside me. He 
grabbed the scarecrow’s straw hand and shook it. “What’s up?” Mark asked it. 

“The scarecrow walks at midnight,” Stanley said, repeating the phrase he 
had used at the train station. 

Mark was trying to slap the scarecrow a high-five. 

“What does that mean?” I asked Stanley. 

“The book told me how,” Stanley replied, keeping his eyes on the dark- 
painted face on the burlap bag. “The book told me how to make them walk.” 

“Huh? You mean you make the scarecrows walk?” I asked, very confused. 

Stanley’s dark eyes locked on mine. Once again, he got that very solemn 
expression on his face. “I know how to do it. The book has all the words.” 

I stared back at him, totally confused. I didn’t know what to say. 

“I made them walk, Jodie,” Stanley continued in a voice just above a 
whisper. “I made them walk last week. And now I’m the boss.” 

“Huh? The boss of the s-scarecrows?” I stammered. “Do you mean—” 

I stopped when, out of the corner of my eye, I saw the scarecrow’s arm 
move. 

The straw crinkled as the arm slid up. 

Then I felt rough straw brush against my face—as the dry scarecrow arm 

moved to my throat. 

4 

The prickly straw, poking out of the sleeve of the black coat, scraped against my 
neck. 

I let out a shrill scream. 

“It’s alivel” I cried in panic, diving to the ground, scrambling away on all 
fours. 

I turned back to see Mark and Stanley calmly watching me. 

Hadn’t they seen the scarecrow try to choke me? 

Then Stanley’s son, Sticks, stepped out from behind the scarecrow, a gleeful 
grin on his face. 

“Sticks—! You creep!” I cried angrily. I knew at once that he had moved 
the scarecrow’s arm. 

“You city kids sure scare easy,” Sticks said, his grin growing wider. He 
reached down to help me to my feet. “You really thought the scarecrow moved, 
didn’t you, Jodie?” he said accusingly. 

“I can make the scarecrows move,” Stanley said, pulling the cap down 
lower on his forehead. 

“I can make them walk. I did it. It’s all in the book.” 

Sticks’ smile faded. The light seemed to dim from his dark eyes. “Yeah, 
sure, Dad,” he murmured. 

Sticks is sixteen. He is tall and lanky. He has long, skinny arms and legs. 
That’s how he got the nickname Sticks. 

He tries to look tough. He has long black hair down past his collar, which 
he seldom washes. He wears tight muscle shirts and dirty jeans, ripped at the 
knees. He sneers a lot, and his dark eyes always seem to be laughing at you. 

He calls Mark and me “the city kids”. He always says it with a sneer. And 
he’s always playing stupid jokes on us. I think he’s kind of jealous of Mark and 
me. I don’t think it’s been easy for Sticks to grow up on the farm, living in the 
little guest house with his dad. 

I mean, Stanley is more like a kid than a father. 

“I saw you back there,” Mark told Sticks. 

“Well, thanks for warning me!” I snapped at Mark. I turned back angrily to 
Sticks. “I see you haven’t changed at all.” 

“Great to see you, too, Jodie,” he replied sarcastically. “The city kids are 
back for another month with the hicks!” 

“Sticks—what’s your problem?” I shot back. 

“Be nice,” Stanley muttered. “The corn has ears, you know.” 

We all stared at Stanley. Had he just made a joke? It was hard to tell with 

him. 

Stanley’s face remained serious. His big eyes stared out at me through the 
shade of his cap. “The corn has ears,” he repeated. “There are spirits in the 
field.” 

Sticks shook his head unhappily. “Dad, you spend too much time with that 
superstition book,” he muttered. 

“The book is all true,” Stanley replied. “It’s all true.” 

Sticks kicked at the dirt. He raised his eyes to me. His expression seemed 
very sad. “Things are different here,” he murmured. 

“Huh?” I didn’t understand. “What do you mean?” 

Sticks turned to his father. Stanley was staring back at him, his eyes 
narrowed. 

Sticks shrugged and didn’t reply. He grabbed Mark’s arm and squeezed it. 
“You’re as flabby as ever,” he told Mark. “Want to throw a football around this 
afternoon?” 

“It’s kind of hot,” Mark replied. He wiped the sweat off his forehead with 
the back of his hand. 

Sticks sneered at him. “Still a wimp, huh?” 

“No way!” Mark protested. “I just said it was hot, that’s all.” 

“Hey—you’ve got something on your back,” Sticks told Mark. “Turn 
around.” 

Mark obediently turned around. 

Sticks quickly bent down, picked up the wormy corncob, and stuffed it 
down the back of Mark’s T-shirt. 

I had to laugh as I watched my brother run screaming all the way back to 
the farmhouse. 

Dinner was quiet. Grandma Miriam’s fried chicken was as tasty as ever. And she 
was right about the corn. It was very sweet. Mark and I each ate two ears, 
dripping with butter. 

I enjoyed the dinner. But it upset me that both of my grandparents seemed 

so changed. Grandpa Kurt used to talk nonstop. He always had dozens of funny 
stories about the farmers in the area. And he always had new jokes to tell. 

Tonight he barely said a word. 

Grandma Miriam kept urging Mark and me to eat more. And she kept 
asking us how we liked everything. But she, too, seemed quieter. 

They both seemed tense. Uncomfortable. 

They both kept glancing down the table at Stanley, who was eating with 
both hands, butter dripping down his chin. 

Sticks sat glumly across from his father. He seemed even more unfriendly 
than usual. 

Stanley was the only cheerful person at the table. He chewed his chicken 
enthusiastically and asked for a third helping of mashed potatoes. 

“Is everything okay, Stanley?” Grandma Miriam kept asking, biting her 
bottom lip. “Everything okay?” 

Stanley burped and smiled. “Not bad,” was his reply. 

Why do things seem so different? I wondered. Is it just because Grandma 
and Grandpa are getting old? 

After dinner, we sat around the big, comfortable living room. Grandpa Kurt 
rocked gently back and forth in the antique wooden rocking chair by the 
fireplace. 

It was too hot to build a fire. But as he rocked, he stared into the dark 
fireplace, a thoughtful expression on his white-stubbled face. 

Grandma Miriam sat in her favorite chair, a big, green overstuffed armchair 
across from Grandpa Kurt. She had an unopened gardening magazine in her lap. 

Sticks, who had barely said two words the whole evening, disappeared. 
Stanley leaned against the wall, poking his teeth with a toothpick. 

Mark sank down into the long, green couch. I sat down at the other end of it 
and stared across the room. 

“Yuck. That stuffed bear still gives me the creeps!” I exclaimed. 

At the far end of the room, an enormous stuffed brown bear—about eight 
feet tall—stood straight up on its hind legs. Grandpa Kurt had shot it many years 
ago on a hunting trip. The bear’s huge paws were extended, as if ready to 
pounce. 

“That was a killer bear,” Grandpa Kurt remembered, rocking slowly, his 
eyes on the angry-looking beast. “He mauled two hunters before I shot him. I 
saved their lives.” 

I shuddered and turned away from the bear. I really hated it. I don’t know 
why Grandma Miriam let Grandpa Kurt keep it in the living room! 

“How about a scary story?” I asked Grandpa Kurt. 

He stared back at me, his blue eyes suddenly lifeless and dull. 

“Yeah. We’ve been looking forward to your stories,” Mark chimed in. “Tell 
us the one about the headless boy in the closet.” 

“No. Tell a new one,” I insisted eagerly. 

Grandpa Kurt rubbed his chin slowly. His eyes went to Stanley across the 
room. Then he cleared his throat nervously. 

“I’m kind of tired, kids,” he said softly. “Think I’ll just go to bed.” 

“But—no story?” I protested. 

He stared back at me with those dull eyes. “I don’t really know any stories,” 
he murmured. He slowly climbed to his feet and headed toward his room. 

What is going on here? I asked myself. What is wrong? 

5 

Upstairs in my bedroom later that night, I changed into a long nightshirt. The 
bedroom window was open, and a soft breeze invaded the room. 

I stared out the open window. A broad apple tree cast its shadow over the 
lawn. 

Where the grass ended, the cornfields stretched out under the glow of the 
full moon. The pale moonlight made the tall stalks shimmer like gold. The stalks 
cast long blue shadows over the field. 

Across the wide field, the scarecrows poked up stiffly like dark-uniformed 
soldiers. Their coat sleeves ruffled in the light breeze. Their pale burlap faces 
seemed to stare back at me. 

I felt a cold chill run down my back. 

So many scarecrows. At least a dozen of them, standing in straight rows. 
Like an army ready to march. 

“The scarecrow walks at midnight.” 

That’s what Stanley had said in that low, frightening tone I had never heard 
him use before. 

I glanced at the clock on the bed table. Just past ten o’clock. 

I’ll be asleep by the time they walk, I thought. 

A crazy thought. 

I sneezed. It seems I’m allergic to the farm air both day and night! 

I stared at the long shadows cast by the scarecrows. A gust of wind bent the 
stalks, making the shadows roll forward like a dark ocean wave. 

And then I saw the scarecrows start to twitch. 

“Mark!” I screamed. “Mark—come here! Hurry!” 

6 

Under the light of the full moon, I stared in horror as the dark scarecrows started 
to move. 

Their arms jerked. Their burlap heads lurched forward. 

All of them. In unison. 

All of the scarecrows were jerking, twitching, straining—as if struggling to 
pull free of their stakes. 

“Mark—hurry!” I screamed. 

I heard footsteps clomping rapidly down the hall. Mark burst breathlessly 
into my room. “Jodie—what is it?” he cried. 

I motioned frantically for him to come to the window. As he stepped beside 
me, I pointed to the cornfields. “Look—the scarecrows.” 

He gripped the windowsill and leaned out the window. 

Over his shoulder, I could see the scarecrows twitch in unison. A cold 
shudder made me wrap my arms around myself. 

“It’s the wind,” Mark said, stepping back from the window. “What’s your 
problem, Jodie? It’s just the wind blowing them around.” 

“You—you’re wrong, Mark,” I stammered, still hugging myself. “Look 
again.” 

He rolled his eyes and sighed. But he turned back and leaned out the 
window. He gazed out at the field for a long time. 

“Don’t you see?” I demanded shrilly. “They’re all moving together. Their 
arms, their heads—all moving together.” 

When Mark pulled back from the window, his blue eyes were wide and 
fearful. He stared at me thoughtfully and didn’t say a word. 

Finally, he swallowed hard and his voice came out low and frightened. 
“We’ve got to tell Grandpa Kurt,” he said. 

We rushed downstairs, but our grandparents had gone to bed. The bedroom door 
was closed. It was silent on the other side. 

“Maybe we’d better wait till tomorrow morning,” I whispered as Mark and 
I tiptoed back upstairs to our rooms. “I think we’ll be safe till then.” 

We crept back to our rooms. I pushed the window shut and locked it. Out in 

the fields, the scarecrows were still twitching, still pulling at their stakes. 

With a shudder, I turned away from the window and plunged into the bed, 
pulling the old quilt up over my head. 

I slept restlessly, tossing under the heavy quilt. In the morning, I jumped 
eagerly from bed. I ran a brush through my hair and hurried down to breakfast. 

Mark was right behind me on the stairs. He was wearing the same jeans as 
yesterday and a red-and-black Nirvana T-shirt. He hadn’t bothered to brush his 
hair. It stood straight up in back. 

“Pancakes!” he managed to choke out. Mark is only good for one word at a 
time this early in the morning. 

But the word instantly cheered me up and made me forget for a moment 
about the creepy scarecrows. 

How could I have forgotten about Grandma Miriam’s amazing chocolate 
chip pancakes? 

They are so soft, they really do melt in your mouth. And the warm 
chocolate mixed with the sweet maple syrup makes the most delicious breakfast 
I’ve ever eaten. 

As we hurried across the living room toward the kitchen, I sniffed the air, 
hoping to smell that wonderful aroma of pancake batter on the stove. 

But my nose was too stuffed up to smell anything. 

Mark and I burst into the kitchen at the same time. Grandpa Kurt and 
Stanley were already at the table. A big blue pot of coffee stood steaming in 
front of them. 

Stanley sipped his coffee. Grandpa Kurt had his face buried behind the 
morning newspaper. He glanced up and smiled as Mark and I entered. 

Everyone said good morning to everyone. 

Mark and I took our places at the table. We were so eager for the famous 
pancakes, we were practically rubbing our hands together the way cartoon 
characters do. 

Imagine our shock when Grandma Miriam set down big bowls of 
cornflakes in front of us. 

I practically burst into tears. 

I glanced across the table at Mark. He was staring back at me, his face 
revealing his surprise—and disappointment. “Cornflakes?” he asked in a high- 
pitched voice. 

Grandma Miriam had gone back to the sink. I turned to her. “Grandma 

Miriam—no pancakes?” I asked meekly. 

I saw her glance at Stanley. “I’ve stopped making them, Jodie,” she replied, 
her eyes still on Stanley. “Pancakes are too fattening.” 

“Nothing like a good bowl of cornflakes in the morning,” Stanley said with 
a big smile. He reached for the cornflakes box in the center of the table and filled 
his bowl up with a second helping. 

Grandpa Kurt grunted behind his newspaper. 

“Go ahead—eat them before they get soggy,” Grandma Miriam urged from 
the sink. 

Mark and I just stared at each other. Last summer, Grandma Miriam had 
made us a big stack of chocolate chip pancakes almost every morning! 

What is going on here? I wondered once again. 

I suddenly remembered Sticks out in the cornfields the day before, 
whispering to me, “Things are different here.” 

They sure were different. And not for the better, I decided. 

My stomach grumbled. I picked up the spoon and started to eat my 
cornflakes. I saw Mark glumly spooning his. And then I suddenly remembered 
the twitching scarecrows. 

“Grandpa Kurt—” I started. “Last night, Mark and I—we were looking out 
at the cornfields and we saw the scarecrows. They were moving. We—” 

I heard Grandma Miriam utter a low gasp from behind me. 

Grandpa Kurt lowered his newspaper. He narrowed his eyes at me, but 
didn’t say a word. 

“The scarecrows were moving!” Mark chimed in. 

Stanley chuckled. “It was the wind,” he said, his eyes on Grandpa Kurt. “It 
had to be the wind blowing them around.” 

Grandpa Kurt glared at Stanley. “You sure?” he demanded. 

“Yeah. It was the wind,” Stanley replied tensely. 

“But they were trying to get off their poles!” I cried. “We saw them!” 

Grandpa Kurt stared hard at Stanley. 

Stanley’s ears turned bright red. He lowered his eyes. “It was a breezy 
night,” he said. “They move in the wind.” 

“It’s going to be a sunny day,” Grandma Miriam said brightly from the sink. 

“But the scarecrows—” Mark insisted. 

“Yep. Looks like a real pretty day,” Grandpa Kurt mumbled, ignoring Mark. 

He doesn’t want to talk about the scarecrows, I realized. 

Is it because he doesn’t believe us? 

Grandpa Kurt turned to Stanley. “After you take the cows to pasture, maybe 
you and Jodie and Mark can do some fishing at the creek.” 

“Maybe,” Stanley replied, studying the cornflakes box. “Maybe we could 
just do that.” 

“Sounds like fun,” Mark said. Mark likes fishing. It’s one of his favorite 
sports because you don’t have to move too much. 

There’s a really pretty creek behind the cow pasture at the far end of 
Grandpa Kurt’s property. It’s very woodsy back there, and the narrow creek 
trickles softly beneath the old shade trees and is usually filled with fish. 

Finishing my cereal, I turned to Grandma Miriam at the sink. “And what 
are you doing today?” I asked her. “Maybe you and I could spend some time 
together and—” 

I stopped as she turned toward me and her hand came into view. 

“Ohhhh.” I let out a frightened moan when I saw her hand. It—it was made 
of straw! 

7 

“Jodie—what’s the matter?” Grandma Miriam asked. 

I started to point to her hand. 

Then it came into sharp focus, and I saw that her hand wasn’t straw—she 
was holding a broom. 

She had gripped it by the handle and was pulling lint off the ends of the 
straw. 

“Nothing’s wrong,” I told her, feeling like a total jerk. I rubbed my eyes. 
“I’ve got to take my allergy medicine,” I told her. “My eyes are so watery. I keep 
seeing things!” 

I was seeing scarecrows everywhere I looked! 

I scolded myself for acting so crazy. 

Stop thinking about scarecrows, I told myself. Stanley was right. The 
scarecrows had moved in the wind last night. 

It was just the wind. 

* * * 

Stanley took us fishing later that morning. As we started off for the creek, he 
seemed in a really cheerful mood. 

He smiled as he swung the big picnic basket Grandma Miriam had packed 
for our lunch. “She put in all my favorites,” Stanley said happily. 

He patted the basket with childish satisfaction. 

He had three bamboo fishing poles tucked under his left arm. He carried the 
big straw basket in his right hand. He refused to let Mark and me carry anything. 

The warm air smelled sweet. The sun beamed down in a cloudless, blue 
sky. Blades of recently cut grass stuck to my white sneakers as we headed across 
the back yard. 

The medicine had helped. My eyes were much better. 

Stanley turned just past the barn and began walking quickly along its back 
wall. His expression turned solemn. He appeared to be concentrating hard on 
something. 

“Hey—where are we going?” I called, hurrying to keep up with him. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. Taking long strides, swinging the straw picnic 
basket as he walked, he headed back in the direction we started from. 

“Hey—wait up!” Mark called breathlessly. My brother hates to hurry when 
he can take his time. 

“Stanley—wait!” I cried, tugging his shirtsleeve. “We’re going around in 
circles!” 

He nodded, his expression serious under the black baseball cap. “We have 
to circle the barn three times,” he said in a low voice. 

“Huh? Why?” I demanded. 

We started our second turn around the barn. 

“It will bring us good luck with our fishing,” Stanley replied. Then he 
added, “It’s in the book. Everything is in the book.” 

I opened my mouth to tell him this was really silly. But I decided not to. He 
seemed so serious about that superstition book of his. I didn’t want to spoil it for 
him. 

Besides, Mark and I could use the exercise. 

A short while later, we finished circling and started walking along the dirt 
path that led past the cornfields to the creek. Stanley’s smile returned 
immediately. 

He really believes the superstitions in the book, I realized. 

I wondered if Sticks believed them, too. 

“Where’s Sticks?” I asked, kicking a big clump of dirt across the path. 

“Doing chores,” Stanley replied. “Sticks is a good worker. A real good 
worker. But he’ll be along soon, I bet. Sticks never likes to miss out on a fishing 
trip.” 

The sun began to feel really strong on my face and on my shoulders. I 
wondered if I should run back and get some sunblock. 

The dark-suited scarecrows appeared to stare at me as we walked past the 
tall rows of cornstalks. I could swear their pale, painted faces turned to follow 
me as I went by. 

And did one of them lift its arm to wave a straw hand at me? 

I scolded myself for such stupid thoughts, and turned my eyes away. 

Stop thinking about scarecrows, Jodie! I told myself. 

Forget your bad dream. Forget about the dumb scarecrows. 

It’s a beautiful day, and you have nothing to worry about. Try to relax and 
have a good time. 

The path led into tall pine woods behind the cornfields. It got shady and 
much cooler as soon as we stepped into the woods. 

“Can’t we take a taxi the rest of the way?” Mark whined. A typical Mark 
joke. He really would take a taxi if there was one! 

Stanley shook his head. “City kids,” he muttered, grinning. 

The path ended, and we continued through the trees. It smelled so piney and 
fresh in the woods. I saw a tiny, brown-and-white chipmunk dart into a hollow 
log. 

In the near distance I could hear the musical trickle of the creek. 

Suddenly, Stanley stopped. He bent and picked up a pinecone. 

The three fishing poles fell to the ground. He didn’t seem to notice. He held 
the pinecone close to his face, studying it. 

“A pinecone on the shady side means a long winter,” he said, turning the 
dry cone in his hand. 

Mark and I bent to pick up the poles. “Is that what the book says?” Mark 
asked. 

Stanley nodded. He set the pinecone down carefully where he found it. 

“The cone is still sticky. That’s a good sign,” he said seriously. 

Mark let out a giggle. I knew he was trying not to laugh at Stanley. But the 
giggle escaped somehow. 

Stanley’s big brown eyes filled with hurt. “It’s all true, Mark,” he said 
quietly. “It’s all true.” 

“I—I’d like to read that book,” Mark said, glancing at me. 

“It’s a very hard book,” Stanley replied. “I have trouble with some of the 
words.” 

“I can hear the creek,” I broke in, changing the subject. “Let’s go. I want to 
catch some fish before lunchtime.” 

The clear water felt cold against my legs. The smooth rocks of the creek bed 
were slippery under my bare feet. 

All three of us had waded into the shallow creek. Mark had wanted to be 
down on the grassy shore to fish. But I convinced him it was much more fun— 
and much easier to catch something—if you stand in the water. 

“Yeah, I’ll catch something,” he grumbled as he rolled up the cuffs of his 
jeans. “I’ll catch pneumonia!” 

Stanley let out a loud laugh. It sounded like, “Har! Har! Har!” 

He set the big picnic basket down carefully on the dry grass. Then he rolled 
up the legs of his denim overalls. Carrying a pole high in one hand, he stepped 
into the water. 

“Ooooh! It’s cold!” he cried, waving his arms above his head, nearly losing 
his balance on the slippery rocks. 

“Stanley—didn’t you forget something?” I called to him. 

He turned, confused. His big ears became bright red. “What did I forget, 
Jodie?” 

I pointed to his fishing pole. “How about some bait?” I called. 

He glanced at the empty hook on the end of his line. Then he made his way 
back to shore to get a worm to bait his hook. 

A few minutes later, all three of us were in the water. Mark complained at 
first about how cold it was and about how the rocks on the bottom hurt his 
delicate little feet. 

But after a while, he got into it, too. 

The creek at this point was only about two feet deep. The water was very 
clear and trickled rapidly, making little swirls and dips over the rocky bottom. 

I lowered my line into the water and watched the red plastic float bob on 
the surface. If it started to sink, I’d know I had a bite. 

The sun felt warm on my face. The cool water flowed past pleasantly. 

I wish it were deep enough to swim here, I thought. 

“Hey—I’ve got something!” Mark cried excitedly. 

Stanley and I turned and watched him tug up his line. 

Mark pulled with all his might. “It—it’s a big one, I think,” he said. 

Finally, he gave one last really hard tug—and pulled up a thick clump of 
green weeds. 

“Good one, Mark,” I said, rolling my eyes. “It’s a big one, all right.” 

“You’re a big one,” Mark shot back. “Abig jerk.” 

“Don’t be such a baby,” I muttered. 

I brushed away a buzzing horsefly and tried to concentrate on my line. But 
my mind started to wander. It always does when I’m fishing. 

I found myself thinking about the tall scarecrows in the field. They stood so 
darkly, so menacingly, so alert. Their painted faces all had the same hard stare. 

I was still picturing them when I felt the hand slip around my ankle. 

The straw scarecrow hand. 

It reached up from the water, circled my ankle, and started to tighten its 

cold, wet grip around my leg. 

8 

I screamed and tried to kick the hand away. 

But my feet slipped on the smooth rocks. My hands shot up as I toppled 
backwards. 

“Ohh!” I cried out again as I hit the water. 

The scarecrow hung on. 

On my back, the water rushing over me, I kicked and thrashed my arms. 

And then I saw it. The clump of green weeds that had wrapped itself around 
my ankle. 

“Oh, no,” I moaned out loud. 

No scarecrow. Only weeds. 

I lowered my foot to the water. I didn’t move. I just lay there on my back, 
waiting for my heart to stop pounding, feeling once again like a total jerk. 

I glanced up at Mark and Stanley. They were staring down at me, too 
startled to laugh. 

“Don’t say a word,” I warned them, struggling to my feet. “I’m warning 
you—don’t say a word.” 

Mark snickered, but he obediently didn’t say anything. 

“I didn’t bring a towel,” Stanley said with concern. “I’m sorry, Jodie, I 
didn’t know you wanted to swim.” 

That made Mark burst out in loud guffaws. 

I shot Mark a warning stare. My T-shirt and shorts were soaked. I started to 
shore, carrying the pole awkwardly in front of me. 

“I don’t need a towel,” I told Stanley. “It feels good. Very refreshing.” 

“You scared away all the fish, Jodie,” Mark complained. 

“No. You scared them away. They saw your face!” I replied. I knew I was 
acting like a baby now. But I didn’t care. I was cold and wet and angry. 

I stomped onto the shore, shaking water from my hair. 

“I think they’re biting better down here,” I heard Stanley call to Mark. I 
turned to see him disappear around a curve of the creek. 

Stepping carefully over the rocks, Mark followed after him. They were both 
hidden from view behind the thick trees. 

I squeezed my hair, trying to get the creek water out. Finally, I gave up and 
tossed my hair behind my shoulder. 

I was debating what to do next when I heard a crackling sound in the 
woods. 

A footstep? 

I turned and stared into the trees. I didn’t see anyone. 

A chipmunk scurried away over the blanket of dead, brown leaves. Had 
someone—or something —frightened the chipmunk? 

I listened hard. Another crackling footstep. Rustling sounds. 

“Who—who’s there?” I called. 

The low bushes rustled in reply. 

“Sticks—is that you? Sticks?” My voice trembled. 

No reply. 

It has to be Sticks, I told myself. This is Grandpa Kurt’s property. No one 
else would be back here. 

“Sticks—stop trying to scare me!” I shouted angrily. 

No reply. 

Another footstep. The crack of a twig. 

More rustling sounds. Closer now. 

“Sticks—I know it’s you!” I called uncertainly. “I’m really tired of your 
dumb tricks. Sticks?” 

My eyes stared straight ahead into the trees. 

I listened. Silence now. 

Heavy silence. 

And then I raised my hand to my mouth as I saw the dark figure poke out 
from the shade of two tall pines. 

“Sticks—?” 

I squinted into the deep blue shadows. 

I saw the bulging, dark coat. The faded burlap head. The dark fedora hat 
tilted over the black, painted eyes. 

I saw the straw poking out under the jacket. The straw sticking out from the 
long jacket sleeves. 

A scarecrow. 

A scarecrow that had followed us? Followed us to the creek? 

Squinting hard into the shadows, staring at its evil, frozen grin, I opened my 
mouth to scream—but no sound came out. 

9 

And then a hand grabbed my shoulder. 

“Ohh!” I let out a cry and spun around. 

Stanley stared at me with concern. He and Mark had come up behind me. 

“Jodie, what’s the matter?” Stanley asked. “Mark and I—we thought we 
heard you calling.” 

“What’s up?” Mark asked casually. The line on his fishing pole had become 
tangled, and he was working to untangle it. “Did you see a squirrel or 
something?” 

“No—I—I—” My heart was pounding so hard, I could barely speak. 

“Cool your jets, Jodie,” Mark said, imitating me. 

“I saw a scarecrow!” I finally managed to scream. 

Stanley’s mouth dropped open. 

Mark narrowed his eyes suspiciously at me. “A scarecrow? Here in the 
woods?” 

“It—it was walking,” I stammered. “I heard it. I heard it walking.” 

A choking sound escaped Stanley’s open mouth. 

Mark continued to stare at me, his features tight with fear. 

“It’s over there!” I cried. “Right there! Look!” 

I pointed. 

But it was gone. 

10 

Stanley stared hard at me, his big brown eyes filled with confusion. 

“I saw it,” I insisted. “Between those two trees.” I pointed again. 

“You did? A scarecrow? Really?” Stanley asked. I could see he was really 
starting to get scared. 

“Well... maybe it was just the shadows,” I said. I didn’t want to frighten 
Stanley. 

I shivered. “I’m soaked. I’ve got to get back in the sunlight,” I told them. 

“But did you see it?” Stanley asked, his big eyes locked on mine. “Did you 
see a scarecrow here, Jodie?” 

“I—I don’t think so, Stanley,” I replied, trying to calm him down. “I’m 
sorry.” 

“This is very bad,” he murmured, talking to himself. “This is very bad. I 
have to read the book. This is very bad.” Then, muttering to himself, he turned 
and ran. 

“Stanley—stop!” I called. “Stanley—come back! Don’t leave us down 
here!” 

But he was gone. Vanished into the woods. 

“I’m going after him,” I told Mark. “And then I’m going to tell Grandpa 
Kurt about this. Can you carry back the fishing poles by yourself?” 

“Do I have to?” Mark whined. My brother is so lazy! 

I told him he had to. Then I went running along the path through the woods 
toward the farmhouse. 

My heart pounded as I reached the cornfields. The dark-coated scarecrows 
appeared to stare at me. As my sneakers thudded on the narrow dirt path, I 
imagined the straw arms reaching for me, reaching to grab me and pull me into 
the corn. 

But the scarecrows kept their silent, still watch over the cornstalks. They 
didn’t move or twitch as I hurtled past. 

Up ahead I saw Stanley running to his little house. I cupped my hands over 
my mouth and called to him, but he disappeared inside. 

I decided to find Grandpa Kurt and tell him about the scarecrow I saw 
moving through the woods. 

The barn door was open, and I thought I saw someone moving around 
inside. “Grandpa Kurt?” I called breathlessly. “Are you in there?” 

My wet hair bounced on my shoulders as I ran into the barn. I stood in the 
rectangle of light that stretched from the doorway and stared into the darkness. 
“Grandpa Kurt?” I called, struggling to catch my breath. 

My eyes slowly adjusted to the dim light. I stepped deeper into the barn. 
“Grandpa Kurt? Are you here?” 

Hearing a soft scraping sound against the far wall, I made my way toward 
it. “Grandpa Kurt—can I talk to you? I really need to talk to you!” My voice 
sounded tiny and frightened in the big, dark barn. My sneakers scraped over the 
dry straw floor as I walked toward the back. 

I spun around as I heard a rumbling sound. 

The light grew dimmer. 

“Hey—” I shouted. Too late. 

The barn door was sliding shut. 

“Hey! Who’s there?” I cried out in stunned anger. “Hey—stop!” 

I slipped over the straw as I started to lurch toward the sliding door. I fell 
down hard, but quickly scrambled to my feet. 

I darted toward the door. But I wasn’t fast enough. 

As the heavy door rumbled shut, the rectangle of light grew narrower, 
narrower. 

The door slammed with a deafening bang. 

The darkness slid around me, circled me, covered me. 

“Hey—let me out!” I screamed. “Let me out of here!” 

My scream ended in a choked sob. My breath escaped in noisy gasps. 

I pounded on the wooden barn door with both fists. Then I frantically swept 
my hands over the door, searching blindly for a latch, for something to pull— 
some way to open the door. 

When I couldn’t find anything, I pounded on the door until my fists hurt. 

Then I stopped and took a step back. 

Calm down, Jodie, I told myself. Calm down. You’ll get out of the barn. 
You’ll find a way out. It’s not like you’re trapped in here forever. 

I tried to force away my panic. I held my breath, waiting for my heart to 
stop racing. Then I let my breath out slowly. Slooooowly. 

I was just starting to feel a little better when I heard the scraping sound. 

A dry scraping. The sound of a shoe crunching over straw. 

“Oh.” I let out a sharp cry, then raised both hands to my face and listened. 
Scrape. Scrape. Scrape. 

The sound of footsteps. Slow, steady footsteps, so light on the barn floor. 
Footsteps coming toward me in the darkness. 

11 

“Who—who’s there?” I choked out, my voice a hushed whisper. 

No reply. 

Scrape. Scrape. Scrape. 

The soft, scratchy footsteps came closer. 

“Who is it?” I cried shrilly. 

No reply. 

I stared into the darkness. I couldn’t see a thing. 

Scrape. Scrape. 

Whoever—or whatever—was moving steadily toward me. 

I took a step back. Then another. 

I tried to cry out, but my throat was choked with fear. 

I let out a terrified gasp as I backed into something. In my panic, it took me 
a few seconds to realize that it was only a wooden ladder. The ladder that led up 
to the hayloft. 

The footsteps crunched closer. Closer. 

“Please—” I uttered in a tiny, choked voice. “Please—don’t—” 

Closer. Closer. Scraping toward me through the heavy darkness. 

I gripped the sides of the ladder. “Please—leave me alone!” 

Before I realized what I was doing, I was pulling myself up the ladder. My 
arms trembled, and my legs felt as if they each weighed a thousand pounds. 

But I scrambled rung by rung toward the hayloft, away from the 
frightening, scraping footsteps down below. 

When I reached the top, I lay flat on the hayloft floor. I struggled to listen, 
to hear the footsteps over the loud pounding of my heart. 

Was I being followed? Was the thing chasing me up the ladder? 

I held my breath. I listened. 

Scrabbling sounds. Scraping footsteps. 

“Go away!” I screamed frantically. “Whoever you are—go away!” 

But the sounds continued, dry and scratchy. Like straw brushing against 
straw. 

Scrambling to my knees, I turned to the small, square hayloft window. 

Sunlight filtered in through the window. The light made the hay strewn over the 
floor gleam like slender strands of gold. 

My heart still pounding, I crawled to the window. 

Yes! The heavy rope was still tied to the side. The rope that Mark and I 
always used to swing down to the ground. 

I can get out of here! I told myself happily. 

I can grab the rope and swing out of the hayloft. I can escape! 

Eagerly, I grabbed the rope with both hands. 

Then I poked my head out the window and gazed down to the ground. 

And let out a scream of surprise and horror. 

12 

Gazing down, I saw a black hat. Beneath it, a black coat. 

A scarecrow. Perched outside the barn door. As if standing guard. 

It jerked its arms and legs at the sound of my scream. 

And as I stared in disbelief, it hurried around the side of the barn, hobbling 
on its straw legs, its arms flapping at its sides. 

I blinked several times. 

Was I seeing things? 

My hands were cold and wet. I gripped the rope more tightly. Taking a deep 
breath, I plunged out of the small square window. 

The heavy rope swung out over the front of the barn. 

Down, down. I hit the ground hard, landing on my feet. 

“Ow!” I cried out as the rope cut my hands. 

I let go and ran around to the side of the barn. 

I wanted to catch up to that scarecrow. I wanted to see if it really was a 
scarecrow, a scarecrow that could run. 

Ignoring my fear, I ran as fast as I could. 

No sign of him on this side of the barn. 

My chest began to ache. My temples throbbed. 

I turned the corner and headed around the back of the barn, searching for 
the fleeing scarecrow. 

And ran right into Sticks! 

“Hey—” We both shouted in surprise as we collided. 

I frantically untangled myself from him. Staring past him, I saw that the 
scarecrow had vanished. 

“What’s the hurry?” Sticks demanded. “You practically ran me over!” 

He was wearing faded denim jeans, slashed at both knees, and a faded 
purple muscle shirt that only showed off how skinny he was. His black hair was 
tied back in a short ponytail. 

“A—a scarecrow!” I stammered. 

And, then—that instant—I knew. 

In that instant, I solved the whole mystery of the scarecrows. 

13 

It hadn’t been a scarecrow. 

It was Sticks. 

In the woods down by the creek. And, now, outside the barn. 

Sticks. Playing another one of his mean tricks. 

And I was suddenly certain that Sticks had somehow made the scarecrows 
twitch and pull on their stakes last night. 

Sticks just loved fooling the “city kids”. Ever since Mark and I had been 
little, he’d played the scariest, meanest practical jokes on us. 

Sometimes Sticks could be a nice guy. But he had a real cruel streak. 

“I thought you were fishing,” he said casually. 

“Well, I’m not,” I snapped. “Sticks, why do you keep trying to scare us?” 

“Huh?” He pretended he didn’t know what I was talking about. 

“Sticks, give me a break,” I muttered. “I know you were the scarecrow just 
now. I’m not stupid!” 

“Scarecrow? What scarecrow?” he asked, giving me a wide-eyed, innocent 
expression. 

“You were dressed as a scarecrow,” I accused him. “Or else you carried one 
here, and pulled it on a string or something.” 

“You’re totally crazy,” Sticks replied angrily. “Have you been out in the sun 
too long or something?” 

“Sticks—give up,” I said. “Why are you doing this? Why do you keep 
trying to scare Mark and me? You scared your Dad, too.” 

“Jodie, you’re nuts!” he exclaimed. “I really don’t have time to be dressing 
up in costumes just to amuse you and your brother.” 

“Sticks—you’re not fooling me,” I insisted. “You—” 

I stopped short when I saw Sticks’ expression change. “Dad!” he cried, 
suddenly frightened. “Dad! You say he was scared?” 

I nodded. 

“I’ve got to find him!” Sticks exclaimed frantically, “He—he could do 
something terrible !” 

“Sticks, your joke has gone far enough!” I cried. “Just stop it!” 

But he was already running toward the front of the barn, calling for his 
father, his voice shrill and frantic. 

Sticks didn’t find his dad until dinnertime. That’s the next time I saw him, too— 
just before dinner. He was carrying his big superstition book, holding it tightly 
under his arm. 

“Jodie,” he whispered, motioning for me to come close. His face was red. 
His dark eyes revealed his excitement. 

“Hi, Stanley,” I whispered back uncertainly. 

“Don’t tell Grandpa Kurt about the scarecrow,” Stanley whispered. 

“Huh?” Stanley’s request caught me off guard. 

“Don’t tell your grandpa,” Stanley repeated. “It will only upset him. We 
don’t want to frighten him, do we?” 

“But, Stanley—” I started to protest. 

Stanley raised a finger to his lips. “Don’t tell, Jodie. Your grandpa doesn’t 
like to be upset. I’ll take care of the scarecrow. I have the book.” He tapped the 
big book with his finger. 

I started to tell Stanley that the scarecrow was only Sticks, playing a mean 
joke. But Grandma Miriam called us to the table before I could get the words 
out. 

Stanley carried his superstition book to the table. Every few bites, he would 
pick up the big, black book and read a few paragraphs. 

He moved his lips as he read. But I was sitting down at the other end of the 
table and couldn’t make out any of the words. 

Sticks kept his eyes down on his plate and hardly said a word. I think he 
was really embarrassed that his father was reading the superstition book at the 
dinner table. 

But Grandpa Kurt and Grandma Miriam didn’t act the least bit surprised. 
They talked cheerfully to Mark and me and kept passing us more food—as if 
they didn’t even notice Stanley’s behavior. 

I really wanted to tell Grandpa Kurt about how Sticks was trying to scare 
Mark and me. But I decided to listen to Stanley and not upset my grandfather. 

Besides, I could deal with Sticks if I had to. He thought he was so tough. 
But I wasn’t the least bit afraid of him. 

Stanley was still reading, jabbering away as he read, as Grandma Miriam 
cleared the dinner dishes. Mark and I helped. Then we took our seats as 

Grandma Miriam carried a big cherry pie to the table. 

“Weird,” Mark whispered to me, staring at the pie. 

He was right. “Doesn’t Grandpa Kurt like apple pie?” I blurted out. 

Grandma Miriam gave me a tense smile. “Too early in the year for apples,” 
she murmured. 

“But isn’t Grandpa Kurt allergic to cherries?” Mark asked. 

Grandma Miriam started cutting the pie with a silver pie cutter. “Everyone 
loves cherry pie,” she replied, concentrating on her work. Then she raised her 
eyes to Stanley. “Isn’t that right, Stanley?” 

Stanley grinned over his book. “It’s my favorite,” he said. “Grandma 
Miriam always serves my favorite.” 

After dinner, Grandpa Kurt once again refused to tell Mark and me a scary story. 

We were sitting around the fireplace, staring at the crackling yellow flames. 
Even though it had been so hot, the air had grown cool this evening, cool enough 
to build a nice, toasty fire. 

Grandpa Kurt was in his rocking chair at the side of the hearth. The old 
wooden chair creaked as he rocked slowly back and forth. 

He had always loved to gaze at the fire and tell us one of his frightening 
stories. You could see the leaping flames reflected in his blue eyes. And his 
voice would go lower and lower as the story got scarier. 

But tonight he shrugged when I asked him for a story. He stared dully at the 
huge stuffed bear on its pedestal against the wall. Then he glanced across the 
room at Stanley. 

“Wish I knew some good stories,” Grandpa Kurt replied with a sigh. “But 
I’ve clean run out.” 

A short while later, Mark and I trudged upstairs to our bedrooms. “What is 
his problem?” Mark whispered as we climbed. 

I shook my head. “Beats me.” 

“He seems so... different,” Mark said. 

“Everyone here does,” I agreed. “Except for Sticks. He’s still trying to scare 
us city kids.” 

“Let’s just ignore him,” Mark suggested. “Let’s just pretend we don’t see 
him running around in his stupid scarecrow costume.” 

I agreed. Then I said good-night and headed into my room. 

Ignore the scarecrows, I thought as I arranged the blankets on the bed. 

Just ignore them. 

I’m not going to think about scarecrows again, I told myself. 

Sticks can go jump in the creek. 

Climbing into bed, I pulled the quilt up to my chin. I lay on my back, 
staring up at the cracks in the ceiling, trying to figure out what kind of picture 
they formed. There were three jagged cracks. I decided they looked like bolts of 
lightning. 

If I squinted, I could make them look like an old man with a beard. 

I yawned. I felt really sleepy, but I couldn’t get to sleep. 

It was only my second night here at the farm. It always takes me awhile to 
adjust to being in a new place and sleeping in a different bed. 

I closed my eyes. Through the open window, I could hear the soft mooing 
of cows from the barn. 

And I could hear the whisper of the wind as it brushed through the tall 
cornstalks. 

My nose was totally stuffed up. Bet I snore tonight, I thought. 

That is, if I ever get to sleep! 

I tried counting sheep. It didn’t seem to be working, so I tried counting 
cows. Big, bulky, bouncing, sloooooow-moooooving cows. 

I counted to a hundred twelve before I decided that wasn’t working, either. 

I turned onto my side. Then, after a few minutes, I tried my other side. 

I found myself thinking about my best friend, Shawna. I wondered if 
Shawna was having a good time at camp. 

I thought about some of my other friends. Most of them were just hanging 
around this summer, not doing much of anything. 

When I glanced at the clock, I was surprised to see it was nearly twelve. 
I’ve got to get to sleep, I told myself. I’ll be wrecked tomorrow if I don’t get 
some sleep. 

I settled onto my back, pulling the soft quilt up to my chin again. I closed 
my eyes and tried to picture nothing. Just empty, black space. Endless, empty 
space. 

The next thing I knew, I was hearing scratching sounds. 

I ignored them at first. I thought the curtains were flapping against the open 
window. 

Got to get to sleep, I urged myself. Got to get to sleep. 

The scratching grew louder. Closer. 

I heard a scraping sound. 

From outside the window? 

I opened my eyes. Shadows danced on the ceiling. I realized I was holding 
my breath. 

Listening hard. 

Another scrape. More scratching. Dry scratching. 

I heard a low groan. 

“Huh?” A startled gasp escaped my lips. 

I pulled myself up against the headboard. I tugged the quilt up to my chin, 
gripping it tightly with both hands. 

I heard more dry scraping. Like sandpaper, I thought. 

Suddenly the room grew darker. 

I saw something pull itself up to the window. A dark figure. Blocking the 
moonlight. 

“Who—who’s there?” I tried to call. But my voice came out a choked 
whisper. 

I could see a shadowy head, black against the purple sky. 

It rose up in the window. Dark shoulders. Followed by a darker chest. Black 
against black. 

A silent shadow, slipping into my room. 

“H-help! ” Another stammered whisper. 

My heart had stopped beating. I couldn’t breathe. Couldn’t breathe. 

It slid over the windowsill. Brushed away the curtains as it lowered itself 
into my room. 

Its feet scraped over the bare floorboards. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

It moved slowly, steadily toward my bed. 

I struggled to get up. 

Too late. 

My feet tangled in the quilt. 

I fell to the floor, landing hard on my elbows. 

I raised my eyes to see it move closer. 

I opened my mouth to scream as it emerged from the shadows. 

And then I recognized him. Recognized his face. 

“Grandpa Kurt!” I cried. “Grandpa Kurt—what are you doing here? Why 

did you climb in the window?” 

He didn’t reply. His cold blue eyes glared down at me. His whole face 
twisted into an ugly frown. 

And then he raised both arms above me. 

And I saw that he had no hands. 

Clumps of straw poked out from his jacket sleeves. 

Only straw. 

“Grandpa—no!!” I shrieked. 

14 

“Grandpa— please — no!” I shrieked as he lowered his straw arms toward me. 

He bared his teeth like an angry dog and let out a sharp, frightening growl. 
The straw hands reached down for me. 

Grandpa Kurt’s face was the same. The face I had always known. Except 
that his eyes were so cold, so cold and dead. 

The straw hands brushed over my face as I climbed to my feet. I took a step 
back, raising my hands like a shield. 

“Grandpa—what’s wrong? What’s happening?” I whispered. 

My temples were pounding. My entire body shook. 

His cold eyes narrowed in fury as he reached for me again. 

“Noooo!” I let out a long wail of terror. Then I turned and stumbled to the 

door. 

His feet scraped over the bare floor as he lurched toward me. Glancing 
down, I saw the straw poking out from the cuffs of his pants. 

His feet—they were straw, too. 

“Grandpa Kurt! Grandpa Kurt! What is happening ?” Was that really my 
voice, so shrill and frightened? 

He swung an arm. The straw scratched my back as it swept over me. 

I grabbed for the doorknob. Twisted it. Pulled open the door. 

And cried out again as I collided with Grandma Miriam. 

“Oh, help! Please help! Grandma Miriam—he’s chasing me!” I cried. 

Her expression didn’t change. She stared back at me. 

In the dim light of the hallway, her face came into focus. 

And I saw that her glasses were painted on. 

And her eyes. And mouth. And big round nose. 

Her entire face was painted on. 

“You’re not real!” I cried. 

And then darkness swept over me as Grandpa Kurt’s straw hands wrapped 
around my face. 

15 

I woke up coughing and choking. 

Surrounded by darkness. Heavy darkness. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that I’d been sleeping with the pillow 
over my face. 

Tossing it to the foot of the bed, I pulled myself up, breathing hard. My face 
was hot. My nightshirt stuck wetly to my back. 

I glanced at the window, suddenly afraid that I’d see a dark figure climbing 
in. 

The curtains fluttered gently. The early morning sky was still gray. I heard 
the shrill cry of a rooster. 

A dream. It had all been a frightening nightmare. 

Taking a deep breath and letting it out slowly, I lowered my feet to the floor. 

I stared at the gray morning light through the window. Just a dream, I 
assured myself. Calm down, Jodie. It was just a dream. 

I could hear someone moving around downstairs. Staggering over to the 
dresser, I pulled out some fresh clothes—a pair of faded denim cutoffs, a 
sleeveless blue T-shirt. 

My eyes were watery. Everything was a blur. My allergies were really bad 
this morning. 

Rubbing my eyes, I made my way to the window and peered out. A red ball 
of a sun was just peeking over the broad apple tree. A heavy morning dew made 
the grass of the back yard sparkle like emeralds. 

The sea of cornstalks rose darkly behind the grass. The scarecrows stood 
stiffly over them, arms outstretched as if welcoming the morning. 

The rooster crowed again. 

What a stupid nightmare, I thought. I shook myself as if trying to shake it 
from my memory. Then I ran a brush through my hair and hurried down to 
breakfast. 

Mark was just entering the kitchen as I came in. We found Grandma 
Miriam by herself at the table. A mug of tea steamed in front of her as she gazed 
out the window at the morning sunlight. 

She turned and smiled at us as we entered. “Good morning. Sleep well?” 

I was tempted to tell her about my scary nightmare. But, instead, I asked, 
“Where’s Grandpa Kurt?” I stared at his empty chair. The newspaper lay 
unopened on the table. 

“They all went off early,” Grandma Miriam replied. 

She stood up, walked to the cabinets, and brought a big box of cornflakes to 
the table. She motioned for us to take our places. “Pretty day,” she said 
cheerfully. 

“No pancakes?” Mark blurted out. 

Grandma Miriam stopped halfway across the room. “I’ve completely 
forgotten how to make them,” she said without turning around. 

She set two bowls down and made her way to the refrigerator to get the 
milk. “You kids want orange juice this morning? It’s fresh squeezed.” 

Grandma Miriam set the milk carton down beside my bowl. She smiled at 
me. Her eyes remained dull behind her square-rimmed glasses. “I hope you two 
are enjoying your visit,” she said quietly. 

“We would be if it weren’t for Sticks,” I blurted out. 

Her expression turned to surprise. “Sticks?” 

“He’s trying to scare us again,” I said. 

Grandma Miriam tsk-tsked. “You know Sticks,” she replied softly. 

She pushed at her red hair with both hands. “What are you two planning for 
today?” she asked brightly. “It’s a beautiful morning to go riding. Before they 
left this morning, Grandpa Kurt had Stanley saddle up Betsy and Maggie, in case 
you wanted to ride.” 

“Sounds like fun,” I told her. “What do you say, Mark? Before it gets really 
hot out?” 

“I guess,” Mark replied. 

“You two always enjoyed riding along the creek,” Grandma Miriam said, 
putting the cornflakes box away. 

I stared across the room at her, stared at her red, curly hair, her pudgy arms, 
her flowered housedress. 

“Are you okay, Grandma Miriam?” I asked. The words just tumbled out of 
my mouth. “Is everything okay here?” 

She didn’t reply. Instead, she lowered her eyes, avoiding my gaze. “Go 
have your ride,” she said quietly. “Don’t worry about me.” 

Grandpa Kurt always called Betsy and Maggie the “old gray mares”. I guess 

because they were both old and they were both gray. And they were as grumpy 
as can be when Mark and I climbed onto their saddles and started to urge them 
from the barn. 

They were the perfect horses for us “city kids”. The only time we ever got 
to ride horses was during our summers at the farm. So we were not exactly the 
most skillful riders in the world. 

Bumping along on these two old nags was just our speed. And even as slow 
as we were moving, I dug my knees into Betsy’s sides and held onto the saddle 
horn for dear life. 

We followed the dirt path past the cornfields toward the woods. The sun 
was still climbing a hazy, yellow sky. But the air was already hot and sticky. 

Flies buzzed around me as I bounced on top of Betsy. I removed one hand 
from the saddle horn to brush a big one off Betsy’s back. 

Several scarecrows stared back at us as Mark and I rode past. Their black 
eyes glared at us from under their floppy hats. 

Mark and I didn’t say a word. We were keeping to our promise of not 
talking about scarecrows. 

I turned my eyes to the woods and tossed the reins, urging Betsy to move a 
little faster. She ignored me, of course, and kept clopping along over the path at 
her slow, steady pace. 

“I wonder if these horses can still get up to a trot,” Mark called. He was a 
few paces behind me on the narrow dirt path. 

“Let’s give it a try!” I called back, grabbing the reins tighter. 

I dug my sneaker heels into Betsy’s side. “Go, girl—go!” I cried, slapping 
her gently with the reins. 

“Whoooa!” I let out a startled cry as the old horse obediently began to trot. I 
really didn’t think she would cooperate! 

“All right! Cool!” I heard Mark shout behind me. 

Their hooves clopped loudly on the path as the two horses began to pick up 
speed. I was bouncing hard over the saddle, holding on tightly, off-balance, 
beginning to wonder if this was such a hot idea. 

I didn’t have a chance to cry out when the dark figure hurtled across the 

path. 

It all happened so fast. 

Betsy was trotting rapidly. I was bouncing on the saddle, bouncing so hard, 
my feet slipped out of the stirrups. 

The dark figure leaped out right in front of us. 

Betsy let out a shrill, startled whinny—and reared back. 

As I started to fall, I saw immediately what had jumped onto the path. 
It was a grinning scarecrow. 

16 

Betsy rose up with a high whinny. 

My hand grabbed for the reins, but they slipped from my grasp. 

The sky appeared to roll over me, then tilt away. 

I slid backwards, out of the saddle, off the horse, my feet thrashing wildly 
for the flapping stirrups. 

The sky tilted even more. 

I hit the ground hard on my back. 

I remember only the shock of stopping so abruptly, the surprise at how hard 
the ground felt, how so much pain shot through my body so quickly. 

The sky turned bright red. A glowing scarlet. Like an explosion. 

And then the scarlet faded to deep, deep, endlessly deep black. 

* * * 

I heard low moans before I opened my eyes. 

I recognized the voice. Mark’s voice. 

My eyes still shut, I opened my mouth to call to him. My lips moved, but 
no sound came out. 

“Ohhhh.” Another low groan from him, not far from me. 

“Mark—?” I managed to choke out. My back ached. My shoulders hurt. My 
head throbbed. 

Everything hurt. 

“My wrist—I think I broke it,” Mark said, his voice shrill and frightened. 
“You fell, too?” I asked. 

“Yeah. I fell, too,” he groaned. 

I opened my eyes. Finally. I opened my eyes. 

And saw the hazy sky. 

All a blur. Everything was a watery blur. 

I stared at the sky, trying to get it in focus. 

And then saw a hand in front of the sky. A hand lowering itself toward me. 
A bony hand stretching out from a heavy black coat. 

The hand of the scarecrow, I realized, staring up helplessly at it. 
The hand of the scarecrow, coming down to grab me. 

17 

The hand grabbed my shoulder. 

Too terrified to cry out, too dazed to think clearly, my eyes followed the 
dark coat sleeve—up to the shoulder—up to the face. 

A blur. All a frightening blur. 

And then the face became clear. 

“Stanley!” I cried. 

He leaned over me, his red ears glowing, his face tight with worry. He 
gently grabbed my shoulder. “Jodie—are you all right?” 

“Stanley—it’s you!” I exclaimed happily. I sat up. “I think I’m okay. I don’t 
know. Everything hurts.” 

“What a bad fall,” Stanley said softly. “I was in the field. And I saw it. I 
saw the scarecrow....” 

His voice trailed off. I followed his frightened gaze up ahead of me on the 
dirt path. 

The scarecrow lay facedown across the path. 

“I saw it jump out,” Stanley uttered with a shudder that shook his whole 
body. 

“My wrist...” Mark moaned from nearby. 

I turned as Stanley hurried over to him. Mark was sitting up in the grass at 
the side of the path, holding his wrist. “Look—it’s starting to swell up,” he 
groaned. 

“Oooh, that’s bad. That’s bad,” Stanley said, shaking his head. 

“Maybe it’s just a sprain,” I suggested. 

“Yeah,” Stanley quickly agreed. “We’d better get you to the house and put 
ice on it. Can you get back up on Maggie? I’ll ride behind you.” 

“Where’s my horse?” I asked, searching both ways along the path. I climbed 
unsteadily to my feet. 

“She galloped back to the barn,” Stanley replied, pointing. “Fastest I’ve 
seen her go in years!” 

He glanced down at the scarecrow and shuddered again. 

I took a few steps, stretching my arms and my back. “I’m okay,” I told him. 
“Take Mark on the horse. I’ll walk back.” 

Stanley eagerly started to help Mark to his feet. I could see that Stanley 
wanted to get away from here—away from the scarecrow—as fast as possible. 

I watched as they rode off down the path toward the house. Stanley sat 
behind Mark in the saddle, holding the reins, keeping Maggie at a slow, gentle 
pace. Mark held his wrist against his chest and leaned back against Stanley. 

I stretched my arms over my head again, trying to stretch the soreness from 
my back. My head ached. But other than that, I didn’t feel bad. 

“Guess I’m lucky,” I murmured out loud. 

I took a long glance at the scarecrow, sprawled facedown across the path. 
Cautiously, I walked over to it. 

I poked its side with the toe of my sneaker. 

The straw beneath the coat crinkled. 

I poked it harder, pushing my sneaker hard into the scarecrow’s middle. 

I don’t know what I expected to happen. Did I think the scarecrow would 
cry out? Try to squirm away? 

With an angry cry, I kicked the scarecrow. Hard. 

I kicked it again. 

The burlap bag head bounced on the path. The scarecrow’s ghastly painted 
grin didn’t move. 

It’s just a scarecrow, I told myself, giving it one last kick that sent straw 
falling out from the jacket front. 

Just a scarecrow that Sticks tossed onto the path. 

Mark and I could have been killed, I told myself. 

We’re lucky we weren’t. 

Sticks. It had to be Sticks. 

But why? 

This wasn’t a joke. 

Why was Sticks trying to hurt us? 

18 

Stanley and Sticks weren’t at lunch. Grandpa Kurt said they had to go into town 
for supplies. 

Mark’s wrist was only sprained. Grandma Miriam put an ice bag on it, and 
the swelling went right down. But Mark was groaning and complaining. He was 
really making the most of it. 

“Guess I’ll have to lie on the couch and watch TV for a week or so,” he 
moaned. 

Grandma Miriam served ham sandwiches and homemade coleslaw. Mark 
and I gobbled down our lunches. All that excitement had made us really hungry. 

As we ate, I decided to tell Grandpa Kurt everything that had been 
happening. I couldn’t hold it in any longer. 

I told him about how Sticks was making the scarecrows move at night. And 
how he was trying to frighten us, trying to make us think the scarecrows were 
alive. 

I caught a glimpse of fear in Grandpa Kurt’s blue eyes. But then he rubbed 
his white-stubbled cheeks, and he got a faraway look on his face. 

“Sticks and his little jokes,” he said finally, a smile spreading across his 
face. “That boy sure likes his jokes.” 

“He’s not joking,” I insisted. “He’s really trying to frighten us, Grandpa.” 

“We could have been killed this morning!” Mark joined in. He had 
mayonnaise smeared on his cheek. 

“Sticks is a good boy,” Grandma Miriam murmured. She was smiling, too. 
She and Grandpa Kurt exchanged glances. 

“Sticks wouldn’t really hurt you,” Grandpa Kurt said softly. “He just likes 
to have his fun.” 

“Great fun!” I muttered sarcastically, rolling my eyes. 

“Yeah. Great fun,” Mark groaned. “I almost broke my wrist!” 

Grandpa Kurt and Grandma Miriam just smiled back at us, their faces 
frozen like the painted scarecrow faces. 

After lunch, Mark slumped to the couch, where he planned to spend the rest of 
the afternoon staring at the TV. He loved having an excuse not to go outdoors. 

I heard Stanley’s truck pull up the drive. I decided to go find Sticks and tell 
him how fed up we were with his stupid scarecrow tricks. 

I didn’t think his jokes were all in fun. I really believed he was trying to 
frighten us or hurt us—and I wanted to find out why. 

I didn’t see Sticks or Stanley out in the yard. So I made my way across the 
grass to the guest house where they lived. 

It was a warm, beautiful day. The sky was clear and bright. The air smelled 
fresh and sweet. 

But I couldn’t enjoy the sunshine. All I could think about was letting Sticks 
know how angry I was. 

I knocked on the guest house door. I took a deep breath and tossed my hair 
behind my shoulders, listening for signs of life inside. 

I tried to think of what I was going to say to Sticks. But I was too angry to 
plan it. My heart started to pound. I realized I was breathing hard. 

I knocked on the door again, harder this time. 

There was no one inside. 

I turned my gaze to the cornfields. The stalks stood stiffly, watched over by 
the motionless scarecrows. No sign of Sticks. 

I turned to the barn, across the wide grass from the guest house. Maybe 
Sticks is in there, I thought. 

I jogged to the barn. Two enormous crows hopped along the ground in front 
of the open barn doors. They flapped their wings hard and scrambled out of my 
way. 

“Hey—Sticks?” I shouted breathlessly as I stepped inside. 

No reply. 

The barn was dark. I waited for my eyes to adjust. 

Remembering my last creepy visit to the barn, I stepped reluctantly, my 
sneakers scraping over the straw on the floor. “Sticks? Are you in here?” I 
called, staring hard into the deep shadows. 

A rusted baling machine stood to one side of the straw bales. A 
wheelbarrow tilted against the wall. I hadn’t noticed them before. 

“Guess he isn’t here,” I said to myself out loud. 

I walked past the wheelbarrow. I saw something else I hadn’t noticed before 
—a pile of old coats on the barn floor. Empty burlap bags were stacked beside 
them. 

I picked one up. It had a frowning face painted on it in black paint. I 

dropped the bag back onto the pile. 

These must be Stanley’s scarecrow supplies, I realized. 

How many more scarecrows did he plan to build? 

Then something in the corner caught my eye. I walked quickly over the 
straw. Then I bent down to examine what I saw. 

Torches. At least a dozen torches, stacked in the corner, hidden by the 
darkness. Next to them I spotted a large bottle of kerosene. 

What on earth are these doing here? I asked myself. 

Suddenly, I heard a scraping sound. I saw shadows slide against shadows. 
And I realized that once again I was no longer alone. 

I jumped to my feet. “Sticks!” I cried. “You scared me.” 

His face was half hidden in darkness. His black hair fell over his forehead. 
He didn’t smile. “I warned you,” he said menacingly. 

19 

Feeling the fear rise to my throat, I stepped out of the corner and moved past 
him, into the light from the doorway. “I—I was looking for you,” I stammered. 
“Sticks, why are you trying to scare Mark and me?” 

“I warned you,” he said, lowering his voice to a whisper. “I warned you to 
get away from here, to go back home.” 

“But why?” I demanded. “What’s your problem, Sticks? What did we do to 
you? Why are you trying to scare us?” 

“I’m not,” Sticks replied. He glanced back nervously to the barn doors. 

“Huh?” I gaped at him. 

“I’m not trying to scare you. Really,” he insisted. 

“Liar,” I muttered angrily. “You must really think I’m a moron. I know you 
threw that scarecrow onto our path this morning. It had to be you, Sticks.” 

“I really don’t know what you’re talking about,” he insisted coldly. “But 
I’m warning you—” 

A sound at the doorway made him stop. 

We both saw Stanley step into the barn. He shielded his eyes with one hand 
as his eyes adjusted to the darkness. “Sticks—are you in here?” he called. 

Sticks’ features tightened in sudden fear. He let out a low gasp. 

“I—I’ve got to go,” Sticks whispered tensely to me. He turned and started 
jogging toward Stanley. “Here I am, Dad,” he called. “Is the tractor ready?” 

I watched the two of them hurry from the barn. Sticks didn’t look back. 

I stood in the darkness, my eyes on the empty doorway, thinking hard. 

I know Sticks was lying to me, I thought. 

I know he made the scarecrows move at night. I know he dressed as a 
scarecrow to scare me in the woods and at the barn. And I know he tossed that 
scarecrow in front of the horses this morning. 

I know he’s trying to frighten Mark and me. 

But enough is enough, I decided. 

Now it’s payback time. 

Now it’s time for Sticks to be frightened. Really frightened. 

20 

“I can’t do this!” Mark protested. 

“Of course you can,” I assured him. “This is going to be really cool.” 

“But my wrist hurts again,” my brother whined. “It just started hurting. I 
can’t use it.” 

“No problem,” I told him. “You won’t have to use it.” 

He started to protest some more. But then a smile spread across his face, 
and his eyes lit up gleefully. “It’s kind of a cool idea,” he said, laughing. 

“Of course it’s an awesome idea,” I agreed. “I thought of it!” 

We were standing in the doorway to the barn. The white light from a full 
moon shone down on us. Owls hooted somewhere nearby. 

It was a cool, clear night. The grass shimmered from a heavy dew. A soft 
wind made the trees whisper. The moonlight was so bright, I could see every 
blade of grass. 

After Grandpa Kurt and Grandma Miriam had gone to bed, I dragged Mark 
from the house. I pulled him across the yard to the barn. 

“Wait right here,” I said. Then I hurried into the barn to get what we 
needed. 

It was a little creepy in the dark barn at night. I heard a soft fluttering sound 
high in the rafters. 

Probably a bat. 

My sneakers were wet from the grass. I slid over the straw on the barn 
floor. 

The bat swooped low over my head. I heard a high-pitched chittering up in 
the rafters. More bats. 

I grabbed one of the big, old coats from the pile. Then I pulled up one of the 
burlap bag faces and slung it on top of the coat. 

Ignoring the fluttering wings swooping back and forth, back and forth, 
across the barn, I hurried outside to Mark. 

And explained my plan, my plan to get our revenge on Sticks. 

It was actually a very simple plan. We’d dress Mark up as a scarecrow. 
He’d stand with the other scarecrows in the cornfield. 

I’d go to the guest house and get Sticks. I’d tell Sticks I saw something 

weird in the field. I’d pull Sticks out to the field. Mark would start to stagger 
toward him—and Sticks would be so freaked, he’d have a cow! 

A simple plan. And a good one. 

Sticks deserved it, too. 

I pulled the burlap bag over Mark’s head. The black, painted eyes stared 
back at me. I reached down, picked up a handful of straw, and began stuffing it 
under the bag. 

“Stop squirming!” I told Mark. 

“But the straw itches!” he cried. 

“You’ll get used to it,” I told him. I grabbed his shoulders. “Stand still. 
Don’t move.” 

“Why do I need straw?” he whined. 

“Mark, you have to look like all the other scarecrows,” I told him. 
“Otherwise, Sticks won’t be fooled.” 

I stuffed the burlap face with straw. Then I held up the old overcoat for 
Mark to put on. 

“I can’t do this!” he wailed. “I’m going to itch to death! I can’t breathe!” 

“You can breathe perfectly fine,” I told him. I stuffed straw into the sleeves. 
I was careful to let clumps of straw hang from the cuffs, covering Mark’s hands. 
Then I stuffed more straw into the jacket. 

“Will you stand still?” I whispered angrily. “This is a lot of hard work—you 
know?” 

He grumbled in a low voice to himself as I continued to work. 

“Just keep thinking how great it’ll be when Sticks sees you and thinks 
you’re a scarecrow that’s really coming to life,” I said. 

I had straw stuck to my hands, straw all down the front of my sweatshirt 
and jeans. I sneezed. Once. Twice. I’m definitely allergic to the stuff. 

But I didn’t care. I was so excited. I couldn’t wait to see Sticks’ terrified 
face. I couldn’t wait to pay him back for trying to frighten us all week. 

“I need a hat,” Mark said. He was standing stiffly, afraid to move under all 
the straw. 

“Hmmmm.” I thought hard. There weren’t any hats in the barn with the 
other scarecrow supplies. “We’ll just take one off a real scarecrow,” I told Mark. 

I stepped back to see my handiwork. Mark looked pretty good. But he still 
needed more straw. I set to work, stuffing him, making the old coat bulge. 

“Now don’t forget to stand straight and stiff, with your arms straight out,” I 

instructed. 

“Do I have a choice?” Mark complained. “I—I can’t move at all!” 

“Good,” I said. I arranged the straw that stuck out of his sleeves, then 
stepped back. “Okay. You’re ready,” I told him. 

“How do I look?” he asked. 

“Like a short scarecrow,” I told him. 

“I’m too short?” he replied. 

“Don’t worry, Mark,” I said, grabbing his arm. “I’m going to stick you up 
on a pole!” 

“Huh?” 

I laughed. “Gotcha,” I muttered. “I’m kidding.” I started to lead him to the 
cornfields. 

“Think this is going to work?” Mark asked, walking stiffly. “Think we’re 
really going to scare Sticks?” 

I nodded. An evil grin spread over my face. “I think so,” I told my brother. 
“I think Sticks is in for a terrifying surprise.” 

Little did I know that we all were! 

21 

I gripped Mark’s arm with both hands and led him to the cornfields. The bright 
moon bathed us in white light. The tall cornstalks shivered in a light breeze. 

Mark looked so much like a scarecrow, it was scary. Tufts of straw stuck 
out at his neck and the cuffs of his coat. The enormous old coat hung loosely 
over his shoulders and came down nearly to his knees. 

We stepped into the field. Our sneakers crunched over the dry ground as we 
edged through a narrow row. 

The cornstalks rose above our heads. The breeze made them lean over us, 
as if trying to close us in. 

I let out a gasp as I heard a rustling sound along the ground. 

Footsteps? 

Mark and I both froze. And listened. 

The tall stalks bent low as the wind picked up. They made an eerie creaking 
sound as they moved. The ripe corn sheaths bobbed heavily. 

Creeeeak. Creeeeak. 

The stalks shifted back and forth. 

Then we heard the rustling again. A soft brushing sound. 

Very nearby. 

“Ow. Let go!” Mark whispered. 

I suddenly realized I was still gripping his arm, squeezing it tightly. 

I let go. And listened. “Do you hear it?” I whispered to Mark. “That 
brushing sound?” 

Creeeeak. Creeeeak. 

The cornstalks leaned over us, shifting in the wind. 

A twig cracked. So nearby, I nearly jumped out of my skin. 

I held my breath. My heart was racing. 

Another soft rustling sound. I stared down at the ground, trying to follow 
the sound. 

“Oh.” 

A large gray squirrel scampered across the row and disappeared between 
the stalks. 

I burst out laughing, mostly from relief. “Just a squirrel,” I said. “Do you 
believe it? Just a squirrel!” 

Mark let out a long, relieved sigh from under the burlap bag. “Jodie, can we 
get going?” he demanded impatiently. “This thing itches like crazy!” 

He raised both hands and tried to scratch his face through the bag. But I 
quickly tugged his arms down. “Mark—stop. You’ll mess up the straw!” 

“But my face feels like a hundred bugs are crawling all over it!” he wailed. 
“And I can’t see. You didn’t cut the eyeholes big enough.” 

“Just follow me,” I muttered. “And stop complaining. You want to scare 
Sticks, don’t you?” 

Mark didn’t reply. But he let me lead him deeper into the cornfield. 

Suddenly, a black shadow fell over our path. 

I let out a sharp gasp before I realized it was the long shadow of a 
scarecrow. 

“How do you do,” I said, reaching out and shaking its straw hand. “May I 
borrow your hat?” 

I reached up and pulled the brown, floppy hat off the burlap head. Then I 
lowered it over Mark’s burlap head and pulled it down tight. 

“Hey—!” Mark protested. 

“I don’t want it to fall off,” I told him. 

“I’m never going to stop itching!” Mark whined. “Can you scratch my 
back? Please? My whole back is itching!” 

I gave the back of the old coat a few hard mbs. “Turn around,” I instructed 
him. I gave him a final inspection. 

Excellent. He looked more like a scarecrow than the scarecrows did. 

“Stand right here,” I told him, moving him into a small clearing between 
two rows of cornstalks. “Good. Now when you hear me bringing Sticks over, put 
your arms straight out. And don’t move a muscle.” 

“I know, I know,” Mark grumbled. “Think I don’t know how to be a 
scarecrow? Just hurry—okay?” 

“Okay,” I told him. I turned and made my way quickly along the shifting 
rows of cornstalks. Dry straw and leaves crackled beneath my sneakers. 

I was breathing hard by the time I reached the guest house. The doorway 
was dark. But an orange light glowed dimly behind the pulled shade in the 
window. 

I hesitated at the doorway and listened. Silence inside. 

How was I going to get Sticks to come out alone—without his father? 

I didn’t want to frighten Stanley. He was a really nice man, who would 
never think of playing mean jokes on Mark and me. And I knew how scared and 
upset he could get. 

I only wanted to frighten Sticks. To teach him a lesson. To teach him he had 
no business getting on our case just because Mark and I are “city kids”. 

The wind fluttered through my hair. I could hear the cornstalks creaking 
behind me in the fields. 

I shivered. 

Taking a deep breath, I raised my fist to knock on the door. 

But a sound behind me made me spin around. 

“Hey—!” I choked out. 

Someone was moving across the grass, half running, half stumbling. My 
eyes were all watery. It was hard to see. 

Was it Mark? 

Yes. I recognized the floppy hat, the bulky, dark overcoat falling down past 
his knees. 

What is he doing? I asked myself, watching him approach. 

Why is he following me? 

He’s going to ruin the whole joke! 

As he came closer, he raised a straw hand as if pointing at me. 

“Mark—what’s wrong?” I called in a loud whisper. 

He continued to gesture with his straw hand as he ran. 

“Mark—get back in the field!” I whispered. “You’re not supposed to follow 
me. You’re going to ruin everything! Mark—what are you doing here?” 

I motioned with both hands for him to go back to the cornfield. 

But he ignored me and kept coming, trailing straw as he ran. 

“Mark, please—go back! Go back!” I pleaded. 

But he stepped up in front of me and grabbed my shoulders. 

And as I stared into the cold, painted black eyes—I realized to my horror 
that it xvasn’t Mark! 

22 

I cried out and tried to pull away. 

But the scarecrow held on to me tightly. 

“Sticks—is that you?” I cried in a trembling voice. 

No reply. 

I stared into the blank, painted eyes. 

And realized there were no human eyes behind them. 

The straw hands scratched against my throat. 

I opened my mouth to scream. 

And the door to the guest house swung open. “Sticks—” I managed to 
choke out. 

Sticks stepped out onto the small stoop. “What on earth—!” he cried. 

He leaped off the stoop, grabbed the scarecrow by the coat shoulders—and 
heaved it to the ground. 

The scarecrow hit the ground without making a sound. It lay sprawled on its 
back, staring up at us blankly. 

“Who—who is it?” I cried, rubbing my neck where the straw hands had 
scratched it. 

Sticks bent down and jerked away the burlap scarecrow head. 

Nothing underneath. Nothing but straw. 

“It—it really is a scarecrow!” I cried in horror. “But it— walked !” 

“I warned you,” Sticks said solemnly, staring down at the headless dark 
figure. “I warned you, Jodie.” 

“You mean it wasn’t you?” I demanded. “It wasn’t you trying to scare Mark 
and me?” 

Sticks shook his head. He raised his dark eyes to mine. “Dad brought the 
scarecrows to life,” he said softly. “Last week. Before you came. He used his 
book. He chanted some words—and they all came to life.” 

“Oh, no,” I murmured, raising my hands to my face. 

“We were all so frightened,” Sticks continued. “Especially your 
grandparents. They begged Dad to recite the words and put the scarecrows back 
to sleep.” 

“Did he?” I asked. 

“Yes,” Sticks replied. “He put them back to sleep. But first he insisted your 
grandparents make some promises. They had to promise not to laugh at him 
anymore. And they had to promise to do everything he wanted from now on.” 

Sticks took a deep breath. He stared toward the guest house window. 
“Haven’t you noticed how different things are at the farm? Haven’t you noticed 
how frightened your grandparents are?” 

I nodded solemnly. “Of course I have.” 

“They’ve been trying to keep Dad happy,” Sticks continued. “They’ve been 
doing everything they can to keep him from getting upset or angry. Your 
grandmother fixes only his favorite food. Your grandfather stopped telling scary 
stories because Dad doesn’t like them.” 

I shook my head. “They’re that afraid of Stanley?” 

“They’re afraid he’ll read the chant in the book again and bring the 
scarecrows back to life,” Sticks said. He swallowed hard. “There’s only one 
problem,” he murmured. 

“What’s that?” I asked. 

“Well, I haven’t told Dad yet. But...” His voice trailed off. 

“But what?” I demanded eagerly. 

“Some of the scarecrows are still alive,” Sticks replied. “Some of them 
never went back to sleep.” 

23 

We both let out short cries as the front door to the house swung open. 

Startled, I leaped away from the doorway. 

As the door pulled open, it revealed a rectangle of orange light. Stanley 
stepped into the light. 

He held on to the door and peered out. His eyes showed surprise as they 
landed on Sticks and me. But then he goggled and uttered a choking sound as he 
spotted the headless scarecrow on the ground. 

“N-no!” Stanley sputtered. He pointed a trembling finger at the scarecrow. 
“It—it walks! The scarecrow walks!” 

“No, Dad—!” Sticks cried. 

But Stanley didn’t hear him. Stanley had already dived back into the house. 

Sticks started after him. But Stanley reappeared in the doorway. As he 
stepped outside, I saw that he was carrying the big superstition book. 

“The scarecrows walk!” Stanley screamed. “I must take charge! I must take 
charge of them all now!” 

His eyes were wild. His entire skinny body was trembling. He started 
toward the cornfields, totally crazy. Sticks tried to calm him down. 

“No, Dad!” Sticks cried desperately, hurrying after him. “The scarecrow 
was dropped here! I dropped it here, Dad! It didn’t walk! It didn’t walk!” 

Stanley kept walking, taking long, rapid strides. He didn’t seem to hear 
Sticks. “I must take charge now!” Stanley declared. “I must be the leader. I will 
bring the others back to life and take control.” 

He turned and glanced at Sticks, who was hurrying to catch up to him. 
“Stay back!” Stanley shouted. “Stay back—until I read the chant! Then you can 
follow!” 

“Dad—please listen to me!” Sticks cried. “The scarecrows are ah asleep! 
Don’t wake them!” 

Stanley finally stopped a few yards from the edge of the cornfields. He 
turned to Sticks and studied his face. “You’re sure? You’re sure they’re not out 
of my control? You’re sure they’re not walking?” 

Sticks nodded. “Yes. I’m sure, Dad. I’m really sure.” 

Stanley’s face filled with confusion. He kept staring hard at Sticks, as if not 

believing him. “I don’t have to read the chant?” Stanley asked, confused, his 
eyes on the swaying cornstalks. “I don’t have to take charge?” 

“No, Dad,” Sticks replied softly. “The scarecrows are all still. You can put 
the book away. The scarecrows are not moving.” 

Stanley sighed with relief. He lowered the book to his side. “None of 
them?” he asked warily. 

“None of them,” Sticks replied soothingly. 

And that’s when Mark—in full scarecrow costume—decided to come 
staggering out of the cornfield. 

24 

“Where’ve you been?” Mark called. 

Stanley’s eyes went wide, and he opened his mouth in a high shriek of 
terror. 

“Dad, please—!” Sticks pleaded. 

Too late. 

Stanley took off, heading into the cornfields, the big book raised high in 
front of him. “The scarecrows walk! They walk!” he cried. 

Mark tucked at the burlap bag face. “Did we blow it?” he called. “Is the 
joke over? What’s happening?” 

There was no time to answer him. 

Sticks turned to me, his features tight with fear. “We’ve got to stop Dad!” 
he cried. He started running to the swaying cornstalks. 

Stanley had already disappeared between the tall rows of corn. 

My allergies were really bad. I kept rubbing my eyes, trying to clear them. 
But as I followed Sticks, everything was a shimmering blur of grays and blacks. 

“Ow!” I cried out as I stumbled in a soft hole and fell. 

Mark, right behind me, nearly toppled over me. 

He reached down and helped pull me up. I had landed hard on both knees, 
and they were throbbing with pain. 

“Which way did they go?” I asked breathlessly, searching the dark, swaying 
rows of creaking cornstalks. 

“I—I’m not sure!” Mark stammered. “What’s going on, Jodie? Tell me!” 

“Not now!” I told him. “We have to stop Stanley. We have to—” 

Stanley’s voice, high and excited, rose up from somewhere nearby. Mark 
and I both froze as we listened to the strange words he was chanting. 

“Is he reading something from that weird book?” Mark demanded. 

Without answering, I headed in the direction of Stanley’s voice. It was easy 
to follow him. He was chanting the strange words at the top of his lungs. 

Where was Sticks? I wondered. 

Why hadn’t Sticks been able to stop his father? 

I pushed frantically through the tall stalks. I was moving blindly, my eyes 

watered over, brushing the stalks out of the way with both hands. 

In a small clearing, I found Stanley and Sticks. They were standing in front 
of two scarecrows on poles. 

Stanley held the book up close to his face as he chanted, moving his finger 
over the words. 

Sticks stood frozen, a blank expression on his face, a face of cold terror. 

Had the words of the chant somehow frozen him there like that? 

The scarecrows stood stiffly on their poles, their painted eyes staring 
lifelessly out from under their floppy black hats. 

Mark and I stepped into the clearing just as Stanley finished his chant. He 
slammed the big book shut and tucked it under one arm. 

“They’re going to walk now!” Stanley cried excitedly. “They’re going to 
come alive again!” 

Sticks suddenly seemed to come back to life. He blinked several times and 
shook his head hard, as if trying to clear it. 

We all stared at the two scarecrows. 

They stared back at us, lifeless, unmoving. 

The clouds floated away from the moon. The shadow over the cornfields 
rolled away. 

I stared into the eerie, pale light. 

A heavy silence descended over us. The only sounds I could hear were 
Stanley’s shallow breathing, tense gasps as he waited for his chant to work, for 
his scarecrows to come to life. 

I don’t know how long we stood there, none of us moving a muscle, 
watching the scarecrows. Watching. Watching. 

“It didn’t work,” Stanley moaned finally. His voice came out sad and low. 
“I did something wrong. The chant—it didn’t work.” 

A smile grew on Sticks’ face. He gazed at me. “It didn’t work!” Sticks 
exclaimed happily. 

And then I heard the scratch scratch scratch of dry straw. 

I saw the scarecrows’ shoulders start to twitch. I saw their eyes light up and 
their heads lean forward. 

Scratch scratch scratch. 

The dry straw crinkled loudly as they both squirmed off their poles and 
lowered themselves silently to the ground. 

25 

“Go warn your grandparents!” Sticks cried. “Hurry! Go tell them what my dad 
has done! ” 

Mark and I hesitated. We stared at the scarecrows as they stretched their 
arms and rolled their burlap bag heads, as if waking up after a long sleep. 

“Jodie—look!” Mark choked out in a hushed whisper. He pointed out to the 
fields. 

I gasped in horror as I saw what Mark was staring at. 

All over the field, dark-coated scarecrows were stretching, squirming, 
lowering themselves from their poles. 

More than a dozen of them, silently coming to life. 

“Run!” Sticks was screaming. “Go! Tell your grandparents!” 

Stanley stood frozen in place, gripping the book in both hands. He stared in 
amazement, shaking his head, enjoying his triumph. 

Sticks’ face was knotted with fear. He gave my shoulders a hard shove. 
“Run!” 

The scarecrows were rolling their heads back and forth, stretching out their 
straw arms. The dry scratch of straw filled the night air. 

I forced myself to take my eyes off them. Mark and I turned and started 
mnning through the cornfield. We pushed the tall stalks away with both hands as 
we ran. We ducked our heads low, running in terrified silence. 

We ran across the grass, past the guest house. Past the dark, silent barn. 

The farmhouse loomed darkly ahead of us. The windows were dark. A dim 
porch light sent a circle of yellow light over the back porch. 

“Hey—!” Mark shouted, pointing. 

Grandpa Kurt and Grandma Miriam must have heard our shouts back in the 
cornfields. They were waiting for us in the back yard. 

They looked frail and frightened. Grandma Miriam had pulled a flannel 
bathrobe over her nightdress. She had a scarf tied over her short red hair. 

Grandpa Kurt had pulled his overalls on over his pajamas. He leaned 
heavily on his cane, shaking his head as Mark and I came running up. 

“The scarecrows—!” I exclaimed breathlessly. 

“They’re walking!” Mark cried. “Stanley—he—” 

“Did you get Stanley upset?” Grandpa Kurt asked, his eyes wide with fear. 
“Who got Stanley upset? He promised us he wouldn’t do it again! He promised 
—if we didn’t upset him.” 

“It was an accident!” I told him. “We didn’t mean to. Really!” 

“We’ve worked so hard to keep Stanley happy,” Grandma Miriam said 
sadly. She chewed her lower lip. “So hard...” 

“I didn’t think he’d do it,” Grandpa Kurt said, his eyes on the cornfields. “I 
thought we convinced him it was too dangerous.” 

“Why are you dressed like that?” Grandma Miriam asked Mark. 

I was so frightened and upset, I had completely forgotten that Mark was 
still dressed as a scarecrow. 

“Mark, did you dress like that to scare Stanley?” Grandma Miriam 
demanded. 

“No!” Mark cried. “It was supposed to be a joke! Just a joke!” 

“We were trying to scare Sticks,” I told them. “But when Stanley saw Mark, 
he...” 

My voice trailed off as I saw the dark figures step out of the cornfields. 

In the silvery moonlight, I saw Stanley and Sticks. They were running hard, 
leaning forward as they ran. Stanley held the book in front of him. His shoes 
slipped and slid over the wet grass. 

Behind them came the scarecrows. They were moving awkwardly, 
staggering, lurching silently forward. 

Their straw arms stretched straight forward, as if reaching to grab Stanley 
and Sticks. Their round, black eyes glowed blankly in the moonlight. 

Staggering, tumbling, falling, they came after Stanley and Sticks. A dozen 
twisted figures in black coats and hats. Leaving clumps of straw as they pulled 
themselves forward. 

Grandma Miriam grabbed my arm and squeezed it in terror. Her hand was 
as cold as ice. 

We watched Stanley fall, then scramble to his feet. Sticks helped pull him 
up, and the two of them continued to run toward us in terror. 

The silent scarecrows lurched and staggered closer. Closer. 

“Help us— please !” Stanley called to us. 

“What can we do?” I heard Grandpa Kurt mutter sadly. 

26 

The four of us huddled close together, staring in helpless horror as the 
scarecrows made their way, chasing Stanley and Sticks across the moonlit lawn. 

Grandma Miriam held on to my arm. Grandpa Kurt leaned heavily, 
squeezing the handle of his cane. 

“They won’t obey me!” Stanley screamed breathlessly. He stopped in front 
of us, holding the book in one hand. 

His chest was heaving up and down as he struggled to catch his breath. 
Despite the coolness of the night, sweat poured down his forehead. 

“They won’t obey me! They must obey me! The book says so!” Stanley 
cried, frantically waving the book in the air. 

Sticks stopped beside his father. He turned to watch the scarecrows 
approach. “What are you going to do?” he asked his father. “You have to do 
something!” 

“They’re alive!” Stanley shrieked. “Alive!” 

“What does the book say?” Grandpa Kurt demanded. 

“They’re alive! They’re all alive!” Stanley repeated, his eyes wild with 
fright. 

“Stanley—listen to me!” Grandpa Kurt yelled. He grabbed Stanley by the 
shoulders and spun him around to face him. “Stanley—what does the book say 
to do? How do you get them in control?” 

“Alive,” Stanley murmured, his eyes rolling in his head. “They’re all alive.” 

“Stanley—what does the book say to do?” Grandpa Kurt demanded once 
again. 

“I—I don’t know,” Stanley replied. 

We turned back to the scarecrows. They were moving closer. Spreading out. 
Forming a line as they staggered toward us. Their arms reached forward 
menacingly, as if preparing to grab us. 

Clumps of straw fell from their sleeves. Straw spilled from their coats. 

But they continued to lurch toward us. Closer. Closer. 

The black, painted eyes stared straight ahead. They leered at us with their 
ugly, painted mouths. 

“Stop!” Stanley screamed, raising the book high over his head. “I command 

you to stop!” 

The scarecrows lurched slowly, steadily forward. 

“Stop!” Stanley shrieked in a high, frightened voice. “I brought you to life! 
You are mine! Mine! I command you! I command you to stop!” 

The blank eyes stared straight at us. The arms reached stiffly forward. The 
scarecrows pulled themselves closer. Closer. 

“Stop! I said stop!” Stanley screeched. 

Mark edged closer to me. Behind his burlap mask I could see his eyes. 
Terrified eyes. 

Ignoring Stanley’s frightened pleas, the scarecrows dragged themselves 
closer. Closer. 

And then I did something that changed the whole night. 

I sneezed. 

27 

Mark was so startled by my sudden, loud sneeze that he let out a short cry and 
jumped away from me. 

To my amazement, the scarecrows all stopped moving forward—and 
jumped back, too. 

“Whoa!” I cried. “What’s going on here?” 

The scarecrows all seemed to have trained their painted eyes on Mark. 

“Mark—quick—raise your right hand!” I cried. 

Mark gazed at me through the burlap bag. I could see confusion in his eyes. 

But he obediently raised his right hand high over his head. 

And the scarecrows all raised their right hands! 

“Mark—they’re imitating you!” Grandma Miriam cried. 

Mark raised both hands in the air. 

The scarecrows copied him again. I heard the scratch of straw as they lifted 
both arms. 

Mark tilted his head to the left. The scarecrows tilted their heads to the left. 

Mark dropped to his knees. The scarecrows sank in their straw, slaves to my 
brother’s every move. 

“They—they think you’re one of them,” Grandpa Kurt whispered. 

“They think you’re their leader !” Stanley cried, staring wide-eyed at the 
scarecrows slumped on the ground. 

“But how do I make them go back to their poles?” Mark demanded 
excitedly. “How do I make them go back to being scarecrows?” 

“Dad—find the right chant!” Sticks yelled. “Find the right words! Make 
them sleep again!” 

Stanley scratched his short, dark hair. “I—I’m too scared!” he confessed 
sadly. 

And then I had an idea. 

“Mark—” I whispered, leaning close to him. “Pull off your head.” 

“Huh?” He gazed at me through the burlap mask. 

“Pull off your scarecrow head,” I urged him, still whispering. 

“But why?” Mark demanded. He waved his hands in the air. The 

scarecrows obediently waved their straw hands in the air. 

Everyone was staring at me, eager to hear my explanation. 

“If you pull off your scarecrow head,” I told Mark, “then they will pull off 
their heads. And they’ll die.” 

Mark hesitated. “Huh? You think so?” 

“It’s worth a try,” Grandpa Kurt urged. 

“Go ahead, Mark. Hurry!” Sticks cried. 

Mark hesitated for a second. Then he stepped forward, just inches from the 
dark-coated scarecrows. 

“Hurry!” Sticks urged him. 

Mark gripped the top of the burlap bag with both hands. “I sure hope this 
works,” he murmured. Then he gave the bag a hard tug and pulled it off. 

28 

The scarecrows stopped moving. They stood still as statues as they watched 
Mark pull off his scarecrow head. 

Mark stared back at them, holding the burlap bag between his hands. His 
hair was matted wetly to his forehead. He was dripping with sweat. 

The scarecrows hesitated for a moment more. 

A long, silent moment. 

I held my breath. My heart was pounding. 

Then I let out a happy cry as the scarecrows all reached up with their straw 
hands—and pulled off their heads! 

The dark hats and burlap heads fell silently to the grass. 

None of us moved. We were waiting for the scarecrows to fall. 

Waiting for the headless scarecrows to collapse and fall. 

But they didn’t go down. 

Instead, they reached out their arms and moved stiffly, menacingly forward. 

“They—they’re coming to get us!” Stanley cried in a high, trembling voice. 

“Mark —do something!” I shouted, shoving him forward. “Make them stand 
on one foot or hop up and down. Stop them!” 

The headless figures dragged themselves toward us, arms outstretched. 

Mark stepped forward. He raised both hands over his head. 

The scarecrows didn’t stop, didn’t copy him. 

“Hey—hands up!” Mark shouted desperately. He waved his hands above 
his head. 

The scarecrows edged forward, silently, steadily. 

“Th-they’re not doing it!” Mark wailed. “They’re not following me!” 

“You don’t look like a scarecrow anymore,” Grandma Miriam added. “They 
don’t think you’re their leader.” 

Closer they came, staggering blindly. Closer. 

They formed a tight circle around us. 

A scarecrow brushed its straw hand against my cheek. 

I uttered a terrified cry. “Noooooo!” 

It reached for my throat, the dry straw scratching me, scratching my face, 

scratching, scratching. 

The headless scarecrows swarmed over Mark. He thrashed and kicked. But 
they were smothering him, forcing him to the ground. 

My grandparents cried out helplessly as the dark-coated figures surrounded 
them. Stanley let out a silent gasp. 

“Sticks—help me!” I shrieked as the straw hands wrapped around my neck. 
“Sticks? Sticks?” 

I glanced frantically around. 

“Sticks? Help me! Please! Where are you?” 

Then I realized to my horror that Sticks was gone. 

29 

“Sticks?” I let out a final muffled cry. 

The straw hands wrapped around my throat. The scarecrow rolled over me. 
My face was pressed into the dry straw of its chest. 

I tried to squirm free. But it held on, surrounded me, choked me. 

The straw smelled sour. Decayed. I felt sick. A wave of nausea swept over 
me. 

“Let go! Let go!” I heard Stanley pleading. 

The scarecrow was surprisingly strong. It wrapped its arms around me 
tightly, smothering me in the disgusting straw. 

I made one last attempt to pull free. Struggling with all my might, I raised 
my head. 

And saw two balls of fire. Orange streaks of light. 

Floating closer. 

And in the orange light, I saw Sticks’ face, hard and determined. 

I gave another hard tug. And tumbled backwards. 

“Sticks!” I cried. 

He was carrying two blazing torches. The torches from the barn, I realized. 
“I was saving these just in case!” Sticks called. 

The scarecrows seemed to sense danger. 

They let go of us, tried to scramble away. 

But Sticks moved quickly. 

He swept the two torches, swinging them like baseball bats. 

A scarecrow caught fire. Then another. 

Sticks made another wide swing. 

The fire crackled, a streak of orange against the darkness. 

The dry straw burst into flame. The old coats burned quickly. 

The scarecrows twisted and writhed as the bright flames danced over them. 
They sank to their backs on the ground. Burning. Burning so brightly, so silently, 
so fast. 

I took a step back, staring in horror and fascination. 

Grandpa Kurt had his arm around Grandma Miriam. They leaned close 

together, their faces reflecting the flickering flames. 

Stanley stood tensely, his eyes wide. He hugged the book tightly to his 
chest. He was murmuring to himself, but I couldn’t make out the words. 

Mark and I stood beside Sticks, who held a torch in each hand, watching 
with narrowed eyes as the scarecrows burned. 

In seconds, there was nothing left but clumps of dark ashes on the ground. 

“It’s over,” Grandma Miriam murmured softly, gratefully. 

“Never again,” I heard Stanley mutter. 

The house was quiet the next afternoon. 

Mark was out on the screen porch, lying in the hammock, reading a stack of 
comic books. Grandpa Kurt and Grandma Miriam had gone in for their 
afternoon nap. 

Sticks had driven into town to pick up the mail. 

Stanley sat at the kitchen table, reading his superstition book. His finger 
moved over the page as he muttered the words aloud in a low voice. 

“Never again,” he had repeated at lunch. “I’ve learned my lesson about this 
book. I’ll never try to bring any scarecrows to life again. I won’t even read the 
part about scarecrows!” 

We were all glad to hear that. 

So now, on this lazy, peaceful afternoon, Stanley sat at the table, quietly 
reading some chapter of the big book. 

And I sat alone on the couch in the living room, hearing Stanley’s gentle 
murmurings from the kitchen, thinking about the night before. 

It felt good to have a quiet afternoon, to be all alone to think about what had 
happened. 

All alone... 

The only one in the room... 

The only one to hear Stanley’s low mumbling as he read the book. 

The only one to see the gigantic stuffed brown bear blink its eyes. 

The only one to see the bear lick its lips, step off its platform, snarl and paw 
the air with its enormous claws. 

The only one to hear its stomach growl as it stared down at me. 

The only one to see the hungry look on its face as it magically came out of 
its long hibernation. 

“Stanley?” I called in a tiny, high voice. “Stanley? What chapter have you 
been reading?” 


GO EAT WORMS! 

1 

Before the worms turned mean, before they slithered out to get their revenge, 
Todd Barstow had a great time with them. 

Todd collected worms. He built a worm farm in his basement. 

He studied them. He played with them. He did experiments with them. 
Sometimes he carried them around with him. 

Sometimes he scared people with them. Especially his sister, Regina. 

He liked to dangle the long, purple ones in front of Regina’s face. 
Sometimes he dropped them down her back or into her long, brown hair. 

He liked to torture Regina’s best friend, too. Her name was Beth Baker, and 
she always screamed a high, squeaky scream whenever Todd surprised her with 
a big, slimy worm. 

“You’re totally gross, Todd!” Beth would squeal. 

This always made Todd very happy. 

Todd’s best friend, Danny Fletcher, didn’t really understand why Todd was 
so interested in worms. But Danny did understand how much fun it was to 
surprise people and make them scream. So he spent a lot of time with Todd. 

In fact, the two of them were almost always together. They even sat 
together in Miss Grant’s class, where they whispered a lot, planning what to do 
next with Todd’s worms. 

Todd didn’t look at all mischievous. In fact, he usually had a very serious 
expression on his face. He had dark brown eyes under short, wavy brown hair. 
No one ever saw his hair. It was always covered by the silver-and-black Raiders 
cap he wore day and night. 

He was tall and skinny. His mother said he was as skinny as a worm. Todd 
never thought that was funny. He took worms seriously. 

Danny looked more like a joker. He had a round, chubby face under curly 
red hair, and a really goofy grin. His round blue eyes always lit up when Todd 
was about to spring a big, wet worm on an unsuspecting victim. 

Whenever Todd succeeded in making someone scream in surprise, Danny 
would toss back his head, let out a high-pitched cheer, and slap Todd hard on the 
back with his chubby, freckled hand. Then the two of them would screech with 
laughter, roll around on the floor, and enjoy their victory. 

They had a great time with worms. 

But whenever anyone asked Todd why he collected them, and why he was 
so interested in them, Todd’s expression would turn serious, and he’d say, 
“Because I want to be a scientist when I grow up.” 

“How many worms do you have?” someone asked him. 

“Not enough,” he replied. 

He was always digging up more. Looking for champions. He liked them 
long and purple and kind of fat. 

And squishy. Squishy was very important. 

Sunday night it had rained. The ground was still wet as Todd and Regina walked 
to school on Monday morning. Todd knew the worms would all be coming up 
for air. 

He found Danny at the water fountain outside their classroom. Danny had a 
finger pressed over the fountain spout, and when kids passed by, he made the 
water squirt all over them. 

Todd lowered his Raiders cap over his forehead as he leaned close to 
Danny. “Meet me behind second base on the playground,” he whispered. “As 
soon as the lunch bell rings.” 

Danny nodded. He didn’t have to ask why. He knew that Todd’s favorite 
place to dig up fresh worms was the bare patch of ground behind second base on 
the softball diamond. 

The ground there was soft and rich. And after a good rain, the two boys 
could shovel up ten to fifteen worms without even trying. 

Todd kept a gardening shovel in his locker, as well as a small metal bucket 
with a lid. He was always ready to collect worms when the time was right. 

In class that morning, everyone was talking about the big Science Expo to 
be held in the gym on Saturday. Some kids already had their projects done. 

Debby Brewster was bragging about how she was going to win the new 
computer, the grand prize, by making electricity. Someone shouted out, “Go fly a 
kite!” and everyone laughed. The whole class was tired of Debby’s constant 
bragging. 

Todd’s project was just about finished. It had worms in it, of course. 

It was a worm house. A little house Todd’s father had helped him build, 
about the size of a dollhouse. One side was cut away and covered with a pane of 
glass so you could see in. The house was filled with dirt. And you could see all 

of the worms—a whole worm family—crawling from room to room. 

Danny’s project was really boring. He was building the solar system out of 
balloons. 

He wanted to share Todd’s project and work on it with him. But Todd 
wouldn’t let him. “I don’t want to share the computer,” Todd had said. 

“But I helped you dig up the worms!” Danny protested. 

“I dug up most of them,” Todd replied. 

And so Todd forced Danny to do his own project. Danny blew up different- 
colored balloons for all the planets and taped them on a big black sheet of 
oaktag. 

Very boring. 

“What makes you so sure you’re going to win the grand prize?” Danny asked 
Todd as he hurried to catch up with him on the playground at lunchtime. 

“I checked out the other projects,” Todd replied. “My project is the only one 
with real, living creatures. Except for Heather’s snails.” 

“Heather has done a lot of experiments with her snails,” Danny commented. 

“So what?” Todd snapped. “Snails are for babies. We had snails in first 
grade. No one cares about snails in sixth grade. No way they can compete with 
worms.” 

“I guess you’re right,” Danny replied, scratching his red hair. 

They squatted down as they reached the bare spot behind second base. Todd 
handed Danny his spare shovel. 

The playground was empty. Everyone else was inside eating lunch. 

The ground was still soft and wet. Worms were poking their heads up from 
little puddles. One long worm crawled on top of the dirt. 

“The rain makes them all come up,” said Todd, beginning to dig. “This is 
excellent!” 

He didn’t know what kind of trouble was waiting under the ground. 

2 

“Look out. You cut that one in two,” Todd warned. 

Danny grinned. “So what? Now you’ve got two little ones.” 

“But I only like big ones,” Todd replied, carefully sliding his shovel under a 
long, fat worm. 

“How many more do you need? My stomach is growling,” Danny 
complained, glancing back at the long, redbrick school building. 

“Just a few more,” Todd said, lowering the fat worm into the bucket. “He’s 
a squirmer, isn’t he?” 

Danny groaned. “Everyone else is eating lunch, and I’m out here digging in 
the mud.” 

“It’s for science,” Todd said seriously. 

“This one is as big as a snake. Did you ever think of collecting snakes?” 
Danny asked. 

“No,” Todd replied quickly, digging deep into the mud. “No way.” 

“Why not?” 

“Because I like worms,” Todd said. 

“What’s the real reason?” Danny demanded. 

“My parents won’t let me,” Todd muttered. 

The two boys continued to dig for another few minutes until the ground 
started to rumble. Danny dropped his shovel. 

“What’s that?” he asked. 

“Huh?” Todd didn’t seem to notice. 

The ground rumbled a little harder. This time everything shook. 

Todd pitched forward, dropping onto his hands and knees. He gazed up at 
Danny, surprised. “Hey—don’t push me.” 

“I didn’t!” Danny protested. 

“Then what—?” Todd started. But the ground shook again. And the dirt 
made a soft cracking sound. 

“I—I don’t like this!” Danny stammered. 

Without another word, both boys started to run. 

But the ground trembled again, and the cracking sound beneath their 

sneakers grew louder. Closer. 

“Earthquake!” Todd screamed. “Earthquake!” 

3 

Todd and Danny sprinted across the field and the playground and burst into the 
lunchroom. 

Both boys had red faces. Both of them were breathing hard. 

“Earthquake!” Todd shouted. “It’s an earthquake!” 

Chairs scraped. Conversations stopped. Everyone turned to stare at the two 
of them. 

“Duck under the tables!” Danny screamed shrilly. “Quick, everyone! The 
ground is shaking!” 

“Earthquake! Earthquake!” 

Everyone just laughed. 

No one moved. 

No one wanted to fall for a dumb practical joke. 

Todd spotted Beth and Regina across the lunchroom at the window. He and 
Danny darted over to them. 

“Get away from the window!” Todd warned. 

“The ground is cracking apart!” Danny cried. 

Regina’s mouth dropped open. She didn’t know whether to believe them or 
not. Regina, the worrier, was always ready to believe a disaster waited just 
around the corner. 

But all the other kids in the huge lunchroom were laughing their heads off. 

“We don’t get earthquakes in Ohio,” Beth said simply, making a disgusted 
face at Todd. 

“But—but—but—” Todd sputtered. 

“Didn’t you feel it?” Danny demanded breathlessly, his round, chubby face 
still bright red. “Didn’t you feel the ground shake?” 

“We didn’t feel anything,” Beth replied. 

“Didn’t you hear it?” Todd cried. “I—I was so freaked, I dropped all my 
worms.” He sank into the chair next to his sister. 

“No one believes you. It’s a dumb joke, Todd,” Regina told him. “Better 
luck next time, guys.” 

“But—but—” 

Regina turned away from her sputtering brother and started talking to Beth 
again. “As I was saying, his head is way too big for his body.” 

“He looks okay to me,” Beth replied. 

“No. We’ll have to cut his head off,” Regina insisted, frowning into her 
bowl of noodle soup. 

“Major surgery?” Beth asked. “Are you sure? If we cut his head off, it’ll 
show. It really will.” 

“But if his head is too big, what choice do we have?” Regina whined. 

“Huh? What are you talking about?” Todd demanded. “What about the 
earthquake?” 

“Todd, we’re talking about our science fair project,” Beth said impatiently. 

“Yeah. Go out and play in the earthquake!” Regina snapped. “We’ve got 
problems with Christopher Robin.” 

Todd snickered. “What a dumb name for a bird.” 

Regina stuck out her tongue at him and then turned her back. She and Beth 
began discussing their project again. 

They both agreed they probably should have tried something a little easier. 
And smaller. 

They were building an enormous robin out of papier-mache. It was 
supposed to be lifelike in every detail, except size. 

But the girls quickly discovered that papier-mache isn’t the most lifelike 
material around. It was hard to get the wings to stick to the body. It was even 
harder to get the huge round body to stand on the spindly wooden legs. 

And now Regina was convinced that the bird’s head was much too big for 
its body. 

They had used an entire quart of orange paint on the bird’s chest. Now, if 
they had to cut the head off and make a new one, the paint job would be ruined! 

“Maybe we could just shave a little off the top,” Beth suggested, taking the 
last potato chip from her bag and crinkling the bag between her hands. “Can I 
have some of your soup?” 

“You can finish it,” Regina replied, sliding the bowl across the table. “I’m 
not very hungry.” 

“There’s going to be an aftershock,” Todd warned, staring out the window. 

“Yeah. There’s always an aftershock after an earthquake,” Danny agreed. 

“I can’t believe you’re sitting here calmly, talking about your dumb 
project,” Todd said. 

“It’s not a dumb project!” Beth replied angrily. 

“Todd, go eat worms!” Regina exclaimed. It was her favorite thing to say to 
her brother. She said it at least ten times a day. 

“Beth is already eating worms,” Todd said, gazing down at the bowl of 
soup. 

Danny laughed. 

“Give me a break, Todd,” Beth muttered, rolling her eyes. 

“No. Really,” Todd insisted. “What kind of soup is that?” 

“Chicken noodle,” Beth replied warily. She took a spoonful, slurping the 
soup off the spoon. 

“Well, there’s a worm in your soup,” Todd said with a serious face. 

“Todd, you’re not funny,” Beth replied. “Give up.” 

“Want to bet?” Todd challenged. 

“Bet? What do you mean ‘bet’?” Beth said. 

“I’ll bet you a dollar there’s a worm in your soup,” Todd told her, his dark 
eyes lighting up. 

Danny leaned across the table, a wide grin frozen on his chubby face. 
“Yummm,” he said, licking his lips. “Abig fat purple one! Can I have a taste?” 

“You guys are jerks,” Regina muttered. 

“Bet a dollar?” Todd challenged, ignoring his sister. 

“Sure. It’s a bet,” Beth said. 

She reached across the table and shook Todd’s hand to seal the bet. Then 
she ran the soup spoon through the bowl several times to show him there was no 
worm. 

Todd reached under the table. Then a smile crossed his face as he brought 
his hand up—and dropped a fat purple worm into Beth’s soup. 

The worm wriggled and squirmed as it hit the hot soup. 

“Oooh, gross!” Beth screamed. 

Danny let out a loud laugh and slapped Todd gleefully on the back, nearly 
knocking Todd from the chair. 

“Pay up, Beth,” Todd demanded. “You lost the bet.” 

“You guys are sick,” Regina murmured, making a disgusted face, forcing 
herself not to look into the soup bowl. 

“Gross! Gross!” Beth was shrieking. 

The worm slipped and swam through the noodles. 

“You said you dropped your worms outside,” Regina accused angrily. 

Todd shrugged, a big grin on his face. “I lied!” 

Danny laughed even harder. He pounded the table gleefully with his fists, 
making the soup bowl bounce up and down. 

“Hey!” Suddenly Todd’s smile faded. He stared out of the lunchroom 
window at the playground. 

“Look!” He hit Danny’s shoulder, then pointed out toward second base, to 
the bare spot behind the base. “What’s going on out there?” he cried. 

4 

Todd walked over to the window and peered out, pressing his nose against the 
glass. “What is Patrick MacKay doing in my worm-digging spot?” he demanded 
angrily. 

Danny stepped beside Todd. He squinted out into the gray afternoon. “Are 
you sure that’s Patrick MacKay?” 

The sky darkened as the low clouds gathered. The boy on the playground 
was half covered by shadow. But Todd recognized him anyway. 

That snobby, stuck-up, rich kid. Patrick MacKay. 

He was bent over the bare spot of mud behind second base, working 
feverishly. 

“What is he doing out there?” Todd repeated. “That’s my best worm spot!” 

“He’s digging up worms, too!” Regina declared from the table. 

“Huh?” Todd spun around to find his sister smirking at him. 

“Patrick is digging up worms for the Science Expo,” she told him, unable to 
hide her joy. “He’s doing a worm project, too.” 

“But he can’t!” Todd sputtered in a high, shrill voice. 

“Whoa! What a copycat!” Danny declared. 

“He can’t do a worm project! I’m doing the worm project!” Todd insisted, 
turning back to stare at Patrick through the glass. 

“It’s a free country,” Regina replied smugly. She and Beth laughed and 
slapped each other high fives. They were enjoying seeing Todd squirm for a 
change. 

“But he’s not into worms!” Todd continued, very upset. “He doesn’t collect 
worms! He doesn’t study worms! He’s just copying me!” 

“Look at him, digging in your spot,” Danny murmured, shaking his head 
bitterly. 

“Patrick is a nice guy,” Beth remarked. “He doesn’t act like a jerk and put 
worms in people’s soup.” 

“He’s a jerk,” Todd insisted angrily, staring hard out the window. “He’s a 
total jerk.” 

“He’s a copycat jerk,” Danny added. 

“His worm project is going to be better than yours,” Regina teased him. 

Todd’s dark eyes burned into his sister’s. “You know what it is? You know 
what Patrick’s project is?” 

Regina had a smug smile on her lips. She tossed back her brown hair. Then 
she made a zipper sign, moving her fingers across her lips. “I’ll never tell,” she 
said. 

“What is it?” Todd demanded. “Tell me.” 

Regina shook her head. 

“Tell me, Beth,” Todd insisted, narrowing his eyes menacingly at Beth. 

“No way,” Beth replied, glancing merrily at Regina. 

“Then I’ll ask him myself,” Todd declared. “Come on, Danny.” 

The two boys started running through the lunchroom. They were nearly to 
the door when Todd ran into their teacher. 

Miss Grant was carrying her lunch tray high over her head, stepping around 
a group of kids in the aisle. Todd just didn’t see her. 

He bumped her from behind. 

She uttered a cry of surprise—and her tray flew out of her hands. The tray 
and the plates clattered loudly onto the floor. And her food—salad and a bowl of 
spaghetti—dropped around her feet. 

“What is your hurry, young man?” she snapped at Todd. 

“Uh... sorry,” Todd murmured. It was the only reply he could think of. 

Miss Grant bent to examine her brown shoes, which were now orange, 
covered with wet clumps of spaghetti. 

“It was an accident,” Todd said impatiently, fiddling with his Raiders cap. 

“It sure was,” the teacher replied coldly. “Perhaps I should speak to you 
after school about why we don’t run in the lunchroom?” 

“Perhaps,” Todd agreed. Then he bolted past her, running out the door 
faster than he had ever run. 

“Cool move, ace!” Danny exclaimed, running beside him. 

“It wasn’t my fault,” Todd told him. “She stepped in front of me.” 

“The bell is going to ring,” Danny warned as they made their way out the 
back door. 

“I don’t care,” Todd replied breathlessly. “I’ve got to find out what that 
copycat is doing with worms!” 

Patrick was still bent over the mud behind second base. He was scooping up 
worms with a silvery trowel that looked brand-new, then dropping them into a 
metal bait can. 

He was a slim, good-looking boy with wavy blond hair and blue eyes. He 
had started school in September. His family had moved to Ohio from Pasadena. 
He was always telling everyone how California was so much better. 

He didn’t brag about how rich he was. But he wore designer jeans, and his 
mother brought him to school every morning in a long, white Lincoln. So Todd 
and the others at William Tecumseh Sherman Middle School figured it out. 

Patrick was in Regina’s class. A few weeks after school started, he’d had a 
big birthday party and invited everyone in his class. Including Regina. 

She reported that Patrick had a whole carnival, with rides and everything, in 
his back yard. Todd pretended he didn’t care that he wasn’t invited. 

The sky grew even darker as Danny and Todd stood over Patrick on the 
playground. “What are you doing, Patrick?” Todd demanded. 

“Digging,” Patrick replied, glancing up from his work. 

“Digging up worms?” Todd asked, his hands pressed against the waist of 
his jeans. 

Patrick nodded. He started digging again. He pulled up a long, dark brown 
one that Todd would have loved to own. 

“I’m doing a worm project,” Todd told him. 

“I know,” Patrick replied, concentrating on his work. “Me, too.” 

“What is it?” Danny chimed in. “What’s your project, Patrick?” 

Patrick didn’t reply. He dug up a tiny, pale worm, examined it, and tossed it 
back. 

“What’s your project? Tell us,” Todd demanded. 

“You really want to know?” Patrick asked, raising his blue eyes to them. 
The wind ruffled his blond hair, but the hair immediately fell back into place. 

Todd felt a raindrop on his shoulder. Then one on the top of his head. 

“What’s your project?” Todd repeated. 

“Okay, okay,” Patrick said, wiping dirt off his hands. “I’ll tell you. My 
project is...” 

5 

The class bell rang. The sharp clang cut through the rising wind. The rain started 
to patter loudly against the ground. 

“We’ve got to go in,” Danny urged, tugging at Todd’s sleeve. 

“Wait,” Todd said, his eyes on Patrick. “Tell me now!” he insisted. 

“But we’ll be late!” Danny insisted, tugging at Todd again. “And we’re 
getting soaked.” 

Patrick climbed to his feet. “I think I’ve got all the worms I need.” He 
shook wet dirt off the silvery trowel. 

“So what is your worm project?” Todd repeated, ignoring the pattering rain 
and Danny’s urgent requests to get back inside the school. 

Patrick grinned at him, revealing about three hundred perfect, white teeth. 
“I’m teaching them to fly,” he said. 

“Huh?” 

“I’m putting cardboard wings on them and teaching them to fly. Wait till 
you see it! It’s a riot!” He burst out laughing. 

Danny leaned close to Todd. “Is he for real?” he whispered. 

“Of course not!” Todd shot back. “Don’t be a jerk, Danny. He’s goofing on 

us.” 

“Hey—you’re not funny,” Danny told Patrick angrily. 

“We’re late, guys. Let’s get going,” Patrick said, his grin fading. He started 
toward the school building. 

But Todd moved quickly to block his path. “Tell me the truth, Patrick. What 
are you planning to do?” 

Patrick started to reply. 

But a low rumbling sound made him stop. 

They all heard it. A muffled roar that made the ground shake. 

The worm can fell out of Patrick’s hand. His blue eyes opened wide in 
surprise—and fear. 

The rumbling gave way to a loud, cracking noise. It sounded as if the whole 
playground were splitting apart. 

“Wh-what’s happening ?” Patrick stammered. 

“Run!” Todd screamed as the ground trembled and shook. “Run for your 

6 

“Why are you so late? Where’ve you been? In another earthquake?” Regina 
teased. 

“Ha-ha,” Todd said bitterly. “Danny and I weren’t making it up. It happened 
again! And Patrick was there, too.” 

“How come no one else felt it?” Regina demanded. “I had the radio on after 
school. And there was nothing about an earthquake on the news.” 

It was nearly five o’clock. Todd had found his sister in the garage, up on an 
aluminum ladder, working hard on her giant robin. Somehow she had managed 
to get clumps of papier-mache in her hair and down the front of her T-shirt. 

“I don’t want to talk about the earthquake,” Todd muttered, stepping into 
the garage. “I know I’m right.” 

The rain had ended just before school let out. But the driveway was still 
puddled with water. 

His wet sneakers squeaked as he made his way to Regina’s ladder. 

“Where’s Beth?” he asked. 

“She had to go get her braces tightened,” Regina told him, concentrating on 
smoothing out the papier-mache beak. She let out a loud groan. “I can’t get this 
beak smooth.” 

Todd kicked dejectedly at an old tire that leaned against the garage wall. 

“Look out!” Regina called. 

A wet clump of papier-mache landed at Todd’s feet with a plop. “You 
missed me!” he cried, ducking away. 

“So? Where’ve you been?” Regina asked. 

“Miss Grant kept me after school. She gave me a long lecture.” 

“About what?” Regina stopped to examine her work. 

“I don’t know. Something about running in school,” Todd replied. “How are 
you going to get this dumb bird to the science fair?” 

“Carry it,” Regina answered without hesitating. “It’s big, but it’s really 
light. I don’t suppose you would help Beth and me?” 

“I don’t suppose,” Todd told her, wrapping his hand around the broomstick 
that formed one bird leg. 

“Hey—get your paws off!” Regina cried. “Leave it alone!” 

Todd obediendy backed away. 

“You’re just jealous because Christopher Robin is going to win the 
computer,” Regina said. 

“Listen, Reggie—you’ve got to tell me what Patrick MacKay is doing for 
his worm project,” Todd pleaded. “You’ve got to.” 

She climbed down off the ladder. She saw the big worm in Todd’s hand. 
“What’s that for?” she demanded. 

“Nothing.” Todd’s cheeks turned pink. 

“You planned to drop that down my back, didn’t you?” Regina accused 

him. 

“No. I was just taking it for a walk,” Todd told her. He laughed. 

“You’re a creep,” Regina said, shaking her head. “Don’t you ever get tired 
of those dumb worms?” 

“No,” Todd replied. “So tell me. What’s Patrick’s project?” 

“You want to hear the truth?” Regina asked. 

“Yeah.” 

“The truth is, I don’t know,” his sister confessed. “I really don’t know what 
he’s doing.” 

Todd stared hard at her for a long moment. “You really don’t?” 

She crossed her heart. “I really don’t know.” 

Todd suddenly had an idea. “Where does he live?” he asked eagerly. 

The question caught Regina by surprise. “Why?” 

“Danny and I can go over there tonight,” Todd said. “And I’ll ask him what 
he’s doing.” 

“You’re going to go to his house?” Regina asked. 

“I’ve got to find out!” Todd exclaimed. “I’ve worked so hard on my worm 
house, Reggie. I don’t want Patrick the Copycat to do something better.” 

Regina eyed her brother thoughtfully. “And what will you do for me if I tell 
you where he lives?” 

A grin spread over Todd’s face. He held up the worm. “If you tell me, I 
won’t put this down your back.” 

“Ha-ha,” Regina replied, rolling her eyes. “You’re a real pal, Todd.” 

“Tell me!” he insisted eagerly, grabbing her by the shoulders. 

“Okay, okay. Don’t have a cow. Patrick lives on Glen Cove,” Regina 
replied. “I think the number is 100. It’s a huge, old mansion. Behind a tall 
fence.” 

“Thanks!” Todd said. “Thanks a lot!” 

Then, as Regina bent down to pick up the globs of papier-mache from the 
garage floor, he dropped the worm down the back of her T-shirt. 

7 

“I can’t believe we’re doing this,” Danny complained. “My parents said I 
couldn’t come over. As soon as they went grocery shopping, I ducked out. But if 
they catch me...” His voice trailed off. 

“We’ll be back home in fifteen minutes,” Todd said. He shifted gears and 
pedaled the bike harder. Danny’s old bike splashed through a deep puddle at the 
curb. 

The rain clouds had rolled away. But the wind still gusted, cool and damp. 
The sun had set about an hour before. Now a thin sliver of moon hung low in the 
evening sky. 

“Where is the house? On Glen Cove?” Danny asked, out of breath. 

Todd nodded. He shifted gears again. He liked shifting back and forth. It 
was a new bike, and he still hadn’t gotten used to so many gears. 

A car rolled toward them rapidly, the glare of its white headlights forcing 
them to shield their eyes. Danny’s bike rolled up onto the curb, and he nearly 
toppled over. “Why’d they have their brights on?” he griped. 

“Beats me,” Todd replied. 

They turned sharply onto Glen Cove. It was a wide street of old houses set 
back on broad, sloping lawns. The houses were set far apart, separated by dark 
wooded areas. 

“No streetlights,” Danny commented. “You’d think rich people could afford 
streetlights.” 

“Maybe they like it dark,” Todd replied thoughtfully. “You know. It helps 
keep people away.” 

“It’s kind of creepy here,” Danny said softly, leaning over his handlebars. 

“Don’t be a wimp. Look for 100,” Todd said sharply. “That’s Patrick’s 
address.” 

“Wow. Check out that house!” Danny said, slowing down and pointing. “It 
looks like a castle!” 

“I think 100 must be on the next block,” Todd called, eagerly pedaling 
ahead. 

“What are we going to say to Patrick?” Danny asked, breathing hard, 
struggling to catch up. 

“I’m just going to ask him if we can see his worm project,” Todd replied, 
his eyes searching the darkness for address signs. “Maybe I’ll act like I want to 
help him out. You know. Give him a few tips on how to take care of the worms.” 

“Nice guy,” Danny teased. He chuckled to himself. “What if Patrick says 

no?” 

Todd didn’t reply. He hadn’t thought of that. 

He squeezed the hand brake. “Look.” He pointed to an enormous house 
behind a tall iron fence. “That’s his house.” 

Danny’s brakes squealed as he brought his bike to a stop. He lowered his 
feet to the wet pavement. “Wow.” 

The house rose up over the broad, tree-filled lawn, black against the purple 
night sky. It was completely dark. Not a light on anywhere. 

“No one home,” Danny said, whispering. 

“Good,” Todd replied. “This is even better. Maybe we can look down in the 
basement window or find the window to Patrick’s room, and see what he’s 
working on.” 

“Maybe,” Danny replied reluctantly. 

Todd glanced around. Patrick’s house was the only one on the block. And it 
was surrounded by woods. 

Both boys climbed off their bikes and started to walk them to the driveway. 

“I can’t believe Patrick would live in such a wreck of a place,” Todd said, 
pulling off his cap and scratching his hair. “I mean, this house is a real dump.” 

“Maybe his parents are weird or something,” Danny suggested as they 
parked their bikes. 

“Maybe,” Todd replied thoughtfully. 

“Sometimes rich people get a little weird,” Danny said, climbing on to the 
porch and ringing the doorbell. 

“How would you know?” Todd said, snickering. He pulled his cap back 
down over his dark hair and rang the bell again. “No answer. Let’s check out the 
back,” he said, hopping off the porch. 

“What for?” Danny demanded. 

“Let’s just look in the windows,” Todd urged, moving along to the side of 
the house. “Let’s see if we can see anything at all.” 

As they turned the corner, it grew even darker. The pale sliver of moonlight 
was reflected in one of the upstairs windows. The only light. 

“This is dumb,” Danny complained. “It’s too dark to see anything inside the 

house. And, besides—” 

He stopped. 

“Now what’s wrong?” Todd demanded impatiently. 

“Didn’t you hear it? I heard it again,” Danny said. “Like a growl. Some 
kind of animal growl.” 

Todd didn’t hear the growl. 

But he saw something enormous running toward them. 

He saw the evil red glow of its eyes—unblinking eyes trained on him. 

And he knew it was too late to escape. 

8 

“Run!” Danny screamed. 

But Todd couldn’t move. 

As the enormous red-eyed monster bounded toward them, Todd pressed his 
back against a side door. 

He nearly fell as the door swung in. 

The creature uttered an ugly, threatening growl. Its huge paws thundered 
over the ground. 

“Inside!” Todd screamed. “Danny—get in the house!” 

His heart pounding as loudly as the monster’s paws, Todd scrambled into 
the dark house. Danny lurched in behind him, uttering low gasps. 

Todd slammed the door shut as the creature attacked. 

Its paws struck the windowpane in the door, making the entire door rattle. 

“It’s a dog!” Todd cried in a choked whisper. “A huge, angry dog!” 

The dog let out another ferocious growl and leaped at the door. Its paws 
scraped over the window. 

“A dog?” Danny exclaimed shrilly. “I thought it was a gorilla !” 

The two boys pressed their shoulders against the door, holding it shut. They 
peered out warily at the big creature. 

The dog had sat back on its haunches. It stared in at them, its red eyes 
glowing. It was panting loudly, its enormous tongue hanging out of its mouth. 

“Someone should put that guy on a diet!” Danny exclaimed. 

“We could ride that dog to school!” Todd added. 

“How do we get out of here?” Danny asked, turning away from the dog. His 
eyes searched the dark room. 

“He’ll go away,” Todd said. He swallowed hard. “Probably.” 

“This place is a dump,” Danny said, stepping into the room. 

Todd turned to follow Danny. They were in the kitchen, he saw. Pale 
moonlight floated in through the window. Even in this dim light, Todd could see 
that something was terribly wrong. 

The kitchen counters were bare and covered in dust. There were no 
appliances—no toaster, no microwave, no refrigerator. There were no dishes or 

pots and pans in view. Glancing down, Todd saw that the sink was caked with 
thick dirt. 

“Weird,” Danny muttered. 

The two boys made their way through a short hallway to the dining room. 

“Where’s the furniture?” Danny asked, gazing in all directions. 

The room was empty. 

“Maybe they’re redecorating or something,” Todd guessed. 

“This doesn’t make sense. Patrick’s family is rich,” Danny said, shaking his 
head. “You know how neat Patrick is. He gets upset if his shirt comes untucked.” 

“I don’t get it,” Todd replied. “Where do you think he has his worm 
project?” 

The two boys made their way toward the living room. Their sneakers 
scraped over the dusty, bare floor. 

“Something is weird here,” Danny murmured. “Something is very weird.” 

They both gasped as they stepped into the living room—and saw the figure 
hunched at the window. 

Saw the decayed green flesh of his face. 

Saw the bones of his jaw, open in a hideous toothless grin. 

Saw his evil, sunken eyes staring across the room at them. 

9 

The heavy silence was broken by the shrill screams of the two boys. 

“Go! Go!” Todd cried. He shoved Danny toward the door and stumbled 
along behind him, keeping his hands on Danny’s shoulders. 

“Go! Go! Go!” 

Through the bare dining room. Across the dust-covered kitchen. 

“Go! Go!” 

Todd grabbed the doorknob, pulled open the door, and they both burst out 
of the house. 

Had the dog left? 

Yes! 

“Let’s move/” Todd cried. 

But Danny needed no encouragement. He was already halfway down the 
driveway, his chubby legs pumping hard, his hands stretched out in front of him 
as if trying to pull himself to safety. 

Out the gate. Onto their bikes. 

They pedaled furiously. Faster. Faster. Until their legs ached and they could 
barely breathe. And they never looked back. 

Who was that hideous, decayed figure in Patrick’s house? 

And why was the house so dusty, so totally bare? 

Todd spent most of the night lying awake in his bed, thinking about it. 

But the mystery wasn’t cleared up until the next morning. 

Yawning sleepily, Todd pulled on the same clothes he had worn the day 
before. Then he made his way down the hall to go to breakfast. 

He stopped outside Regina’s bedroom door when he heard her laughing. At 
first, he thought she was talking to herself. 

But then he realized that Regina was on the phone. 

So early? 

He pressed his ear to the door and listened. 

“Isn’t it a riot, Beth?” Regina was saying. “I sent them to the wrong 
address.” Regina laughed again. Gleeful laughter. 

Todd suddenly snapped wide awake. He pressed his ear tighter against the 
bedroom door. 

“Todd was so desperate, I couldn’t resist,” Regina was saying. “Know 
where I sent them?” 

There was a short pause. Todd realized he was holding his breath. He let it 
out silently and took another one, listening hard. 

“I sent them to the old Fosgate mansion,” Regina told Beth. She laughed. 
“Yeah. Right. That old deserted mansion where those kids had that Halloween 
party. Yeah. You know. They left that dummy with the weird mask in the 
window.” 

Another pause. 

Todd gritted his teeth as he listened to his sister’s triumphant laughter. He 
could feel every muscle in his body tightening in anger. 

“I don’t know, Beth. I haven’t talked to him yet,” Regina was saying. “I 
heard Todd come in last night. He ran straight to his room and shut the door. He 
was probably too scared to talk!” 

More laughter. 

Balling and unballing his fists, Todd stepped away from his sister’s door. 
He stopped at the stairs, feeling his face grow red-hot. He was thinking hard. 

So Reggie played a little joke on Danny and me, he thought bitterly. So she 
gave me the wrong address and sent us to that old haunted house. 

Ha-ha. Good joke. 

Todd felt so angry, he wanted to scream. 

Now Regina will be laughing at me about this forever, he realized. She will 
make fun of me for the rest of my life. 

Her bedroom door opened, and Regina stepped out into the hall. She was 
pulling her brown hair back into a ponytail. 

She stopped when she saw Todd at the top of the stairs. “So, how did it go 
last night?” she asked him, grinning. 

“Fine,” he replied casually. He gave her an innocent, wide-eyed stare. 

Her grin faded. “Did you go to Patrick’s house? Did you talk to him about 
his worm project?” she demanded, staring back at him, studying his face. 

Todd shook his head. “No. Danny and I decided to skip it. We just hung out 
at Danny’s,” he lied. 

Her dark eyes seemed to dim. She bit her lower lip. Todd could see how 
disappointed she was. 

He turned and made his way down the stairs, feeling a little better. 
You want to play jokes, Reggie? he thought. 

Okay. Fine. 

But now it’s my turn. My turn to play a mean joke. 

Todd smiled. He had already thought of a really good one. 

10 

Todd hoisted the cardboard carton in both hands. His worm house was packed 
carefully inside. It was heavier than he thought. 

“Where shall I put it?” he asked Mrs. Sanger, struggling to keep the heavy 
carton from slipping out of his hands. 

“What? I can’t hear you!” The science teacher held a clipboard in one hand. 
She cupped her other hand around her mouth as a megaphone. 

It was deafening in the gym as the kids all hurried to set up their science 
projects in time for the expo. Excited voices competed with scraping chairs and 
tables, the rattle of cartons being unpacked, and projects of all shapes and sizes 
being assembled and set up. 

“What a crowd!” Todd exclaimed. 

“I can’t hear you!” Mrs. Sanger shouted. She pointed to a long table against 
the wall. “I think your project goes there, Todd.” 

Todd started to say something. But he was interrupted by the crash of 
shattering glass and a girl’s loud scream. 

“Was that the acid?” Mrs. Sanger shouted, her eyes going wide with horror. 
“Was that the acid?” She pushed past Todd and went tearing across the gym, 
holding her clipboard in front of her like a shield. 

Todd watched a lot of kids gathering around the spot of the accident. Mrs. 
Sanger burst into the circle, and everyone began talking at once. 

Around the vast gym, others ignored the excitement and continued 
feverishly setting up their projects. 

The bleachers had been pulled down. Some parents and other kids from the 
school were already seated, waiting to watch the expo and the judging of 
projects. 

Groaning, Todd started to make his way through the crowded gym carrying 
the carton. He had to stop and chuckle when he caught a glimpse of Regina and 
Beth. 

They had their enormous robin set up close to the bleachers. The head was 
the right size now. They had managed to shave it down smoothly. 

But some of the tail feathers had gotten mashed. And they were working 
frantically to smooth them out. 

What losers, Todd thought, grinning. 

There’s no way they’re going to win the computer. 

Turning away, he glimpsed Danny’s balloon solar system hanging on the 
back wall. One of the balloons—the one closest to the sun—had already 
deflated. 

Pitiful, Todd thought, shaking his head. That’s just pitiful. 

He sighed. Poor Danny. I guess I should have let him share in my project. 

Todd lowered the carton onto the table reserved for him. 

“Ten minutes, everyone! Ten minutes!” Mrs. Sanger was shouting. 

No problem, Todd thought. 

He opened the carton and carefully lifted out the worm house. What a 
beauty! he thought proudly. 

It looked like a perfect little house. Todd had polished the wood frame until 
it glowed. And he had cleaned the glass until it was spotless. 

He set the worm house down carefully on the table and turned it so that the 
glass side faced the audience in the bleachers. He gazed into it. He could see the 
long, brown and purple worms crawling from room to room. 

He had packed the dirt in carefully. Then he had dropped in more than 
twenty worms before sealing it all up. 

It’s a real big family! he thought, grinning. 

Once the worm house was in place, Todd pulled out the sign he had made 
for it and placed the sign beside it on the table. 

He stepped back to admire his work. But someone pushed him gently aside. 

“Make room. Make room, Todd.” It was Mrs. Sanger. And to Todd’s 
surprise, she was helping Patrick MacKay carry a long cardboard carton to the 
table. 

“Move your project to the side, Todd,” the teacher instructed. “You have to 
share the table.” 

“Huh? Share?” Todd hesitated. 

“Hurry—please!” Mrs. Sanger pleaded. “Patrick’s box is heavy.” 

“I’m sharing the table with Patrick?” Todd couldn’t hide his unhappiness. 

Obediently, he slid his worm house to one side of the table. Then he stood 
behind the table, watching as Patrick and the teacher unloaded the long carton. 
The box was nearly six feet long. 

“Is that all one worm?” Todd joked. 

“Very funny,” Patrick muttered. He was straining hard to lift his project 

onto the table. 

“This will be our worm table,” Mrs. Sanger said, grabbing the end of the 
carton and tugging. Patrick pulled, too. 

Todd gasped as Patrick hoisted his project onto the tabletop. 

“Very impressive, Patrick,” Mrs. Sanger commented, straightening her 
skirt. She hurried off to help someone else. 

Todd gaped at the project. It towered over his. It was nearly six feet tall, 
taller than Patrick! 

“Oh, nooooo,” Todd moaned to himself. He turned to Patrick. “It—it 
isn’t... it can’t be—!” He choked on the words. 

Patrick was busily setting up his sign. He stepped back, checking it out, 
making sure it was straight. 

“Yes, it is!” he said, beaming at Todd. “It’s a worm skyscraper!” 

“Wow.” Todd didn’t want to show how upset he was. But he couldn’t help 
it. His legs were trembling. His mouth dropped open. And he started to stutter, 
“But—but—but—” 

I don’t believe this! Todd thought miserably. 

I built a crummy little worm house. And Patrick made a skyscraper! 

It’s not fair! Not fair! 

Patrick doesn’t even like worms! 

He stared at the giant wood-and-glass structure. He could see dozens and 
dozens of worms inside. They were crawling from floor to floor. There was even 
a wooden elevator with several worms tucked inside. 

“Todd—are you okay?” Patrick asked. 

“Yeah. Uh... fine,” Todd replied, trying to force his legs to stop quivering. 

“You look a little weird,” Patrick said, staring at Todd with his bright blue 

eyes. 

“Uh... that’s a nice project, Patrick,” Todd admitted through clenched teeth. 
“You could win the big prize.” 

“You think so?” Patrick replied, as if the thought had never occurred to him. 
“Thanks, Todd. I got the idea from you. About worms, I mean.” 

You stole the idea, you thief! Todd thought angrily. 

I have only one wish for you, Patrick. Go eat worms! 

“Wow! What’s that?” Danny’s voice broke into Todd’s ugly thoughts. He 
was staring in amazement at Patrick’s project. 

“It’s a worm skyscraper,” Patrick told him, beaming with pride. 

Danny admired it for a while. Then he turned to Todd. “Why didn’t you 
think of that?” he whispered. 

Todd gave Danny a hard shove. “Go blow up a balloon,” he muttered. 

Danny spun around angrily. “Don’t shove me—” 

Mrs. Sanger’s voice over the loudspeaker rose over the noise of the gym. 
“Places by your projects, everyone. The expo is starting. The judges will begin 
their rounds.” 

Danny hurried back to his balloon solar system against the wall. Todd 
watched him make his way past a display of rocks. Danny was swinging his 
arms as he walked, and he nearly knocked over all the rocks. 

Then Todd stepped behind the table. He brushed a speck of dust off the roof 
of his worm house. 

I should just toss it in the trash, he thought miserably. He glanced at Patrick, 
who stood beside him, grinning from ear to ear, his hands resting on the sides of 
his magnificent skyscraper. 

The copycat is going to win, Todd thought sadly. 

He sighed. Only one thing would cheer him up a little. One thing. And 
gazing across the gym, Todd saw that it was time for it to happen. 

The three judges—all teachers from another school—were stepping up to 
check out Christopher Robin. As they bent low to examine the papier-mache bird 
feet, Todd made his way quickly over to his sister’s project. 

He wanted a good view. 

One judge, a plump young woman in a bright yellow vest, examined the tail 
feathers. Another judge, a man with a shiny bald head, was questioning Regina 
and Beth. The third judge had her back to Todd. She was running her hand over 
the bird’s swelling orange breast. 

Reggie and Beth look really nervous, Todd thought, edging past a display 
on how trash gets recycled. 

Well, they should be nervous. What a dumb project. 

Todd stopped a few feet in front of the bleachers. There was a really big 
audience for the expo, he noticed. The bleachers were at least two-thirds filled. 
Mostly parents and younger brothers and sisters of the contestants. 

The bald judge kept making notes on a small pad as he questioned Regina 
and Beth. The other two judges were staring up at the giant robin’s beak. 

Todd edged closer. 

“What’s this string?” the judge in the yellow vest asked Beth. 

“Huh? String?” Beth reacted with surprise. She and Regina raised their eyes 
to the yellow beak. 

“What string?” Regina demanded. 

Too late. 

The judge in the yellow vest pulled the string. 

The beak lowered, revealing a surprise inside. 

“Ohhhh.” 

“Yuck!” 

Disgusted groans rose up from the audience. 

And Regina and Beth started to scream. 

11 

Fat worms wriggled out from inside the bird’s beak. 

Some of them wriggled out and rained down on the judges. 

A huge purple worm plopped onto the bald judge’s head. The angry judge’s 
red face darkened until it nearly matched the purple worm. 

Early that morning, Todd had packed about thirty worms in there. He was 
glad to see that most of them had stayed in the beak. 

People in the bleachers were groaning and moaning. “That’s sick!” 
someone yelled. 

“Gross! That’s so gross!” a little boy kept repeating. 

The judges were demanding to know if Regina and Beth had stuffed the 
worms up there as a joke. 

Mrs. Sanger was glaring angrily at them. The two girls were sputtering their 
apologies. 

It was a thrilling moment, Todd thought. A thrilling moment. 

About ten or fifteen worms were wriggling across the gym floor. Todd 
started to edge back to his table. 

“There he is! My brother!” he heard Regina shout. He glanced up to see her 
pointing furiously at him. “Todd did it! It had to be Todd!” 

He gave her an innocent shrug. “I thought Christopher Robin looked hungry 
—so I fed him!” he called. Then he hurried back to his worm house. 

A big grin on his handsome face, Patrick slapped Todd a high five. “Cool 
move, ace!” 

Todd grudgingly accepted the congratulations. He didn’t want to be friends 
with Patrick. He wanted Patrick to go eat worms. 

He glanced back at Danny. Danny was frantically blowing up a balloon. 
The rings had fallen off Saturn. And someone had accidentally popped Pluto. 

Todd smiled. He felt pretty good. His little joke had worked perfectly. 
Revenge was sweet. He had paid Regina back for sending him to that creepy old 
house. 

But his smile faded as he glanced at Patrick’s skyscraper and remembered 
that he was going to miss out on the grand prize. 

It took the school janitor a few minutes to round up all the worms. The 

crowd in the bleachers cheered him on as he scooped up the wiggling worms one 
by one and dropped them into an empty coffee can. 

After that, the expo continued calmly and quietly. The judges moved from 
project to project, asking questions, making notes. 

Todd took a deep breath when they approached his table. Don’t get excited, 
he warned himself. The worm house looks really puny next to the worm 
skyscraper. 

He had a sudden urge to bump the table, to shake it really hard. Maybe the 
skyscraper would topple over, and the house would be left standing. 

I could pretend it was just an accident, Todd thought. 

Evil thoughts. 

But he didn’t do it. 

The three judges spent about ten seconds looking at Todd’s project. They 
didn’t ask Todd a single question. 

Then they gazed at Patrick’s skyscraper for at least five minutes. “How did 
you get all those worms in there?” the bald judge asked. 

“I love the elevator!” 

“How many worms are there in total?” 

“Can worms survive in a real skyscraper?” 

“And what does this project prove about gravity?” 

Yak yak yak, Todd thought bitterly. 

He watched the judges coo and carry on over Patrick’s project. He wanted 
to grab all three of them and say, “He’s a copycat! I’m the real worm guy! I’m 
the one who likes worms!” 

But he just stood there grinding his teeth, tapping his fingers tensely on the 
tabletop. 

Still scribbling notes about Patrick’s project, the judges moved on to the 
next project—Liquids and Gases. 

Patrick turned to Todd and forced him into slapping another high five. “You 
can come over and see my new computer anytime,” Patrick whispered 
confidently. 

Todd forced a weak laugh. He turned away from Patrick—and found his 
sister glaring at him furiously from the other side of the table. 

“How could you, Todd!” she demanded, spitting out the words, her hands 
pressed tightly at her waist. “How could you do that to Beth and me?” 

“Easy,” he replied, unable to keep a grin off his face. 

“You ruined our project!” Regina cried. 

“I know,” Todd said, still grinning. “You deserved it.” 

Regina started to sputter. 

The loudspeaker above their heads crackled on. “Ladies and gentlemen, we 
have a winner!” Mrs. Sanger declared. 

The huge gym grew silent. No one moved. 

“The judges have a winner!” Mrs. Sanger repeated, her voice booming off 
the tile walls. “The grand-prize winner of this year’s Science Expo is...” 

12 

“The winner is...” Mrs. Sanger announced, “Danny Fletcher and his Balloon 
Solar System!” 

The audience in the bleachers was quiet for a moment, but then erupted in 
cheers and applause. Todd’s classmates on the floor applauded, too. 

Todd turned and caught the startled expression on Danny’s face. Several 
kids rushed forward to congratulate Danny. The balloons bobbed behind Danny 
as he grinned and took a funny bow. 

The gym erupted as everyone began to talk at once. Then the spectators 
made their way down from the bleachers and began wandering through the 
displays. 

I don’t believe this! Todd thought. Glancing at Patrick, he saw that Patrick 
felt the same way. 

Danny flashed Todd a thumbs-up sign. Todd returned it, shaking his head. 

He felt a hard shove on his shoulders. 

“Hey—” he cried out angrily and spun around. “Are you still here?” 

Regina glared at him angrily. “That’s for ruining our project!” she shouted. 

She shoved him again. “You apologize! ” she demanded furiously. 

He laughed. “No way!” 

She growled at him and raised her fists. “Go eat worms!” she screamed. 

Still laughing, he pulled off the wooden back of his worm house and lifted 
up a long, brown worm. He dangled it in front of his sister’s face. “Here. Have 
some dessert.” 

With a furious cry, Regina completely lost all control. 

She leaped at Todd, shoving him over backwards. 

He cried out as he sprawled back—and hit the table hard. 

Several kids let out startled screams as the enormous worm skyscraper 
tilted ... tilted... tilted.... 

“No!” Patrick screamed. He reached out both hands to stop it. 

And missed. 

And the heavy wood-and-glass structure toppled onto the next table with a 
deafening crash of shattered glass. 

“No!” a girl screamed. “That’s Liquids and Gases! Look out—it’s Liquids 
and Gases!” 

Dirt poured out of the broken skyscraper. Several worms came wriggling 
out onto the table. 

As Todd pulled himself to his feet, wild screams filled the gym. 

“Liquids and Gases!” 

“What’s that smoke?” 

“What did they break? Did they break a window?” 

“Liquids and Gases!” 

Thick, white smoke poured up from a broken glass bottle under the fallen 
skyscraper. 

“Everybody out!” someone yelled. “Everybody out! It’s going to blow up!” 

13 

No one was hurt in the explosion. 

Some strange gases escaped, and it smelled pretty weird in the gym for a 
while. 

A lot of worms went flying across the room. And there was a lot of broken 
glass to be cleaned up. 

But it was a minor explosion, Todd told his parents later. “Really. No big 
deal,” he said. “I’m sure everyone will forget all about it in five or ten years.” 

A few days later, carrying a small, white carton in both hands, Todd made his 
way down the basement stairs. He could hear the steady plonk plonk of Ping- 
Pong balls against paddles. 

Regina and Beth glanced up from their game as he entered the room. 
“Chinese food?” Beth asked, spotting the little box. 

“No. Worms,” Todd replied, crossing the room to his worm tank. 

“Are you still into worms?” Beth demanded, twirling her Ping-Pong paddle. 
“Even after what happened at the Science Expo?” 

“It all got cleaned up,” Todd snapped. “It was no big deal.” 

“Hah!” Regina cried scornfully. 

Todd gazed at his sister in surprise. “Hey, are you talking to me again?” 
Regina was so furious, she hadn’t said a word to him since the big disaster. 

“No. I am not talking to you,” Regina replied with a sneer. “I will never talk 
to you again.” 

“Give me a break!” Todd muttered. He opened the carton and poured the 
new worms into the big glass aquarium where he stored his collection. 

Plonk. Plonk. The girls returned to their game. 

“You know, what happened at the Science Expo was no tragedy,” Todd 
called to them. “Some people thought it was kind of funny.” He snickered. 

“Some people are kind of sick,” Beth muttered. 

Regina slammed the ball hard. It sailed into the net. “You ruined 
everything,” she accused Todd angrily. “You ruined the whole expo.” 

“And you ruined our project,” Beth added, reaching for the ball. “You made 
us look like total jerks.” 

“So?” Todd replied, laughing. 

The girls didn’t laugh. 

“I only did it because you sent Danny and me to that creepy old house,” 
Todd told them. He used a small trowel to soften the dirt in the worm tank. 

“Well, you wouldn’t have won, anyway,” Regina said, sneering. “Patrick’s 
skyscraper made your puny house look like a baby’s project.” 

“You’re jealous of Patrick—aren’t you, Todd!” Beth accused him. 

“Jealous of that copycat?” Todd cried. “He doesn’t know one end of a 
worm from another!” 

The girls started their game again. Beth took a wild swing and sent the ball 
sailing across the room. 

Todd caught it with his free hand. “Come here,” he said. “I’ll show you 
something cool.” 

“No way,” Regina replied nastily. 

“Just toss back the ball,” Beth said, holding up her hand to catch it. 

“Come here. This is really cool,” Todd insisted, grinning. 

He pulled a long worm out of the tank and held it up in the air. It wriggled 
and squirmed, trying to get free. 

Regina and Beth didn’t move away from the table. But he saw that they 
were watching him. 

Todd set the long worm down on the table and picked up a pocket knife. 
“You watching?” With one quick motion, he sliced the worm in half. 

“Yuck!” Beth cried, making a disgusted face. 

“You’re sick!” Regina declared. “You’re really sick, Todd.” 

“Watch!” Todd instmcted. 

All three of them stared at the tabletop as the two worm halves wriggled off 
in different directions. 

“See?” Todd cried, laughing. “Now there are two of them!” 

“Sick. Really sick,” his sister muttered. 

“That’s really gross, Todd,” Beth agreed, shaking her head. 

“But wouldn’t it be cool if people could do that?” Todd exclaimed. “You 
know. Your bottom half goes to school, and your top half stays home and 
watches TV!” 

“Hey! Look at that!” Regina cried suddenly. She pointed to the glass worm 

tank. 

“Huh? What?” Todd demanded, lowering his eyes to the worms. 

“Those worms—they were watching you!” Regina exclaimed. “See? 
They’re sort of staring at you.” 

“Get serious,” Todd muttered. But he saw that Regina was right. Three of 
the worms had their heads raised out of the dirt and seemed to be staring up at 
him. “You have a weird imagination,” Todd insisted. 

“No. They were watching,” Regina insisted excitedly. “I saw them watching 
you when you cut that worm in two.” 

“Worms can’t see!” Todd told them. “They weren’t watching me. That’s 
stupid! That’s—” 

“But they were!” Regina cried. 

“The worms are angry,” Beth added, glancing at Regina. “The worms don’t 
like to see their friend cut in half.” 

“Stop,” Todd pleaded. “Just give me a break, okay?” 

“The worms are going to get revenge, Todd,” Regina said. “They saw what 
you did. Now they’re planning their revenge.” 

Todd let out a scornful laugh. “You must think I’m as stupid as you are!” he 
declared. “There’s no way I’m going to fall for that. No way I’m going to 
believe such a stupid idea.” 

Giggling to each other, Regina and Beth returned to their Ping-Pong game. 

Todd dropped the two worm halves into the tank. To his surprise, four more 
worms had poked up out of the soft dirt. They were staring straight up at him. 

Todd stared down at them, thinking about what Regina and Beth had said. 

What a stupid idea, he thought. Those worms weren’t watching me. 

Or were they? 

14 

“Todd—rise and shine!” 

Todd blinked his eyes open. He sat up slowly in bed and stretched his arms 
over his head. 

“Rise and shine, Todd! Look alive!” his mother called from the foot of the 
stairs. 

Why does she say the same thing every morning? he wondered. Always 
“Rise and shine, rise and shine!” Why can’t she say, “Time to get up!” or, “Move 
’em on out!” or something? Just for a little variety. 

Grumpily, he pulled himself up and lowered his feet to the floor. 

Why can’t I have a clock radio like Regina? he asked himself. Then I could 
wake up to music instead of “Rise and shine!” 

“Look alive up there!” Mrs. Barstow called impatiently. 

“I’m up! I’m up, Mom!” Todd shouted hoarsely down to her. 

Bright sunlight poured in through the bedroom window. Squinting toward 
the window, he could see a patch of clear blue sky. 

Nice day, he thought. 

What day is it? he asked himself, standing up and stretching some more. 
Thursday? Yeah. Thursday. 

Good, he thought. We have gym on Thursday. Maybe we’ll play softball. 

Gym was Todd’s favorite class—especially on days they went outside. 

His pajama bottoms had become totally twisted. He straightened them as he 
made his way to the bathroom to brush his teeth. 

Are we having the math quiz today or tomorrow? he wondered, squinting at 
his sleepy face in the medicine chest mirror. I hope it’s tomorrow. I forgot to 
study for it last night. 

He stuck his tongue out at himself. 

He could hear Regina downstairs, arguing about something with their 
mother. Regina liked to argue in the morning. It was the way she got her mind 
into gear. 

She argued about what to wear. Or what she wanted for breakfast. One of 
her favorite arguments was whether or not it was too warm to wear a jacket. 

Todd’s mother never learned. She always argued back. So they had pretty 

noisy mornings. 

Todd liked to sleep as long as possible. Then he took his time getting 
dressed. That way, Regina was usually all finished with her arguing by the time 
he came downstairs. 

Thinking about the math quiz, he brushed his teeth. Then he returned to his 
room and pulled on a clean pair of faded jeans and a navy blue T-shirt that came 
down nearly to his knees. 

Regina and Mrs. Barstow were still arguing as Todd entered the kitchen. 
Regina, her dark hair tied back in a single braid, sat at the table, finishing her 
breakfast. Their mother, dressed for work, stood on the other side of the table, a 
steaming cup of coffee in one hand. 

“But I’m too hot in that jacket!” Regina was insisting. 

“Then why not wear a sweatshirt?” their mother suggested patiently. 

“I don’t have any,” Regina complained. 

“You have a whole drawerful!” Mrs. Barstow protested. 

“But I don’t like those!” Regina cried shrilly. 

Todd grabbed his glass of orange juice off the table and gulped it down in 
one long swallow. 

“Todd, sit down and have your breakfast,” his mother ordered. 

“Can’t. I’m late,” he said, wiping orange juice off his upper lip with one 
hand. “Got to go.” 

“But you haven’t brushed your hair!” Mrs. Barstow exclaimed. 

Regina, chewing on a piece of rye toast, laughed. “How can you tell?” 

Todd ignored her. “No need,” he told his mother. “I’m wearing my Raiders 
cap.” He glanced toward the hook on the hallway wall where he thought he had 
left it. Not there. 

“I can’t believe the school lets you wear your cap all day,” Mrs. Barstow 
murmured, refilling her coffee cup. 

“They don’t care,” Todd told her. 

“Only the real grunges wear caps,” Regina reported. 

“Is your brother a grunge?” their mother asked, raising her eyes over the 
white mug as she sipped coffee. 

“Has anyone seen my Raiders cap?” Todd asked quickly, before Regina 
could answer. 

“Isn’t it on the hook?” Mrs. Barstow asked, glancing toward the hall. 

Todd shook his head. “Maybe I left it upstairs.” He turned and hurried 

toward the front stairs. 

“Come back and eat your cereal! It’s getting soggy!” his mother called. 
Grabbing on to the banister, Todd took the stairs two at a time. Standing in 
the doorway to his room, his eyes searched the bed. The dressertop. 

No cap. 

He was halfway to the closet when he spotted it on the floor. I must have 
tossed it there before bed, he remembered. 

Bending down, he picked up the cap and slid it down over his hair. 

He knew at once that something was wrong. 

Something felt funny. 

As he bent the bill down the way he liked it, he felt something move in his 

hair. 

Something wet. 

It felt as if his hair had come to life and had started to crawl around under 
the cap. 

Moving quickly to the mirror over the dresser, Todd pulled the cap away— 
and stared in shock at the fat, brown worms wriggling through his hair. 

15 

Todd shook his head hard. A shudder of surprise. 

One of the worms toppled from his hair and slid down his forehead, 
dropping onto the dressertop. 

“I don’t believe this,” Todd muttered out loud. 

He tossed the cap to the floor. Then he reached up with both hands and 
carefully began untangling the worms from his hair. 

“Regina!” he screamed. “Regina—you’re going to pay for this!” 

He pulled three worms off his head, then picked up the fourth from the 
dresser. “Yuck.” He made a disgusted face into the mirror. His hair was damp 
and sticky where the worms had crawled. 

“Okay, Reggie! I’m coming!” he shouted as he barreled down the stairs, the 
worms dangling in one fist. 

She glanced up casually from the table as Todd burst into the kitchen. 

“Your cereal is really getting soggy,” his mother said from the sink. “You’d 
better—” She stopped when she saw the worms in Todd’s hand. 

“Very funny, Regina!” Todd exclaimed angrily. He shoved the fistful of 
worms under his sister’s nose. 

“Yuck! Get away!” she shrieked. 

“Todd—get those worms away from the table!” Mrs. Barstow demanded 
sharply. “What’s wrong with you? You know better than that!” 

“Don’t yell at me!” Todd screeched at his mother. “Yell at her!” He pointed 
furiously at his sister. 

“Me?” Regina’s eyes opened wide in innocence. “What did I do?” 

Todd let out an angry groan and turned to face his mother. “She stuffed 
worms in my cap!” he exclaimed, shaking the worms in Mrs. Barstow’s face. 

“Huh?” Regina cried furiously. “That’s a he!” 

Todd and Regina began screaming accusations at each other. 

Mrs. Barstow stepped between them. “Quiet—please!” she demanded. 
“Please!” 

“But—but—!” Todd sputtered. 

“Todd, you’re going to squeeze those poor worms to death!” Mrs. Barstow 
declared. “Go put them away in the basement. Then take a deep breath, count to 

ten, and come back.” 

Todd grumbled under his breath. But he obediently headed down to the 
basement. 

When he returned to the kitchen a minute later, Regina was still denying 
that she had loaded the cap with worms. She turned to Todd, a solemn 
expression on her face. “I swear, Todd,” she said, “it wasn’t me.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Todd muttered. “Then who else did it? Dad? Do you think 
Dad filled my cap with worms before he went to work?” 

The idea was so ridiculous, it made all three of them laugh. 

Mrs. Barstow put her hands on Todd’s shoulders and guided him into his 
seat at the table. “Cereal,” she said softly. “Eat your cereal. You’re going to be 
late.” 

“Leave my worms alone,” Todd told his sister in a low voice. He pulled the 
chair in and picked up the spoon. “I mean it, Reggie. I hate your stupid jokes. 
And I don’t like people messing with my worms.” 

Regina sighed wearily. “I don’t mess with your disgusting worms,” she shot 
back. “I told you—I didn’t do it.” 

“Let’s just drop it, okay?” Mrs. Barstow pleaded. “Look at the clock, guys.” 

“But why should she get away with that, Mom?” Todd demanded. “Why 
should she be allowed to—” 

“Because I didn’t do it!” Regina interrupted. 

“You had to do it!” Todd screamed. 

“I think you did it yourself,” Regina suggested with a sneer. “I think you 
stuffed worms in your own cap.” 

“Oh, that’s good! That’s good!” Todd cried sarcastically. “Why, Regina? 
Why would I do that?” 

“To get me in trouble,” Regina replied. 

Todd gaped at her, speechless. 

“You’re both going to be in trouble if you don’t drop this discussion—right 
now,” their mother insisted. 

“Okay. We’ll drop it,” Todd grumbled, glaring at his sister. 

He dipped the spoon into the cereal. “Totally soggy,” he muttered. “How 
am I supposed to—” 

Regina’s shrill scream cut off Todd’s complaint. 

He followed her horrified gaze down to his bowl—where he found a fat 
purple worm floating on top of the milk. 

16 

Todd tried to concentrate in school, but he kept thinking about the worms. 

Of course it had to be Regina who had put the worms in his cap and in his 
cereal bowl. 

But she had acted so shocked. And she said again and again that she didn’t 
know anything about them. 

Todd kept thinking about the afternoon in the basement. About cutting the 
worm in half. About the other worms watching him from their glass tank. 

“They saw what you did,” his sister had said in a low, frightened voice. 
“And now they’re planning their revenge.” 

That’s so stupid, Todd thought, pretending to read his social studies text. 

So stupid. 

But thinking about Regina’s words gave him a chill. 

And thinking about the worms waiting in his cap, crawling so wetly 
through his hair, made Todd feel a little sick. 

He told Danny all about it at lunch. 

They sat across from each other in the noisy lunchroom. Danny unpacked 
his lunch from the brown paper lunch bag and examined the sandwich. “Ham 
and cheese again,” he groaned. “Every day Mom gives me ham and cheese.” 

“Why don’t you ask for something else?” Todd suggested. 

“I don’t like anything else,” Danny replied, tearing open his bag of potato 
chips. 

Todd unpacked his lunch, too. But he left it untouched as he told Danny 
about the worms. 

Danny laughed at first. “Your sister is really a jerk,” he said through a 
mouthful of potato chips. 

“I guess you’re right,” Todd replied thoughtfully. “It’s got to be Regina. But 
she acted so surprised. I mean, she screamed when she saw the worm floating in 
the cereal.” 

“She probably practiced screaming all day yesterday,” Danny said, 
chomping into his sandwich. 

Todd unwrapped the tinfoil from his sandwich. Peanut butter and jelly. 
“Yeah. Maybe,” he said, frowning. 

“Come on, Todd,” Danny said, mustard dripping down his chin. “That 
worm tank of yours is really deep. The worms didn’t crawl out all by 
themselves. And they didn’t crawl upstairs to your room and then find your hat 
and crawl inside.” 

“You’re right. You’re right,” Todd said, still frowning thoughtfully. He 
pushed back his Raiders cap and scratched his brown hair. “But I just keep 
seeing those worms staring up at me, and—” 

“Worms don’t have eyes!” Danny declared. “And they don’t have faces. 
And, mainly, they don’t have brains!” 

Todd laughed. Danny was completely right, he realized. 

The idea of worms planning to get their revenge was just dumb. 

Feeling a lot better, he slid down in the chair and started his lunch. “Let’s 
talk about something else,” he said, taking a long drink from his box of juice. He 
raised his peanut butter-and-jelly sandwich to his mouth and took a big bite. 

“Did you see Dawkins fall off his chair this morning?” Danny asked, 
snickering. 

Todd grinned. “Yeah. Miss Grant jumped so high, her head nearly hit the 
ceiling! I thought she was going to drop her teeth!” 

“Luckily Dawkins landed on his head!” Danny exclaimed, wiping the 
mustard off his chin with the back of one hand. “Dawkins can’t stay on a chair. 
No balance, or something. Every day he—” 

Danny stopped when he saw the sick expression on Todd’s face. “Hey, 
Todd—what’s your problem?” 

“Th-this peanut butter sandwich,” Todd stammered. “It... tastes kind of 
strange.” 

“Huh?” Danny lowered his eyes to the half-eaten sandwich in Todd’s hand. 

Reluctantly, Todd pulled apart the two slices of bread. 

Both boys moaned in disgust and let out hoarse gagging sounds as they saw 
the half-eaten purple worm curled up in the peanut butter. 

17 

“Have you seen my sister?” Todd asked a group of kids at the door that led out to 
the playground. 

They all shook their heads no. 

After angrily tossing away his lunch, Todd had run out of the lunchroom in 
search of Regina. He had to let her know that her dumb joke had gone too far. 

Putting a worm in his peanut butter wasn’t the least bit funny. It was sick. 

As he ran through the halls, searching in each room for her, Todd could still 
taste the faintly sour flavor of the worm, could still feel its soft squishy body 
between his teeth. 

It made his teeth itch. It made him feel itchy all over. 

Regina, you’re not getting away with this! he thought bitterly. 

By the time he reached the end of the hallway, he felt so angry, he was 
seeing red. 

He pushed past the group of kids, opened the door, and burst outside. The 
bright afternoon sunlight made him lower his cap to shield his eyes. 

He searched the playground for his sister. 

Some kids from his class were playing a loud, frantic kickball game on the 
Softball diamond. Jerry Dawkins and a few other guys called to Todd to join the 
game. 

But he waved them off and kept running. He was in no mood for games. 

Regina—where are you? 

He circled the entire playground and teacher parking lot before he gave up. 
Then he slowly, unhappily trudged back toward the school building. 

His stomach growled and churned. 

He could picture the worm half wriggling around inside him. 

All around, kids were yelling and laughing and having fun. 

They didn’t eat worms for lunch, Todd thought bitterly. They don’t have a 
mean, vicious sister who tries to ruin their lives. 

He was nearly to the door, walking slowly, his head bowed, when he 
spotted Regina standing in the shade at the corner of the building. 

He stopped and watched her. She was talking to someone. Then she started 
to laugh. 

Keeping against the redbrick wall, Todd edged a little closer. He could see 
two others in the shade with Regina. 

Beth and Patrick. 

All three of them were laughing now. 

What was so funny? 

Todd could feel the rage boiling up in him. As he crept closer, trying to hear 
what they were saying, he balled his hands into tight, angry fists. 

Pressing against the building, Todd stopped and listened. 

Regina said something. He couldn’t make out the words. 

He took a step closer. Then one more. 

And he heard Beth laugh and say, “So Todd doesn’t know you’re doing it?” 

And then Patrick replied, “No. Todd doesn’t know. He doesn’t know I’m 
doing it.” 

18 

Stunned, Todd jammed his back against the brick wall. 

Patrick? 

How can Patrick be doing it? Todd wondered. 

That’s impossible! Unless... 

Todd couldn’t hold back any longer. He angrily stepped forward, feeling his 
face grow red-hot. 

The three of them turned in surprise. 

“So you’re doing it?” Todd cried to Patrick. “You’re giving my sister the 
worms?” 

“Huh? Worms?” Patrick’s mouth dropped open. He held a large sheet of 
construction paper in his hand. Todd saw him slip the sheet of paper behind his 
back. 

“Yeah. Worms,” Todd repeated, snarling the words. “I heard what you said, 
Patrick.” 

“Patrick isn’t giving me worms,” Regina broke in. “What is your problem, 
Todd? Why would I want worms?” 

“That’s where you’re getting them!” Todd insisted. “I heard you! I heard the 
whole thing!” 

The three of them exchanged bewildered glances. 

“I’m not into worms anymore,” Patrick said. “I tossed all my worms into 
my dad’s garden.” 

“Liar,” Todd accused in a low voice. 

“No. It’s true. I helped him,” Beth said. 

“I got bored with them. I don’t collect them anymore,” Patrick told him. 
“I’m into comic strips now.” 

“Huh? Comic strips?” Todd stared suspiciously at Patrick. 

The two girls began to grin. 

“Yeah. I’m drawing comic strips,” Patrick said. “I’m a pretty good artist.” 

He’s just trying to confuse me, Todd thought angrily. 

“Patrick—give me a break,” Todd muttered. “You’re a really bad liar. I 
heard what you were saying, and—” 

With a quick move, Todd reached out and grabbed the sheet of paper from 
behind Patrick’s back. 

“Hey—give that back!” Patrick reached for it. But Todd swung it out of his 
reach. 

“Huh? It’s a comic strip!” Todd exclaimed. He raised it closer to his face 
and started to read it. 

THE ADVENTURES OF TODD THE WORM 

That was the title in big, block, super-hero-type letters. 

And in the first panel, there stood a smiling worm. With wavy brown hair. 
Wearing a silver-and-black Raiders cap. 

“Todd the Worm?” Todd cried weakly, staring at the comic strip in 
disbelief. 

The three of them burst out laughing. 

“That’s what we were laughing about,” Regina told him, shaking her head. 
“Patrick can draw pretty well—can’t he?” 

Todd didn’t reply. He scowled at the comic strip. 

Todd the Worm. A worm in a Raiders cap. 

Patrick thinks he’s so funny, Todd thought bitterly. “Ha-ha. Remind me to 
laugh sometime,” he murmured sarcastically. He handed the sheet of paper back 
to Patrick. 

The bell on the side of the building rang loudly above their heads. Todd 
covered his ears. Everyone on the playground started running to the door. 

Beth and Regina jogged ahead of Todd. 

“So what about the worm in my sandwich?” he called to his sister, hurrying 
to catch up. He grabbed her by the shoulder and spun her around. “What about 
the worm?” 

“Todd—let go!” She spun out of his grasp. “What worm? Are you still 
carrying on about breakfast?” 

“No. Lunch,” Todd shouted furiously. “You know what I’m talking about, 
Reggie. Don’t pretend.” 

She shook her head. “No, I really don’t, Todd.” She turned to the door. 
“We’re going to be late.” 

“You put the worm in my sandwich!” he screamed, his eyes locked on hers. 

She made a disgusted face. “Yuck! In your sandwich?” She seemed really 

shocked. “That’s gross!” 

“Regina—” 

“You didn’t eat it, did you?” she asked, covering her mouth in horror. 

“Uh... no. No way!” Todd lied. 

“Ugh! I’m going to be sick!” Regina cried. She turned and, still covering 
her mouth, ran into the building. 

Todd stared after her. She seemed totally shocked, he realized. 

Is it possible that Regina didn’t do it? 

Is it possible? 

But then, if Regina didn’t do it —what does that mean ? 

19 

“Aren’t you sick of worms? Why are we digging up more worms?” Danny 
demanded. 

Todd dug his shovel into the soft mud behind second base. “I need more,” 
he murmured. He pulled up a long, brown one. It wriggled between his fingers. 
“Move the bucket over, Danny.” 

Danny obediently held the bucket closer. Todd dropped the worm into it and 
bent to dig up more. “My worms are all disappearing,” he said softly, 
concentrating on his work. “They’re escaping, I guess. So I need more.” 

“But they can’t escape,” Danny insisted. 

Todd dropped a short, fat one into the bucket. 

They both heard the rumbling sound at the same time. 

The ground behind second base trembled. 

Danny’s eyes grew wide with fright. “Todd—another earthquake?” 

Todd tilted his head as he listened. He dropped the shovel and placed both 
hands flat on the ground. “It—it’s shaking a little,” he reported. 

“We’ve got to go!” Danny cried, climbing to his feet. “We’ve got to tell 
someone.” 

“Nobody ever believes us,” Todd replied, not moving from the ground. 
“And, look—the rest of the playground doesn’t seem to be shaking at all.” 

The mud made a soft cracking sound as it trembled. 

Todd jumped to his feet and grabbed up the bucket. 

“Maybe we should find another place to get worms,” Danny suggested, 
backing away from the spot, his eyes on the shaking ground. 

“But this is the best spot!” Todd replied. 

“Maybe it’s a sinkhole!” Danny declared as they hurried off the playground. 
“Did you see that sinkhole on the news? A big hole just opened up in 
somebody’s back yard. And it grew bigger and bigger, and people fell in it and 
were swallowed up.” 

“Stop trying to scare me,” Todd told his friend. “I’ve got enough problems 
without worrying about sinkholes!” 

When he arrived at school on Friday morning, Todd found three worms 

wriggling around in his backpack. He calmly carried them out to the front of the 
school and deposited them in the dirt under the long hedge that lined the 
building. 

I’m going to stay calm, he decided. 

They’re only worms, after all. And I like worms. I collect worms. I’m a 
worm expert. 

He returned to the building, frowning fretfully. 

If I’m such an expert, he asked himself, why can’t I explain how the worms 
are following me everywhere? 

When he took out his math notebook an hour later, he found a mass of long 
purple worms crawling around near the binding and between the pages. 

The kids sitting near him saw them and started pointing and screaming. 

“Todd,” Mr. Hargrove, the math teacher, said sternly, “I think we saw 
enough of your worms at the Science Expo. I know you’re attached to them. But 
do you have to bring them to math class?” 

Everyone laughed. Todd could feel his face growing hot. 

“Todd’s saving them for lunch!” Danny exclaimed from two rows behind 

him. 

Everyone laughed even louder. 

Thanks a bunch, Danny, Todd thought angrily. He scooped the worms up, 
carried them to the window, and lowered them to the ground. 

Later, in the lunchroom, Todd unwrapped his sandwich carefully. Peanut 
butter and jelly again. 

Danny leaned across the table, staring hard at the sandwich. 

“Go ahead. Open it,” he murmured. 

Todd hesitated, gripping the sandwich in both hands. 

How many worms would be crawling through the peanut butter this time? 
Two? Three? Ten ? 

“Go ahead,” Danny urged. “What are you waiting for?” 

Todd took a deep breath and held it. Then he slowly pulled apart the two 
slices of bread. 

20 

“No worm!” Todd declared. 

Both boys let out long sighs of relief. 

Danny sank back into his seat and picked up what was left of his ham 
sandwich. 

Todd didn’t eat. He stared thoughtfully at the peanut butter covered with 
smears of grape jelly. “They’re going to drive me totally crazy,” he muttered. 

“What?” Danny asked with a mouthful of sandwich. 

“Nothing,” Todd replied. His head itched. He pulled off his cap and reached 
up to scratch it. He expected to find a worm in his hair. But there wasn’t one. 

Every time he opened his bookbag, he expected to find worms. Every time 
he ate a meal, he expected to see a worm bobbing or wriggling or crawling or 
swimming through his food. 

He was starting to imagine worms everywhere. Everywhere. 

Todd had dinner at Danny’s that night. Danny’s mother served fried chicken and 
mashed potatoes. Then she and Danny’s father argued all through dinner about 
where to go on their vacation, and whether or not they should save the money 
and buy a couch instead. 

Danny seemed really embarrassed about his parents’ loud arguing. 

But Todd didn’t mind it at all. He was so happy to relax and eat and not 
worry about finding any long, purple worms on his plate or in his glass. 

He and Danny went up to Danny’s room and played video games for a few 
hours after dinner. Danny had a game called Worm Attack. Todd made him bury 
it deep in the closet. 

Danny’s father drove Todd home at about ten. Todd’s parents were already 
dressed for bed. “Your mom and I both had rough days,” Mr. Barstow explained. 
“We’re hitting the sack early. You can stay up and watch TV or something if you 
want, Todd.” 

Todd didn’t feel sleepy. So he went into the den and turned on the TV. He 
watched a Star Trek that he’d already seen. 

He was yawning and feeling tired by the time the show went off at eleven. 
He turned off all the lights and made his way up to his room. 

He realized he was feeling really good, really relaxed. I haven’t thought 
about worms all night, he told himself happily. 

He climbed out of his clothes, tossing them onto the floor, and pulled on his 
pajamas. A warm, soft wind was fluttering the curtains at the window. He could 
see a pale half-moon in the black nighttime sky. 

Clicking off the bed table lamp, Todd pulled back his covers and slipped 
into bed. 

He yawned loudly and shut his eyes. 

Tomorrow is Saturday, he thought happily. No school. 

He turned onto his stomach and buried his face in the pillow. 

He felt something wet and warm wriggle against his cheek. 

Then he felt something moving under his chest. 

“Oh!” He jerked himself upright, pulling himself up with both hands. 

A long, wet worm clung to the side of his face. 

He reached up and pulled it off. 

He jumped out of bed. It took a short while to find the bed table lamp in the 
darkness. Finally, he managed to click it on. 

Blinking in the light, he saw a worm stuck to the front of his pajama shirt. 
Three long, brown worms were crawling on his sheet. Two more were stretched 
out on the pillow. 

“No! No! Stop!” 

It took Todd a while to realize that the shrill screams were coming from 

him\ 

“I can’t take it anymore!” he shrieked, losing control. 

He pulled the worm off his pajama shirt and tossed it onto the bed beside 
the others. 

“Regina! Regina—you’ve got to stop it! You’ve got to!” Todd screamed. 

He spun around when he heard footsteps at the bedroom door. 

“Mom!” Todd wailed. “Mom—look!” He pointed frantically to the worms 
crawling on his pillow and bedsheet. 

Mrs. Barstow raised both hands to her cheeks in surprise. 

“Mom—you’ve got to stop Regina!” Todd pleaded. “You’ve got to stop 
her! Look what she did! Look what she put in my bed!” 

Mrs. Barstow moved quickly into the room and put an arm around Todd’s 
trembling shoulders. “But Regina isn’t here, Todd,” she said gently. 

“Huh?” He gaped at her in shock. 

“Regina is at a sleepover at Beth’s,” his mother explained. “Regina isn’t 

21 

“We’ll have to have a long discussion about this in the morning,” Mrs. Barstow 
said, her arm still around Todd’s shoulders. “Maybe your worms are escaping 
from the tank somehow.” 

“Maybe,” Todd replied doubtfully. 

His mother lowered her eyes to the bed. “Yuck. Take the worms back 
downstairs, Todd, and I’ll change the sheets.” 

Todd obediently lifted the worms off the sheet and pillowcase. Two of them 
were mashed. But the rest were wriggling and squirming. 

They’re taking their revenge, Todd thought with a shudder as he carried 
them out of the room. 

Regina was right. 

The worms are paying me back. 

The worms dangled from his hand as he carried them down to the 
basement. He dropped them into the tank. Then he leaned over it, staring down 
into the soft, wet dirt. 

Most of the worms were below the surface. But a few crawled across the 

top. 

“Hey, guys,” Todd called down to them, lowering his face over the top of 
the glass aquarium. “Hey, guys—can you hear me?” 

He had never talked to his worms before. And he felt very uncomfortable 
talking to them now. 

But he was desperate. 

“Listen, guys, I’m really sorry,” Todd said, speaking softly. He didn’t want 
his voice to carry upstairs. If his mom or dad heard him talking to the worms, 
they’d know he was totally Looney Tunes. 

“I’m really sorry about what happened,” he told them. “I mean, about 
cutting that one in half. It will never happen again. I promise.” 

Leaning over the tank, he stared down into the dirt. The worms didn’t seem 
to be paying any attention to him. Two of them were crawling against one of the 
glass walls. Another was burrowing into the dirt. 

“So do you think you can stop following me around?” Todd continued, 
giving it one last try. “I mean, I don’t want to get rid of you all. I’ve been 

collecting worms for a long time. But if you keep this up, well... you’ll all have 
to go.” 

Todd lifted his head out and stood up straight. I can’t believe I just did that, 
he thought. 

Maybe I am totally nuts. 

He glanced quickly around the basement, expecting Regina and his parents 
to pop out from behind the furnace, crying, “April fool!” 

But no one else was down there. Luckily, no one had seen him actually 
pleading with the worms! 

Feeling really foolish and confused, Todd trudged back up to his room. His 
mother was waiting for him in the hall outside his room. “What took so long?” 

“Nothing,” Todd muttered, feeling himself blush. 

She swept a hand through his wavy, dark hair. “I never get to see your hair,” 
she said, smiling. “It’s always under that awful cap.” 

“Yeah. I know.” Todd yawned. 

“Go change your pajamas,” she instructed him. “Those have worm juice all 
over them. I’ll run you a hot bath.” 

“No. No bath,” Todd said sharply. “I’m too tired.” 

“You don’t want a bath after rolling around on worms?” Mrs. Barstow 
demanded. 

“Tomorrow. Okay?” he pleaded. 

“Okay,” she agreed. “But change your pajamas. Good night.” 

Todd watched her make her way downstairs. Then he returned to his room 
and changed into clean pajamas. He inspected the bed carefully, even though the 
sheets were new. Then he examined the pillow. 

When he was certain there were no worms, he turned off the light and 
slipped into bed. 

Lying on his back, he stared out the window at the pale half-moon—and 
thought about the worms. 

Regina was sleeping over at Beth’s—but the bed was full of worms. 

How? 

How were they wriggling into his backpack? Into his notebooks? Into his 
breakfast? His lunch? 

The room began to whirl. Todd felt dizzy. So sleepy. So very sleepy... 

But he couldn’t stop puzzling about the worms. Such a mystery. 

The night sky grew darker. The moon rose away from the window. 

It’s so late, Todd thought, and I can’t get to sleep. 

Maybe I do need a hot bath, he told himself, lowering his feet to the floor. 
Baths always relaxed him. 

He crept silently out of his room and down the hall to the bathroom. He 
didn’t want to wake his parents. Closing the bathroom door behind him, he 
clicked on the light. Then he turned on the water and filled the tub, making it 
nice and hot. 

When the water was nearly to the top, he pulled off his pajamas. Then he 
lowered himself into the steamy water. “Mmmmmm,” he hummed aloud as he 
settled into it. The hot water felt so good, so soothing. 

This was a good idea, he told himself, resting his head against the back of 
the tub. He smiled and shut his eyes. Just what I needed. 

A soft splash made Todd open his eyes and glance at the faucet. Had he 
forgotten to turn it off? 

Another splash. 

“Ohh.” Todd let out a soft moan as a fat purple worm slid out of the faucet 
and hit the water. “Oh, no!” 

Splash. 

Another worm dropped from the faucet. Then two more. They hit the 
surface of the water and plunged to the tub bottom just past Todd’s feet. 

“Hey—!” He pulled his feet away and drew himself up to a sitting position. 
“What’s going on?!” 

As Todd stared in horror, brown and purple worms tumbled from the faucet, 
three and four at a time, splashing into the tub. He raised his eyes to see more 
worms—sliding down the tile wall, plopping onto the water, onto his legs, onto 
his shoulders. 

“No—!” 

He struggled to climb out, trying to push himself to his feet with both 
hands. 

But the tub bottom was covered with wriggling, swimming, slithering 
worms. And his hands kept slipping out from under him. 

“Help—!” 

Breathing hard, he managed to climb to his knees. 

Worms clung to his back, his shoulders. He could feel them crawling over 
his hot, wet skin. 

More worms tumbled down the wall. They seemed to be raining from the 

ceiling. More and more poured out of the faucet. 

They had turned the entire tub into a seething, wriggling sea of brown and 
purple. 

“Help—somebody!” Todd shouted. 

But the worms were pulling him now. Pulling him down. 

He could feel their wet grasp, hundreds of tiny prickles, as they held him 
tightly and tugged him down, down, into the churning water. 

They plopped onto his head. Crawled over his face. Dangled from his 
quivering shoulders. 

Covered him. Covered him, and continued to rain down, to pour down, and 
pull him down with them, into the wriggling, dark sea of warm, wet worms. 

22 

“Please—help me! ” 

Todd struggled and squirmed. He twisted his body, trying to swing his arms 

free. 

But the worms held on, forcing him down, pulling him into the slimy, 
brown water. And more worms rained down, curling and uncurling as they slid 
down the wall, dropped from the ceiling, and poured from the faucet. 

“Oh!” 

He let out a startled cry as he tugged himself back to a sitting position. He 
thrashed his arms hard, sending a spray of water over the side of the tub. 

He blinked. Once. Twice. 

And the worms disappeared. All of them. 

“Huh?” His mouth dropped open as he gazed into the tub. The ceiling light 
reflected in the clear water. 

Hesitantly, he moved his toes. He splashed the water with both feet. 

Clear. Perfectly clear and clean. 

“Wow,” Todd murmured, shaking his head. “Wow.” 

The wriggling, tumbling worms lingered in his mind. Despite the heat of 
the bathwater, a cold shiver ran down his body. 

He climbed quickly out of the tub and wrapped a large, green bath towel 
around himself. 

A dream. It had all been a disgusting dream. 

He had fallen asleep in the bathtub and had dreamed up all of the worms. 

He shivered again. He still felt shaky. He could still feel the itchy pinpricks 
all over his body. 

Drying himself quickly, he let the towel slip to the floor and pulled on his 
pajamas. Then, as he hurried back to his room, eager to climb under the covers 
—he had an idea. 

He had an idea about how to solve the worm mystery. 

It was so simple, he realized. Such a simple plan. 

But it would tell him once and for all how the worms were escaping from 
their tank and getting into his things. 

“Yes!” he cried in an excited whisper. “Yes!” 

Finally, he had a plan. He knew exactly what to do. 

It will have to wait till Sunday night, he told himself, climbing into bed and 
pulling up the blankets. But I’ll be ready then. 

Ready for anything. 

Thinking about his plan, Todd fell asleep with a smile on his face. 

The weekend passed slowly. Todd and Danny went to a movie on Saturday. It 
was a comedy about space aliens trying to run a car wash. The aliens kept 
getting confused and washing themselves instead of the cars. In the end, they 
blew up the whole planet. 

Danny thought it was very funny. Todd thought it was dumb, but funny. 

On Sunday, Regina came home from Beth’s. The whole family drove 
upstate to visit some cousins. 

“It was a no-worms weekend,” Todd told Danny over the phone after dinner 
on Sunday evening. 

“Way to go!” Danny replied enthusiastically. 

“Not a single worm,” Todd told him, twisting the phone cord around his 
wrist. 

“So are you going ahead with your plan?” Danny demanded. 

“Yeah. Sure,” Todd said. “I have to. They just took the weekend off. For 
sure. Tomorrow is school. That means more worms in my backpack, in my 
books, in my lunch.” 

“Yuck,” Danny murmured on the other end of the line. 

“I’ve got to solve the mystery,” Todd told him. “I’ve got to.” 

“Well, good luck,” Danny said. “I’ll meet you tomorrow morning. Outside 
of Miss Grant’s class, okay? Get there early so you can tell me how it went.” 

“Okay,” Todd replied. “See you tomorrow.” As he hung up the phone, he 
felt excited and nervous and eager and frightened, all at the same time. 

He tried playing a Nintendo football game to pass the time. But he was so 
excited and nervous, he kept using the wrong fingers on the controller, and the 
machine beat him easily. 

Then he paced back and forth in his room, watching the clock slowly slide 
from number to number. 

At ten-thirty, he and Regina said good night to their parents and returned to 
their rooms. Todd changed into his pajamas, turned out the lights, then sat on the 

edge of his bed, waiting. 

Waiting for his parents to go to bed. 

He heard their door close at eleven-fifteen. Then he waited another fifteen 
minutes, sitting tensely in the dark, listening to the soft creaks and groans of the 
house, listening to the heavy silence. 

A little after eleven-thirty, Todd climbed out of his bed and tiptoed silently 
out of his room. 

It’s time, he told himself, creeping down the dark hall to the stairs. Time to 
get to the bottom of this. 

Time to solve the mystery of the worms. 

23 

The basement stairs creaked loudly under Todd’s bare feet. But there was 
nothing he could do about that. 

He tried to move as silently as a mouse. He didn’t want to alert anyone in 
his family that he was awake. He grabbed the wall and caught his balance as he 
started to stumble on the basement steps. 

Taking a deep breath, he stopped and listened. Had anyone heard him? 

Silence. 

The wooden steps were steep and rickety. But Todd couldn’t turn on the 
lights. He didn’t want anyone to see him. 

Not even the worms. 

A pale square of light spread across the basement floor, moonlight pouring 
through the narrow window up near the basement ceiling. Todd stepped around 
the light, keeping in the dark shadows. 

His heart pounded as he made his way slowly, carefully across the room. 
“Ow!” He let out a whispered cry as he banged his waist into the corner of the 
Ping-Pong table. He quickly covered his mouth before he could cry out again. 

The pain slowly faded. Rubbing his side, Todd picked up a tall stool and 
carried it over to one of the concrete beams that rose from floor to ceiling. 

He set the stool down slowly, carefully. Gazing around the beam, he could 
see the worm tank on its table. The glass tank reflected the glow of the 
moonlight that invaded the dark basement. 

Todd lifted himself silently onto the stool. Hidden behind the square 
concrete beam, he could watch the worms—but they couldn’t see him. 

He gripped his hands around the beam and steadied himself on the tall 
stool. Glancing up, he saw the high window, filled with moonlight, glow like 
silver. The light cast eerie shadows over the entire basement. 

Todd forced his breathing to slow to normal. 

Got to take it easy. It may be a long wait, he told himself. I may be sitting 
here, watching the worm tank all night. 

What did he expect to see? 

He wasn’t sure. But he knew something would happen. Something would 
happen to explain the mystery of the worms to him. 

Leaning against the beam, Todd stared at the glass aquarium tank. Were the 
worms plotting and planning inside? Were they deciding which ones of them 
would crawl upstairs and climb into Todd’s things? 

Todd suddenly imagined a different story. Glancing back at the silvery 
basement window, he imagined it opening. He imagined a dark figure sliding 
into the basement. Patrick. He imagined Patrick lowering himself onto the 
basement floor, then crossing the room to the worm tank. 

He imagined Patrick pulling up worms from the tank and sneaking upstairs 
with them. Todd could see Patrick grinning as he dropped the worms into Todd’s 
backpack, slipped one into the cornflakes box, hid one in Todd’s sneaker. 

It’s possible, Todd told himself, turning his attention back to the worms. It 
isn’t a totally crazy idea. It isn’t as crazy an idea as a bunch of worms planning 
their revenge.... 

He yawned, covering his mouth so the worms wouldn’t hear. 

How long will I have to sit here? he wondered. He felt a chill at the back of 
his neck. It was creepy down here in the dark. 

What were those soft skittering sounds? 

Mice? 

He didn’t have long to think about them. A loud creak behind him made 
Todd gasp. 

He gripped the concrete beam. 

The stairs began to groan. 

He heard the slow thud of footsteps. Footsteps growing louder, moving 
down the stairs. 

Todd lowered his feet to the floor. He pressed himself tightly behind the 
beam, trying to hide. 

The stairs creaked and groaned. 

The thud of footsteps stopped at the bottom of the steps. Todd squinted hard 
into the darkness. 

Who was it? Who was sneaking down to the basement? 

Who was sneaking down to the worm tank? 

Who? 

24 

Todd gasped as the ceiling lights flickered on. It took a second or two for his 
eyes to adjust to the bright fluorescent light. 

Then he saw the figure standing at the light switch. 

“Dad! ” Todd cried. 

Mr. Barstow jumped in surprise. He had a yellow bathrobe slung loosely 
around him. He carried one of Todd’s baseball bats in both hands, raised waist 
high. 

“Dad—what are you doing down here?” Todd cried shrilly. 

Todd’s father lowered the baseball bat. His mouth dropped open as he 
squinted across the room at Todd. “What are you doing down here?” he 
demanded. 

“I’m... uh... watching the worms,” Todd confessed. 

Mr. Barstow let the bat drop to the floor. It clanked noisily at his feet. He 
made his way quickly over to Todd, carefully stepping around the Ping-Pong 
table. 

“I heard the basement steps creaking,” he told Todd. “I heard a crash down 
here, someone banging into the Ping-Pong table. I—I thought it was a burglar. 
So I grabbed the bat and came down to investigate.” 

“It’s just me, Dad,” Todd said. “I had to find out how my worms are getting 
into my stuff. Sol decided to watch them all night and see if—” 

“I’ve had it with those worms!” Mr. Barstow exclaimed angrily. 

“But, Dad—” Todd protested. 

“What’s going on down there? Are you okay?” Mrs. Barstow called from 
the top of the stairs. 

“Everything is okay, dear!” Todd’s father called. “It’s just more worm 
trouble.” 

“Those disgusting worms again? Come up here and get back to bed,” Mrs. 
Barstow ordered. Todd could hear her padding back to her room. 

“Those worms are out of here tomorrow,” Mr. Barstow said sternly, 
tightening the belt of the yellow robe. 

“What?” Todd cried. “Dad, please—” 

“Enough is enough, Todd. I don’t understand what’s been going on with 

your worms,” his father said, frowning, resting his hands on his waist. “But I 
can’t have you scaring everyone in the house, sneaking around in the middle of 
the night, sitting in the dark, staring at a tank of worms instead of getting your 
sleep.” 

“But—but—” Todd sputtered. 

Mr. Barstow shook his head. “My mind is made up. No discussion. The 
worms go. Tomorrow afternoon, take them outside and dump them all in the 
garden.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Mr. Barstow raised a hand for silence. “I mean it. In the garden. Tomorrow 
afternoon. I’m sure you can find something better to collect than worms.” 

He placed both hands on Todd’s shoulders and marched him toward the 
stairs. 

Todd sighed unhappily, but didn’t say any more. He knew better than to 
argue with his father. When his dad made up his mind about something, he could 
be very stubborn. 

Todd climbed the rest of the way to his room in silence, feeling angry and 
disappointed. 

As he dropped onto his bed and jerked up the covers, he grumbled to 
himself about the most disappointing thing of all—he hadn’t solved the mystery. 

All that planning. All that sneaking around. 

He’d had such high hopes for getting to the bottom of it once and for all. 

But, no. 

Not only was he about to lose all of his worms, but now he would never 
know how the worms got into his things. 

I don’t care about those stupid worms! he told himself. I don’t care that I 
have to throw them all away! 

All I really care about is solving the mystery! 

Angry and frustrated, Todd turned and started to punch his pillow. Hard. 
With both fists. Again. Again. 

He didn’t realize that the whole mystery would be solved—accidentally— 
just a few hours later. 

25 

It rained the next morning. Todd didn’t even notice as he walked slowly to 
school. His thoughts were darker than the storm clouds over his head. 

He dropped his jacket in his locker and pulled out his Trapper-Keeper. 
Stuffing it into his rain-drenched backpack, he spotted Danny. 

As planned, Danny was waiting outside the classroom door. Waiting to hear 
how Todd had solved the worm mystery. 

Well, I guess Danny will just have to be disappointed, too, Todd thought 
glumly. He straightened his Raiders cap and, hoisting his wet backpack onto his 
shoulders, made his way across the hall to his friend. 

Danny’s red hair was soaked and matted down on his head. It looked more 
like a helmet than hair. 

Todd pushed his way through a group of laughing, shouting kids, all 
shaking rainwater off themselves, puddles on the hall floor at their feet. 

“So? How’d it go?” Danny asked eagerly as Todd stepped up to him. 

Todd started to tell his friend the bad news—but he stopped when he heard 
a voice he instantly recognized. 

Regina! 

Around the corner, out of view of the two boys, Regina and Beth were 
sharing a good laugh. 

“So he has to dump out all those gross worms today!” Regina was gleefully 
telling Beth. “Isn’t that awesome?” 

“Awesome!” Beth declared. 

Both girls laughed. 

“Todd is such a jerk!” Beth exclaimed. “Did he really think the worms were 
crawling upstairs on their own? Did he really think they were coming to get 
him?” 

“Yeah. I think he did!” Regina said through her scornful laughter. 

Around the corner from the two girls, Danny and Todd stood listening in 
shock. Neither of them moved a muscle. Todd’s mouth had dropped open. He 
could feel his face growing red-hot. 

“So today’s the last day?” Beth was saying. “Did you put any worms in his 
stuff today?” 

“Only two,” Regina replied. “Mom gave him a thermos of hot vegetable 
soup since it’s such a nasty day. I dropped one in the thermos. And I slipped one 
into his jacket pocket. He’s on his way to school. He probably stuck his hand in 
and found my little surprise.” 

Both girls laughed again. 

“And he never guessed it was you the whole time?” Beth asked Regina. 

“He guessed,” Regina replied. “But I’m such a good actress. I acted 
shocked and totally grossed out. Pretty soon, he didn’t know what to think!” 

They laughed some more. Then Todd heard them head the other way down 
the hall. 

He turned to find Danny staring at him. “Todd—do you believe it? It was 
your sister the whole time!” 

“I knew it,” Todd lied, trying to sound casual. “I knew it was Regina.” 

“Well, what are you going to do?” Danny demanded, still staring hard at 
Todd. 

“Get revenge, of course,” Todd replied quickly. 

“Revenge? How?” his friend asked. 

“I’m not sure,” Todd told him. “I just know it’s going to take a lot of 
worms! ” 

26 

The rain stopped after lunch. The heavy, dark clouds drifted away, and bright 
sunshine poured down from a clear blue sky. 

Todd eagerly watched the weather change through the classroom windows. 
The sunshine filled him with hope. 

This means the worms will be coming up from the ground, he thought 
happily. Dozens and dozens of worms. 

He was desperate to get out and collect them. He was going to need a ton of 
worms to pay his sister back for her mean joke. 

Unfortunately, just before school let out, he and Danny were caught having 
a glue fight during art class. Ms. Travianti, the art teacher, made them both stay 
after school and clean up all the paintbrushes. 

It was nearly four o’clock when Todd led the way to his favorite worm¬ 
collecting spot behind second base of the softball diamond. The playground was 
deserted. There were no other kids in sight. 

Todd and Danny both carried empty coffee cans they had borrowed from 
the art room. Without saying a word, they bent down and set to work, pulling up 
long, brown and purple worms, and dropping them into the cans. 

“How many do we need?” Danny asked, poking in the soft mud till he 
found a big wet one. 

“As many as we can get,” Todd replied. He still hadn’t figured out exactly 
what he was going to do to Regina. He just knew it was going to be totally 
awesome. And gross. 

“You really should pay back Beth, too,” Danny suggested. He dug a hole 
with his chubby hand and discovered three big worms tangled together. 

“Yeah. You’re right,” Todd agreed. “We’ll save a bunch for Beth.” 

Todd stood up and pulled off his jacket. Even though it was late afternoon, 
the sun still beamed down. He was already sweating. 

“Look at this one!” Danny declared. He held up a stubby pink worm. 

“It’s just a baby,” Todd said. “Toss it in the can, anyway. I need as many as 
I can get. Big or little.” 

Danny dropped the stubby pink worm in with the others. 

Todd pulled up a really long one. He carefully brushed clumps of mud off it 

before dropping it in the can. “The rain always brings up the really big ones,” he 
told Danny. 

The ground rumbled. 

At first Todd didn’t notice. 

“Did you feel that?” Danny asked. 

“Feel what?” 

The ground shook again. 

Todd heard a low rumbling sound, like distant thunder. 

“Hey—!” Danny cried, alarmed. He stopped digging. 

“That always happens,” Todd told him. “No big deal. Keep digging.” 

Danny dug his hand back into the mud. But he jerked it out quickly when 
the ground shook again, harder this time. “Hey—why is this happening again?” 
he cried. 

“I told you. It’s nothing,” Todd insisted. 

But then a loud roar made them both cry out. 

The entire playground seemed to tremble. The roar grew louder, closer. 

The ground shook. Then both boys heard a cracking sound. 

Todd started to his feet. But the ground shook so hard, he tumbled back 
down to his knees. 

Craaaaaack. 

“Oh, no!” Danny cried. 

They both saw the dirt pull apart between them. It looked like a dark wound 
opening up. 

Another rumble. The ground quivered and shook. The mud split open. 
Wider. 

Wider. 

And something poked up from under the ground. 

At first, Todd thought it was a tree trunk. 

It was dark brown like a tree trunk. And round like a tree trunk. 

But it was moving too fast to be a tree, rising up from the opening in the 

mud. 

And as the ground shook and the rumbling rose to a roar, Todd and Danny 
both realized that they were gaping in horror at a giant worm. 

A worm as thick as a tree trunk. 

Up, up it stretched, up from the mud, darting and dipping its enormous 
head. 

Todd uttered a shriek of terror, and turned to run. 

But his feet slipped on the wet, quivering mud. He fell forward, landing 
hard on his knees and elbows. 

And before he could pull himself up, the enormous worm swung around 
him, swung around his waist, circled him, pulled itself tight. 

“Ohhh!” he uttered a cry of panic. 

A crazy thought burst into Todd’s head: This is the mother worm. She’s 
come up to protect her babies. 

And then another crazy thought: The worms are really getting their revenge 
this time! 

And then he had no more time for crazy thoughts. Or any other kinds of 
thoughts. 

Because the enormous worm was tightening itself around Todd’s waist, 
choking off his breath, choking him, choking him. 

Pulling him. Tugging him down into the mud, down into its cavernous hole. 

He tried to call for help. 

But no sound came out of his mouth. 

He couldn’t yell. He couldn’t breathe. 

The huge, wet worm was crushing him, crushing him as it pulled him down. 

And then a dark shadow rolled over Todd. And everything went black. 

27 

Danny grabbed Todd’s feet and tried to pull him free. 

But the worm had wrapped itself around Todd’s waist like a tight belt. 
Danny pulled Todd’s ankles. Pulled hard. 

But he couldn’t free his friend. 

And now the worm was disappearing back into the gaping hole in the mud, 
and taking Todd down with him. 

And suddenly they were all covered in shadow. 

“Huh?” Danny let out a startled gasp. 

And raised his eyes to see what caused the shadow. 

And saw the enormous robin bouncing along over the grass. 

“Hey!” he frantically called out. “Regina! Beth!” 

They were carrying the big papier-mache bird home from school. He 
couldn’t see their faces. They were hidden on the other side of the enormous 
robin. 

“Regina! Help us!” 

And then the bird’s shadow rolled over Danny and Todd. 

And the worm jerked straight up. And began to tremble. 

Did it see the shadow of the bird? 

It jerked straight up—and let go of Todd. 

Todd slid to the ground. And the quivering worm began to lower itself. 
Instantly, with a sickening sucking sound, it dove back into the mud. 

Gasping for breath, Todd scrambled away on all fours. 

The worm—it thinks Christopher Robin is a real bird! he realized. 

When he glanced back, the worm had vanished back under the ground. 

“Regina! Beth!” Todd and Danny shouted together. 

The two girls slowly lowered their science project to the ground. “What do 
you want? What are you two doing here?” Regina demanded, poking her head 
around from the other side of the enormous robin. 

“Did you see it?” Todd cried breathlessly. “Did you see the worm?” 

“It was so huge!” Danny added, pulling Todd to his feet. “It was as tall as a 
building!” 

“Ha-ha,” Beth said sarcastically. “You guys must think we’re really dumb.” 

“No way we’re going to believe you caught a giant worm!” Regina added, 
shaking her head. 

“You didn’t see it?” Todd cried weakly. “You really didn’t see it?” 

“We’re not making it up!” Danny shouted angrily. “It grabbed Todd. It was 
huge and brown and slimy! It was pulling Todd down.” 

“Give us a break,” Beth groaned. 

“Go eat worms,” Regina said. 

They hoisted up their giant robin and continued their slow trek toward the 
street. 

Todd watched the bird’s wide shadow roll over the grass. The shadow that 
had saved his life. 

Then he turned to Danny with a weary shrug. “Might as well go home,” he 
said softly. “I’m not sure I believe it myself.” 

Todd tossed all of his worms into the garden that afternoon. He told everyone he 
never wanted to see a worm again. 

When Danny came over to Todd’s house a few weeks later, he found Todd down 
in the basement, busy with a new hobby. “What are you doing?” Danny asked. 

Todd’s eyes remained on the fluttering creature inside the glass jar on the 
worktable. “I’m chloroforming this butterfly,” he told his friend. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Danny asked. 

“I dipped a wad of cotton in chloroform and dropped it into the jar. It will 
kill the butterfly. Watch.” 

When the gold-and-black butterfly stopped fluttering, Todd carefully 
opened the jar. He lifted the butterfly out with long tweezers and gently spread 
its wings. Then he hung it on a board by sticking a long pin through its middle. 

“You’re collecting butterflies now?” Danny asked in surprise. 

Todd nodded. “Butterflies are so gentle, so pretty,” he said, concentrating 
on his work. 

“Todd has changed a lot,” Regina announced, appearing at the bottom of 
the stairs. “He isn’t into qross anymore. Now he’s into things that are soft and 
beautiful.” 

“Let me show you some of my most beautiful butterfly specimens,” Todd 
told Danny. “I have a few monarchs that will knock your eyes out.” 

Everyone was happy about Todd’s new hobby. Especially Regina. There were no 
more cruel practical jokes played in the Barstow house. 

Then, one night, Todd gazed up from his worktable—and uttered a horrified 
cry as he saw the big creature fluttering toward him. 

An enormous butterfly. 

As big as a bedsheet! 

Carrying an enormous silver pin. 

“What are you going to do?” Todd cried. 


GHOST BEACH 

1 

I don’t remember how we got to the graveyard. 

I remember the sky grew dark—and we were there. 

My sister Terri and I walked past rows of crooked, old tombstones, cracked 
and covered with moss. Even though it was summer, a damp, gray fog had 
settled on everything, sending a chill through the air. 

I shivered and pulled my jacket closer. “Wait up, Terri!” I called. As usual, 
she had plowed ahead. Graveyards get her all excited. “Where are you?” I 
yelled. 

I squinted into the gray fog. I could see her shadowy figure up ahead, 
stopping every few seconds to examine a tombstone. 

I read the words on the tombstone tilted at my feet: 

In memory of John, 
son of Daniel and Sarah Knapp, 
who died March 25,1766, 
aged 12 years and 22 days. 

Weird, I thought. That kid was about my age when he died. I turned twelve 
in February. The same month Terri turned eleven. 

I hurried on. A sharp wind swept in. I searched the rows of old graves for 
my sister. She had disappeared into the thick fog. “Terri? Where did you go?” I 
called. 

Her voice floated back to me. “I’m over here, Jerry.” 

“Where?” I pushed forward through the mist and the leaves. The wind 
swirled around me. 

From nearby came a long, low howl. “Must be a dog,” I murmured aloud. 

The trees rattled their leaves at me. I shivered. 

“Jer-ry.” Terri’s voice sounded a million miles away. 

I walked a little further, then steadied myself against a tall tombstone. 
“Terri! Wait up! Stop moving around so much!” 

I heard another long howl. 

“You’re going the wrong way,” Terri called. “I’m over here.” 

“Great. Thanks a lot,” I muttered. Why couldn’t I have a sister who liked 
baseball instead of exploring old cemeteries? 

The wind made a deep sucking noise. A column of leaves, dust, and dirt 
swirled up in my face. I pinched my eyes shut. 

When I opened them, I saw Terri crouched over a small grave. “Don’t 
move,” I called. “I’m coming.” 

I zigzagged my way around the tombstones until I reached her side. “It’s 
getting dark,” I said. “Let’s get out of here.” 

I turned and took a step—and something grabbed my ankle. 

I screamed and tried to pull away. But its grasp tightened. 

A hand. Reaching up through the dirt beside the grave. 

I let out a shrill scream. Terri screamed, too. 

I kicked hard and broke free. 

“Run!” Terri shrieked. 

But I was already running. 

As Terri and I stumbled over the wet grass, green hands popped up 
everywhere. Thwack! Thwack! Thwack! Pop! Pop! 

The hands rose up. Reached for us. Grabbed at our ankles. 

I darted to the left. Thwack! I dodged to the right. Pop! 

“Run, Terri! Run!” I called to my sister. “Lift your knees!” 

I could hear her sneakers pounding the ground behind me. Then I heard her 
terrified cry: “Jerry! They’ve got me!” 

With a loud gasp, I spun around. Two big hands had wrapped themselves 
around her ankles. 

I froze, watching my sister struggle. 

“Jerry—help me! It won’t let go!” 

Taking a deep breath, I dove toward her. “Grab on to me,” I instructed, 
holding out my arms. 

I kicked at the two hands that held her. 

Kicked as hard as I could. But they didn’t move, didn’t let go. 

“I—I can’t move!” Terri wailed. 

The dirt seemed to shake at my feet. I peered down to see more hands 
sprouting up from the ground. 

I tugged at Terri’s waist. “Move!” I yelled frantically. 

“I can’t!” 

“Yes, you can! You’ve got to keep trying!” 

“Ohhh!” I let out a low cry as two hands grabbed my ankles. 
Now I was caught. 

We were both trapped. 

2 

“Jerry! What’s your problem?” Terri asked. 

I blinked. Terri stood beside me on a rocky strip of beach. I stared out at the 
calm ocean water beyond us and shook my head. “Wow. That was weird,” I 
murmured. “I was remembering a bad dream I had a few months ago.” 

Terri frowned at me. “Why now?” 

“It was about a cemetery,” I explained. I turned back to glance at the tiny, 
old cemetery we’d just discovered at the edge of the pine woods behind us. “In 
my dream, green hands were popping out of the ground and grabbing our 
ankles.” 

“Gross,” Terri replied. She brushed her dark brown bangs off her face. 
Except for the fact that she is one inch taller than me, we look like a perfect 
brother-sister combination. Same short brown hair, same freckles across our 
nose, same hazel eyes. 

One difference: Terri has deep dimples in her cheeks when she smiles, and I 
don’t. Thank goodness. 

We walked along the ocean shore for a few minutes. Tall, gray boulders and 
scraggly pines stretched all the way to the water. 

“Maybe you remembered that dream because you’re nervous,” Terri said 
thoughtfully. “You know. About being away from home for a whole month.” 

“Well, maybe,” I agreed. “We’ve never been away this long. But what could 
happen here? Brad and Agatha are really great.” 

Brad Sadler is our distant cousin. Ancient, distant cousin is more like it. 
Dad said Brad and his wife, Agatha, were old when he was a kid! 

But they’re both fun, and really energetic despite their age. So when they 
invited us to come up to New England and spend the last month of summer with 
them in their old cottage near the beach, Terri and I eagerly said yes. It sounded 
great—especially since our only other choice was the cramped, hot apartment 
where we live in New Jersey. 

We had arrived by train that morning. Brad and Agatha met us at the 
platform and drove us along the pine woods to the cottage. 

After we had a chance to unpack and have some lunch—big bowls of 
creamy clam chowder—Agatha said, “Now why don’t you kids have a look 

around? There’s lots to explore.” 

So here we were, checking things out. Terri grabbed my arm. “Hey, let’s go 
back and check out that little cemetery!” she suggested eagerly. 

“I don’t know...” My frightening dream was still fresh in my mind. 

“Oh, come on. There won’t be any green hands. I promise. And I bet I can 
find some really cool gravestones for rubbings.” 

Terri loves exploring old graveyards. She loves all kinds of scary things. 
She reads scary mysteries by the dozen. And the weird thing is, she always reads 
the last chapter first. 

Terri has to solve the mystery. She can’t stand not knowing the answer. 

My sister has a million interests, but gravestone mbbings is one of her 
stranger hobbies. She tapes a piece of rice paper over the gravestone inscription 
and then rubs the design onto the paper, using the side of a special wax crayon. 

“Hey! Wait up,” I called to her. 

But Terri was already jogging up the beach toward the cemetery. “Come on, 
Jerry,” she called. “Don’t be a chicken.” 

I followed her off the beach and into the small forest. It smelled fresh and 
piney. The cemetery was just inside, surrounded by a crumbly stone wall. We 
squeezed through the narrow opening in the wall that led inside. 

Terri began inspecting the tombstones. “Wow. Some of these markers are 
really old,” she announced. “Check out this one.” 

She pointed at a small gravestone. Engraved on the front was a skull with 
wings sprouting on either side of its head. 

“It’s a death’s-head,” my sister explained. “Very old Puritan symbol. 
Creepy, huh?” She read the inscription: “'Here lies the body of Mr. John Sadler, 
who departed this life March 18, 1642, in the 38th year of his age.’” 

“Sadler. Like us,” I said. “Wow. I wonder if we’re related.” I did some 
quick calculations. “If we are, John Sadler is our great-great-great-great- 
grandsomething. He died over 350 years ago.” 

Terri had already moved on to another group of markers. “Here’s one from 
1647, and another from 1652. I don’t think I’ve ever gotten rubbings this old 
before.” She disappeared behind a tall tombstone. 

I knew where we’d be spending the month. I’d had enough of cemeteries 
for today, though. 

“Come on. Let’s explore the beach, okay?” I checked around for Terri. 
“Terri? Where’d you go?” I stepped over to the tall tombstone. 

Not there. 

“Terri?” The ocean breeze rustled the pine branches above us. “Terri, cut it 
out, okay?” 

I took a couple of steps. “You know I don’t like this,” I warned. 

Terri’s head popped up from behind a tombstone about ten feet away. 
“Why? You scared?” 

I didn’t like the grin on her face. “Who, me?” I said. “Never!” 

Terri stood up. “Okay, chicken. But I’m coming back here tomorrow.” She 
followed me out of the cemetery and onto the rocky beach. 

“I wonder what’s down here,” I said, heading along the shoreline. 

“Oh, look at this.” Terri stooped to pluck a tiny yellow-and-white 
wildflower that had sprouted up between two large rocks. “Butter-and-eggs,” she 
announced. “Weird name for a wildflower, huh?” 

“Very,” I agreed. Terri Sadler Hobby Number Two: wildflowers. She likes 
to collect them and press them in a huge cardboard contraption called a plant 
press. 

Terri frowned. “Now what’s your problem?” 

“We keep stopping. I want to go exploring. Agatha said there’s a small 
beach down here where we can go swimming if we want.” 

“Okay, okay,” she replied, rolling her hazel eyes. 

We trudged on until we reached a small, sandy beach. It was really more 
rock than sand. Staring out to the water, I saw a long rock jetty stretching out 
into the ocean. 

“Wonder what that’s for,” Terri said. 

“It helps hold the beach together,” I explained. I was just about to launch 
into my explanation of beach erosion when Terri gasped. 

“Jerry—look! Up there!” she cried. She pointed to a tall mound of rocks 
just past the jetty along the shoreline. Nestled high into the rocks, on top of a 
wide ledge, sat a large, dark cave. 

“Let’s climb up and explore it,” Terri cried eagerly. 

“No, wait!” I remembered what Mom and Dad had said to me that morning 
as we boarded the train: Keep an eye on Terri and don’t let her get too carried 
away with things. “It might be dangerous,” I said. I am the older brother, after 
all. And I’m the sensible one. 

She made a face. “Give me a break,” she muttered. Terri made her way 
across the beach and toward the cave. “At least let’s get a closer look. We can 

ask Brad and Agatha later whether or not it’s safe.” 

I followed behind her. “Yeah, right. Like ninety-year-olds ever go cave 
exploring.” 

As we came nearer, I had to admit it was an awesome cave. I’d never seen 
one that large except in an old Boy Scout magazine. 

“I wonder if someone lives in it,” Terri said excitedly. “You know. Like a 
beach hermit.” She cupped her hands around her mouth and called: “Whooooo!” 

Sometimes Terri can be such a dork. I mean, if you were living inside a 
cave, and you heard someone go “whoooo,” would you answer back? 

“Whoooo!” My sister did it again. 

“Let’s go,” I urged. 

Then, from inside the cave, a long, low whistle pierced the air. 

We stared at each other. 

“Whoa! What was that?” Terri whispered. “An owl?” 

I swallowed. “I don’t think so. Owls are only awake at night.” 

We heard it again. A long whistle floating out from deep inside the cave. 

We exchanged glances. What could it be? A wolf? A coyote? 

“I bet Brad and Agatha are wondering where we are,” Terri said softly. 
“Maybe we should go.” 

“Yeah. Okay.” I turned to leave. But stopped when I heard a fluttering 
sound. From behind the cave. Growing louder. 

I shielded my eyes with my hand and squinted up at the sky. 

“No!” I grabbed Terri’s arm as a shadow swept over us—and an enormous 
bat swooped down at us, red eyes flashing, its pointed teeth glistening, hissing as 
it attacked. 

3 

The bat swooped low. So low, I could feel the air from its fluttering wings. 

Terri and I dropped to the hard ground. I covered my head with both hands. 

My heart was pounding so loudly, I couldn’t hear the fluttering wings. 

“Hey—where’d it go?” I heard Terri cry. 

I peeped out. I could see the bat spiralling up into the sky. I watched it 
swoosh and dip beyond us. Then suddenly it went into a wild spin. 

It crashed onto the rocks nearby. I could see one black wing flapping 
weakly in the breeze. 

Slowly, I climbed to my feet, my heart still thudding. “What made it drop 
like that?” I asked in a shaky voice. I started toward it. 

Terri held me back. “Stay away. Bats can carry rabies, you know.” 

“I’m not going to get that close,” I told her. “I just want to take a look. I’ve 
never seen a real bat close up.” I guess you could say that my hobby is science, 
too. I love studying about all kinds of animals. 

“Here. Check it out,” I announced, scrambling over the smooth, gray 
boulders. 

“Careful, Jerry,” warned Terri. “If you get rabies, you’ll get me in trouble.” 

“Thanks for your concern,” I muttered sarcastically. 

I stopped about four feet from the bat. “Whoa! I don’t believe it!” I cried. 

I heard Terri burst out laughing. 

It wasn’t a bat. It was a kite. 

I stared in disbelief. The two red eyes that had seemed so menacing were 
painted on paper! One of the wings had been ripped to shreds when it crashed on 
the rocks. 

We both bent over to examine the wreckage. 

“Look out! It bites!” a boy’s voice called from behind us. 

Startled, Terri and I leaped back. I turned and saw a boy about our age, 
standing on a tall rock. He had a ball of string in his hand. 

“Ha-ha. Great joke,” Terri said sarcastically. 

The boy grinned at us, but didn’t reply. He stepped closer. I could see that 
he had freckles across his nose just like me, and brown hair the same shade as 

mine. He turned back toward the rocks and called, “You can come out now.” 

Two kids, a girl about our age and a little boy about five, clambered over 
the rocks. The little boy had light blond hair and blue eyes, and his ears poked 
out. The girl’s hair was auburn, and she wore it in braids. A11 three of them had 
the same freckles across their noses. 

“Are you all in the same family?” Terri asked them. 

The tallest boy, the one who had come out first, nodded his head. “Yeah. 
We’re all Sadlers. I’m Sam. That’s Louisa. That’s Nat.” 

“Wow,” I said. “We’re Sadlers, too.” I introduced Terri and myself. 

Sam didn’t seem impressed. “There’re lots of Sadlers around here,” he 
muttered. 

We stared at each other for a long moment. They didn’t seem very friendly. 
But then Sam surprised me by asking if I wanted to skip rocks in the water. 

We followed Sam to the water’s edge. 

“Do you live around here?” Terri asked. 

Louisa nodded. “What are you doing here?” she asked. She sounded 
suspicious. 

“We’re visiting our cousins for the month,” Terri told her. “They’re Sadlers, 
too. They live in the little cottage just past the lighthouse. Do you know them?” 

“Sure,” said Louisa without smiling. “This is a small place. Everyone 
knows everyone else.” 

I found a smooth, flat stone and skipped it across the water. Three skips. 
Not bad. “What do you do for fun around here?” I asked. 

Louisa replied, staring out at the water. “We go blueberry picking, we play 
games, we come down to the water.” She turned to me. “Why? What did you do 
today?” 

“Nothing yet. We just got here,” I told her. I grinned. “Except we were 
attacked by a bat kite.” 

They laughed. 

“I’m going to do gravestone rubbings and collect wildflowers,” Terri said. 

“There are some beautiful flower patches back in the woods,” Louisa told 
her. 

I watched Sam skip a stone across the water. Seven skips. 

He turned to me and grinned. “Practice makes perfect.” 

“It’s hard to practice in an apartment building,” I muttered. 

“Huh?” Sam said. 

“We live in Hoboken,” I explained. “In New Jersey. There aren’t any ponds 
in our building.” 

Terri pointed back at the cave. “Do you ever go exploring in there?” she 
asked. 

Nat gasped. Sam and Louisa’s faces twisted in surprise. “Are you kidding?” 
Louisa cried. 

“We never go near there,” Sam said softly, eyeing his sister. 

“Never?” Terri asked. 

All three of them shook their heads. 

“Why not?” Terri asked. “What’s the big deal?” 

“Yeah,” I demanded. “Why won’t you go near the cave?” 

Louisa’s eyes grew wide. “Do you believe in ghosts?” she asked. 

4 

“Believe in ghosts? No way!” Terri told her. 

I kept my mouth shut. I knew that ghosts weren’t supposed to be real. But 
what if all the scientists were wrong? 

There are so many ghost stories from all around the world, how can ghosts 
not be real? 

Maybe that’s why I sometimes get scared when I am in strange places. I 
think I do believe in ghosts. Of course, I would never admit this to Terri. She is 
always so scientific. She’d laugh at me forever! 

The three Sadler kids had clustered together. 

“Come on. Do you guys really believe in ghosts?” Terri asked. 

Louisa took a step forward. Sam tried to pull her back, but she brushed him 
off. “If you go near that cave, you might change your mind,” she said, narrowing 
her eyes. 

“You mean there are ghosts in there?” I asked. 

“What do they do? Come out at night or something?” 

Louisa started to reply, but Sam interrupted. “We’ve got to go now,” he 
said, scooting his brother and sister past us. 

“Hey—wait!” I called. “We want to hear about the ghosts!” 

They hurried on. I could see Sam yelling angrily at Louisa. I guess he was 
upset because she mentioned the ghosts. 

They disappeared down the beach. 

Then, from inside the cave we heard that long, low whistle again. 

Terri stared at me. 

“It’s the wind,” I said. I really didn’t believe that. Terri didn’t believe it, 
either. 

“Why don’t we ask Brad and Agatha about the cave?” I suggested. 

“Good idea,” Terri said. Even she looked a little scared now.. 

Brad and Agatha’s cottage was a short walk from the cave. It perched by 
itself on the edge of the pine forest, looking out toward the lighthouse. 

I ran up to the heavy wooden front door and pushed it open. I peered around 
the tiny front parlor. The old house creaked and groaned as I walked over the 
sagging floorboards. The ceiling hung so low, I could touch it when I stood on 

tiptoe. 

Terri came up beside me. “Are they here?” 

“I don’t think so,” I answered, looking around. 

We stepped past the old sofa and wide stone fireplace and into the cramped 
kitchen. Off the kitchen stood an old storeroom where I was to sleep. Upstairs 
was Brad and Agatha’s room with a “crawl-through” passage into the space 
above the storeroom, which would be Terri’s room. A tiny back staircase led 
from Terri’s room down to the yard. 

Terri turned to the window. “There they are!” she said. “In the garden!” 

I could see Brad bent over a tomato stalk. Agatha was hanging some clothes 
to dry on the clothesline. 

We raced out the kitchen door. “Where have you two been?” Agatha 
demanded. She and Brad both had white, white hair, and their eyes seemed faded 
and tired. They were so frail and light. Between them I don’t think they weighed 
more than a hundred pounds. 

“We explored the beach,” I told them. 

I knelt down beside Brad. He was missing the top part of two of his fingers 
on his left hand. He told us they got caught in a wolf trap when he was young. 

“We found an old cave in some huge rocks. Have you ever seen it?” I 
asked. 

He gave a little grunt and kept searching for ripe tomatoes. 

“It’s right by the beach and the big rock jetty,” Terri added. “You can’t miss 
it.” 

Agatha’s sheets fluttered on the line. “It’s nearly suppertime,” she said, 
ignoring our questions about the cave. “Why don’t you come inside and give me 
a hand, Terri?” 

Terri glanced at me and shrugged. 

I turned back to Brad. I was about to ask him about the cave again when he 
handed me the basket of ripe tomatoes. “Take these to Agatha, okay?” 

“Sure,” I answered, following Terri inside. I set the basket on the small 
counter. The kitchen was small and narrow. Counter and sink on one side. Stove 
and refrigerator on the other. Agatha had already put Terri to work in the corner 
of the living room, setting the table. 

“Now Terri, dear,” Agatha called from the kitchen, “if it’s asters you’re 
after, the best place to find those is in the big meadow down past the lighthouse. 
Of course they’re just coming out about now, so you can take your pick there. I 

believe that’s where you can find plenty of goldenrod, too.” 

“Great!” Terri called back with her usual enthusiasm. I don’t know how she 
could get so pumped about flowers. 

Agatha noticed the basket of tomatoes on the counter. “Oh, gracious! All 
those tomatoes!” She opened a rattley old drawer and pulled out a small knife. 
“Why don’t you cut these up for a big green salad?” 

I must have made a face. 

“Don’t you like salad?” Agatha asked. 

“Not really,” I said. “I mean, I’m not a rabbit!” 

Agatha laughed. “You’re absolutely right,” she said. “Why ruin a 
homegrown tomato with lettuce? We’ll have them plain, with maybe a little 
dressing.” 

“Sounds good,” I grinned, picking up the knife. 

I listened to Agatha and Terri discuss wildflowers for a few minutes to see 
if the subject of the cave would come up again. It didn’t. I wondered why my 
two old cousins didn’t want to talk about it. 

After dinner Brad pulled out an old deck of playing cards and taught Terri 
and me how to play whist. It’s an old-fashioned card game that I’d never heard 
of before. 

Brad got a kick out of teaching us the rules. He and I played against Terri 
and Agatha. Every time I got mixed up, which was most of the time, he’d wag 
his finger back and forth at me. I guess it saved him from having to say anything. 

We went to bed after the card game. It was early, but I didn’t care. It had 
been a long day, and I was glad to get some rest. The bed was hard, but I fell 
asleep as soon as my head hit the scratchy feather pillow. 

The next morning Terri and I made our way to the woods to collect plants and 
wildflowers. 

“What is it we’re looking for again?” I asked Terri as I kicked aside piles of 
dead leaves. 

“Indian pipe,” Terri replied. “It looks like small, pinkish-white bones 
popping out of the ground. It’s also called corpse plant because it lives on the 
remains of dead plants.” 

“Yuck.” I suddenly remembered the popping hands in my cemetery dream. 

Terri laughed. “You should like these plants,” she said. “They’re a scientific 
puzzle. They’re white because they don’t have any chlorophyll. You know. The 

stuff that makes plants turn green.” 

“How interesting,” I said sarcastically, rolling my eyes. 

Terri continued her lecture anyway. “Agatha said Indian pipe only grows in 
very dark places. They look more like a fungus than a plant.” 

She dug around for a few minutes. “The weirdest thing about them,” she 
continued, “is if they dry out, they turn black. That’s why I want to try pressing a 
few.” 

I poked around in the leaves some more. I have to admit she had me 
hooked. I love freaks of nature. 

I peered up at the heavy leaf canopy above us. “We’re definitely as deep 
into the woods as we can be. Are you sure this is where Agatha said you can find 
them?” 

Terri nodded. She pointed to a huge fallen oak tree. “That’s our landmark. 
Don’t lose it.” 

I started toward the big tree. “Maybe I’ll take a closer look over there,” I 
said. “There might be Indian pipe on that dead tree.” 

I knelt down by the snakelike tree roots and began carefully pushing dead 
leaves aside. No wildflowers. Just bugs and worms. It was really gross. 

I glanced back at Terri. She didn’t seem to be having any luck, either. 

Then, out of the corner of my eye, I noticed something white sticking out of 
the ground. I scurried over to examine it. 

A short plant stem stuck up from the soft ground. The stem was covered 
with rolled-up leaves. I tugged at the stem. It didn’t come up. 

I pulled harder. 

The stem rose up a little, bringing a clump of soft dirt with it. 

It isn’t a stem, I realized. It’s some kind of root. A root with leaves. 

Weird. 

I pulled more of it up from the ground. It was very long, I discovered. 

A hard tug. Then another. 

Another hard tug of the strange root brought up a huge mound of dirt. 

I glanced down into the large hole I had made—and uttered a sharp cry. 

“Terri—come here!” I managed to choke out. “I found a skeleton!” 

5 

“Huh?” Terri raced to my side. 

We both stood and stared down at it in silence. 

The skeleton I had uncovered lay curled on its side, every bone neatly in 
place. The empty eye socket in its gray skull gaped up at us. 

“Is it a h-human?” Terri stammered in a low whisper. 

“Not unless the human has four legs, genius!” I replied. 

Terri stared down at it, her mouth open in an O of surprise. “Well, then, 
what is it?” 

“Some kind of large animal,” I told her. “Maybe a deer.” 

I stooped to take a closer look. “No. Not a deer. It has toe bones, not 
hooves.” 

I studied the skull, which was fairly large and had sharp incisors or teeth. 
When I was nine, I had a thing about skeletons. I must have read every book 
ever written about skeletons. 

“My guess is a dog,” I announced. 

“A dog?” said Terri. “Oh, poor little doggy.” She stared at the skeleton. 
“How do you think it died?” 

“Maybe an animal attacked it.” 

Terri knelt down beside me. “Why would anyone want to eat a dog?” 

“They’re high in protein!” I joked. 

She shoved me hard. “Jerry! I’m serious. What animal around here eats 
dogs?” 

“A wolf maybe. Or a fox,” I replied thoughtfully. 

“Wouldn’t a wolf or fox have crunched a few of the bones and left more of 
a mess?” Terri asked. “This skeleton is in perfect shape.” 

“Maybe it died of old age,” I suggested. “Or maybe someone buried it here 
beneath that weird root plant.” 

“Yeah. Maybe it wasn’t attacked by anything,” Terri said. I could see the 
color returning to her face. 

We sat silently over the skeleton for a minute, thinking about the dog. 

A shrill animal howl made us both jump to our feet. The frightening sound 

filled the forest, echoing through the trees. 

We held our ears as the howling grew louder. “Wh-what is it? What’s 
making that horrible cry?” Terri shrieked. I stared back at her. I didn’t know. I 
only knew it was moving closer. 

6 

The howls stopped as suddenly as they started. 

When I turned around to make sure we were safe, I saw them. 

Sam, Nat, and Louisa were huddled behind a nearby tree. Laughing. 

I glared at them. I realized instantly that they had been making the howls. 
Who did they think they were? 

It took them a long time to stop laughing. I couldn’t believe how much they 
were enjoying their little joke. 

I glanced at Terri. She was blushing. My face felt hot. I guess I was 
blushing, too. 

When they finally stopped laughing, I invited them over to see the skeleton. 

Now it was their turn to be startled. 

Sam’s eyes grew wide. Louisa let out a short cry. Nat, the little one, grabbed 
on to his sister’s sleeve and started to whimper. 

Terri dug into her jeans pockets for a tissue. “Don’t worry,” she told Nat. 
She dabbed at his cheeks with her tissue. “It’s not a person skeleton. It’s only a 
dog skeleton.” 

Those words made Nat burst into tears. 

Louisa put her arms around Nat’s trembling shoulders. “Shush,” she said. 
“It’s all right.” 

But Nat couldn’t calm himself down. “I know what happened to this dog,” 
he sobbed. “A ghost killed it. Dogs can tell if someone’s a ghost. Dogs always 
bark to warn about ghosts.” 

“Nat,” Terri said softly, “there’s no such thing as ghosts. They’re pretend.” 

Sam stepped forward, shaking his head. “You’re wrong,” he told Terri, 
narrowing his eyes at her. “There are lots of skeletons in these woods. All 
because of the ghost. He picks the bones clean and leaves them lying here.” 

“Give me a break, Sam,” Terri muttered. “Are you trying to tell us that 
there’s a ghost around here?” 

Sam stared back, but didn’t reply. 

“Well, are you?” Terri demanded. 

Suddenly Sam’s expression changed. His eyes grew wide with terror. 
“There it is!” he cried, pointing. “Right behind you!” 

7 

I let out a shriek and grabbed Terri’s arm. 

But I knew immediately that I’d been fooled again. When was I going to 
stop falling for Sam’s dumb jokes? 

“You two are too easy to scare,” Sam said, grinning. 

Terri put her hands on her hips and glared at Sam. “How about a truce, 
guys? These jokes are getting pretty lame.” 

All eyes were on Sam. 

“Yeah. Okay. A truce,” he murmured. But he had a grin on his face. I 
couldn’t tell if he meant it or not. 

“Sam, tell Jerry and me more about the ghost,” Terri demanded. “Were you 
serious about a ghost killing the dog, or was that one of your fabulous jokes?” 

Sam kicked at a clump of dirt. “Maybe some other time,” he muttered. 

“Some other time? Why not now?” I asked. 

Louisa started to say something—but Sam tugged her away. “Let’s go,” he 
said sharply. “Now.” 

Terri’s expression changed to confusion. “But I thought—” 

Sam stalked off through the trees, dragging Louisa with him. Nat hurried to 
catch up to them. 

“Bye,” Louisa called. “See you later.” 

“Did you see that?” Terri cried. “They really do believe there’s a ghost in 
these woods. They didn’t want to talk about it, so they left.” 

I stared down at the animal skeleton, lying so clean and perfect on the 
ground. 

Picked clean. 

Picked clean by a ghost. 

The words rolled through my mind. 

I stared hard at the jagged teeth in the pale skull. Then I turned away. 

“Let’s go back to the cottage,” I murmured. 

We found Brad and Agatha sitting in rocking chairs under a shady tree. Agatha 
was slicing peaches into a large wooden bowl, and Brad watched her. 

“Do you two like peach pie?” Agatha asked. 

Terri and I replied that it was one of our favorites. 

Agatha smiled. “We’ll have it tonight. I don’t know if your dad mentioned 
it, but peach pie is one of my specialties. So did you find the Indian pipe?” 

“Not exactly,” I replied. “We found a dog skeleton instead.” 

Agatha began slicing more quickly, the knife blade slipping over her thumb 
as the soft peach slices slid into the bowl. “Oh, my,” she muttered. 

“What kind of an animal would go after a dog?” asked Terri. “Are there 
wolves or coyotes around here?” 

“Never seen any,” Brad answered quickly. 

“Then how do you explain that skeleton?” I demanded. “It was perfectly 
arranged, and the bones were picked clean.” 

Agatha and Brad exchanged a worried glance. “Can’t say as I know,” said 
Agatha. Slice. Slice. Slice. “Brad? Do you have any ideas?” 

Brad rocked back and forth for a minute. “Nope.” 

Very helpful, Brad, I thought. 

“We also met three kids,” I said. I told them about Sam, Nat, and Louisa. 
“They said they know you.” 

“Yep,” Brad replied. “Neighbors.” 

“They told us a ghost must have killed the dog.” 

Agatha set down her paring knife and leaned her head back against the 
chair, laughing softly to herself. “Is that what they said? Oh, my. Those kids 
were teasing you. They love to make up ghost stories. Especially that oldest boy, 
Sam.” 

“That’s what I thought,” Terri said, glancing at me. 

Agatha nodded. “They’re nice kids. You should invite them to do 
something with you some time. Maybe you can all go blueberry picking.” 

Brad cleared his throat. His pale eyes studied me. “You’re too smart to fall 
for ghost stories, aren’t you?” 

“Yeah. I guess,” I replied uncertainly. 

We spent the rest of the afternoon helping Brad weed the garden. Weeding isn’t 
exactly my idea of a thrill. But after Brad showed us which were the good plants 
and which weren’t, Terri and I had fun spearing the bad guys with the special 
weeding tools he lent us. 

We ate the peach pie for dessert that night, and it was delicious. Agatha and 

Brad wanted to hear all about our school and our friends. 

After dinner, Brad challenged us to another game of whist. This time I did 
much better. Brad only had to wiggle his finger at me a couple of times. 

Later, I had a tough time falling asleep. The window of my little room off 
the kitchen had long, flimsy, white cotton curtains that allowed the light of the 
full moon to shine onto my face. It felt like staring into a flashlight. 

I tried covering my face with the pillow, but I couldn’t breathe. Then I tried 
resting my arm over my eyes, but my arm quickly fell asleep. 

I pulled the sheet up over my head. Better. 

I closed my eyes. The crickets were making a real racket. 

Then I heard something thump against the wall outside. Probably a tree 
branch, I told myself. 

Another thump. I slid a little further down in my bed. 

The third time I heard the sound, I took a deep breath, sat up, and tossed off 
the sheet. 

I took a careful look around the room. Nothing. Nada. Zip. 

I lay back down. 

Near the doorway, the floorboards creaked. 

I turned to the window. 

Behind the curtains, something moved. 

Something pale. Ghostly. 

The floorboards creaked again as the pale figure moved toward me. 

8 

I opened my mouth in a low, terrified scream. Then I pulled the sheet back over 
my head. 

The room grew silent. I was trembling all over. 

Where was the ghost? 

I peeked out from the sheet. 

Terri stepped out from behind the curtain. “Gotcha,” she whispered. 

“You creep,” I choked out. “How could you do that to me?” 

“Easy,” she replied, grinning. “All this ghost talk has you freaked out— 
hasn’t it.” 

I let out an angry growl, but didn’t reply. My heart was still thudding in my 
chest. 

Terri sat down on the edge of the bed. She pulled her robe around her more 
tightly. “I just couldn’t resist,” she said, still grinning. “I came down to talk to 
you, and I saw you lying there with the sheet over your head. It was too 
tempting.” 

I glared at her. “Next time pick on someone your own size,” I said angrily. 
“I had the sheet pulled up because I was having trouble falling asleep.” 

“Me, too,” Terri said. “My mattress is really lumpy.” She stared out the 
window. “And, besides, I was thinking about that ghost.” 

“Hey—you’re the one who doesn’t believe in them—remember?” I 
insisted. 

“I know. I really don’t believe in ghosts. But Sam, Louisa, and Nat 
obviously do.” 

“So?” 

“So I want to find out why. Don’t you?” 

“Not really. I don’t care if I ever see those kids again,” I said. 

Terri yawned. “Louisa seems nice. Much more friendly than Sam. I think 
we can get Louisa to tell us more about the ghost if we ask her. She almost told 
us today.” 

“Terri, I don’t believe you,” I replied, pulling the sheet up to my chin. “You 
heard what Agatha said. Sam likes to make up stories.” 

“I don’t think this is a story,” Terri said. “I know I’m supposed to be the 

scientific one in the family. But I think something strange is going on here, 
Jerry.” 

I didn’t answer. I was picturing the animal skeleton. 

“I’m going to ask them about the ghost again tomorrow,” Terri announced. 

“How do you know they’ll show up?” 

Terri grinned. “They always do, don’t they? Haven’t you noticed? No 
matter where we are, they always seem to be there.” She paused. “Do you think 
they’re following us?” 

“I hope not,” I said. 

Terri laughed. “You’re such a wimp.” 

I threw off the covers. “Am not!” 

Terri started tickling me. “Wimp! Wimp! Wimp!” 

I grabbed her arm and twisted it behind her. Then I started tickling her back. 
“Take it back,” I said. 

“Okay, okay!” she cried. “I didn’t mean it.” 

“And you’ll never call me a wimp again?” 

“Never!” 

As soon as I let go of her arm, she ran to the doorway. “See you in the 
morning—wimp!” she called. She disappeared through the kitchen. 

At breakfast the next morning, Agatha asked, “What do you kids have planned 
for today?” 

“A swim, I guess,” I replied, glancing at Terri. “Down at the beach.” 

“Be careful of the tide down there,” Brad warned. “It can sweep a full- 
grown man off his feet.” 

Terri and I glanced at each other. I don’t think we’d ever heard Brad put 
two full sentences together before. 

“We will,” Terri promised. “We’ll probably do more wading than 
swimming.” 

Agatha handed me a banged-up metal pail. “Might want to pick up some 
sea urchins or sea stars.” 

A few minutes later, I took the pail and a couple of old beach towels, and 
Terri and I headed down the twisty path along the shoreline. 

We scrambled up and down the rocks until we came to a spot not far from 
the sandy beach and the cave. 

We slid down the giant rock underneath us and then climbed on all fours 

across a few smaller rocks until we reached a wide, mossy, tide pool about three 
feet from the water’s edge. The tide pool was about the size of a kiddie pool. 

“Wow, Jerry!” Terri exclaimed, staring into the water. “I see tons of stuff in 
here.” She reached into the green, slimy water and pulled out a sea star. “It’s so 
tiny. Not even the size of my palm. Maybe it’s a baby.” 

She turned it over. Its legs wiggled. “Hello, cute little sea star,” she sang. 

Yuck. “I’ll go get the pail, okay?” I said. I climbed back over the rocks to 
where we left our things. 

Guess who was bent over our stuff? Snooping. “Find anything good?” I 
called sharply. 

Sam glanced up slowly. “I was wondering whose towels these were,” he 
said casually. 

Nat and Louisa came bounding over the rocks. “Where’s Terri?” Louisa 
asked. 

I motioned toward the water. “Down by the tide pool.” I grabbed the pail. 

They followed me back down. Terri smiled when she saw us. I could tell 
she was happy to see Louisa and her brothers. “Look at all the cool stuff I found 
in here,” Terri declared. 

Along the smooth surface of a large, flat rock she lined up the baby sea star, 
two sea urchins, and a hermit crab. 

We crowded together to see. Terri held out the sea star. “Aren’t its feet 
cute?” she asked Nat. 

He giggled. 

We spent a few minutes examining everything. Nat started rattling off 
everything he’d ever learned about crabs. Louisa finally had to cut him off. 

“I want to hear more about the ghost,” Terri told Louisa. 

“Nothing more to tell,” Louisa replied softly. She glanced nervously at 

Sam. 

Had he warned her not to talk about it anymore? 

Terri refused to give up. “Where does the ghost live?” she demanded. 

Louisa and Sam exchanged glances again. 

“Come on, guys. It has to live somewhere!” Terri teased. 

Nat gazed toward the beach and the cave. A breeze fluttered his fine, blond 
hair. He slapped a green fly on his skinny bare arm. 

“Does the ghost live on the beach?” Terri asked. 

Nat shook his head. 

“In the cave?” I guessed. 

Nat pinched his lips together. 

“I thought so,” Terri said. “In the cave.” She flashed me a triumphant grin. 
“What else?” 

Nat’s face turned red. He hid behind Louisa. “I didn’t mean to tell,” he 
whispered. 

“It’s okay,” Louisa told him, petting his hair. She turned to Terri and me. 
“The ghost is very old. No one has ever seen him come out.” 

“Louisa!” Sam said sharply. “I really don’t think we should talk about this.” 

“Why not?” Louisa shot back. “They have a right to know.” 

“But they don’t even believe in ghosts,” Sam insisted. 

“Well, maybe you can change my mind,” Terri replied. “Are you guys sure 
there’s a ghost? Have you really seen it?” 

“We’ve seen the skeletons,” Louisa said solemnly. 

Nat peeked his head out from behind Louisa’s leg. “The ghost comes out 
during the full moon,” he announced. 

“We don’t know that for sure,” Louisa corrected. “He’s been in the cave up 
there forever. Some people say for three hundred years.” 

“But if you haven’t seen him,” I said, “how do you know he’s in the cave?” 

“You can see a light flickering,” Sam replied. 

“Alight?” I hooted. “Give me a break! That could be anything. It could be a 
guy in there with a flashlight.” 

Louisa shook her head. “It’s not that kind of light,” she insisted. “It’s 
different from that.” 

“Well, a flickering light and a dog skeleton aren’t enough to convince me,” 
I said. “I think you’re just trying to scare us again. This time, I’m not falling for 
it.” 

Sam scowled. “No problem,” he muttered. “You don’t have to believe it. 
Really.” 

“Well, I don’t,” I insisted. 

Sam shrugged. “Have fun,” he said softly. He led his brother and sister back 
toward the woods. 

As soon as they were out of sight, Terri punched me in the side. “Jerry, why 
did you do that? I was just starting to weasel some good stuff out of them.” 

I shook my head. “Can’t you see they’re trying to scare us? There’s no 
ghost. It’s another dumb joke.” 

Terri stared hard at me. “I’m not so sure,” she murmured. 

I gazed up at the enormous black hole of the cave. Despite the morning 
heat, a chill ran down my back. 

Was there an ancient ghost in there? 

Did I really want to find out? 

Agatha made a really great old-fashioned chicken pot pie for dinner. I ate all of 
mine except for the peas and carrots. I’m not into vegetables. 

Terri and I were helping Agatha with the dishes after dinner when she said, 
“Jerry, I seem to be missing one of the beach towels. Didn’t you take two with 
you this morning?” 

“I guess we did,” I replied. 

“Did we leave one at the beach?” Terri asked. 

I tried to remember. “I don’t think so. I can go take a look.” 

“Don’t bother,” Agatha said. “It’s getting dark out. You can look 
tomorrow.” 

“I don’t mind,” I told her. I threw down my dish towel and bolted out the 
back door before she could say anything else. 

I was glad for an excuse to escape. That tiny kitchen was suffocating me. 
There was hardly any room to turn around in there. 

I walked along the path to the water’s edge, happy to be alone for a change. 
Terri is okay, especially for a kid sister. We get along amazingly well. But 
sometimes I like to be by myself. 

I found the big rock where we’d left our towels that morning. No sign of the 
missing towel. Maybe Sam took it, I thought. Maybe he planned to drape it over 
his head and jump out at us. 

I gazed up at the big cave, dark against the blue-black sky. 

“Huh?” 

I blinked—and took a step closer. 

Was that a light flickering in the cave? 

I took another step. It had to be the reflection of the moon, just rising over 
the pine trees. 

No. Not the moon, I realized. 

I took another few steps. I couldn’t take my eyes off the flickering light, so 
pale, so ghostly pale, in the black cave opening. 

Sam! I told myself. Yes, it’s Sam. He’s up there right now, lighting matches. 

Hoping I’ll fall for his trick. 

Should I climb up there? 

My sneakers sank into the sand as I took a few more steps toward the cave. 
The light glimmered in the cave opening. It hovered so near the entrance. 
Floating. Flickering. Dancing slowly. 

Should I go up there? I asked myself. 

Should I? 

9 

Yes. I had to climb up there. 

The light glimmered brighter, as if calling to me. 

I took a deep breath, then jumped across a tide pool and over some mossy 
rocks. Then I started up. 

The cave stood high above me, embedded in the boulders. I leaped and 
scrambled over slippery, small rocks until I reached the next big boulder. 

A halo of yellow moonlight shone down on the rocks, making it easy to see. 
What was it Nat said about the moon? Something about the ghost coming out 
when it was full? 

I scaled the next rock, and kept climbing. 

I could see the ghostly light floating above me in the cave entrance. 

Up, up I climbed over the scraggly rocks, slippery from the evening dew. 

“Oh!” I cried out as I felt my legs give way. A mini-landslide had started 
under my feet. Small rocks and sand tumbled down the hill behind me. 

Desperately, I grabbed at a fat root growing out between the rocks. I held on 
long enough to get my footing. 

Whew! I took a moment to catch my breath. 

Then I pulled myself up onto a sturdy boulder and gazed up to the cave. 
Now it was right above my head. Only another ten feet or so to go. 

I stood up—and gasped. 

Whoa! What was that noise behind me? 

I stood frozen. Waiting. Listening. 

Was someone else there? 

Was the ghost there? 

I didn’t have long to wonder. A cold, clammy hand grabbed my neck. 

10 

I uttered a choking sound and struggled to turn around. 

The cold fingers relaxed their grip. “Ssssh,” Terri whispered. “It’s me.” 

I let out an angry growl. “What do you think you’re doing?” 

“Never mind that,” she shot back. “What do you think you ’re doing?” 

“I—I’m looking for that beach towel,” I stammered. 

Terri laughed. “You’re looking for a ghost, Jerry. Admit it.” 

We both raised our eyes to the cave. “Do you see the light?” I whispered. 
“Huh? What light?” Terri demanded. 

“The light flickering in the cave,” I replied impatiently. “What’s wrong with 
you? Do you need glasses?” 

“I’m sorry. I don’t see any light,” Terri insisted. “It’s completely dark.” 

I stared up at the cave opening. Stared up into total darkness. 

She was right. The flickering light in the cave had vanished. 

As I lay in bed later that night, I tried to use what Mr. Hendrickson, my science 
teacher, calls my “critical thinking skills.” That’s when you have to put together 
whatever facts you have and those you don’t, and then draw a logical conclusion. 
So I asked myself: What do I know? 

I know I saw a light. Then the light went out. 

So what was the explanation? An optical illusion? My imagination? Sam? 
Outside the window, a dog began to bark. 

That’s weird, I thought. I hadn’t seen any dogs around here before. 

I stuffed my pillow over my ears. 

The barking grew louder, more emotional. It sounded as if it were right 
outside my window. 

I sat up, listening. 

And remembered what Nat had told us. Dogs recognize ghosts. 

Was that why the dog was barking so excitedly? 

Had the dog spotted the ghost? 

With a shiver, I climbed out of bed and crept to the window. 

I peered down to the ground. 

No dog. 

I listened. 

The barking had stopped. 

Crickets chirped. The trees whispered. 

“Here, doggy,” I called softly. 

No reply. I shivered again. 

Silence now. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

“Sssshhh. YouTl scare them,” Terri whispered. 

The morning sun was still a red ball, low in the sky, as we approached the 
seagull nest Terri had spotted the day before. 

Bird-watching was Terri Sadler Hobby Number Three. Unlike gravestone 
mbbings and wild-flower collecting, she could do this one back at home, right 
from our apartment window. 

We crouched down to watch. About fifteen feet away, the mother seagull 
was trying to herd her three babies back into the nest. She squawked noisily and 
chased them first in one direction, then another. 

“Aren’t the babies cute?” whispered Terri. “They look like fuzzy gray 
stuffed animals, don’t they?” 

“Actually they remind me of rats,” I replied. 

Terri poked me with her elbow. “Don’t be a creep.” 

We watched them in silence for a few minutes. “So tell me again about the 
dog barking last night,” Terri asked. “I can’t believe I didn’t hear it.” 

“There’s nothing more to tell,” I replied edgily. “When I went to the 
window, it stopped.” 

Down the beach I saw the three Sadler kids, in shorts and sleeveless T- 
shirts, walking barefoot along the shore. I jumped up and started jogging toward 
them. 

“What’s your hurry?” Terri called after me. 

“I want to tell them about the flickering light,” I called back. 

“Wait up!” Terri shouted, scrambling after me. 

We stumbled along the rocky beach toward the three kids. I saw that Sam 
was carrying a couple of old fishing poles, and Louisa had a bucket filled with 
water. 

“Hi,” Louisa said warmly, setting down the bucket. 

“Catch anything?” I asked. 

“Nope,” Nat replied. “We didn’t go fishing yet.” 

“What’s in the bucket, then?” I asked. 

Nat reached in and pulled out a small, silver fish. “Bunker. We use ’em for 
bait.” 

I leaned down and peered into the pail. Dozens of little silver-gray fish 
swarmed around inside. “Wow.” 

“Want to come?” Louisa asked. 

Terri and I traded glances. Fishing sounded like fun. And maybe it would 
give us a chance to ask casually about the light in the cave. “Sure,” I said. “Why 
not?” 

We followed them down the sandy path to a shady spot on the water. “We 
usually have good luck here,” Sam announced. 

He grabbed a bait fish out of the bucket, then steadied his fishing pole 
against his leg. He expertly threaded the fish onto the hook, then handed me the 
pole. The fish flipped back and forth on the hook. 

“Want to try?” he asked. I wondered why he was suddenly acting so nice to 
me now. Had Louisa gotten on his case? Or was he setting me up for another 
joke? 

“Sure, I’ll try,” I told him. “What do I do?” 

Sam showed me how to cast the line out. My first try wasn’t great. The line 
landed about a foot from the shore. 

Sam laughed and cast it for me again. “Don’t worry,” he said, handing the 
pole back to me. “It takes a lot of practice to learn to cast.” 

This Sam was certainly different from the Sam we had seen before. Maybe 
it just takes him a while to get friendly, I told myself. 

“Now what do I do?” I asked him. 

“Keep casting out and reeling in,” he said. “And if you feel a tug, yell.” 

Sam turned to Terri. “Do you want to try, too?” he asked. 

“Of course!” she replied. 

Sam started to grab a bunker for Terri from the bucket. 

“That’s okay,” Terri said. “I can do it.” 

Sam stepped back and let Terri do the honors. I think she must have been 
showing off. I’d never seen her bait a live fish before. She always hated slimy 
things. 

Terri started to cast out her line without any help. I was about to accuse her 

again of showing off. But then her fishing line got tangled in the tree branches 
above us. 

That got everyone laughing—especially when the bait fish squirmed off the 
hook and dropped down into Terri’s hair. Terri shrieked, thrashed her arms, and 
swatted the fish into the water. 

Sam collapsed with laughter on the rock. The rest of us laughed, too. We 
were all sprawled out on a big flat rock. 

This seemed a good time to bring up the cave. “Guess what?” I started. 
“Last night I came down to the beach, and I saw that flickering light you were 
talking about in the cave.” 

Sam’s smile faded instantly. “You did?” 

Louisa’s eyes grew wide with concern. “You... you didn’t go in there, did 
you? Please say no.” 

“No, I didn’t go inside,” I told them. 

“It’s really dangerous,” Louisa said. “You shouldn’t climb up there. Really.” 

“Yeah. Really,” Sam quickly agreed. His eyes burned into mine. 

I glanced at Terri. I could tell what she was thinking. These three kids really 
were frightened. They didn’t want to admit it. They didn’t want to talk about it. 

But they were terrified of the cave. 

Why? 

I only knew one thing for sure: I had to find out. 

11 

At dinner, we sat at the round table in the living room off the kitchen. Brad was 
tackling a piece of corn on the cob with his knife, trying to saw off all the little 
niblets so he could eat them with a fork. 

“Brad... uh... I was wondering about the cave,” I started, fiddling with my 
silverware. 

I felt Terri’s foot nudge mine under the table. 

“What about it?” Brad asked. 

“Well... uh... the strangest thing...” I hesitated. 

Agatha’s head turned sharply. “You didn’t go into that cave, did you?” 

“No,” I replied. 

“You really shouldn’t go into the cave,” she warned. “It isn’t safe.” 

“Well, that’s what I wanted to talk about,” I continued. I saw that everyone 
had stopped eating. “Last night when I went to look for the beach towel, there 
was a light flickering inside the cave. Do you know what it was?” 

Brad narrowed his eyes at me. “Just an optical illusion,” he said curtly. 
Then he picked up his corn and began sawing again. 

“I don’t understand,” I told him. “What do you mean?” 

Brad patiently put down his corn. “Jerry, did you ever hear of the northern 
lights? Aurora borealis?” 

“Sure,” I said. “But...” 

“That’s what that flickering light was,” he said, cutting me off. He picked 
up his corn again. 

“Oh,” I replied. I turned to Agatha, hoping she’d help fill in the blanks. She 
did. 

“It happens at certain times of the year,” she explained. “Something electric 
gets in the air. The whole sky lights up in streamers.” 

She reached for the bowl of mashed potatoes. “More potatoes?” 

“Sure, thanks.” I felt Terri’s foot bump me again from across the table. I 
shook my head at her. Brad and Agatha were wrong. That couldn’t have been the 
northern lights. The light was coming from the cave, not the sky. 

Were they mistaken? 

Or were they deliberately lying to me? 


* * * 

After dinner, Terri and I walked along the beach. Wisps of gray clouds floated 
over the full moon. Shadows stretched and shifted in front of us as we made our 
way over the pebbly sand. 

“They lied to me,” I insisted to Terri, my hands shoved deep into the 
pockets of my cutoffs. “Brad and Agatha are hiding something. They don’t want 
us to know the truth about the cave.” 

“They’re just worried,” my sister replied. “They don’t want us to get hurt 
up there. They feel responsible, and—” 

“Terri, look—!” I cried. I pointed up to the cave. 

This time Terri saw the flickering light, too. 

As we watched it floating above our heads in the cave entrance, the clouds 
covered the moon and the sky darkened. 

“It’s not the northern lights,” I whispered. “There’s someone up there.” 

“Let’s check it out,” Terri whispered back. 

Before we even realized what we were doing, we were climbing the rocks, 
pulling ourselves up toward the cave. It felt as if I were being pulled by a 
magnet. 

I had to get closer, close enough to see what was causing that strange, 
floating light. 

Behind us, the ocean waves crashed against the lowest rocks, spraying surf 
in every direction. 

We were almost to the mouth of the cave. I glanced back and saw that the 
beach lay far below. In the cave mouth, the light still flickered and floated. 

We pulled ourselves up the last few rocks and stood up. 

We found ourselves standing on a wide ledge. The dark cave loomed up 
ahead, towering over us. 

I peered into the cave opening. How deep was the cave? I couldn’t tell. 

Squinting into the dim light, I thought I saw a tunnel leading off to one side. 

I took a step closer. Terri moved up close beside me. I could see the fear on 
her face. She bit her lower lip. “Well?” she asked in a hushed whisper. 

“Let’s go in,” I said. 

12 

My heart thudded as we stepped into the darkness. Our sneakers slid on the 
smooth, damp cave floor. I nearly choked on the sour, musty smell. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as Terri grabbed my arm. 

“The light—look!” she whispered. 

It flickered near the back of the cave. 

Staying close together, we took a few steps toward it. Our sneakers 
squished loudly. The air grew warmer. 

“It—it’s a tunnel,” I stammered. 

The cave narrowed, then curved away. The dim light flickered from around 
the corner, from somewhere deeper in the cave. 

I swallowed hard. “Let’s just go a little farther,” I urged. 

Terri lingered behind me. “That tunnel looks creepy,” she uttered in a tiny 
voice. 

I heard a soft cluttering sound somewhere up ahead. 

“We’ve come this far,” I urged. “Might as well go just a little bit farther.” 

Following the light, we lowered our heads and stepped into the tunnel. I 
could hear the drip drip drip of water nearby. The air grew even warmer, steamy. 

The tunnel curved, then suddenly widened into a deep, round chamber. 

I stopped as I heard the cluttering sound again. A soft flapping, fluttering 
sound. Growing louder. 

“What’s that noise?” Terri cried. Her shrill voice echoed against the cave 
walls. 

Before I could answer, the fluttering became a deafening clatter. 

“Nooooo!” My cry was drowned out by the horrifying roar. 

I raised my eyes in time to see the black cave ceiling crumble and fall over 
us. 

13 

“Noooooo!” 

I was still wailing as I hit the wet cave floor. I covered my head with both 
hands. 

And waited. Waited for the crashing pain. 

The clatter swirled over me. A shrill whistle rose up over the sound. 

My heart thudding, I raised my eyes—and saw the bats. 

Thousands of black bats, flapping and fluttering, swooping back and forth 
across the chamber, darting low, then twisting away. 

The ceiling hadn’t fallen. 

By entering their chamber, Terri and I had awakened the bats. They 
whistled and hissed as they swooped wildly over our heads. 

“L-let’s get out of here!” I cried, helping Terri to her feet. “I hate bats!” 

“This is why Brad and Agatha warned us away,” Terri cried, shouting over 
the roar of fluttering wings. 

We both turned to leave. But the flickering light at the far end of the 
chamber made me stop. 

Just a few feet farther. If we made our way a few feet deeper into the 
chamber, we could solve the mystery. 

And never have to think about this frightening cave again. 

“Come on,” I shouted. I grabbed Terri’s hand and tugged. 

The bats swooped and darted over our heads, cluttering and whistling. We 
ducked our heads as we ran under them. 

To the back wall of the chamber. Into another narrow, curving tunnel. I 
pressed my back against the tunnel wall and edged forward, still holding Terri’s 
hand. 

The pale light grew brighter. 

We were getting close. 

The tunnel opened into another large chamber, about the same size as the 
first chamber. Terri and I had to shield our eyes. The entrance glowed with a 
bright, flickering light. 

I took a few slow steps in, giving my eyes a chance to adjust to the light. 

Then I saw them. 

Candles. Dozens of short white candles perched around the chamber on 
rock ledges. 

All of them lighted. All of them flickering. 

“So that explains it,” I whispered. “Flickering candlelight.” 

“It doesn’t explain anything!” Terri protested, shadows dancing over her 
pale face. “Who put the candles here?” 

We both saw the man at the same time. 

An old man with long, stringy, white hair and a beaklike nose. He sat 
hunched over a crude table made from a log of driftwood. 

Pale and terribly thin, his worn shirt hung loosely on him. His eyes were 
closed. Shadows played over him. He seemed to flicker in and out with the 
candlelight. 

As if he were part of the light. 

Part of the ghostly light. 

Terri and I froze, staring at him. Did he see us? Was he alive? 

Was he a ghost? 

His eyes opened. Large, dark eyes sunk deep in their sockets. 

He turned to us, stared back at us with those frightening sunken eyes. 

Slowly he curled a bony, gnarled finger. “Come here.” His voice was a dry 
whisper. Dry as death. 

And before we could move, he rose up from the chair and began to come 
for us. 

14 

I wanted to run. But my feet felt glued to the floor. 

As if the ghostly figure were holding me there, keeping me from escaping. 

Terri let out a low cry. She bumped me from behind. 

I think she had stumbled. But her bump got us both moving. 

I took one last glance back at the pale, flickering figure. His bony frame 
shimmered in the eerie candlelight. 

He started toward us, his mouth twisted into a strange grin. The dark eyes 
gazed at us blankly, like black buttons on a snowman. 

Then we turned and ran. 

Terri sprinted ahead of me through the tunnel, her sneakers slapping the wet 
floor. Slipping and stumbling, I struggled to keep up with her. 

My legs felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds. The blood pulsed so 
hard at my temples, I thought my head might explode. 

“Go! Go! Go!” I shouted all the way. 

I turned and glanced back. 

He was coming after us! 

“Noooo!” I screamed. 

I shouldn’t have turned back. 

I stumbled over a jagged rock—and went sprawling on the hard floor. 

I landed hard on my elbows and knees. 

Gasping for breath, I spun around. 

In time to see the ghost’s bony hands reach out for my throat. 

15 

I let out a terrified howl, scrambled to my feet, and lurched away from his bony, 
outstretched hands. 

A few feet up ahead, Terri watched in horror, her mouth open, her eyes 
wide with fright. 

I heard the ghost groan as he reached out with both arms. 

Somehow I found the strength to run. 

Terri and I were both running now. Through the narrow, curving tunnel. 
Through the bat chamber, silent and empty now. 

To the mouth of the cave. 

And then we were slipping and sliding, scrambling down the dew-wet 
boulders. Down, down to the rocky, moonlit beach. 

I turned back once. I couldn’t help it. 

The cave opening was dark now, I saw. Darker than the night sky. 

We ran along the shore, then turned into the woods. We were both breathing 
hard, panting loudly as we reached the cottage. 

I pushed open the door, stumbled in after Terri, then slammed it hard behind 
us. 

“Terri? Jerry? Is that you?” Agatha’s voice floated from the kitchen. She 
came in, wiping her hands on a checkered dish towel. “Well?” she demanded. 
“Did you find it?” 

“Huh?” I gaped at her, still struggling to catch my breath. 

Did we find the ghost? 

Is that what Agatha was asking? 

“Did you find it?” Agatha repeated. “Did you find the beach towel?” 

She stared at us in bewilderment as Terri and I burst out in relieved 
laughter. 

I couldn’t get to sleep that night. I kept picturing the ghost. His stringy, white 
hair. His sunken eyes. His bony fingers reaching out for me. 

And I kept wondering if Terri and I had done the right thing by not telling 
Agatha and Brad about him. 

“We’ll only get in trouble for going into the cave,” I had told my sister. 

“They probably won’t believe us anyway,” Terri added. 

“And why should we get them upset?” I said. 

“They’ve been so nice to us. And we went into the cave when they told us 
not to.” 

So we hadn’t told them about the frightening ghost surrounded by candles 
in the creepy cave. 

And now as I lay in bed, tossing and turning, my mind tossed and turned, 
too. And I wondered if Terri and I should confess to our cousins what we had 
done and seen. 

Despite the summer heat, I pulled the covers up to my chin and stared at the 
window. Behind the billowing curtains, pale white moonlight shimmered 
brightly. 

The moonlight didn’t cheer me. It reminded me of the ghost’s pale skin. 

Suddenly, my troubled thoughts were interrupted by a soft tapping. 

Tap tap. Tap tap tap. 

I sat up quickly. 

The sound was repeated. Tap tap. Tap tap tap. 

And then I heard a ghostly whisper: “Come here. ” 

Tap tap tap. 

“Come here. ” 

And I knew that the ghost had followed me home. 

16 

“Come here. ” 

Sitting up in bed, rigid with fear, I stared helplessly as a face rose up in the 
moonlit window. 

First I saw a pale tuft of hair. Then a broad forehead. A pair of dark eyes, 
gleaming blue in the bright light. 

Nat! 

He grinned at me through the window. 

“Nat! It’s you!” I cried gratefully, jumping out of bed, pulling my robe over 
my pajamas, and lurching to the open window. 

He giggled. 

I peered out. Sam had Nat on his shoulders and was lowering him to the 
ground. Louisa, in white tennis shorts and a loose-fitting gray sweater, stood 
beside them. 

“Wh-what are you guys doing out here?” I stammered. “You scared me to 
death.” 

“We weren’t trying to scare you,” Sam replied, his hands on Nat’s slender 
shoulders. “We saw you and your sister running on the beach. We wondered 
what happened.” 

“You won’t believe it!” I exclaimed. 

I realized that my voice was probably carrying up to Brad and Agatha’s 
room. I didn’t want to wake them. 

I motioned to the three kids. “Come into my room. We can talk in here.” 

Sam lifted Nat up to the windowsill. I pulled him in. Then the other two 
climbed in after him. 

They sat down on the bed. I paced excitedly in front of them. 

“Terri and I went into the cave,” I told them in a low voice. “We saw the 
ghost. He was sitting in a back chamber filled with candles.” 

All three of them showed surprise on their faces. 

“He was very old and scary-looking,” I continued. “He didn’t walk. He kind 
of floated. When he saw us, he started to chase us. I fell, and he nearly grabbed 
me. But I got away.” 

“Wow,” Sam muttered. The other two continued to stare at me in 



amazement. 

“Then what?” Nat asked. 

“Then we ran back here as fast as we could,” I told him. “That’s it.” 

They stared at me for a long moment. I tried to figure out what they were 
thinking. Did they believe me? 

Finally, Sam climbed off the bed and walked to the window. “We didn’t 
want you to know about the ghost,” he said softly, tossing back his brown hair. 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

Sam hesitated. “We didn’t want to scare you.” 

I let out a scornful laugh. “You scared Terri and me just about every time 
we saw you.” 

“That was just for fun,” Sam explained. “But we knew if you found out 
about the ghost...” His voice trailed off. 

“Have you seen him, too?” I asked, pulling my robe tighter around me. 

All three of them nodded. 

“We stay away from there,” Nat told me, scratching his arm. “The ghost is 
too scary.” 

“He’s really dangerous,” Louisa revealed. “I think he wants to kill us all.” 
Her eyes locked on mine. “Even you. You and Terri.” 

I shuddered. “Why? Terri and I didn’t do anything to him.” 

“It doesn’t matter. Nobody’s safe,” Sam said softly, glancing nervously out 
the window. “You saw the skeleton in the woods, right? That’s what the ghost 
will do to you if he catches you.” 

I shuddered again. I was really scared now. 

“There’s a way to get rid of the ghost,” Louisa said, breaking into my 
troubled thoughts. She was nervously clasping and unclasping her hands in her 
lap. “But we need your help,” she continued. “We can’t do it without you and 
Terri.” 

I swallowed hard. “What can Terri and I do?” I asked. 

Before she could answer, we heard creaking above our heads. Voices. 

Had we awakened Agatha and Brad? 

Louisa and her two brothers hurried to the window and lowered themselves 
to the ground. “Meet us at the beach—tomorrow morning,” Sam instructed. 

I stood at the window and watched them disappear into the woods. 

The room fell quiet again. The curtains fluttered gently. I stared out into the 
gently swaying pine trees. 

How can Terri and I help to get rid of an ancient ghost? I wondered. 
What can we do? 

17 

I woke up the next morning to the sound of rain. I jumped out of bed and ran to 
the window. The rain swirled in a gusting wind. In the garden, narrow rivulets of 
water had formed between the vegetable rows and trickled off into the yard. A 
thick fog had settled on the trees. 

“Do you believe this weather?” Terri asked, coming into my room. 

I spun away from the window. “Terri—listen. I have something to tell you.” 
I told her about my late-night talk with the three Sadlers. 

When I finished, Terri stared out the window. “So what do we do now? 
How can we meet them on the beach if it’s raining this hard?” 

“We can’t,” I said. “We have to wait till it stops.” 

“I hate suspense!” Terri moaned. She hurried back to her room to get 
dressed. 

I pulled on my old faded jeans, torn at both knees, and a gray sweatshirt, 
and hurried to join everyone for breakfast. Agatha cooked us oatmeal with big 
lumps of brown sugar and butter on top. 

After breakfast Brad built a big cozy fire and Terri worked on her 
wildflower collection on the floor in front of the fireplace. 

While Terri glued dried flower samples onto sheets of cardboard, I sat 
around and waited for the rain to stop. Stupid rain. 

The sun didn’t come out until after lunch. As soon as we could get away, 
Terri and I hurried to the beach. 

We waited there for nearly an hour. I practiced skipping stones, and Terri 
scrounged around for shells. No sign of Sam, Nat, and Louisa. 

“Now what?” I asked, kicking at a small rock. The whole day had been a 
big waste. 

“I brought my gravestone-rubbing stuff,” Terri replied. “Let’s go over to the 
cemetery.” 

We made our way to the small graveyard, climbed over the old stone wall, 
and took a good look around. The graves were so old. Many of the gravestones 
had been knocked over, or broken, or covered with weeds. 

The forest had started taking over. A couple of big trees had sprouted on top 
of graves, and one giant tree had crashed across the wall, knocking over several 

tombstones. 

“I’m going to look for something interesting by that big fallen tree,” Terri 
announced. 

Terri ran ahead, and I poked along at my own speed. The last time we were 
here, we stuck to the edge of the cemetery. Now I made my way into the middle. 

I started reading the names on the tombstones. The first one I stopped at 
read: Here lies the body of Martin Sadler. 

That’s strange, I thought. Another Sadler. I remembered that Sam had told 
us Sadler was a common name around here. Maybe this was the Sadler family 
section or something. 

The gravestone next to Martin Sadler belonged to Mary Sadler, his wife. 
Then a couple of Sadler kids, Sarah and Miles. 

I moved to the next row and continued reading the inscriptions. Another 
Sadler. This one was named Peter. Beside Peter lay Miriam Sadler. 

Whoa! I thought, starting to get the creeps. Didn’t anyone else ever die 
around here? 

I moved to another section. All Sadlers, too. Hiram, Margaret, Constance, 
Charity... 

Was this a whole cemetery of Sadlers? 

Terri’s scream cut through the air. “Jerry! Come here!” 

I found her near the fallen pine tree. Her face was twisted in confusion. 
“Look!” she instructed, pointing to a cluster of gravestones at her feet. 

I lowered my glance to two large stones. Thomas Sadler, died February 18, 
1641, and Priscilla Sadler, wife of Thomas. Died March 5, 1641. 

“Yeah, I know,” I told Terri. “The whole cemetery is filled with Sadlers. 
Creepy, huh?” 

“No. No. Check out the kids’ graves,” Terri said impatiently. 

I saw three small, identical stones lined up beside the parents. The three 
stones stood up straight. They were clean and easy to read. As if someone had 
taken care of them. 

I hunched down to read the names. “Sam Sadler, son of Thomas and 
Priscilla.” 

I straightened back up. “So?” 

“Read the next one,” Terri instructed. 

I lowered myself again. “Louisa Sadler.” 

“Uh-oh,” I murmured. “I bet I can guess the last name.” 

“I bet you can, too,” Terri replied in a trembling whisper. 

My eyes moved to the last marker. “Here lies Nat Sadler, who died in his 
fifth year of life.” 

18 

I stared at the three stones until they blurred before my eyes. 

Three stones. Three kids. 

Sam, Louisa, and Nat. 

All dead in the early 1600s. 

“I don’t get it,” I murmured. I felt dizzy as I climbed to my feet. “I just 
don’t get it.” 

“We have to ask Brad and Agatha about this,” Terri said. “This is just too 
weird!” 

We ran back to the cottage. I kept seeing those three stones as we ran. 

Sam, Louisa, and Nat. 

We found Brad and Agatha out back, under the trees in their matching 
rocking chairs. 

Agatha laughed as we came running up to them breathlessly. “You kids run 
everywhere, don’t you? Wish I had your pep.” 

“We were in the cemetery,” I blurted out. “We have to ask you about 
something.” 

She raised her eyebrows. “Oh? Were you working on gravestone rubbings?” 

“We didn’t get that far,” Terri told her. “We were reading the stones. They 
were all Sadlers. All of them.” 

Agatha’s chair rocked back and forth steadily. She nodded, but didn’t say 
anything. 

“You know those kids we met on the beach?” I broke in. “Well, we found 
tombstones for Sam, Louisa, and Nat Sadler. They died in 1640-something. But 
those are the same names as the kids we met!” 

Agatha and Brad rocked in unison. Back and forth. Back and forth. Agatha 
smiled up at me. “Well, what’s your question, Jerry?” 

“How come there are so many Sadlers in that graveyard?” I asked. “And 
how come those stones have our friends’ names on them?” 

“Good questions,” Brad muttered quietly. 

Agatha smiled. “It’s nice to see you’re both so observant. Sit down. It’s sort 
of a long story.” 

Terri and I dropped down onto the grass. “Tell us,” I urged impatiently. 

Agatha took a deep breath and began. “Well, in the winter of 1641, a large 
group of Sadlers, practically the whole family, sailed from England and settled 
here. They were Pilgrims who came to start a new life.” 

She glanced at Brad, who continued to rock, staring out at the shimmering 
trees. “It was one of the worst winters in history,” Agatha continued. “And, 
sadly, tragically, the Sadlers were unprepared for the cold. They died, one by 
one, and were buried in the little cemetery. By 1642, there were almost none 
left.” 

Brad tsk-tsked and shook his head. 

Agatha, rocking in a steady rhythm, continued. “Your friends Sam, Nat, and 
Louisa are your distant cousins. Like Brad and me. They were named for their 
ancestors, the children buried in the cemetery. We were named for our ancestors, 
too. You’ll find gravestones for an Agatha and Bradford Sadler in the cemetery, 
too.” 

“We will?” Terri cried. 

Agatha nodded solemnly. “That’s right. But your cousin and I aren’t quite 
ready for the bone-yard, yet. Are we, Brad?” 

Brad shook his head. “No, ma’am!” he replied, grinning. 

Terri and I laughed. 

Relieved laughter. 

I was so glad there was a good explanation for what we had seen. I 
suddenly felt tempted to tell Brad and Agatha about the ghost in the cave. 

But Terri started talking about wildflowers, and I settled onto the grass and 
kept my thoughts to myself. 

* * * 

We finally ran into Sam, Louisa, and Nat on the beach the next morning. 

“Where were you guys?” I asked. “We waited for you here all afternoon.” 
“Hey, give us a break,” Sam protested. “It was raining. We weren’t allowed 
outside.” 

“We were at the little graveyard yesterday,” Terri told them. “We saw three 
old gravestones with your names on them.” 

Louisa and Sam exchanged glances. “Those are our ancestors,” Sam said. 
“We were named after them.” 

“Jerry said you have a plan to get rid of the ghost,” Terri broke in. My sister 

always likes to get down to business. 

“We do,” Sam said, his expression turning serious. “Come with us.” He 
began walking quickly over the pebbly sand toward the cave. 

I hurried to catch up. “Whoa! Where are we going? I’m not climbing back 
inside that cave again. No way!” I cried. 

“Me either,” Terri agreed. “Being chased once by a ghost was enough for 

me.” 

Sam’s hazel eyes locked on mine. “You don’t have to go into the cave 
again. I promise.” 

He led us to the rocks below the cave. I gazed up, shielding my eyes against 
the bright sunlight. 

The cave looked a little less frightening in the daytime. The smooth, white 
stone gleamed. The dark entrance didn’t seem as deep and forbidding. 

Sam pointed up at the mouth. “See all those big rocks piled on top of the 
cave?” 

I squinted. “What about them?” 

“All you have to do is climb up there and push those rocks down. The rocks 
will cover the mouth of the cave, and the old ghost will be trapped inside 
forever.” 

Terri and I stared at the enormous, white rocks. Each one must have 
weighed about two hundred pounds. “You’re kidding, right?” I said. 

Louisa shook her head. “We’re very serious,” she murmured. 

“We cover the cave mouth with rocks?” I repeated, staring up at it. The dark 
hole seemed to stare back at me like a giant, black eye. “And that will keep the 
ghost inside? What will stop him from floating out? He’s a ghost, remember. He 
can float right through the rocks.” 

“No, he can’t,” Louisa explained. “The old legends say that the cave is a 
sanctuary. That means that if something evil gets trapped inside, it can’t escape 
through the ancient rocks. The ghost will be trapped inside forever.” 

Terri frowned. “So why didn’t you ever go up and push the rocks down?” 

“We’re too scared,” Nat blurted out. 

“If we mess up, the ghost could come after us,” Sam said. “We live here. He 
could find our house—and get revenge.” 

“We’ve been waiting for outsiders to come help us,” Louisa added, gazing 
at me with pleading eyes. “We’ve been waiting for someone we could trust.” 

“But what about us?” I demanded. “If we try to trap the ghost tonight and 

we mess up, won’t he come out looking for us?” 

“We won’t mess up,” Sam replied solemnly. “We’ll all work together. If the 
ghost comes out, Nat, Louisa, and I will distract him. We won’t let him see that 
you’re up on top.” 

“Will you help us? Please?” Louisa begged. “Our whole lives, the old ghost 
has terrified us.” 

“You would make everyone around here happy if you agreed to help trap 
him,” Sam added. 

I hesitated. So many things could go wrong. 

What if the rocks wouldn’t budge? What if the ghost floated out and found 
Terri and me up there? What if one of us slipped and fell off the top of the cave? 

No, I decided. No way. We can’t do it. It’s just too risky. 

I turned to tell them my decision. 

“Of course we’ll help you,” I heard Terri say. 

19 

We spent the afternoon picking blueberries with Agatha. Then we made 
blueberry ice cream using an old-fashioned churn. It tasted better than any ice 
cream I’d ever eaten. Agatha said it was because we picked the blueberries 
ourselves. 

As it got closer to suppertime, I started feeling more and more frightened. 
Were we really going to try to trap a ghost tonight? 

Dinnertime finally came. I hardly ate a thing. When Agatha stared at me, I 
explained I had filled up on ice cream. 

After dinner, Terri and I helped Agatha with the dishes. Then Brad insisted 
on showing me how to tie sailor knots. By this time, my stomach felt more 
knotted up than Brad’s rope! 

Finally, Terri and I said we were going to the beach to get some fresh air. 
And we hurried out to meet our three friends. 

It was a clear, cloudless night. Thousands of stars twinkled overhead. A 
heavy dew was falling. The full moon made it easy to see without a flashlight. 

Terri and I padded in silence along the path down to the beach. Neither of 
us felt like talking. I kept thinking about Mom and Dad’s warning to me before 
we left home to keep Terri from getting into trouble. 

Well, we’re in trouble now, I thought grimly. Deep trouble. Both of us. 

Maybe all five of us. 

Sam, Louisa, and Nat stood waiting at the edge of the shore. The moonlight 
made the dark water sparkle. I suddenly wished it weren’t so bright out. What 
we were about to do needed darkness. 

The knots in my stomach seemed to tighten as I greeted our three friends. 

Sam raised a finger to his lips and motioned for us to follow him. Silently, 
we picked our way across the rocks to the base of the cave. 

“Hey—look,” I whispered, staring up at the cave. The light flickered 
brightly in the entrance. 

The ghost was home. 

I stared up at the cave and planned our route. We’d go up the same way we 
had the other night. But instead of entering the cave, we’d keep climbing around 
the side until we reached the top. 

Terri fidgeted beside me. “Ready?” I whispered. 

She nodded grimly. 

“We’ll wait down here,” Sam whispered. “If the ghost comes out, we’ll be 
ready to distract him. Good luck.” 

The three of them stood huddled together. Their expressions were tense, 
frightened. Nat gripped Louisa’s hand. “Bye, Terri,” he said in a tiny voice. I 
think he had a little crush on her. 

“See you in a few minutes,” Terri whispered back to him. “Don’t worry, 
Nat. We’ll get rid of that bad ghost. Come on, Jerry.” 

My legs felt rubbery as Terri and I made our way over the rocks. We 
climbed steadily. Carefully. 

I glanced back at Terri, a few feet behind me. She was breathing hard, her 
eyes narrowed in concentration. 

We reached the mouth of the cave. The light inside shone brightly. 

I pointed to our right. Terri nodded. She followed me up the rocks on the 
side of the cave. 

The rocks were damp from the evening dew, and slippery. We were 
hunched on all fours as we climbed. It was steeper than I had thought. 

I struggled to keep from trembling. I knew that one slip could cause a rock 
slide. The ghost would know something was up. 

Hand over hand we climbed. 

Carefully. Steadily. 

I stopped to catch my breath and gazed down to the beach. Our three 
friends hadn’t moved. 

Holding on to a rock with one hand, I waved to them with my other. Nat 
waved back. The other two remained still, staring up at Terri and me. 

I reached the smooth rock surface of the top of the cave. Turning, I held out 
my hand and helped Terri up onto the narrow ledge. 

Together we checked out the situation. The rocks we were supposed to roll 
over the mouth of the cave weren’t as big as I’d thought. They were piled in a 
solid wall. It didn’t seem that difficult to get behind them and push them over. 

As I started to move behind the rock wall, I caught a glimpse of our three 
friends down below. To my surprise, Sam was waving his arms and jumping up 
and down. Louisa and Nat were also motioning frantically. 

“What’s wrong?” Terri cried. “Why are they doing that?” 

“They’re trying to tell us something,” I replied, feeling a chill of terror 

freeze every muscle. 

Had the ghost appeared in the cave mouth? 

Were Terri and I caught already ? 

I took a deep breath and, ignoring my fear, leaned over the edge to peer 
down at the mouth of the cave. 

No one there. 

“Jerry—stand up!” Terri cried. “You’ll fall!” 

I stood back up and peered down at the three kids. “Hey—!” I cried out as I 
saw them running to the woods. 

A stab of terror made me gasp. “Something’s gone wrong,” I croaked. 
“Let’s get out of here!” 

I turned in time to see the ghost step up behind us. 

His entire body shimmered, pale in the bright moonlight. His vacant, 
sunken eyes glared angrily at us. 

He grabbed me by the shoulder and wrapped his other bony hand around 
Terri’s waist. 

“Come with me,” he said in a dry whisper, a whisper of doom. 

20 

He dragged us down to the cave entrance. 

He’s so strong, I thought. So strong for someone old and frail-looking. 

The rocks slid under my feet, a gray blur. The ground appeared to tilt and 
sway. Long shadows seemed to reach out to me, to pull me down. 

I tried to cry out, but my breath caught in my throat. 

I tried to jerk free of his grasp. But he was too strong for me. 

Terri uttered loud, sobbing gasps. She thrashed her arms, struggling to free 
herself. 

But the old ghost held her tightly. 

Before I knew it, we were stumbling through the dark, twisting tunnels. The 
flickering candlelight grew brighter up ahead. We were too frightened to fight 
him, too frightened to break away. 

My shoulder scraped against the narrow tunnel wall. Terror tightened my 
throat. I couldn’t even cry out from the pain. 

The ghost released us as we reached the candlelit chamber. Glaring at us 
sternly, he motioned with a bony finger for us to follow him to his driftwood 
table. 

“Wh-what are you going to do to us?” Terri managed to choke out. 

He didn’t reply. 

He brushed the long, stringy white hair from over his face. Then he 
motioned for us to sit down on the floor. 

I dropped down quickly. My legs were shaking so hard, I was grateful not 
to have to stand. 

I glanced at my sister. Her lower lip was trembling. Her hands were clasped 
tightly in her lap. 

The old ghost cleared his throat. He leaned heavily against the crude table. 
“You are both in serious trouble,” he said in a thin, reedy voice. 

“We—we didn’t mean to do any harm,” I blurted out. 

“It is dangerous to get involved with ghosts,” he said, ignoring my words. 

“We’ll go away,” I offered desperately. “We’ll never come back.” 

“We didn’t mean to disturb you,” Terri added in a shrill voice. 

His sunken eyes suddenly widened in surprise. 

“Me?” A strange smile played across his pale face. 

“We won’t tell anyone we saw you,” I told him. 

His smile grew wider. “Me?” he repeated. He leaned forward on the large 
chunk of driftwood. “I’m not a ghost!” he cried. “Your three friends are!” 

21 

“Huh?” I gaped at the old ghost in disbelief. 

His smile faded. “I’m telling you the truth,” he said softly, rubbing his pale 
cheek with a bony hand. 

“You’re trying to trick us,” Terri replied. “Those three kids—” 

“They’re not kids,” the old man interrupted sharply. “They’re over 350 
years old!” 

Terri and I exchanged glances. The blood was pounding so hard at my 
temples, I couldn’t think clearly. 

“Allow me to introduce myself,” the old man said, lowering himself onto 
the table edge. His lined face flickered in the shifting candlelight. “I’m Harrison 
Sadler.” 

“Another Sadler?” I blurted out. 

“We’re Sadlers, too!” Terri cried. 

“I know,” he said softly. He coughed, a dry, hacking cough. “I came here 
from England quite a while ago,” he told us. 

“In 1641?” I demanded. 

He is a ghost, I realized with a shudder. 

My question seemed to amuse him. “I haven’t been here that long,” he 
replied dryly. “After college, I traced my ancestors here. I study ghosts and the 
occult.” He sighed. “It turned out there was plenty to study here.” 

I stared hard at him, studying him. Could he possibly be telling the truth? 
Was he human—not a ghost? 

Or was this an evil trick? 

His black, sunken eyes didn’t reveal anything to me. 

“Why did you drag us in here?” I demanded, climbing to my knees. 

“To warn you,” Harrison Sadler replied. “To warn you about the ghosts. 
You are in great danger here. I have studied them. I have seen their evil.” 

Terri let out a low cry. I couldn’t tell if she believed the old man or not. 

I realized that I didn’t believe him at all. His story didn’t make any sense. 

I climbed to my feet. “If you are a scientist studying the occult,” I said, 
“why are you shut up here in this weird cave?” 

He slowly raised his hand and motioned toward the shadowy ceiling. “This 
cave is a sanctuary,” he murmured. 

Sanctuary? That was the word that Sam had used. 

“Once inside this cave,” Harrison explained, “ghosts cannot escape through 
the rocks.” 

“So that means you are trapped in here,” I insisted. 

His eyes narrowed at me. “My plan is to trap the ghosts in here,” he replied 
softly. “That is why I stacked the rocks above the entrance. I hope some day to 
trap them in here forever.” 

I turned to my sister. She stared thoughtfully at Harrison. 

“But why are you living here?” I demanded. 

“I am safe here,” he replied. “The sanctuary keeps me safe. The ghosts 
cannot surprise me by coming through the rocks. Didn’t you wonder why they 
sent you up here instead of coming up themselves?” 

“They sent us up here because they’re terrified of you!” I shouted, 
forgetting my fear. “They sent us up here because you ’re the ghost!” 

His expression changed. He pushed himself away from the driftwood table 
and moved quickly toward Terri and me. His deep, sunken eyes glowed like dark 
coals. 

“What are you going to do?” I cried. 

22 

Harrison took another menacing step toward us. “You don’t believe me, do 
you?” he accused. 

Terri and I were too frightened to answer. 

“Wh-what are you going to do?” I repeated, my voice tiny and shrill. 

He glared at us for a long moment, the candlelight flickering over his pale 
face. “I’m going to let you go,” he said finally. 

Terri let out a cry of surprise. 

I edged back, toward the tunnel. 

“I’m going to let you go,” Harrison Sadler repeated. “So that you can 
examine the east corner of the old graveyard.” He waved a bony hand. “Go. Go 
now. To the graveyard.” 

“You—you’re really letting us go?” I stammered. 

“Once you’ve seen the east corner, you’ll come back,” Harrison replied 
mysteriously. “You’ll come back.” 

No way, I thought, my heart pounding. 

No way I’ll ever come near this frightening cave again. 

“Go!” the old ghost cried. 

Terri and I spun around and scrambled out of his chamber. Neither of us 
looked back. 

As we hurried out of the cave and down the rocks, I couldn’t get Harrison’s face 
out of my mind. I kept picturing his glowing, evil eyes, his long, stringy hair, his 
yellow teeth when he flashed us that eerie smile. With a shudder, I remembered 
the inhuman strength of his grip as he dragged Terri and me into his chamber. 

I also couldn’t stop thinking about Sam, Louisa, and Nat. There was no way 
they were ghosts. They were our friends. They had tried to warn Terri and me 
that the ghost was sneaking up behind us. 

They said they’d been terrified of Harrison their whole lives. And I 
remembered Nat’s sad face as he told us how much he was scared of ghosts. 

Harrison Sadler is a liar, I thought bitterly. 

A 350-year-old ghost of a liar. 

Down on the beach, Terri and I stopped to catch our breath. “He—he’s so 

scary!” Terri gasped. 

“I couldn’t believe he let us go,” I replied, bending over, pressing my hands 
against my knees, waiting for the sharp pain in my side to fade. 

I searched for our three frends. But they were nowhere to be seen. 

“Are we going to the graveyard?” I asked. 

“I know what he wants us to see,” Terri replied, gazing back up at the dark 
cave. “I know why he wants us to check out the east corner. That’s where we 
found the gravestones for Louisa, Nat, and Sam.” 

“Yeah, so?” 

“Harrison is just trying to scare us. He thinks if we see the old graves, it 
will prove to us that Louisa, Nat, and Sam are ghosts.” 

“But we already know the truth about those old graves,” I said. 

We stepped off the beach and into the trees. The air grew cooler. Moonlight 
trickling through the branches overhead made strange shadows stretch across our 
path. 

We reached the cemetery entrance and stopped. 

“Might as well check it out,” Terri murmured. I followed her through the 
graveyard, stepping over footstones and loose brush as we made our way to the 
east corner. 

A pale beam of moonlight played over the three old Sadler kids’ graves. 
“See anything strange?” Terri whispered. 

My eyes roamed the area. “Nope.” 

We stepped up to the Sadler kids’ graves. 

“These look the same as yesterday,” I said. “Neat, square... whoa!” 

Something caught my eye in the corner. 

“What’s your problem?” Terri demanded. 

My eyes struggled to see in the pale light. “I think there’s something...” 

“Huh? Do you see something?” Terri cried. 

“Some fresh dirt,” I said. “In the corner. On the other side of that fallen tree. 
It looks like a fresh grave.” 

“No way,” said Terri. “I’ve checked out all these gravestones. No one’s 
been buried in here for the last fifty years.” 

We took a couple of steps toward the fallen tree. 

“Jerry! You’re right! It is a grave,” Terri whispered. “Afresh grave.” 

We stepped over the fallen tree trunk, keeping close together. A narrow 
shaft of moonlight lit up the freshly dug ground. 

“It’s two graves!” I gasped. “Two fresh graves with little markers on them.” 
I squatted down to try to read them. Terri moved behind me. “What do they 
say, Jerry?” 

My mouth went dry. I couldn’t answer her. 

“Jerry? Can you read them?” 

“Yes,” I finally choked out. “It’s us, Terri. The names on these markers 
read, ‘Jerry Sadler and Terri Sadler’.” 

23 

“Wh-what does this mean?” I stammered. 

“Who dug these graves?” Terri asked. “Who put up these markers?” 

“Let’s get out of here,” I urged, grabbing her arm. “Let’s go tell Agatha and 
Brad.” 

Terri hesitated. 

“We have to,” I insisted. “We have to tell them everything. We should have 
told them a long time ago.” 

“Okay,” Terri agreed. 

I turned to leave—and gasped when I saw the three figures staring at us 
from the shadows. 

Sam stepped quickly over the fallen tree. “Where are you going?” he asked. 
“What are you doing here?” 

Louisa and Nat followed close behind him. 

“We—we’re going back to the cottage,” I told them. “It’s late, and—” 

“Did you kill the ghost?” Nat demanded. His eyes peered up at me 
hopefully. 

I patted his hair. It felt real. His head was warm. He didn’t feel ghostlike at 
all. He was a real little boy. 

Harrison Sadler is a total liar, I thought. 

“Did you kill the old ghost?” Nat repeated eagerly. 

“No. We couldn’t,” I told him. Nat let out a disappointed sigh. 

“Then how did you get away?” Sam demanded suspiciously. 

“We ran away,” Terri told him. 

It was almost the truth. 

“Where were you guys?” I demanded. 

“Yeah. You didn’t do a very good job of distracting him,” Terri added 
sharply. 

“We—we tried to warn you,” Louisa replied, tugging nervously at a strand 
of long, auburn hair. “Then we got scared. We ran into the woods and hid.” 

“When we didn’t hear the rocks fall, we got even more scared,” Sam added. 
“We were afraid the ghost got you. We were afraid we would never see you 

again.” 

Nat uttered a frightened sob and took Louisa’s hand. “We have to kill the 
ghost,” the little guy whimpered. “We have to.” 

Sam and Louisa tried to comfort their little brother. I gazed down at the two 
fresh graves. A cool wind made the trees whisper and shake. 

I started to ask Sam about the two graves. But he spoke before I had a 
chance. “Let’s try again,” he said, staring hard at Terri then me with pleading 
eyes. 

Louisa rested her hands on Nat’s tiny shoulders. “Yes,” she agreed softly. 
“Let’s go back and try again.” 

“No way!” I cried. “Terri and I got away from there once. I’m not going 
back and—” 

“But it’s the perfect time!” Louisa insisted. “He’ll never expect you to come 
back tonight. We’ll catch him completely offguard. It will be a total surprise.” 

“Please!” Nat begged in a tiny voice. 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. I couldn’t believe they were 
asking us to do this. 

Terri and I had risked our lives by climbing up there. We could have been 
killed by that lying old ghost. We could look like that horrible dog skeleton right 
now. 

And here they were, asking us to climb right back up there and try again. 

It was a ridiculous idea. No way I would agree to it. No way! 

“Okay,” I heard my sister say. “We’ll do it.” Louisa and her brothers burst 
into happy cheers. Terri had done it to me again. 

24 

Terri led the way to the beach. I scrambled to catch up with her. The three 
Sadlers, talking excitedly among themselves, trailed behind. 

The night suddenly seemed darker, as if someone had dimmed the lights. I 
raised my eyes, searching for the full moon. But it had disappeared behind heavy 
clouds. 

I felt a large raindrop on my shoulder, then another on the top of my head. 
The wind picked up as we neared the ocean. 

“Are you totally crazy?” I whispered to my sister as we made our way over 
the pebbly sand toward the cave. “How could you agree to do this?” 

“We have to solve the mystery,” Terri replied, glancing up at the cave. It sat 
darkly above the rocks. No flickering light. No sign of the old ghost. 

“This isn’t one of your dumb mystery books,” I told her angrily. “This is 
real life. We could be in terrible danger.” 

“We already are,” she replied mysteriously. She said something else, but the 
strong wind off the ocean carried her words away. 

The raindrops started to come down faster. Large, heavy drops. 

“Stop, Terri,” I demanded. “Let’s turn back. Let’s tell the kids we changed 
our minds.” 

She shook her head. 

“Let’s at least go back to the cottage and tell Agatha and Brad,” I pleaded. 
“We can trap the ghost tomorrow. During the day, maybe...” 

Terri kept walking. She picked up the pace. “We have to solve the mystery, 
Jerry,” she said again. “Those two fresh graves—they really scared me. I have to 
find out the truth.” 

“But, Terri—the truth is, we might get killed!” I cried. 

She didn’t seem to hear me. I brushed raindrops from my eyebrows. The 
gusting winds were swirling the rain around us. The rain pattered against the 
rocks, sounding like sharp drumbeats. 

We stopped at the bottom of the rocks. Up above, the cave stood over us, 
still completely dark. 

“We’ll wait down here,” Sam said. His eyes kept darting up to the cave. I 
could tell he was really frightened. “This time we’ll do a better job of distracting 

the ghost if he comes out.” 

“He better not come out,” I muttered, lowering my head against the falling 

rain. 

A jagged bolt of white lightning crackled across the sky. 

I shivered. 

“Come up with us,” Terri told the three of them. “You can’t help us way 
down here.” 

They hung back. I could see the fear on their faces. 

“Come up to the cave entrance,” Terri urged. “You can always run down the 
rocks if the ghost appears.” 

Louisa shook her head. “We’re too afraid,” she confessed. 

“We need your help,” Terri insisted. “We don’t want the ghost to know 
we’re on top of the cave. Come stand on the ledge in front of the cave. Then—” 

“No! He’ll hurt us! He’ll eat us up!” Nat cried. 

“Jerry and I can’t go up there again unless you come up to help us,” Terri 
insisted firmly. 

Louisa and Sam exchanged frightened glances. Nat clung to Louisa, 
trembling. The rain swept down harder. 

Finally Sam nodded. “Okay. We’ll wait for you at the cave mouth.” 

“We don’t mean to be so frightened,” Louisa added. “It’s just that we’ve 
been afraid of him our whole lives. He—he—” Her voice trailed off. 

We turned and started our climb. It was much harder this time. It was so 
much darker without the moon. Rain kept blowing into my eyes. And the rocks 
were slippery and wet. 

I stumbled twice, fell forward, scraping my knees and elbows. The wet 
rocks kept sliding under my sneakers, rolling down toward the beach. 

Another jagged bolt of lightning stretched across the sky, making the cave 
glow white above us. 

We stopped at the ledge in front of the dark cave mouth. My entire body 
trembled. From the rain. From the cold. From fear. 

“Let’s just warm up inside for a moment,” Terri suggested. 

The three Sadlers clung together. “No, we can’t. We’re too scared,” Louisa 
replied. 

“Just for a second,” Terri insisted. “Just to wipe the rain from our eyes. 
Look—it’s coming down in sheets.” 

She practically shoved Louisa and her brothers into the cave. Nat began to 

cry. He held on tightly to his sister. 

A roar of thunder made us all jump. 

This is the dumbest thing I have ever done, I thought, shivering. 

I will never forgive Terri for this. Never. 

And then a yellow light flared in front of us at the mouth of the cave. 

And under the yellow light, the old ghost flickered into view. He carried a 
flaming torch in one hand. A strange smile played over his pale face. 

“Well, well,” he uttered in a voice just loud enough to be heard over the 
rain. “Here we all are.” 

25 

“Nooo!” Nat let out a terrified wail and tried to bury his head in his sister’s wet 
T-shirt. Sam and Louisa froze like statues. The flickering light of the torch 
revealed expressions of horror on their faces. 

Harrison Sadler stood in the cave entrance blocking our escape. His dark, 
sunken eyes peered from one of us to the next. 

Behind him, the rain crashed down, glowing eerily from flashes of bright 
lightning. 

He turned his attention to Terri and me. “You brought the ghosts to me,” he 

said. 

“You’re the ghost!” Sam cried. 

Nat wailed, his arms wrapped tightly around Louisa’s waist. 

“You have terrified people long enough,” the old man told the three 
trembling kids. “More than three hundred years. It is time for you to leave this 
place. Time for you to rest.” 

“He’s crazy!” Louisa cried to me. “Don’t listen to him!” 

“Don’t let him fool you,” Sam added with emotion. “Look at him! Look at 
his eyes! Look where he lives—all alone in this dark cave! He’s the three- 
hundred-year-old ghost. And he’s lying to you!” 

“Don’t hurt us!” Nat wailed, clinging to Louisa. “Please don’t hurt us!” 

The rain suddenly slowed. Water splattered off the rocks outside and 
dripped steadily from the top of the cave. Thunder rumbled, but in the distance. 
The storm was moving out to sea. 

I turned and caught the strangest expression on my sister’s face. To my 
surprise, Terri was actually smiling. 

She caught me staring at her. “The solution,” she whispered. 

And I suddenly realized why she had agreed to come back to this 
frightening cave, to face the frightening old man again. 

Terri wanted to solve the mystery. She needed to solve it. 

Who was the ghost? 

Was it Harrison Sadler? Or was Harrison telling us the truth? Were our 
three friends the ghosts? 

My sister is really crazy, I thought, shaking my head. She risked our lives 

because she had to solve the mystery. 

“Let us go,” Sam told the old man, breaking into my thoughts. “Let us go, 
and we won’t tell anyone we saw the ghost.” 

The torchlight dipped low as a strong gust of wind invaded the cave. 
Harrison’s eyes seemed to grow darker. “I’ve waited too long to get you here,” 
he said quietly. 

Louisa suddenly reached out to Terri. “Help us!” she cried. “You believe us 
—don’t you?” 

“You know we’re alive, not ghosts,” Sam said to me. “Help us get away 
from him. He’s evil, Jerry. We’ve seen his evil our whole lives.” 

I turned from Harrison to the three kids. 

Who was telling the truth? Who was alive? And who had been dead for 
over three hundred years? 

Harrison’s face hovered darkly in the dipping, waving torchlight. He pushed 
his long, stringy hair off his forehead with his free hand. And then he startled us 
all by puckering his dry lips and letting out a long, high-pitched whistle. 

My heart skipped a beat. I gasped. What was he doing? Why was he 
making that shrill sound? 

He stopped. Then whistled again. 

I heard the scraping of footsteps, rapid footsteps on the stone cave floor. 

And then a low, dark figure came loping toward us out of the darkness. 

26 

A monster! I thought. 

A ghost monster. 

It uttered low, menacing growls as it neared. Its head bobbed low, and two 
red eyes flared as the creature bounded into the light of the flaming torch. 

“Oh!” I cried out as I saw that it was a dog. A long, lean German shepherd. 

The dog stopped a few feet in front of us. When it saw Harrison, it bared its 
teeth. Its growl became a ferocious snarl. 

Dogs can recognize ghosts, I remembered. 

Dogs can recognize ghosts. 

The dog’s red eyes caught the light of the torch as it turned to Louisa and 
her two brothers. 

It reared back on its hind legs—and began to howl and bark. 

“They’re the ghosts!” Harrison Sadler cried triumphantly to Terri and me, 
pointing. 

Snarling, the big dog leaped at Sam. 

With a cry of fright, Sam raised both arms to shield himself. 

The three kids edged deeper into the cave. 

The dog barked fiercely, baring its jagged teeth. 

“You—you really are ghosts?” I cried out. 

Louisa let out a pained sigh. “We never had a chance to live!” she cried. 
“The first winter—it was so horrible!” Tears rolled down her cheeks. I saw that 
Nat was crying, too. 

The dog continued to snarl and rage. The three kids backed farther into the 
dark chamber. 

“We sailed here with our parents to start a new life,” Sam explained in a 
trembling voice. “But we all died in the cold. It wasn’t fair! It just wasn’t fair!” 

The rain started up again. The wind blew sheets of water into the cave 
entrance. The torch flame dipped and nearly blew out. 

“We never had a life at all!” Louisa cried. 

Thunder roared. The cave seemed to shake. The dog growled and snarled. 

And as I stared at the three kids in the wavering light, they began to change. 

Their hair dropped off first. It fell in clumps to the cave floor. 

And then their skin peeled away, curling up and falling off—until three 
grinning skulls stared at Terri and me through empty eye sockets. 

“Come stay with us, cousins'.” Louisa’s skull whispered. Her bony fingers 
reached out toward us. 

“Join usssss!” Sam hissed. His fleshless jaw slid up and down. “We dug 
such nice graves for you. So close to ours.” 

“Play with me,” Nat’s skull pleaded. “Stay and play with me. I don’t want 
you to go. Ever!” 

The three ghosts moved toward us, their skeleton hands outstretched, 
reaching, reaching for Terri and me. 

I gasped and stumbled back. 

I saw a frightened Harrison stagger back, too. 

And then the torch blew out. 

27 

The torchlight flickered and died. 

The heavy darkness made me gasp. 

I could feel bodies moving, scraping over the wet stone cave floor. 

I could hear the whispered pleas of the three ghosts. 

Closer. Closer. 

And then a cold hand gripped mine. 

I screamed before I heard her whispered voice: “Jerry—run!” 

Terri! 

Before I could catch my breath, my sister was pulling me through the 
darkness. 

Into the rain. Onto the slippery rock ledge. 

“Run! Run!” Terri cried, her eyes wild, her cold hand still gripping mine. 
“Run! Run!” 

The word became a desperate chant. 

“Run! Run!” 

But as we struggled to lower ourselves down the rocks, the roar of thunder 
drowned out Terri’s shouts. 

The ground shook. 

My legs nearly slid out from under me. 

I cried out when I realized the roar in my ears wasn’t thunder. 

Half-blinded by the rain, Terri and I spun around in time to see the rocks 
topple from the top of the cave. 

The rain and wind must have loosened them. And now the big boulders 
rumbled down, cracking, knocking against each other, bumping, and rolling. 
Rock after rock, thudding onto the stone ledge. 

Until the dark cave mouth was completely covered. 

Shielding my eyes from the rain with both hands, I peered up at the cave, 
and waited. 

Waited to see if anyone would come out. 

But no one did. 

No ghostly kids. 

No old man. 

Harrison Sadler had given his life to capture the ghosts. 

The cave glimmered white in a flash of lightning. 

Now it was my turn to pull Terri away. “Let’s go,” I pleaded. 
But she didn’t budge. She stood staring through the rain at 

cave. 

“Terri—please. Let’s go. It’s over,” I said, tugging her away, 
is solved. The terror—it’s all over.” 

the closed-up 
“The mystery 

28 

A few minutes later, Agatha threw open the front door of the cottage and rushed 
out to greet us. “Where were you? Brad and I were worried sick!” 

She ushered us in, fussing over us, shaking her head, talking excitedly, glad 
we were back safe and sound. 

Terri and I got dried off and into clean clothes. 

The rain had stopped by the time we joined Brad and Agatha in the kitchen 
for steaming mugs of hot cider. Outside the kitchen window, the wind still blew 
the trees, sending water cascading down from the leaves. 

“Now tell us what happened to you,” Brad said. “Agatha and I really were 
terribly upset that you were out in this storm.” 

“It’s kind of a long story,” I told them, warming my hands on the hot cider 
mug. “I don’t know where to start.” 

“Start at the beginning,” Brad said quietly. “That’s usually the best place.” 

Terri and I did our best to tell them the whole story of the three ghostly 
kids, the old man, and the frightening cave. As we talked, I could see their 
expressions changing. 

I could see how worried they were for Terri and me. And I could see how 
unhappy they were that we had ignored their wishes and ventured into the cave. 

When I finished the story, the room grew quiet. Brad stared out the window 
at the dripping rainwater on the glass. Agatha cleared her throat, but didn’t 
speak. 

“We’re really sorry,” Terri said, breaking the silence. “I hope you’re not 
angry at us.” 

“The important thing is that you’re both safe and sound,” Agatha replied. 

She stood up, stepped over to Terri, and gave her a warm hug. 

Agatha started toward me, her arms outstretched—when a sound outside 
made her stop. 

Barking. Loud dog barking. 

Terri lunged for the back door and pulled it open. “Jerry—look!” she cried. 
“It’s Harrison Sadler’s dog. He got out of the cave. He must have followed us 
here.” 

I moved to the open doorway. The dog had been drenched in the rain. Its 

wet gray fur was matted to its back. 

Terri and I reached out to pet the dog. 

But to our surprise, it reared back and growled. 

“Easy, boy,” I said. “You must be really frightened, huh?” 

The dog snarled at me and started to bark. 

Terri bent down and tried to soothe the animal. But it backed away from 
her, barking ferociously. 

“Whoa!” I cried. “I’m your friend—remember? I’m no ghost!” 

Terri turned to me, her expression puzzled. “You’re right. We’re not ghosts. 
Why is it carrying on like that?” 

I shrugged. “Whoa. Easy, boy. Easy.” 

The dog ignored my pleas, barking and howling. 

I turned back to see Brad and Agatha huddled against the kitchen wall, their 
faces tight with fear. 

“That’s only Brad and Agatha,” I told the dog. “They’re nice people. They 
won’t hurt you.” 

And then I swallowed hard. My heart began to throb. 

I realized why the dog was barking like that. He was barking at Brad and 
Agatha. 

Agatha stepped into the doorway, shaking her finger at the snarling animal. 
“Bad dog!” she cried. “Bad dog! Now you’ve given away our secret, too!” 

Terri gasped. She realized what Agatha was saying. 

Agatha slammed the kitchen door hard and turned back to Brad. “What a 
pity that dog had to show up,” she said, shaking her head fretfully. “Now what 
do we do with these two kids, Brad? What do we do with the kids?” 


RETURN OF 
THE MUMMY 

1 

“Gabe, we will be landing soon,” the stewardess told me, leaning over the 
seat. “Will someone be meeting you at the airport?” 

“Yes. Probably an ancient Egyptian pharaoh,” I told her. “Or maybe a 
disgusting, decaying mummy.” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “No. Really,” she insisted. “Who will be 
meeting you in Cairo?” 

“My Uncle Ben,” I replied. “But he likes to play practical jokes. 
Sometimes he dresses in weird costumes and tries to scare me.” 

“You told me that your uncle was a famous scientist,” the stewardess 

said. 

“He is,” I replied. “But he’s also weird.” 

She laughed. I liked her a lot. She had pretty blond hair. And I liked 
the way she always tilted her head to one side when she talked. 

Her name was Nancy, and she had been very nice to me during the 
long flight to Egypt. She knew it was my first time flying all by myself. 

She kept checking on me and asking me how I was doing. But she 
treated me like a grown-up. She didn’t bring me one of those dumb 
connect-the-dots books or a plastic wings pin that they always give to kids 
on planes. And she kept slipping me extra bags of peanuts, even though she 
wasn’t supposed to. 

“Why are you visiting your uncle?” Nancy asked. “Just for fun?” 

I nodded. “I did it last summer, too,” I told her. “It was really 
awesome! But this year, Uncle Ben has been digging in an unexplored 
pyramid. He’s discovered an ancient, sacred tomb. And he invited me to be 
with him when he opens it up.” 

She laughed and tilted her head a little more. “You have a good 
imagination, Gabe,” she said. Then she turned away to answer a man’s 
question. 

I do have a good imagination. But I wasn’t making that up. 

My Uncle Ben Hassad is a famous archaeologist. He has been digging 
around in pyramids for lots of years. I’ve seen newspaper articles about 
him. And once he was in National Geographic. 

Last summer, my entire family visited Cairo. My cousin Sari and I— 
she’s Uncle Ben’s daughter—had some amazing adventures down in the 
chambers of the Great Pyramid. 

Sari will be there this summer, too, I remembered, staring out the plane 
window at the solid blue sky. I wondered if maybe she would give me a 
break this time. 

I like Sari, but she’s so competitive! She always has to be the first, the 
strongest, the smartest, the best. She’s the only thirteen-year-old girl I know 
who can turn eating breakfast into a contest! 

“Flight attendants, prepare for landing,” the pilot announced over the 
loudspeaker. 

I sat up to get a better view out the window. As the plane lowered, I 
could see the city of Cairo beneath us. A slender blue ribbon curled along 
the city. That, I knew, was the Nile River. 

The city stretched out from the river. Peering straight down, I could 
see tall, glass skyscrapers and low, domed temples. Where the city ended, 
the desert began. Yellow sand stretched to the horizon. 

My stomach began to feel a little fluttery. The pyramids were 
somewhere out in that desert. And in a day or two, I would be climbing 
down into one of them, following my uncle into a tomb that hadn’t been 
opened for thousands of years. 

What would we find? 

I pulled the little mummy hand from my shirt pocket and gazed down 
at it. It was so tiny—no bigger than a child’s hand. I had bought it from a 
kid at a garage sale for two dollars. He said it was called a “Summoner.” He 
said it could summon ancient evil spirits. 

It looked like a mummy hand. The fingers were wrapped in stained 
gauze bandages, with a little black tar showing through. 

I thought it was a fake, made of rubber or plastic. I mean, I never 
thought it was a real mummy hand. 

But last summer, the hand had saved all of our lives. The kid who sold 
it to me was right. It really did bring a bunch of mummies to life! It was 
amazing ! 

Of course my parents and my friends back home didn’t believe my 
incredible story And they didn’t believe that the Summoner really worked. 
They said it was just a joke mummy hand made in some souvenir factory 

Probably made in Taiwan. 

But I carry it with me wherever I go. It is my good luck charm. I’m not 
very superstitious. I mean, I walk under ladders all the time. And my lucky 
number is thirteen. 

But I really do believe that the little mummy hand will protect me. 

The strange thing about the mummy hand is that it is always warm. It 
doesn’t feel like plastic. It feels warm, like a real human hand. 

Back home in Michigan, I had a major panic attack when Mom and 
Dad were packing my suitcase for the flight. I couldn’t find the mummy 
hand. And, of course, there was no way I would go to Egypt without it! 

I was so relieved when I finally found it. It was tucked into the back 
pocket of a crumpled-up pair of jeans. 

Now, as the plane nosed down for a landing, I reached for the hand in 
the pocket of my T-shirt. I pulled it out—and gasped. 

The hand was cold. Cold as ice! 

2 

Why had the mummy hand suddenly turned cold? 

Was it some kind of a message? A warning? 

Was I heading into danger? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. The plane rolled into the gate, and 
the passengers were scrambling to pull down their carry-on bags and push 
their way out of the plane. 

I tucked the mummy hand into my jeans pocket, hoisted up my 
backpack, and headed to the front. I said good-bye to Nancy and thanked 
her for all the peanuts. Then I followed the others down the long, covered 
ramp and into the airport. 

So many people! 

And they all seemed to be in a hurry. They were practically stepping 
over each other. Men in dark business suits. Women in loose-flowing robes, 
their faces covered by veils. Teenage girls in jeans and T-shirts. A group of 
dark, serious-looking men in silky white suits that looked like pajamas. A 
family with three little kids, all crying. 

I had a sudden sinking feeling. How would I ever find Uncle Ben in 
this crowd? 

My backpack began to feel very heavy. My eyes frantically searched 
back and forth. Strange voices surrounded me, all talking so loudly. No one 
was speaking English. 

“Ow!” I cried out as I felt a sharp pain in my side. 

I turned and realized that a woman had bumped me with her luggage 

cart. 

Stay calm, Gabe, I instructed myself. Just stay calm. 

Uncle Ben is here, looking for you. He’ll find you. You just have to 
stay calm. 

But what if my uncle forgot? I asked myself. What if he got mixed up 
about what day I was arriving? Or what if he got busy down in the pyramid 
and lost track of the time? 

I can be a real worrier if I put my mind to it. 

And right now I was worrying enough for three people! 

If Uncle Ben isn’t here, I’ll go to a phone and call him, I decided. 

For sure. 

I could just hear myself saying, “Operator, can I speak to my uncle at 
the pyramids, please?” 

I don’t think that would work too well. 

I didn’t have a phone number for Uncle Ben. I wasn’t sure he even had 
a phone out where he was staying. All I knew was that he had been living in 
a tent somewhere near the pyramid where he was digging. 

Gazing frantically around the crowded arrival area, I was just about to 
give in to total panic—when a large man came walking up to me. 

I couldn’t see his face. He wore a long, white, hooded robe. It’s called 
a burnoose. And his face was buried inside the hood. 

“Taxi?” he asked in a high, shrill voice. “Taxi? American taxi?” 

I burst out laughing. “Uncle Ben!” I cried happily. 

“Taxi? American taxi? Taxi ride?” he insisted. 

“Uncle Ben! I’m so glad to see you!” I exclaimed. I threw my arms 
around his waist and gave him a big hug. Then, laughing at his stupid 
disguise, I reached up and pulled back his hood. 

The man under the hood had a bald, shaved head and a heavy black 
mustache. He glared at me furiously. 

I had never seen him before in my life. 

3 

“Gabe! Gabe! Over here!” 

I heard a voice calling my name. Glancing past the angry man, I saw 
Uncle Ben and Sari. They were waving to me from in front of the 
reservations counter. 

The man’s face turned bright red, and he shouted something at me in 
Arabic. I was glad I couldn’t understand him. He kept muttering as he 
pulled up the hood of his burnoose. 

“Sorry about that!” I cried. Then I dodged past him and hurried to 
greet Uncle Ben and my cousin. 

Uncle Ben shook my hand and said, “Welcome to Cairo, Gabe.” He 
was wearing a loose-fitting, white, short-sleeved sportshirt and baggy 
chinos. 

Sari wore faded denim cutoffs and a bright green tank top. She was 
already laughing at me. A bad start. “Was that a friend of yours?” she 
teased. 

“I—I made a mistake,” I confessed. I glanced back. The man was still 
scowling at me. 

“Did you really think that was Daddy?” Sari demanded. 

I mumbled a reply. Sari and I were the same age. But I saw that she 
was still an inch taller than me. She had let her black hair grow. It fell down 
her back in a single braid. 

Her big, dark eyes sparkled excitedly. She loved making fun of me. 

I told them about my flight as we walked to the baggage area to get my 
suitcase. I told them how Nancy, the stewardess, kept slipping me bags of 
peanuts. 

“I flew here last week,” Sari told me. “The stewardess let me sit in 
First Class. Did you know you can have an ice-cream sundae in First 
Class?” 

No, I didn’t know that. I could see that Sari hadn’t changed a bit. 

She goes to a boarding school in Chicago since Uncle Ben has been 
spending all of his time in Egypt. Of course she gets straight A’s. And she’s 
a champion skier and tennis player. 

Sometimes I feel a little sorry for her. Her mom died when Sari was 
five. And Sari only gets to see her dad on holidays and during the summer. 

But as we waited for my suitcase to come out on the conveyor belt, I 
wasn’t feeling sorry for her at all. She was busy bragging about how this 
pyramid was twice as big as the one I’d been in last summer. And how 
she’d already been down in it several times, and how she’d take me on a 
tour—if I wasn’t too afraid. 

Finally, my bulging, blue suitcase appeared. I lugged it off the 
conveyor and dropped it at my feet. It weighed a ton! 

I tried to lift it, but I could barely budge it. 

Sari pushed me out of the way. “Let me get that,” she insisted. She 
grabbed the handle, raised the suitcase off the floor, and started off with it. 

“Hey—!” I called after her. What a show-off! 

Uncle Ben grinned at me. “I think Sari has been working out,” he said. 
He put a hand on my shoulder and led me toward the glass doors. “Let’s get 
to the jeep.” 

We loaded the suitcase into the back of the jeep, then headed toward the 
city. “It’s been sweltering hot during the day,” Uncle Ben told me, mopping 
his broad forehead with a handkerchief. “And then cool at night.” 

Traffic crawled on the narrow street. Horns honked constantly. Drivers 
kept their horns going whether they moved or stopped. The noise was 
deafening. 

“We’re not stopping in Cairo,” Uncle Ben explained. “We’re going 
straight to the pyramid at Al-Jizah. We’re all living in tents out there so we 
can be close to our work.” 

“I hope you brought bug spray,” Sari complained. “The mosquitoes are 
as big as frogs!” 

“Don’t exaggerate,” Uncle Ben scolded. “Gabe isn’t afraid of a few 
mosquitoes—are you?” 

“No way,” I replied quietly. 

“How about scorpions?” Sari demanded. 

The traffic grew lighter as we left the city behind and headed into the 
desert. The yellow sand gleamed under the hot afternoon sun. Waves of 
heat rose up in front of us as the jeep bumped over the narrow, two-lane 
road. 

Before long, a pyramid came into view. Behind the waves of heat off 
the desert floor, it looked like a wavering mirage. It didn’t seem real. 

As I stared out at it, my throat tightened with excitement. I had seen 
the pyramids last summer. But it was still a thrilling sight. 

“I can’t believe the pyramids are over four thousand years old!” I 
exclaimed. 

“Yeah. That’s even older than me!” Uncle Ben joked. His expression 
turned serious. “It fills me with pride every time I see them, Gabe,” he 
admitted. “To think that our ancient ancestors were smart enough and 
skilled enough to build these marvels.” 

Uncle Ben was right. I guess the pyramids have special meaning for 
me since my family is Egyptian. Both sets of my grandparents came from 
Egypt. They moved to the United States around 1930. My mom and dad 
were born in Michigan. 

I think of myself as a typical American kid. But there’s still something 
exciting about visiting the country where your ancestors came from. 

As we drove nearer, the pyramid appeared to rise up in front of us. Its 
shadow formed a long, blue triangle over the yellow sand. 

Cars and tour buses jammed a small parking lot. I could see a row of 
saddled camels tethered on one side of the lot. A crowd of tourists stretched 
across the sand, gazing up at the pyramid, snapping photographs, chatting 
noisily and pointing. 

Uncle Ben turned the jeep onto a narrow side road, and we headed 
away from the crowd, toward the back of the pyramid. As we drove into the 
shade, the air suddenly felt cooler. 

“I’d kill for an ice-cream cone!” Sari wailed. “I’ve never been so hot in 
my life.” 

“Let’s not talk about the heat,” Uncle Ben replied, sweat dripping 
down his forehead into his bushy eyebrows. “Let’s talk about how happy 
you are to see your father after so many months.” 

Sari groaned. “I’d be happier to see you if you were carrying an ice¬ 
cream cone.” 

Uncle Ben laughed. 

A khaki-uniformed guard stepped in front of the jeep. Uncle Ben held 
up a blue ID card. The guard waved us past. 

As we followed the road behind the pyramid, a row of low, white 

canvas tents came into view. “Welcome to the Pyramid Hilton!” Uncle Ben 
joked. “That’s our luxury suite over there.” He pointed to the nearest tent. 

“It’s pretty comfortable,” he said, parking the jeep beside the tent. “But 
the room service is lousy.” 

“And you have to watch out for scorpions,” Sari warned. 

She’d say anything to try to scare me. 

We unloaded my suitcase. Then Uncle Ben led us up to the base of the 
pyramid. 

A camera crew was packing up its equipment. A young man, covered 
in dust, climbed out of a low entrance dug into one of the limestone 
squares. He waved to my uncle, then hurried toward the tents. 

“One of my people,” Uncle Ben muttered. He motioned toward the 
pyramid. “Well, here you are, Gabe. Along way from Michigan, huh?” 

I nodded. “It’s amazing,” I told him, shielding my eyes to gaze up to 
the top. “I forgot how much bigger the pyramids look in person.” 

“Tomorrow I’ll take you both down to the tomb,” Uncle Ben promised. 
“You’ve come at just the right time. We’ve been digging for months and 
months. And at long last, we are about to break the seal and enter the tomb 
itself.” 

“Wow!” I exclaimed. I wanted to be cool in front of Sari. But I 
couldn’t help it. I was really excited. 

“Guess you’ll be really famous after you open the tomb, huh, Dad?” 
Sari asked. She swatted a fly on her arm. “Ow!” 

“I’ll be so famous, the flies will be afraid to bite you,” Uncle Ben 
replied. “By the way, do you know what they called flies in ancient Egypt?” 

Sari and I shook our heads no. 

“I don’t either!” Uncle Ben said, grinning. One of his dumb jokes. He 
had an endless supply of them. His expression suddenly changed. “Oh. That 
reminds me. I have a present for you, Gabe.” 

“A present?” 

“Now, where did I put it?” He dug both hands into the pockets of his 
baggy chinos. 

As he searched, I saw something move behind him. A shadow over my 
uncle’s shoulder, back at the low opening to the pyramid. 

I squinted at it. 

The shadow moved. A figure stepped out slowly. 

At first I thought the sun was playing tricks on my eyes. 

But as I squinted harder, I realized that I was seeing correctly. 

The figure stepped out from the pyramid—its face was covered in 
worn, yellowed gauze. So were its arms. And its legs. 

I opened my mouth to cry out—but my voice choked in my throat. 

And as I struggled to alert my uncle, the mummy stiffly stretched out 
its arms and came staggering up behind him. 

4 

I saw Sari’s eyes grow wide with fright. She let out a low gasp. 

“Uncle Ben—!” I finally managed to scream. “Turn around! It—it—!” 

My uncle narrowed his eyes at me, confused. 

The mummy staggered closer, its hands reaching out menacingly, 
about to grab the back of Uncle Ben’s neck. 

“A mummy\” I shrieked. 

Uncle Ben spun around. He let out a startled cry. “It walks!” he 
shouted, pointing at the mummy with a trembling finger. He backed away 
as the mummy advanced. “It walks!” 

“Ohhh.” A strange moan escaped Sari’s lips. 

I turned and started to run. 

But then the mummy burst out laughing. 

It lowered its yellowed arms. “Boo!” it cried, and laughed again. 

I turned and saw that Uncle Ben was laughing, too. His dark eyes 
sparkled gleefully. “It walks! It walks!” he repeated, shaking his head. He 
put his arm around the mummy’s shoulder. 

I gaped at the two of them, my heart still pounding. 

“This is John,” Uncle Ben said, enjoying the joke he’d pulled on us. 
“He’s been doing a TV commercial here. For some new kind of stickier 
bandage.” 

“Sticky Bird Bandages,” John told us. “They’re just what your 
mummy ordered!” 

He and Uncle Ben enjoyed another good laugh at that. Then my uncle 
pointed to the camera crew, packing their equipment into a small van. 
“They finished for the day. But John agreed to hang around and help me 
scare you.” 

Sari rolled her eyes. “Nice try,” she said dryly. “You’ll have to do 
better than that, Daddy, to frighten me.” And then she added, “Poor Gabe. 
Did you see his face? He was so freaked out! I thought he was going to 
spontaneously combust or something!” 

Uncle Ben and John laughed. 

“Hey—no way!” I insisted, feeling my face turn red. 

How could Sari say that? When the mummy staggered out, I saw her 
gasp and back away. She was just as scared as I was! 

“I heard you scream, too!” I told her. I didn’t mean to sound so whiny. 

“I just did that to help them scare you,” Sari insisted. She tossed her 
long braid over her shoulder. 

“I’ve got to run,” John said, glancing at his wristwatch. “As soon as 
we get back to the hotel, I’m going to hit the pool. I may stay underwater 
for a week!” He gave us a wave of his bandaged hand and went jogging to 
the van. 

Why hadn’t I noticed that he was wearing a wristwatch? 

I felt like a total dork. “That’s it!” I cried angrily to my uncle. “I’m 
never falling for one of your dumb jokes again! Never!” 

He grinned at me and winked. “Want to bet?” 

“What about Gabe’s present?” Sari asked. “What is it?” 

Uncle Ben pulled something out of his pocket and held it up. A 
pendant on a string. Made of clear orange glass. It gleamed in the bright 
sunlight. 

He handed it to me. I moved it in my hand, feeling its smoothness as I 
examined it. “What is it?” I asked him. “What kind of glass is this?” 

“It isn’t glass,” he replied. “It’s a clear stone called amber.” He stepped 
closer to examine it along with me. “Hold it up and look inside the 
pendant.” 

I followed his instructions. I saw a large brown bug inside. “It looks 
like some kind of beetle,” I said. 

“It is a beetle,” Uncle Ben said, squinting one eye to see it better. “It’s 
an ancient beetle called a scarab. It was trapped in the amber four thousand 
years ago. As you can see, it’s perfectly preserved.” 

“That’s really gross,” Sari commented, making a face. She slapped 
Uncle Ben on the back. “Great gift, Dad. A dead bug. Remind me not to let 
you do our Christmas shopping!” 

Uncle Ben laughed. Then he turned back to me. “The scarab was very 
important to the ancient Egyptians,” he said, rolling the amber pendant in 
his fingers, then dropping it back in my palm. “They believed that scarabs 
were a symbol of immortality.” 

I stared at the bug’s dark shell, its six prickly legs, perfectly preserved. 

“To keep a scarab meant immortality,” my uncle continued. “But the 

bite of a scarab meant instant death.” 

“Weird.” Sari muttered. 

“It’s great-looking,” I told him. “Is it really four thousand years old?” 
He nodded. “Wear it around your neck, Gabe. Maybe it still has some 
of its ancient powers.” 

I slipped the pendant over my head and adjusted it under my T-shirt. 
The amber stone felt cool against my skin. “Thanks, Uncle Ben,” I said. 
“It’s a great present.” 

He mopped his sweaty forehead with a wadded-up handkerchief. 
“Let’s go back to the tent and get something cold to drink,” he said. 

We took a few steps—and then stopped when we saw Sari’s face. 

Her entire body trembled. Her mouth dropped open as she pointed to 
my chest. 

“Sari—what is it?” Uncle Ben cried. 

“The s-scarab—” she stammered. “It... escaped! I saw it!” She pointed 
down. “It’s there!” 

“Huh?” I spun away from her and bent down to find the scarab. 

“Ow!” I cried out when I felt a sharp stab of pain on the back of my 
leg. 

And realized the scarab had bitten me. 

5 

As I gasped in alarm, Uncle Ben’s words about the scarab rushed through 
my mind. 

“To keep a scarab meant immortality. But the bite of a scarab meant 
instant death. ” 

Instant death ? 

“Noooo!” I let out a howl and spun around. 

And saw Sari hunched down on her knees. Grinning. Her hand 
outstretched. 

And realized she had pinched my leg. 

My heart still pounding, I grabbed the pendant and stared into the 
orange glassy stone. The scarab was still frozen inside, just as it had been 
for four thousand years. 

“Aaaaaaaggh!” I let out a howl of rage. I was mostly furious at myself. 

Was I going to fall for every dumb joke Uncle Ben and Sari played on 
me this trip? If so, it was going to be a very long summer. 

I had always liked my cousin. Except for the times when she was 
being so competitive and so superior, we always got along really well. 

But now I wanted to punch her. I wanted to say really nasty things to 
her. 

But I couldn’t think of anything nasty enough. 

“That was really mean, Sari,” I said glumly, tucking the pendant under 
my T-shirt. 

“Yes, it was— wasn’t it!” she replied, very pleased with herself. 

That night, I lay on my back on my narrow cot, staring up at the low tent 
roof, listening. Listening to the brush of the wind against the tent door, the 
soft creak of the tent poles, the flap of the canvas. 

I don’t think I’d ever felt so alert. 

Turning my head, I could see the pale glow of moonlight through a 
crack in the tent door. I could see blades of dried desert grass on the sand 
outside. I could see water stains on the tent wall over my bed. 

I’ll never get to sleep, I thought unhappily. 

I pushed and punched the flat pillow for the twentieth time, trying to 
fluff it up. The harsh wool blanket felt scratchy against my chin. 

I’d slept away from home before. But I’d always slept in a room of 
some kind. Not in the middle of a vast, sandy desert in a tiny, flapping, 
creaking, canvas tent. 

I wasn’t scared. My uncle lay snoring away in his cot a few feet across 
the tent. 

I was just alert. Very, very alert. 

So alert I could hear the swish of palm trees outside. And I could hear 
the low hum of car tires miles away on the narrow road. 

And I heard the thudding of my heart when something wriggled on my 
chest. 

I was so alert. I felt it instantly. 

Just a tickle. A quick, light move. 

It could only be one thing. The scarab moving inside the amber 
pendant. 

No joke this time. 

No joke. It moved. 

I fumbled for the pendant in the dark, tossing down the blanket. I held 
it up to the moonlight. I could see the fat beetle in there, black in its orange 
prison. 

“Did you move?” I whispered to it. “Did you wriggle your legs?” 

I suddenly felt really stupid. Why was I whispering to a four-thousand- 
year-old insect? Why was I imagining that it was alive? 

Annoyed with myself, I tucked the pendant back under my nightshirt. 

I had no way of knowing how important that pendant would soon 
become to me. 

I had no way of knowing that the pendant held a secret that would 
either save my life. Or kill me. 

6 

The tent was already hot when I awoke the next morning. Bright yellow 
sunlight poured in through the open tent flap. Squinting against the light, I 
mbbed my eyes and stretched. Uncle Ben had already gone out. 

My back ached. The little cot was so hard! 

But I was too excited to worry about my back. I was going down into 
the pyramid this morning, to the entrance of an ancient tomb. 

I pulled on a clean T-shirt and the jeans I’d worn the day before. I 
adjusted the scarab pendant under the T-shirt. Then I carefully tucked the 
little mummy hand into the back pocket of my jeans. With the pendant and 
the mummy hand, I’m well protected, I told myself. Nothing bad can 
happen this trip. 

I pulled a hairbrush through my thick, black hair a few times, tugged 
my black-and-yellow Michigan Wolverines cap on. Then I hurried to the 
mess tent to get some breakfast. 

The sun was floating above the palm trees in the distance. The yellow 
desert sand gleamed brightly. I took a deep breath of fresh air. 

Yuck. There must be some camels nearby, I decided. The air wasn’t 
exactly fresh. 

I found Sari and Uncle Ben having their breakfast, seated at the end of 
the long table in the mess tent. Uncle Ben wore his usual baggy chinos and 
a short-sleeved, white sportshirt with coffee stains down the front. 

Sari had her long, black hair pulled straight back in a ponytail. She 
wore a bright red tank top over white tennis shorts. 

They greeted me as I entered the tent. I poured myself a glass of 
orange juice and, since I didn’t see any Frosted Flakes, filled a bowl with 
Raisin Bran. 

Three of Uncle Ben’s workers were eating at the other end of the table. 
They were talking excitedly about their work. “We could go in today,” I 
heard one of them say. 

“It might take days to break the seal on the tomb door,” a young 
woman replied. 

I sat down next to Sari. “Tell me all about the tomb,” I said to Uncle 

Ben. “Whose tomb is it? What’s in there?” 

He chuckled. “Let me say good morning before I launch into a 
lecture.” 

Sari leaned over my cereal bowl. “Hey, look—” she said, pointing. “I 
got a lot more raisins than you did!” 

I told you she could turn breakfast into a contest. 

“Well, I got more pulp in my orange juice,” I replied. 

It was just a joke, but she checked her juice glass to make sure. 

Uncle Ben wiped his mouth with a paper napkin. He took a long sip of 
black coffee. “If I’m not mistaken,” he began, “the tomb we have 
discovered here belonged to a prince. Actually, a cousin of King 
Tutankhamen.” 

“That’s King Tut,” Sari told me, interrupting. 

“I know that!” I replied sharply. 

“King Tut’s tomb was discovered in 1922,” Uncle Ben continued. 
“The vast burial chamber was filled with most of Tut’s treasures. It was the 
most amazing archaeological discovery of the century.” A smile crossed his 
face. “Until now.” 

“Do you think you’ve found something even more amazing?” I asked. 
I hadn’t touched my cereal. I was too interested in my uncle’s story. 

He shrugged. “There’s no way of knowing what’s behind the tomb 
door until we open it, Gabe. But I have my fingers crossed. I believe we’ve 
found the burial chamber of Prince Khor-Ru. He was the king’s cousin. And 
he was said to be as wealthy as the king.” 

“And do you think all of Prince Khor-Ru’s crowns, and jewels, and 
belongings are buried with him?” Sari asked. 

Uncle Ben took the last sip of coffee and slid the white mug across the 
table. “Who knows?” he replied. “There could be amazing treasures in 
there. Or it could be empty. Just an empty room.” 

“How could it be empty?” I demanded. “Why would there be an empty 
tomb in the pyramids?” 

“Grave robbers,” Uncle Ben replied, frowning. “Remember, Prince 
Khor-Ru was buried sometime around 1300 B.C. Over the centuries, 
thieves broke into the pyramids and robbed the treasures from many burial 
chambers.” 

He stood up and sighed. “We may have been digging for all these 

months only to find an empty room.” 

“No way!” I cried excitedly. “I’ll bet we find the Prince’s mummy in 
there. And millions of dollars’ worth of jewels!” 

Uncle Ben smiled at me. “Enough talk,” he said. “Finish your 
breakfast so we can go find out.” 

Sari and I followed Uncle Ben out of the tent. 

He waved to two young men who came out of the supply tent carrying 
digging equipment. Then he hurried over to talk to them. 

Sari and I lingered back. She turned to me, a serious expression on her 
face. “Hey, Gabe,” she said softly, “sorry I’ve been such a pain.” 

“You? A pain?” I replied sarcastically. 

She didn’t laugh. “I’m kind of worried,” she confessed. “About 
Daddy.” 

I glanced at Uncle Ben. He was slapping one of the young men on the 
back as he talked. His usual jolly self. 

“Why are you worried?” I asked Sari. “Your dad is in a great mood.” 

“That’s why I’m worried,” Sari whispered. “He’s so happy and 
excited. He really thinks this is going to be the discovery that makes him 
famous.” 

“So?” I demanded. 

“So what if it turns out to be an empty room?” Sari replied, her dark 
eyes watching her father. “What if grave robbers did strip the place? Or 
what if it isn’t that prince’s tomb after all? What if Daddy breaks the seal, 
opens the door—and finds nothing but a dusty, old room filled with 
snakes?” 

She sighed. “Daddy will be heartbroken. Just heartbroken. He’s 
counting on this so much, Gabe. I don’t know if he’ll be able to take the 
disappointment.” 

“Why look on the gloomy side?” I replied. “What if—” 

I stopped because Uncle Ben was hurrying back to us. “Let’s go down 
to the chamber,” he said excitedly. “The workers think we are very close to 
uncovering the tomb entrance.” 

He put an arm on each of our shoulders and guided us to the pyramid. 

As we stepped into the shade of the pyramid, the air grew cooler. The 
low entrance dug at the bottom of the back wall came into view. It was just 
big enough for us to enter one at a time. Peering into the narrow hole, I saw 

that the tunnel dropped steeply. 

I hope I don’t fall, I thought, a heavy knot of fear tightening my 
stomach. I pictured myself falling and falling down an endless, dark hole. 

Mainly, I didn’t want to fall in front of Sari. I knew she’d never let me 
forget it. 

Uncle Ben handed Sari and me bright yellow hard hats. They had 
lights built into them, like miners’ hats. “Stick close together,” he 
instructed. “I remember last summer. You two wandered off and got us into 
a lot of trouble.” 

“W-we won’t,” I stammered. I was trying not to sound nervous, but I 
couldn’t help it. 

I glanced at Sari. She was adjusting the yellow hard hat over her hair. 
She seemed as calm and confident as ever. 

“I’ll lead the way,” Uncle Ben said, pulling the chin strap under his 
chin. He turned and started to lower himself into the hole. 

But a shrill cry from behind us made us all stop and turn around. 

“Stop! Please—stop! Don’t go in!” 

7 

A young woman came running across the sand. Her long, black hair flew 
behind her head as she ran. She carried a brown briefcase in one hand. A 
camera, strapped around her neck, bobbed in front of her. 

She stopped in front of us and smiled at Uncle Ben. “Dr. Hassad?” she 
asked breathlessly. 

My uncle nodded. “Yes?” He waited for her to catch her breath. 

Wow. She’s really pretty, I thought. She had long, black hair, sleek and 
shiny. She had bangs cut straight across her forehead. Beneath the bangs 
were the most beautiful green eyes I’d ever seen. 

She was dressed all in white. A white suit jacket and a white blouse 
over white slacks. She was short—only an inch or two taller than Sari. 

She must be a movie star or something, I told myself. She’s so great¬ 
looking! 

She set her briefcase down on the sand and brushed back her long, 
black hair. “I’m sorry I shouted like that, Dr. Hassad,” she told my uncle. 
“It’s just that I needed to talk to you. I didn’t want you to disappear into the 
pyramid.” 

Uncle Ben narrowed his eyes at her, studying her. “How did you get 
past the security guard?” he asked, pulling off the hard hat. 

“I showed them my press card,” she replied. “I’m a reporter for the 
Cairo Sun. My name is Nila Rahmad. I was hoping—” 

“Nila?” Uncle Ben interrupted. “What a pretty name.” 

She smiled. “Yes. My mother named me after the River of Life, the 
Nile.” 

“Well, it’s a very pretty name,” Uncle Ben replied. His eyes twinkled. 
“But I’m not ready to have any reporters write about our work here.” 

Nila frowned and bit her lower lip. “I spoke to Dr. Fielding a few days 
ago,” she said. 

My uncle’s eyes widened in surprise. “You did?” 

“Dr. Fielding gave me permission to write about your discovery,” Nila 
insisted, her green eyes locked on my uncle. 

“Well, we haven’t discovered anything yet!” Uncle Ben said sharply. 

“There may not be anything to discover.” 

“That’s not what Dr. Fielding told me,” Nila replied. “He seemed 
confident that you were about to make a discovery that would shock the 
world.” 

Uncle Ben laughed. “Sometimes my partner gets excited and talks too 
much,” he told Nila. 

Nila’s eyes pleaded with my uncle. “May I come into the pyramid with 
you?” She glanced at Sari and me. “I see you have other visitors.” 

“My daughter, Sari, and my nephew, Gabe,” Uncle Ben replied. 

“Well, could I come down with them?” Nila pleaded. “I promise I 
won’t write a word for my paper until you give me permission.” 

Uncle Ben rubbed his chin thoughtfully. He swung the hard hat back 
onto his head. “No photographs, either,” he muttered. 

“Does that mean I can come?” Nila asked excitedly. 

Uncle Ben nodded. “As an observer.” He was trying to act real tough. 
But I could see he liked her. 

Nila flashed him a warm smile. “Thank you, Dr. Hassad.” 

He reached into the storage cart and handed her a yellow hard hat. “We 
won’t be making any amazing discoveries today,” he warned her. “But 
we’re getting very close—to something.” 

As she slipped on the heavy helmet, Nila turned to Sari and me. “Is 
this your first time in the pyramid?” she asked. 

“No way. I’ve already been down three times,” Sari boasted. “It’s 
really awesome.” 

“I just arrived yesterday,” I said. “So it’s my first time down in—” 

I stopped when I saw Nila’s expression change. 

Why was she staring at me like that? 

I glanced down and realized that she was staring at the amber pendant. 
Her mouth was open in shock. 

“No! I don’t believe this! I really don’t! This is so weird!” she 
exclaimed. 

8 

“Wh-what’s wrong?” I stammered. 

“We’re twins'.” Nila declared. She reached under her suit jacket and 
pulled out a pendant she wore around her neck. 

An amber pendant, shaped exactly like mine. 

“How unusual!” Uncle Ben exclaimed. 

Nila grasped my pendant between her fingers and lowered her face to 
examine it. “You have a scarab inside yours,” she told me, turning the 
pendant around in her fingers. 

She dropped mine and held hers up for me to see. “Look, Gabe. Mine 
is empty.” 

I gazed into her pendant. It looked like clear orange glass. Nothing 
inside. 

“I think yours is prettier,” Sari told Nila. “I wouldn’t want to wear a 
dead bug around my neck.” 

“But it’s supposed to be good luck or something,” Nila replied. She 
tucked the pendant back under her white jacket. “I hope it isn’t bad luck to 
have an empty one!” 

“I hope so, too,” Uncle Ben commented dryly. He turned and led us 
into the pyramid opening. 

I’m not really sure how I got lost. 

Sari and I were walking together behind Uncle Ben and Nila. We were 
close behind them. I could hear my uncle explaining about how the tunnel 
walls were granite and limestone. 

Our helmet lights were on. The narrow beams of yellow light darted 
and crisscrossed over the dusty tunnel floor and walls as we made our way 
deeper and deeper into the pyramid. 

The ceiling hung low, and we all had to stoop as we walked. The 
tunnel kept curving, and there were several smaller tunnels that branched 
off. “False starts and dead ends,” Uncle Ben called them. 

It was hard to see in the flickering light from our helmets. I stumbled 
once and scraped my elbow against the rough tunnel wall. It was 

surprisingly cool down here, and I wished I had worn a sweatshirt or 
something. 

Up ahead, Uncle Ben was telling Nila about King Tut and Prince 
Khor-Ru. It sounded to me as if Uncle Ben was trying to impress her. I 
wondered if he had a crush on her or something. 

“This is so thrilling!” I heard Nila exclaim. “It was so nice of Dr. 
Fielding and you to let me see it.” 

“Who is Dr. Fielding?” I whispered to Sari. 

“My father’s partner,” Sari whispered back. “But Daddy doesn’t like 
him. You’ll probably meet him. He’s always around. I don’t like him much, 
either.” 

I stopped to examine a strange-looking marking on the tunnel wall. It 
was shaped like some kind of animal head. “Sari—look!” I whispered. “An 
ancient drawing.” 

Sari rolled her eyes. “It’s Bart Simpson,” she muttered. “One of 
Daddy’s workers must have drawn it there.” 

“I knew that!” I lied. “I was just testing you.” 

When was I going to stop making a fool of myself in front of my 
cousin? 

I turned back from the stupid drawing on the wall—and Sari had 
vanished. 

I could see the narrow beam of light from her hard hat up ahead. “Hey 
—wait up!” I called. But the light disappeared as the tunnel curved away. 

And then I stumbled again. 

My helmet hit the tunnel wall. And the light went out. 

“Hey—Sari? Uncle Ben?” I called to them. I leaned heavily against the 
wall, afraid to move in the total darkness. 

“Hey—! Can anybody hear me?” My voice echoed down the narrow 
tunnel. 

But no one replied. 

I pulled off the hard hat and fiddled with the light. I turned it, trying to 
tighten it. Then I shook the whole hat. But the light wouldn’t come back on. 

Sighing, I strapped the hat back onto my head. 

Now what? I thought, starting to feel a little afraid. My stomach began 
fluttering. My throat suddenly felt dry. 

“Hey—can anybody hear me?” I shouted. “I’m in the dark back here. I 

can’t walk!” 

No reply. 

Where were they? Didn’t they notice that I had disappeared? 
“Well, I’ll just wait right here for them,” I murmured to myself. 
I leaned my shoulder against the tunnel wall— 

—and fell right through the wall. 

No way to catch my balance. Nothing to grab on to. 

I was falling, falling down through total darkness. 

9 

My hands flailed wildly as I fell. 

I reached out frantically for something to grab on to. 

It all happened too fast to cry out. 

I landed hard on my back. Pain shot out through my arms and legs. 
The darkness swirled around me. 

My breath was knocked right out of me. I saw bright flashes of red, 
then everything went black again. I struggled to breathe, but couldn’t suck 
in any air. 

I had that horrible heavy feeling in my chest, like when a basketball 
hits you in the stomach. 

Finally, I sat up, struggling to see in the total darkness. I heard a soft, 
shuffling sound. Something scraping over the hard dirt floor. 

“Hey—can anyone hear me?” My voice came out a hoarse whisper. 
Now my back ached, but I was starting to breathe normally. 

“Hey—I’m down here!” I called, a little louder. 

No reply. 

Didn’t they miss me? Weren’t they looking for me? 

I was leaning back on my hands, starting to feel better. My right hand 
started to itch. 

I reached to scratch it and brushed something away. 

And realized my legs were itching, too. And felt something crawling 
on my left wrist. 

I shook my hand hard. “What’s going on here?” I whispered to myself. 
My entire body tingled. I felt soft pinpricks up my arms and legs. 
Shaking both arms, I jumped to my feet. And banged my helmet 
against a low ledge. 

The light flickered on. 

I gasped when I saw the crawling creatures in the narrow beam of 

light. 

Spiders. Hundreds of bulby, white spiders, thick on the chamber floor. 
They scuttled across the floor, climbing over each other. As I jerked 

my head up and the light swept up with it, I saw that the stone walls were 
covered with them, too. The white spiders made the wall appear to move, as 
if it were alive. 

Spiders hung on invisible threads from the chamber ceiling. They 
seemed to bob and float in midair. 

I shook one off the back of my hand. 

And with a gasp, realized why my legs itched. Spiders were crawling 
all over them. Up over my arms. Down my back. 

“Help—somebody! Please!” I managed to cry out. 

I felt a spider drop on to the top of my head. 

I brushed it away with a frantic slap. “Somebody—help me!” I 
screamed. “Can anyone hear me?” 

And then I saw something scarier. Much scarier. A snake slid down 
from above me, lowering itself rapidly toward my face. 

10 

I ducked and tried to cover my head as the snake silently dropped toward 
me. 

“Grab it!” I heard someone call. “Grab on to it!” 

With a startled cry, I raised my eyes. The light beam followed. And I 
saw that it was not a snake that stretched from above—but a rope. 

“Grab on to it, Gabe! Hurry!” Sari shouted urgently from high above. 

Brushing away spiders, kicking frantically to shake the spiders off my 
sneakers, I grasped the rope with both hands. 

And felt myself being tugged up, pulled up through the darkness to the 
tunnel floor above. 

A few seconds later, Uncle Ben reached down and grabbed me under 
the shoulders. As he hoisted me up, I could see Sari and Nila pulling with 
all their might on the rope. 

I cheered happily as my feet touched solid ground. But I didn’t have 
long to celebrate. My entire body felt as if it were on fire! 

I went wild, kicking my legs, brushing spiders off my arms, scratching 
spiders off my back, stamping on the spiders as they scuttled off me. 

Glancing up, I saw that Sari was laughing at me. “Gabe, what do you 
call that dance?” she asked. 

Uncle Ben and Nila laughed, too. “How did you fall down there, 
Gabe?” my uncle demanded, peering down into the spider chamber. 

“The wall—it gave way,” I told him, frantically scratching my legs. 

“I thought you were still with me,” Sari explained. “When I turned 
around...” Her voice trailed off. 

The light on Uncle Ben’s helmet beamed down to the lower chamber. 
“That’s a long fall,” Uncle Ben said, turning back to me. “Are you sure 
you’re okay?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I guess. It knocked the wind out of me. And then the 
spiders—” 

“There must be hundreds of chambers like that,” my uncle 
commented, glancing at Nila. “The pyramid builders made a maze of 
tunnels and chambers—to fool tomb robbers and keep them from finding 

the real tomb.” 

“Yuck! Such fat spiders!” Sari groaned, stepping back. 

“There are millions of them down there,” I told her. “On the walls, 
hanging from the ceiling—everywhere.” 

“This is going to give me bad dreams,” Nila said softly, moving closer 
to Uncle Ben. 

“You sure you’re okay?” my uncle demanded again. 

I started to reply. Then I suddenly remembered something. The 
mummy hand. It was tucked in my back pocket. 

Had it been crushed when I landed on it? 

My heart skipped a beat. I didn’t want anything bad to happen to that 
little hand. It was my good luck charm. 

I reached into my jeans pocket and pulled it out. Holding it under the 
light from my hard hat, I examined it carefully. 

I breathed a sigh of relief when I saw that it was okay. It still felt cold. 
But it hadn’t been crushed. 

“What’s that?” Nila asked, leaning closer to see it better. She brushed 
her long hair away from her face. “Is that The Summoner?” 

“How did you know that?” I demanded, holding the hand up so she 
could see it better. 

Nila stared at it intently. “I know a lot about ancient Egypt,” she 
replied. “I’ve studied it my whole life.” 

“It might be an ancient relic,” Uncle Ben broke in. 

“Or it might just be a tacky souvenir,” Sari added. 

“It has real powers,” I insisted, brushing it off carefully. “I landed on it 
down there—” I pointed to the spider chamber—“and it didn’t get crushed.” 

“I guess it is a good luck charm,” Nila said, turning back to Uncle Ben. 

“Then why didn’t it keep Gabe from falling through that wall?” Sari 
cracked. 

Before I could answer, I saw the mummy hand move. The tiny fingers 
slowly curled. Out and then in. 

I cried out and nearly dropped it. 

“Gabe—now what?” Uncle Ben demanded sharply. 

“Uh... nothing,” I replied. 

They wouldn’t believe me anyway. 

“I think we’ve done enough exploring for now,” Uncle Ben said. 

As we made our way to the entrance, I held the mummy hand in front 
of me. 

I wasn’t seeing things. I knew that for sure. The fingers really had 
moved. 

But why? 

Was the hand trying to signal me? Was it trying to warn me about 
something? 

11 

Two days later, Uncle Ben’s workers reached the doorway to the burial 
chamber. 

Sari and I had spent the two days hanging around in the tent or 
exploring the area outside the pyramid. Since it was mostly sand, there 
wasn’t much to explore. 

We spent one long afternoon playing game after game of Scrabble. 
Playing Scrabble with Sari wasn’t much fun at all. She was a very defensive 
player and spent hours figuring out ways to clog the board and block me 
from getting any good words. 

Whenever I put down a really good word, Sari claimed it wasn’t a real 
word and couldn’t be allowed. And since we didn’t have a dictionary in the 
tent, she won most of the arguments. 

Uncle Ben, meanwhile, seemed really stressed out. I thought maybe he 
was nervous about finally opening the tomb. 

He barely spoke to Sari and me. Instead, he spent a lot of time meeting 
with people I didn’t recognize. He seemed very serious and businesslike. 
None of his usual backslapping and joking. 

Uncle Ben also spent a lot of time talking with Nila. At first, she’d said 
she wanted to write about his discovery in the pyramid. But now she’d 
decided to write an article about him. She wrote down nearly every word he 
said in a little pad she carried with her. 

Then, at breakfast, he finally smiled for the first time in two days. 
“Today’s the day,” he announced. 

Sari and I couldn’t hide our excitement. “Are you taking us with you?” 
I asked. 

Uncle Ben nodded. “I want you to be there,” he replied. “Perhaps we 
will make history today. Perhaps it will be a day you will want to remember 
for the rest of your lives.” He shrugged and added thoughtfully: “Perhaps.” 

A few minutes later, the three of us followed several workers across 
the sand toward the pyramid. It was a gray day. Heavy clouds hovered low 
in the sky, threatening rain. The pyramid rose up darkly to meet the clouds. 

As we approached the small opening in the back wall, Nila came 

running up, her camera bobbing in front of her. She wore a long-sleeved, 
blue denim work shirt over loose-fitting, faded jeans. 

Uncle Ben greeted her warmly. “But still no photographs,” he told her 
firmly. “Promise?” 

Nila smiled back at him. Her green eyes lit up excitedly. She raised a 
hand to her heart. “Promise.” 

We all took yellow hard hats from the equipment dump. Uncle Ben 
was carrying a large stone mallet. He lowered himself into the entrance, and 
we followed. 

My heart was racing as I hurried to keep up with Sari. The lights from 
our helmets darted over the narrow tunnel. Far up ahead, I could hear the 
voices of workers and the steady scrape of their digging tools. 

“This is really awesome!” I exclaimed breathlessly to Sari. 

“Maybe the tomb is filled with jewels,” Sari whispered as we made 
our way around a curve. “Sapphires and rubies and emeralds. Maybe I’ll get 
to try on a jeweled crown worn by an Egyptian princess.” 

“Do you think there’s a mummy in the tomb?” I asked. I wasn’t too 
interested in jewels. “Do you think the mummified body of Prince Khor-Ru 
is lying there, waiting to be discovered?” 

Sari made a disgusted face. “Is that all you can think about— 
mummies?” 

“Well, we are in an ancient Egyptian pyramid!” I shot back. 

“There could be millions of dollars’ worth of jewels and relics in that 
tomb,” Sari scolded. “And all you can think about is some moldy old body 
wrapped up in tar and gauze.” She shook her head. “You know, most kids 
get over their fascination with mummies by the time they’re eight or nine.” 

“Uncle Ben didn’t!” I replied. 

That shut her up. 

We followed Nila and Uncle Ben in silence. After a while, the narrow 
tunnel curved up sharply. The air grew warmer as we followed it up. 

I could see lights ahead. Two battery-powered spotlights were trained 
on the far wall. As we drew closer, I realized it wasn’t a wall. It was a door. 

Four workers—two men and two women—were on their knees, 
working with small shovels and picks. They were scraping the last chunks 
of dirt away from the door. 

“It looks beautiful!” Uncle Ben cried, running up to the workers. They 

turned to greet him. “It’s awesome in the true sense of the word!” he 
declared. 

Nila, Sari, and I stepped up behind him. Uncle Ben was right. The 
ancient door really was awesome! 

It wasn’t very tall. I could see that Uncle Ben would have to stoop to 
step into it. But it looked like a door fit for a prince. 

The dark mahogany wood—now petrified—must have been brought 
from far away. I knew that kind of wood didn’t come from any trees that 
grew in Egypt. 

Strange hieroglyphics covered the door from top to bottom. I 
recognized birds, and cats, and other animals etched deeply into the dark 
wood. 

The most startling sight of all was the seal that locked the door—a 
snarling lion’s head, sculpted in gold. The light from the spotlights made 
the lion glow like the sun. 

“The gold is soft,” I heard one of the workers tell my uncle. “The seal 
will break away easily.” 

Uncle Ben lowered his heavy mallet to the ground. He stared for a 
long moment at the glowing lion’s head, then turned back to us. “They 
thought this lion would scare any intruders away from the tomb,” he 
explained. “I guess it worked. Till now.” 

“Dr. Hassad, I have to photograph the actual breaking of the seal,” 
Nila said, stepping up beside him. “You really must let me. We can’t let the 
moment go unrecorded.” 

He gazed at her thoughtfully. “Well... okay,” he agreed. 

A pleased smile crossed her face as she raised her camera. “Thanks, 
Ben.” 

The workers stepped back. One of them handed Uncle Ben a hammer 
and a delicate tool that looked like a doctor’s scalpel. “It’s all yours, Dr. 
Hassad,” she said. 

Uncle Ben raised the tools and stepped up to the seal. “Once I break 
this seal, we will open the door and step into a room that hasn’t been seen in 
four thousand years,” he announced. 

Nila steadied her camera over her eye, carefully adjusting the lens. 

Sari and I moved up beside the workers. 

The gold lion appeared to glow brighter as Uncle Ben raised the tool. 

A hush fell over the tunnel. I could feel the excitement, feel the tension in 
the air. 

Such suspense! 

I realized I had been holding my breath. I let it out in a long, silent 
whoosh and took another. 

I glanced at Sari. She was nervously chewing her lower lip. Her hands 
were pressed tightly at her sides. 

“Anyone hungry? Maybe we should forget about this and send out for 
a pizza!” Uncle Ben joked. 

We all laughed loudly. 

That was Uncle Ben for you—cracking a dumb joke at what might be 
the most exciting moment of his life. 

The tense silence returned. Uncle Ben’s expression turned serious. He 
turned back to the ancient seal. He raised the small chisel to the back of the 
seal. Then he started to lift the hammer. 

And a booming voice rang out, “PLEASE—LET ME REST IN 
PEACE!” 

12 

I let out a startled cry. 

“LET ME REST IN PEACE!” the booming voice repeated. 

I saw Uncle Ben lower his chisel. He spun around, his eyes wide with 
surprise. 

I realized the voice came from behind us. I turned to see a man I had 
never seen before, half hidden in the shadowy tunnel. He made his way 
toward us, taking long, steady strides. 

He was a tall, lanky man, so tall he really had to hunch his shoulders in 
the low tunnel. Bald except for a fringe of dark hair at the ears, he had a 
slender face, an unfriendly scowl on his thin lips. 

He wore a perfectly ironed safari jacket over a shirt and necktie. His 
black eyes, like little raisins, glared at my uncle. I wondered if the man ever 
ate. He was as skinny as a mummy himself! 

“Omar—!” Uncle Ben started. “I wasn’t expecting you back from 
Cairo.” 

“Let me rest in peace,” Dr. Fielding repeated, softer this time. “Those 
are the words of Prince Khor-Ru. Written on the ancient stone we found last 
month. That was the prince’s wish.” 

“Omar, we’ve been over this before,” my uncle replied, sighing. He 
lowered the hammer and chisel to his sides. 

Dr. Fielding pushed past Sari and me as if we weren’t there. He 
stopped in front of my uncle and swept a hand back over his bald head. 
“Well, then, how can you dare to break the seal?” Dr. Fielding demanded. 

“I am a scientist,” my uncle replied slowly, speaking each word clearly 
and distinctly. “I cannot allow superstition to stand in the way of discovery, 
Omar.” 

“I am also a scientist,” Dr. Fielding replied, using both hands to tighten 
his necktie. “But I am not willing to defile this ancient tomb. I am not 
willing to go against the wishes of Prince Khor-Ru. And I am not willing to 
call the words of the hieroglyph mere superstition.” 

“This is where we disagree,” Uncle Ben said softly. He motioned to 
the four workers. “We have spent too many months, too many years, to stop 

just outside the door. We have come this far, Omar. We must go the rest of 
the way.” 

Dr. Fielding chewed his lower lip. He pointed to the top of the door. 
“Look, Ben. There are the same hieroglyphs as on the stone. The same 
warning. Let me rest in peace. ” 

“I know, I know,” my uncle said, frowning. 

“The warning is very clear,” Dr. Fielding continued heatedly, his tiny 
raisin eyes narrowed at my uncle. “If anyone should disturb the prince, if 
anyone should repeat the ancient words written on the tomb five times—the 
mummified prince shall come to life. And he shall seek his vengeance on 
those who disturbed him.” 

Listening to those words made me shudder. I stared hard at Uncle Ben. 
Why hadn’t he ever told Sari and me about the prince’s threat? Why hadn’t 
he ever mentioned the words of warning they had found on an ancient 
stone? 

Was he afraid he might frighten us? 

Was he frightened himself? 

No. No way. 

He didn’t seem at all frightened now as he argued with Dr. Fielding. I 
could tell they had had this argument before. And I could see there was no 
way that Dr. Fielding was going to stop my uncle from breaking the seal 
and entering the tomb. 

“This is my final warning, Ben—” Dr. Fielding said. “For the sake of 
everyone here...” He motioned with one hand to the four workers. 

“Superstition,” Uncle Ben replied. “I cannot be stopped by 
superstition. I am a scientist.” He raised the chisel and hammer. “The seal 
will be broken.” 

Dr. Fielding tossed up both hands in disgust. “I will not be a party to 
this,” he declared. He spun around, nearly hitting his head on the tunnel 
ceiling. Then, muttering to himself, he hurried away, disappearing quickly 
into the darkness of the tunnel. 

Uncle Ben took a couple of steps after him. “Omar—? Omar?” 

But we could hear Dr. Fielding’s footsteps growing fainter as he made 
his way out of the pyramid. 

Uncle Ben sighed and leaned close to me. “I don’t trust that man,” he 
muttered. “He doesn’t really care about the old superstitions. He wants to 

steal this discovery for himself. That’s why he tried to make me stop 
outside the door.” 

I didn’t know how to reply. My uncle’s words startled me. I thought 
scientists had rules about who took credit for what discoveries. 

Uncle Ben whispered something to Nila. Then he made his way back 
to the four workers. “If any of you agree with Dr. Fielding,” he told them, 
“you are free to leave now.” 

The workers exchanged glances with one another. 

“You have all heard the words of warning on the tomb door. I do not 
want to force anyone to enter the tomb,” Uncle Ben told them. 

“But we have worked so hard,” one of the men said. “We cannot stop 
here. We have no choice. We have to open that door.” 

A smile crossed my uncle’s face. “I agree,” he said, turning back to the 
lion seal. 

I glanced at Sari and realized that she was already staring at me. 
“Gabe, if you’re scared, Daddy will let you leave,” she whispered. “You 
don’t have to be embarrassed.” 

She never quits! 

“I’m staying,” I whispered back. “But if you want me to walk you 
back to the tent, I will.” 

A loud clink made us both turn back to the door. Uncle Ben was 
working to pry off the gold lion seal. Nila had her camera poised. The 
workers stood tensely, watching Uncle Ben’s every move. 

Uncle Ben worked slowly, carefully. He slid the chisel behind the 
ancient seal and gently pried and scraped. 

A few minutes later, the seal fell into my uncle’s hands. Nila busily 
snapped photograph after photograph. Uncle Ben carefully passed it to one 
of the workers. “That’s not a Christmas gift,” he joked. “I’m keeping that 
for my mantelpiece! ” 

Everyone laughed. 

Uncle Ben gripped the edge of the door with both hands. “I’m going in 
first,” he announced. “If I’m not back in twenty minutes, go tell Dr. 
Fielding he was right!” 

More laughter. 

Two of the workers moved to help Uncle Ben slide open the door. 
They pressed their shoulders against it, straining hard. 

The door didn’t budge. 

“It might need a little oiling,” Uncle Ben joked. “After all, it’s been 
closed for four thousand years.” 

They worked for several minutes with picks and chisels, carefully 
freeing the door. Then they tried once again, pressing their shoulders 
against the heavy mahogany door. 

“Yes!” Uncle Ben cried out as the door slid an inch. 

Then another inch. Another inch. 

Everyone pressed forward, eager to get a view of the ancient tomb. 

Two of the workers moved the large spotlights, aiming them into the 
doorway. 

As Uncle Ben and his two helpers pushed against the door, Sari and I 
stepped up beside Nila. “Isn’t this amazing!” Nila cried excitedly. “I can’t 
believe I’m the only reporter here! I’m so lucky!” 

I’m lucky, too, I realized. How many kids would give anything to be 
standing right where I am? How many kids would love to be one of the first 
people in the world to step into a four-thousand-year-old tomb in an 
Egyptian pyramid? 

The faces of some of my friends back home suddenly popped into my 
mind. I realized I couldn’t wait to tell them about my adventure here! 

The door scraped noisily against the dirt floor. Another inch. Another 

inch. 

The opening was almost big enough for a person to squeeze through. 

“Move the light a little,” Uncle Ben instructed. “Another few inches, 
and we can go in and shake hands with the prince.” 

The door scraped open another inch. With a great heave, Uncle Ben 
and his helpers forced it open another few inches. 

“Yes!” he cried happily. 

Nila snapped a photograph. 

We all pressed forward eagerly. 

Uncle Ben slid through the opening first. 

Sari bumped me out of the way and cut in front of me. 

My heart was pounding hard. My hands were suddenly ice cold. 

I didn’t care who went in first. I just wanted to go in! 

One by one, we slipped into the ancient chamber. 

Finally, my turn came. I took a deep breath, slipped through the 

opening, and saw— 

—nothing. 

Except for a lot of cobwebs, the chamber was bare. 
Totally bare. 

13 

I let out a long sigh. Poor Unde Ben. All that work for nothing. I felt so 
disappointed. 

I glanced around the bare chamber. The spotlights made the thick 
cobwebs glow like silver. Our shadows stretched across the dirt floor like 
ghosts. 

I turned to Uncle Ben, expecting him to be disappointed, too. But to 
my surprise, he had a smile on his face. “Move the lights,” he told one of 
the workers. “And bring the tools. We have another seal to remove.” 

He pointed across the empty room to the back wall. In the gray light, I 
could make out the outline of a door. Another sculpted lion sealed it shut. 

“I knew this wasn’t the real burial chamber!” Sari cried, grinning at 
me. 

“As I said, the Egyptians often did this,” Uncle Ben explained. “They 
built several false chambers to hide the real chamber from grave robbers.” 
He pulled off his hard hat and scratched his hair. “In fact,” he continued, 
“we may find several empty chambers before we find Prince Khor-Ru’s 
resting place.” 

Nila snapped a photo of Uncle Ben examining the newly discovered 
door. She smiled at me. “You should have seen the expression on your face, 
Gabe,” she said. “You looked so disappointed.” 

“I thought—” I started. But the scrape of Uncle Ben’s chisel against 
the seal made me stop. 

We all turned to watch him work at the seal. Staring across the 
cobweb-filled chamber, I tried to imagine what waited for us on the other 
side of the door. 

Another empty chamber? Or a four-thousand-year-old Egyptian prince, 
surrounded by all of his treasures and belongings? 

Work on the door went slowly. We all broke for lunch and then 
returned. That afternoon Uncle Ben and his helpers worked for another 
couple of hours, carefully trying to remove the seal without damaging it. 

As they worked, Sari and I sat on the floor and watched. The air was 
hot and kind of sour. I guess it was ancient air. Sari and I talked about last 

summer and the adventures we’d had in the Great Pyramid. Nila snapped 
our picture. 

“Almost got it,” Uncle Ben announced. 

We all started to get excited again. Sari and I climbed to our feet and 
crossed the room to get a better view. 

The lion seal slid free from the door. Two of the workers placed it 
gently into a padded crate. Then Uncle Ben and the other two workers set to 
work pushing open the door. 

This door proved even more difficult than the last. “It’s... really... 
stuck,” Uncle Ben groaned. He and the workers pulled out more tools and 
began prying and chipping away the hard crust that had formed on the 
doorway over the centuries. 

An hour later, they got the door to slide an inch. Then another inch. 
Another. 

When it had slid halfway open, Uncle Ben removed the light from his 
helmet and beamed it through the opening. He peered into the next chamber 
for the longest time without saying a word. 

Sari and I moved closer. My heart began racing again. 

What did he see? I wondered. What was he staring at so silently? 

Finally, Uncle Ben lowered the light and turned back to us. “We’ve 
made a big mistake,” he said quietly. 

14 

A shocked silence fell over the room. I swallowed hard, stunned by my 
uncle’s words. 

But then a broad smile crossed his face. “We made a mistake by 
underestimating our discovery!” he exclaimed. “This will be more 
important than the discovery of King Tut! This tomb is even grander!” 

A gleeful cheer echoed against the stone walls. The workers rushed 
forward to shake Uncle Ben’s hand and offer their congratulations. 

“Congratulations to us all!” Uncle Ben declared happily. 

We were all laughing and talking excitedly as we slipped through the 
narrow opening, into the next chamber. 

As the lights beamed over the vast room, I knew I was seeing 
something I would never forget. Even the thick layer of dust and cobwebs 
could not cover the amazing treasures that filled the chamber. 

My eyes darted quickly around. I struggled to focus on it all. But there 
was too much to see! I actually felt dizzy. 

The walls were covered from floor to ceiling with hieroglyphics, 
etched into the stone. The floor was cluttered with furniture and other 
objects. It looked more like someone’s attic or a storeroom than a tomb! 

A tall, straight-backed throne caught my eye. It had a golden, radiating 
sun etched into the seat-back. Behind it, I saw chairs and benches, and a 
long couch. 

Against the wall were stacked dozens of stone and clay jars. Some 
were cracked and broken. But many were in perfect condition. 

A gold monkey head lay on its side in the middle of the floor. Behind 
it, I saw several large chests. 

Uncle Ben and one of the workers carefully pulled back the lid of one 
of the chests. Their eyes grew wide as they gaped inside. 

“Jewelry!” Uncle Ben declared. “It’s filled with gold jewelry!” 

Sari came up beside me, an excited grin on her face. 

“This is awesomel” I whispered. 

She nodded agreement. “Awesome!” 

We whispered in the heavy silence. No one else talked. Everyone was 

too overwhelmed by the amazing sight. The loudest sound was the clicking 
of Nila’s camera. 

Uncle Ben stepped between Sari and me and placed a hand on our 
shoulders. “Isn’t this unbelievable?” he cried. “It’s all in perfect condition. 
Untouched for four thousand years.” 

When I glanced up at him, I saw that he had tears in his eyes. This is 
the greatest moment of Uncle Ben’s life, I realized. 

“We must be very careful—” Uncle Ben started. But he stopped in 
midsentence, and I saw his expression change. 

As he guided Sari and me across the room, I saw what he was staring 
at. A large stone mummy case, hidden in shadow, stood against the far wall. 

“Oh, wow!” I murmured as we stepped up to it. 

Made of smooth, gray stone, the heavy lid had a long crack down the 
center. 

“Is the prince buried inside it?” Sari asked eagerly. 

It took Uncle Ben a moment to reply. He stood between us, his eyes 
locked on the ancient mummy case. “We’ll soon see,” he finally replied. 

As he and the four workers struggled to move the lid, Nila lowered her 
camera and stepped forward to watch. Her green eyes stared intensely as 
the lid slowly slid away. 

Inside was a coffin in the shape of the mummy. It wasn’t very long. 
And it was narrower than I thought it would be. 

The workers slowly pried open the coffin’s lid. I gasped and grabbed 
Uncle Ben’s hand as the mummy was revealed. 

It looked so tiny and frail! 

“Prince Khor-Ru,” Uncle Ben muttered, staring down into the stone 

case. 

The prince lay on his back, his slender arms crossed over his chest. 
Black tar had seeped through the bandages. The gauze had worn away from 
the head, revealing the tar-covered skull. 

As I leaned over the case, my heart in my throat, the tar-blackened 
eyes seemed to stare helplessly up at me. 

There’s a real person inside there, I thought, feeling a chill run down 
my spine. He’s about my size. And he died. And they covered him with hot 
tar and cloth. And he’s been lying in this case for four thousand years. 

A real person. A royal prince. 

I stared at the stained, cracked tar that covered his face. At the 
gauzelike cloth, all frayed and yellowed. At the stiff body, so frail and 
small. 

He was alive once, I thought. Did he ever dream that four thousand 
years later, people would open his coffin and stare at him? Stare at his 
mummified body? 

I took a step back to catch my breath. It was too exciting. 

I saw that Nila also had tears in her eyes. She rested both hands on the 
edge of the case and leaned over the prince’s body, her eyes locked on the 
blackened face. 

“These may be the best-preserved remains ever found,” Uncle Ben 
said quietly. “Of course we will have to do many tests to determine the 
young man’s identity. But, judging from everything else in this chamber, I 
think it’s safe to say...” 

His voice trailed off as we all heard sounds from the outer chamber. 
Footsteps. Voices. 

I spun around toward the doorway as four black-uniformed police 
officers burst into the room. “Okay. Everybody take one step back,” one of 
them ordered, lowering his hand to the gun holster at his side. 

15 

Startled cries filled the room. Uncle Ben spun around, his eyes wide with 
surprise. “What is happening?” he cried. 

The four Cairo police officers, their features set in hard frowns, moved 
quickly into the center of the room. 

“Be careful!” Uncle Ben warned, standing in front of the mummy case 
as if protecting it. “Do not move anything. It is all terribly fragile.” 

He pulled off the hard hat. His eyes went from officer to officer. “What 
are you doing here?” 

“I asked them to come,” a voice boomed from the doorway. 

Dr. Fielding entered, a pleased expression on his face. His tiny eyes 
danced excitedly. 

“Omar—I don’t understand,” Uncle Ben said, taking a few steps 
toward the other scientist. 

“I thought it best to protect the contents of the room,” Dr. Fielding 
replied. He gazed quickly around the room, taking in the treasures. 

“Wonderful! This is wonderful!” he cried. He stepped forward and 
shook my uncle’s hand enthusiastically. “Congratulations, everyone!” he 
boomed. “This is almost too much to believe.” 

Uncle Ben’s expression softened. “I still do not understand the need 
for them,” he said, motioning to the grim-faced officers. “No one in this 
room is about to steal anything.” 

“Certainly not,” Dr. Fielding replied, still squeezing Uncle Ben’s hand. 
“Certainly not. But word will soon get out, Ben. And I thought we should 
be prepared to guard what we have found.” 

Uncle Ben eyed the four officers suspiciously. But then he shrugged 
his broad shoulders. “Perhaps you are right,” he told Dr. Fielding. “Perhaps 
you are being smart.” 

“Just ignore them,” Dr. Fielding replied. He slapped my uncle on the 
back. “I owe you an apology, Ben. I was wrong to try to stop you before. As 
a scientist, I should have known better. We owed it to the world to open this 
tomb. I hope you’ll forgive me. We have much to celebrate—don’t we!” 


* * * 

“I don’t trust him,” Uncle Ben confided that evening as we walked from the 
tent to dinner. “I don’t trust my partner at all.” 

It was a clear night, surprisingly cool. The purple sky was dotted with 
a million twinkling white stars. A steady breeze made the palm trees sway 
on the horizon. The big campfire up ahead dipped and shifted with the 
wind. 

“Is Dr. Fielding coming with us to dinner?” Sari asked. She wore a 
pale green sweater, pulled down over black leggings. 

Uncle Ben shook his head. “No, he hurried to phone Cairo. I think he’s 
eager to tell our backers the good news.” 

“He seemed really excited when he saw the mummy and everything,” I 
said, glancing at the pyramid rising darkly to the evening sky. 

“Yes, he did,” my uncle admitted. “He certainly changed his mind in a 
hurry! But I’m keeping my eye on him. Omar would like nothing better 
than to take over the project. I’m going to keep an eye on those police 
officers of his, too.” 

“Daddy, this should be a happy night,” Sari scolded. “Let’s not talk 
about Dr. Fielding. Let’s just talk about Prince Khor-Ru and how you’re 
going to be rich and famous!” 

Uncle Ben laughed. “It’s a deal,” he told her. 

Nila waited for us by the campfire. Uncle Ben had invited her to join 
us for a barbecue. She wore a white sweatshirt over loose-fitting jeans. Her 
amber pendant caught the light from the half-moon, just rising over the 
tents. 

She looked really pretty. She flashed Uncle Ben a warm smile as we 
came near. I could tell by his face that he liked her. 

“Sari, you’re taller than Gabe, aren’t you!” Nila commented. 

Sari grinned. She loved being taller than me, even though I’m a little 
older. 

“Less than an inch,” I said quickly. 

“People are definitely getting taller,” Nila said, to my uncle. “Prince 
Khor-Ru was so short. He’d be a midget today!” 

“It makes you wonder why such short people built such tall pyramids,” 
Uncle Ben said, grinning. 

Nila smiled and took his arm. 

Sari and I exchanged glances. I could see what Sari was thinking. Her 
expression said: What’s up with those two? 

We had a great dinner. Uncle Ben burned the hamburger rolls a little. 
But no one really minded. 

Sari downed two hamburgers. I could only eat one. That gave her 
something else to boast about. 

I was really getting fed up with my bragging cousin. I found myself 
trying to think of a way to get back at her. 

Nila and Uncle Ben kidded around a lot. 

“That burial chamber looked like a movie set,” Nila teased my uncle. 
“It was all too perfect. All that gold. And that perfect little mummy. It’s all 
a fake. That’s what I’m going to write in my article.” 

Uncle Ben laughed. He turned to me. “Did you check out the mummy, 
Gabe? Was this one wearing a wristwatch?” 

I shook my head. “No wristwatch.” 

“See?” Uncle Ben told Nila. “No wristwatch. So it’s got to be real!” 

“I guess that proves it,” Nila said, smiling warmly at my uncle. 

“Daddy, do you know the words to bring the mummy to life?” Sari 
broke in. “You know. The words on the tomb that Dr. Fielding was talking 
about?” 

Uncle Ben swallowed the last bite of his hamburger. He wiped the 
grease off his chin with a napkin. “I can’t believe that a serious scientist 
would believe such superstition,” he murmured. 

“But what are the six words to bring the mummy to life?” Nila 
demanded. “Come on, Ben. Tell us.” 

Uncle Ben’s smile faded. He shook his finger at Nila. “Oh, no!” he 
declared. “I don’t trust you. If I tell you the words, you’ll bring the mummy 
back to fife just to get a good photograph for your newspaper!” 

We all laughed. 

We were sitting around the campfire, its orange light flickering over 
our faces. Uncle Ben set his plate down on the ground and spread his hands 
over the fire. 

“Teki Kahru Teki Kahra Teki Khari!” he chanted in a deep voice, 
waving his hands over the flames. 

The fire crackled. A twig made a loud popping sound that made my 

heart skip a beat. 

“Are those the secret words?” Sari demanded. 

Uncle Ben nodded solemnly. “Those are the words of the hieroglyphs 
over the entrance to the tomb.” 

“So maybe the mummy just sat up and stretched?” Sari asked. 

“I’d be very surprised,” Uncle Ben replied, climbing to his feet. 
“You’re forgetting, Sari—you have to chant the words five times.” 

“Oh.” Sari stared thoughtfully into the fire. 

I repeated the words in my mind. “Teki Kahru Teki Kahra Teki 
Khari! ” I needed to memorize the words. I had a plan to scare Sari. 

“Where are you going?” Nila asked my uncle. 

“To the communications tent,” he replied. “I have to make a phone 
call.” He turned and made his way quickly over the sand toward the row of 
canvas tents. 

Nila let out a surprised laugh. “He didn’t even say goodnight.” 

“Daddy’s always like that,” Sari explained, “when he has something 
on his mind.” 

“Guess I’d better go, too,” Nila said, climbing to her feet and brushing 
sand off her jeans. “I’m going to start writing my story for the paper.” 

She said good night and walked quickly away, her sandals making a 
slapping sound against the sand. 

Sari and I sat staring into the crackling fire. The half-moon had floated 
high in the sky. Its pale light reflected off the top of the pyramid in the 
distance. 

“Nila is right,” I told Sari. “It really did look like a movie set in there.” 

Sari didn’t reply. She stared into the fire without blinking, thinking 
hard. Something in the fire popped again. The sound seemed to snap her out 
of her thoughts. 

“Do you think Nila likes Daddy?” she asked me, her dark eyes locking 
on mine. 

“Yeah, I guess,” I replied. “She’s always giving him this smile.” I 
imitated Nila’s smile. “And she’s always kind of teasing him.” 

Sari thought about my reply. “And do you think Daddy likes her?” 

I grinned. “For sure.” I stood up. I was eager to get back to the tent. I 
wanted to scare Sari. 

We walked toward the tents in silence. I guessed that Sari was still 

thinking about her dad and Nila. 

The night air was cool, but it was warm inside the tent. Moonlight 
filtered through the canvas. Sari pulled her trunk out from under her cot and 
got down on her knees to search through her clothes. 

“Sari,” I whispered. “Dare me to recite the ancient words five times?” 

“Huh?” She gazed up from the trunk. 

“I’m going to chant the words five times,” I told her. “You know. See 
if anything happens.” 

I expected her to beg me not to. I expected her to get scared and plead: 
“Please, Gabe—don’t do it! Don’t! It’s too dangerous!” 

But, instead, Sari turned back to her clothes trunk. “Hey. Give it a try,” 
she told me. 

“You sure?” I asked her. 

“Yeah. Why not?” she replied, pulling out a pair of denim cutoffs. 

I stared across the tent at her. Was that fear I saw in her eyes? Was she 
just pretending to be so casual about it? 

Yes. I think Sari was a little scared. And trying hard not to show it. 

I took a few steps closer and chanted the ancient words, in the same 
low voice Uncle Ben had used: “Teki Kahru Teki Kahra Teki Khari!” 

Sari dropped the jeans and turned to watch me. 

I repeated the chant a second time: “Teki Kahru Teki Kahra Teki 
Khari!” 

A third time. 

A fourth time. 

I hesitated. I felt a cold breeze tingle the back of my neck. 

Should I chant the words again? Should I go for number five? 

16 

I stared down at Sari. 

She had closed the trunk lid and was leaning on it tensely, staring back 
at me. I could see that she was frightened. She chewed her bottom lip. 

Should I chant the words for a fifth time? 

I felt another chill at the back of my neck. 

It’s just superstition, I told myself. Four-thousand-year-old 
superstition. 

There’s no way that moldy, old mummified prince is going to come 
back to life just because I recite six words I don’t even know the meaning 
of! 

No way. 

I suddenly thought of all the old movies I had rented about mummies 
in ancient Egypt. In the movies, the scientists always ignored ancient curses 
warning them not to disturb the mummies’ tombs. Then the mummies 
always came to life to get their revenge. They staggered around, grabbed 
the scientists by the throat, and strangled them. 

Dumb movies. But I loved them. 

Now, staring down at Sari, I saw that she was really scared. 

I took a deep breath. I suddenly realized that I felt scared, too. 

But it was too late. I had gone too far. I couldn’t chicken out now. 

“Teki Kahru Teki Kahra Teki Khari!” I shouted. The fifth time. 

I froze—and waited. I don’t know what I expected. A flash of 
lightning, maybe. 

Sari climbed to her feet. She tugged at a strand of dark hair. 

“Admit it. You’re totally freaked,” I said, unable to keep a grin from 
spreading across my face. 

“No way!” she insisted. “Go ahead, Gabe. Chant the words again. 
Chant them a hundred times! You’re not going to scare me! No way!” 

But we both gasped when we suddenly saw a dark shadow roll over 
the tent wall. 

And my heart completely stopped when a hoarse voice whispered into 
the tent: “Areyou in there?” 

17 

My legs trembled as I stumbled back, closer to Sari. 

I could see her eyes go wide with surprise—and fear. 

The shadow moved quickly toward the tent opening. 

We had no time to scream. No time to call for help. 

Gaping into the darkness, I saw the flap pull open—and a smooth head 
poked into the tent. 

“Ohhh.” I let out a terrified moan as the dark figure slumped toward 
us. 

The mummy is alive! The horrifying thought swept through my mind 
as I backed away. The mummy is alive! 

“Dr. Fielding!” Sari cried. 

“Huh?” I squinted to see better. 

Yes. It was Dr. Fielding. 

I struggled to say hello. But my heart was pounding so hard, I couldn’t 
speak. I took a long, deep breath and held it. 

“I’m looking for your father,” Dr. Fielding told Sari. “I must see him at 
once. It’s extremely urgent.” 

“He—he’s making a phone call,” Sari replied in a shaky voice. 

Dr. Fielding spun around and ducked out of the tent. The flap snapped 
shut behind him. 

I turned to Sari, my heart still pounding. “He scared me to death!” I 
confessed. “I thought he was in Cairo. When he poked that skinny, bald 
head into the tent...” 

Sari laughed. “He really looks like a mummy—doesn’t he?” Her smile 
faded. “I wonder why he’s in such a hurry to see Daddy.” 

“Let’s follow him!” I urged. The idea just popped into my head. 

“Yes! Let’s go!” I hadn’t expected Sari to agree so quickly. But she 
was already pushing open the tent flap. 

I followed her out of the tent. The night had grown cooler. A steady 
wind made all of the tents appear to shiver. 

“Which way did he go?” I whispered. 

Sari pointed. “I think that’s the communications tent at the end.” She 
started jogging across the sand. 

As we ran, the wind blew sand against our legs. I heard music and 
voices from one of the tents. The workers were celebrating the day’s 
discovery. 

The moon cast a strip of light like a carpet along our path. Up ahead, I 
could see Dr. Fielding’s lanky body, leaning forward, lurching awkwardly 
toward the last tent. 

He disappeared around the side of it. Sari and I stopped a few tents 
away. We ducked out of the moonlight, into deep shadows where we 
wouldn’t be seen. 

I could hear Dr. Fielding’s booming voice from the communications 
tent. He was talking rapidly, excitedly. 

“What is he saying?” Sari whispered. 

I couldn’t make out the words. 

A few seconds later, two figures emerged from the tent. Carrying 
bright flashlights, they crossed the strip of yellow moonlight, then moved 
quickly into shadow. 

Dr. Fielding appeared to be pulling Uncle Ben, pulling him toward the 
pyramid. 

“What’s going on?” Sari whispered, grabbing my sleeve. “Is he forcing 
Daddy to go with him?” 

The wind swirled the sand around us. I shivered. 

The two men were talking at the same time, shouting and gesturing 
with their flashlights. They’re arguing about something, I realized. 

Dr. Fielding had a hand on Uncle Ben’s shoulder. Was he shoving 
Uncle Ben toward the pyramid? Or was Uncle Ben actually leading the 
way? 

It was impossible to tell. 

“Let’s go,” I whispered to Sari. 

We stepped away from the tent and started to follow them. We walked 
slowly, keeping them in view, but being careful not to get too close. 

“If they turn back, they’ll see us,” Sari whispered, huddling close to 
me as we crept over the sand. 

She was right. There were no trees or bushes to hide behind here in the 
open desert. 

“Maybe they won’t turn back,” I replied hopefully. 

We crept closer. The pyramid rose up darkly in front of us. 

We saw Dr. Fielding and Uncle Ben stop at the opening in the side. I 
could hear their excited voices, but the wind carried away their words. They 
still seemed to be arguing. 

Uncle Ben disappeared into the pyramid first. Dr. Fielding went in 
right behind him. 

“Did he shove Daddy in?” Sari demanded in a shrill, frightened voice. 
“It looked like he pushed him inside!” 

“I—I don’t know,” I stammered. 

We made our way closer to the entrance. Then we both stopped and 
stared into the darkness. 

I knew we were both thinking the same thing. I knew we both had the 
same question on our lips: 

Should we follow them in? 

18 

Sari and I exchanged glances. 

The pyramid seemed so much bigger at night, so much darker. The 
gusting wind howled around its walls, as if warning us to stay back. 

We crept behind a pile of stones left by the workers. “Let’s wait out 
here for Daddy to come out,” Sari suggested. 

I didn’t argue with her. We had no flashlights, no light of any kind. I 
didn’t think we’d get very far wandering the dark tunnels by ourselves. 

I pressed up against the smooth stones and stared at the pyramid 
opening. Sari gazed up at the half-moon. Thin wisps of cloud floated over 
it. The ground darkened in front of us. 

“You don’t think Daddy is in any kind of trouble, do you?” Sari asked. 
“I mean, he told us he didn’t trust Dr. Fielding. And then—” 

“I’m sure Uncle Ben is okay,” I told her. “I mean, Dr. Fielding is a 
scientist. He’s not a criminal or anything.” 

“But why did he force Daddy into the pyramid in the middle of the 
night?” Sari asked shrilly. “And what were they arguing about?” 

I shrugged in reply. I didn’t remember ever seeing Sari so frightened. 
Normally, I would have enjoyed it. She always bragged about how brave 
and fearless she was—especially compared to me. 

But there was no way I could enjoy this. Mainly because I was just as 
scared as she was! 

It did look as if the two scientists were fighting. And it did look as if 
Dr. Fielding pushed Uncle Ben down into the pyramid. 

Sari crossed her arms over her sweater again and narrowed her eyes at 
the opening. The wind fluttered her hair, blowing strands across her 
forehead. But she made no attempt to brush them away. 

“What could be so important?” she demanded. “Why did they have to 
go into the pyramid now? Do you think something was stolen? Aren’t those 
police officers from Cairo down there guarding the place?” 

“I saw the four policemen leave,” I told her. “They piled into their 
little car and drove away, just before dinner. I don’t know why. Maybe they 
were called back to the city.” 

“I—I’m just so confused,” Sari admitted. “And worried. I didn’t like 
the look on Dr. Fielding’s face. I didn’t like the way he was so rude, just 
bursting into the tent like that. Scaring us to death. Not even saying hi.” 

“Calm down, Sari,” I said softly. “Let’s just wait. Everything will be 
okay.” 

She let out a sigh, but didn’t say anything in reply. 

We waited in silence. I don’t know how much time went by. It seemed 
like hours and hours. 

The slivers of cloud drifted away from the moon. The wind continued 
to howl eerily around the side of the pyramid. 

“Where are they? What are they doing in there?” Sari demanded. 

I started to reply—but stopped when I saw a flicker of light at the 
pyramid opening. 

I grabbed Sari’s arm. “Look—!” I whispered. 

The light grew brighter. A figure emerged, pulling himself out quickly. 

Dr. Fielding. 

As he stepped into the moonlight, I caught the strange expression on 
his face. His tiny black eyes were wide and seemed to be rolling around 
crazily in his head. His eyebrows twitched. His mouth was twisted open. He 
seemed to be breathing hard. 

Dr. Fielding brushed himself off with his hands and began walking 
away from the pyramid. He was half-walking, half-staggering, taking long, 
quick strides with his lanky legs. 

“But—where’s Daddy?” Sari whispered. 

Leaning out from the rocks, I could see the pyramid opening clearly. 
No light flickered. No sign of Uncle Ben. 

“He—he isn’t coming out!” Sari stammered. 

And before I could react, Sari leaped out from our hiding place behind 
the stones—and stepped into Dr. Fielding’s path. 

“Dr. Fielding,” she cried loudly, “where is my dad?” 

I pushed myself away from the stones and hurried after Sari. I could 
see Dr. Fielding’s eyes spinning wildly. He didn’t answer her question. 

“Where is my dad?” Sari repeated shrilly. 

Dr. Fielding acted as if he didn’t see Sari. He stepped past her, walking 
stiffly, awkwardly, his arms straight down. 

“Dr. Fielding—?” Sari called after him. 

He hurried through the darkness toward the row of tents. 

Sari turned back to me, her features tight with fear. “He’s done 
something to Daddy!” she cried. “I know he has!” 

19 

I turned back to the pyramid opening. Still dark and silent. 

The only sound now was the howling of the wind around the stone 
pyramid wall. 

“Dr. Fielding totally ignored me!” Sari cried, her face revealing her 
anger. “He stormed past me as if I weren’t here!” 

“I—I know,” I stammered weakly. 

“And did you see the look on his face?” she demanded. “So evil. So 
totally evil!” 

“Sari—” I started. “Maybe—” 

“Gabe, we have to go find Daddy!” Sari interrupted. She grabbed my 
arm and started pulling me to the pyramid opening. “Hurry!” 

“No, Sari, wait!” I insisted, tugging out of her grasp. “We can’t go 
stumbling around the pyramid in the dark. We’ll just get lost. We’ll never 
find Uncle Ben!” 

“We’ll go back to the tent and get lights,” she replied. “Quick, Gabe 

55 

I raised a hand to stop her. “Wait here, Sari,” I instructed. “Watch for 
your dad. Chances are, he’ll be climbing out in a few moments. I’ll run and 
get some flashlights.” 

Staring at the dark opening, she started to argue. But then she changed 
her mind and agreed to my plan. 

My heart pounding, I ran all the way back to the tent. I stopped at the 
tent opening, and gazed down the row of tents, searching for Dr. Fielding. 

No sign of him. 

In the tent, I grabbed up two flashlights. Then I went hurtling back to 
the pyramid. Please, I begged silently as I ran. Please be out of the 
pyramid, Uncle Ben. Please be safe. 

But as I frantically made my way over the sand, I could see Sari 
standing by herself. Even from a distance, I could see her frightened 
expression as she paced tensely back and forth in front of the pyramid 
opening. 

Uncle Ben, where are you? I wondered. Why haven’t you come out of 

the pyramid? Are you okay? 

Sari and I didn’t say a word. There was no need. 

We clicked on the flashlights, then made our way into the pyramid 
opening. It seemed much steeper than I remembered. I nearly lost my 
balance, lowering myself to the tunnel floor. 

Our lights crisscrossed over the dirt floor. I raised mine to the low 
ceiling. Keeping the light high, I led the way through the curving tunnel. 

Creeping along slowly, I trailed one hand against the wall to steady 
myself. The wall felt soft and crumbly. Sari kept on my heels, her bright 
beam of light playing over the floor in front of our feet. 

She stopped suddenly as the tunnel curved into a small, empty 
chamber. “How do we know we’re going in the right direction?” she asked, 
her voice a quivering whisper. 

I shrugged, breathing hard. “I thought you knew your way,” I 
murmured. 

“I’ve only been down here with Daddy,” she replied, her eyes over my 
shoulders, searching the empty chamber. 

“We’ll keep going until we find him,” I told her, forcing myself to 
sound braver than I felt. 

She stepped in front of me, shining the light over the chamber walls. 
“Daddy!” she shouted. “Daddy? Can you hear me?” 

Her voice echoed down the tunnel. Even the echo sounded frightened. 

We froze in place and listened for a reply. 

Silence. 

“Come on,” I urged. I had to lower my head to step into the next 
narrow tunnel. 

Where did it lead? Were we heading toward Prince Khor-Ru’s tomb? 
Is that where we would find Uncle Ben? 

Questions, questions. I tried to stop them from coming. But they filled 
my mind, pestering me, repeating, echoing in my head, as we followed the 
tunnel’s curves. 

“Daddy? Daddy—where are you?” Sari’s cries became more frantic as 
we moved deeper and deeper into the pyramid. 

The tunnel curved up steeply, then leveled off. Sari suddenly stopped. 
Startled, I bumped into her hard, nearly making her drop her flashlight. 
“Sorry,” I whispered. 

“Gabe, look—!” she cried, pointing her beam of light just ahead of her 
sneakers. “Footprints!” 

I lowered my eyes to the small circle of light. I could see a set of 
bootprints in the dirt. A heel and spikey bumps. “Work boots,” I muttered. 

She circled the floor with the light. There were several different prints 
in the dirt, heading in the same direction we were. 

“Does this mean we’re going the right way?” she asked. 

“Maybe,” I replied, studying the prints. “It’s hard to tell whether these 
are new or old.” 

“Daddy?” Sari shouted eagerly. “Can you hear me?” 

No reply. 

She frowned and motioned for me to follow. Seeing the many sets of 
prints gave us new hope, and we moved faster, trailing our hands along the 
wall to steady ourselves as we made our way. 

We both cried out happily when we realized we had reached the outer 
chamber to the tomb. Our lights played over the ancient hieroglyphs that 
covered the wall and the doorway. 

“Daddy? Daddy?” Sari’s voice cut through the heavy silence. 

We darted through the empty chamber, then slipped through the 
opening that led to the tomb. The prince’s burial chamber stretched out in 
front of us, dark and silent. 

“Daddy? Daddy?” Sari tried again. 

I shouted, too. “Uncle Ben? Are you here?” 

Silence. 

I swept my light over the room’s clutter of treasures, over the heavy 
chests, the chairs, the clay jars piled in the corner. 

“He isn’t here,” Sari choked out with a disappointed sob. 

“Then where did Dr. Fielding bring Uncle Ben?” I asked, thinking out 
loud. “There’s nowhere else in the pyramid that they might come.” 

Sari’s light came to rest on the large stone mummy case. Her eyes 
narrowed as she studied it. 

“Uncle Ben!” I shouted frantically. “Are you in here somewhere?” 

Sari grabbed my arm. “Gabe—look!” she cried. Her light remained on 
the mummy case. 

I couldn’t figure out what she was trying to show me. “What about it?” 
I demanded. 

“The lid,” Sari murmured. 

I gazed at the lid. The heavy stone slab covered the case tightly. 

“The lid is closed,” Sari continued, stepping away from me and toward 
the mummy case. Her fight remained on the lid. 

“Yeah. So?” I still didn’t understand. 

“When we all left this afternoon,” Sari explained, “the lid was open. In 
fact, I remember Daddy telling the workers to leave the lid open for 
tonight.” 

“You’re right!” I cried. 

“Help me, Gabe,” Sari pleaded, setting her flashlight down at her feet. 
“We have to open the mummy case.” 

I hesitated for a second, feeling a wave of cold fear run down my body. 
Then I took a deep breath and moved to help Sari. 

She was already pushing the stone lid with both hands. I stepped up 
beside her and pushed, too. Pushed with all my might. 

The stone slab slid more easily than I’d guessed. 

Working together, Sari and I strained against the lid, pushing... 
pushing. 

We moved it about a foot. 

Then we both lowered our heads to peer into the mummy’s case—and 
gasped in horror. 

20 

“Daddy!” Sari shrieked. 

Unde Ben lay on his back, knees raised, hands at his sides, his eyes 
shut. Sari and I shoved the heavy stone lid open another foot. 

“Is he—? Is he—?” Sari stammered. 

I pressed my hand on his chest. His heart was thumping with a steady 
beat. “He’s breathing,” I told her. 

I leaned into the mummy case. “Uncle Ben? Can you hear me? Uncle 
Ben?” 

He didn’t move. 

I lifted his hand and squeezed it. It felt warm, but limp. “Uncle Ben? 
Wake up!” I shouted. 

His eyes didn’t open. I lowered the hand back to the bottom of the 
mummy case. “He’s out cold,” I murmured. 

Sari stood behind me, both hands pressed against her cheeks. She 
stared down at Uncle Ben, her eyes wide with fear. “I—I don’t believe 
this!” she cried in a tiny voice. “Dr. Fielding left Daddy here to smother! If 
we hadn’t come along...” Her voice trailed off. 

Uncle Ben let out a low groan. 

Sari and I stared down at him hopefully. But he didn’t open his eyes. 

“We have to call the police,” I told Sari. “We have to tell them about 
Dr. Fielding.” 

“But we can’t just leave Daddy here,” Sari replied. 

I started to reply—but a frightening thought burst into my mind. I felt 
a shudder of fear roll down my body. “Sari?” I started. “If Uncle Ben is 
lying in the mummy case... then where is the mummy?” 

Her mouth dropped open. She stared back at me in stunned silence. 

And then we both heard the footsteps. 

Slow, scraping footsteps. 

And saw the mummy stagger stiffly into the room. 

21 

I opened my mouth to scream—but no sound came out. 

The mummy lurched stiffly through the chamber doorway. He stared 
straight ahead with his vacant, tarry eyes. Under the ancient layers of tar, 
the skull grinned at us. 

Scrape. Scrape. 

His feet dragged over the dirt floor, trailing shreds of decaying gauze. 
Slowly, he raised his arms, making a terrifying cracking sound. 

Scrape. Scrape. 

My throat tightened in terror. My entire body began to tremble. 

I backed away from the mummy case. Sari stood frozen with her hands 
pressed against her cheeks. I grabbed her arm and pulled her back with me. 
“Sari—get back! Get back!” I whispered. 

She stared in terror at the approaching mummy. I couldn’t tell if she 
heard me or not. I tugged her back further. 

Our backs hit the chamber wall. 

The mummy scraped closer. Closer. Staring at us through its vacant, 
blackened eye sockets, he reached for us with his yellowed, tar-encrusted 
hands. 

Sari let out a shrill shriek. 

“Run!” I screamed. “Sari—run!” 

But our backs were pressed against the wall. The mummy blocked our 
path to the doorway. 

Moving stiffly, awkwardly, the ancient corpse dragged itself closer. 

“This is all my fault!” I declared in a trembling voice. “I said the 
words five times. I brought him back to life!” 

“Wh-what can we do?” Sari cried in a hushed whisper. 

I didn’t have an answer. “Uncle Ben!” I shrieked desperately. “Uncle 
Ben—help us!” 

But the mummy case remained silent. Even my frantic screams could 
not awaken my uncle. 

Sari and I edged along the chamber wall, our eyes locked on the 
approaching mummy. Its bandaged feet scraped over the floor, sending up 

dark clouds of dust as it moved heavily toward us. 

A sour smell rose over the room. The smell of a four-thousand-year- 
old corpse coming to life. 

I pressed my back against the cold stone of the chamber wall, my mind 
racing. The mummy stopped at the mummy case, turned stiffly, and 
continued lurching toward us. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as an idea burst into my mind. 

My little mummy hand. The Summoner. 

Why hadn’t I thought of it before? It had saved us last summer by 
raising a group of ancient mummies from the dead. 

Could it also summon them to stop? Could it make them die again? 

If I raised the little mummy hand up to Prince Khor-Ru, would it stop 
him long enough for Sari and me to escape? 

He was only seconds away from grabbing us. 

It was worth a try. 

I reached into my back jeans pocket for the mummy hand. 

It was gone. 

22 

“No!” I uttered a surprised cry and frantically grabbed at my other pockets. 

No mummy hand. 

“Gabe—what’s wrong?” Sari demanded. 

“The mummy hand—it’s gone!” I told her, my voice choked with 
panic. 

Scrape. Scrape. 

The foul odor grew stronger as the ancient mummy dragged nearer. 

I was desperate to find my mummy hand. But I knew there was no 
time to think about it now. “We’ve got to make a run for it,” I told Sari. 
“The mummy is slow and stiff. If we can get past him...” 

“But what about Daddy?” she cried. “We can’t just leave him here.” 

“We have to,” I told her. “We’ll get help. We’ll come back for him.” 

The mummy made a brittle cracking sound as it stepped forward. The 
sound of an ancient bone breaking. 

But it continued toward us, moving stiffly but steadily, its arms 
outstretched. 

“Sari—run— now! ” I screamed. 

I gave her a hard shove to get her going. 

The room blurred as I forced myself to move. 

The mummy made another loud, cracking sound. It leaned its body 
forward, and reached out as we dodged around it. 

I tried to duck under the mummy’s outstretched hand. But I felt the 
scrape of its ancient fingers against the back of my neck—cold fingers, hard 
as a statue. 

I knew it was a touch I would never forget. 

My neck tingled. I lowered my head from his grasp—and plunged 
forward. 

Sari let out low sobs as she ran. My heart raced as I hurried to catch up 
to her. I forced myself to run, but my legs felt so heavy, as if they were 
made of solid stone. 

We were nearly to the doorway when we saw a flickering light. 

Sari and I both cried out and skidded to a stop as a beam of light swept 
into the room. Behind the light, a figure stepped into the doorway. 

Shielding my eyes from the sudden brightness, I squinted hard, eager 
to see who it was. 

“Nila!” I cried as she raised the flashlight beam to the ceiling. “Nila— 
help us!” I choked out. 

“He’s come alive!” Sari shouted to her. “Nila—he’s come alive!” She 
pointed back toward the mummy. 

“Help us!” I screamed. 

Nila’s green eyes widened in surprise. “What can I do?” she asked. 
And then her expression changed quickly to anger. “What can I do about 
you two kids? You shouldn’t be here. You’re going to ruin everything!” 

“Huh?” I cried out in surprise. 

Nila stepped into the room. She raised her right hand. 

In the dim light, I struggled to make out what she was holding up. 

My little mummy hand! 

She raised it toward the mummy. “Come to me, my brother!” Nila 
called. 

23 

“How did you get my mummy hand? What are you doing?” I demanded. 

Nila ignored my questions. She held the flashlight in one hand. She 
gripped the little hand in the other, holding it up toward the approaching 
mummy. 

“Come here, my brother!” she called, waving the hand, summoning 
the mummy. “It is I, Princess Nila!” 

Its legs cracking, its brittle bones breaking inside the gauze wrappings, 
the mummy obediently dragged itself forward. 

“Nila—stop it! What are you doing?” Sari shrieked. 

But Nila continued to ignore us. “It is I, your sister!” she called to the 
mummy. A triumphant smile crossed her pretty face. Her green eyes 
sparkled like flashing emeralds in the darting light. 

“I have waited so long for this day,” Nila told the mummy. “I have 
waited so many centuries, my brother, hoping that someday someone would 
uncover your tomb and we could be reunited.” 

Nila’s face glowed with excitement. The little mummy hand trembled 
in her hand. “I have brought you back to life, my brother!” she called to the 
mummy. “I have waited for centuries. But it will all be worth it. You and I 
will share all this treasure. And with our powers, we shall rule Egypt 
together—as we did four thousand years ago!” 

She lowered her eyes to me. “Thank you, Gabe!” she cried. “Thank 
you for The Summoner! As soon as I saw it, I knew I had to have it. I knew 
it could bring my brother back to me! The ancient words weren’t enough. I 
needed The Summoner, too!” 

“Give it back!” I demanded, reaching out for it. “It’s mine, Nila. Give 
it back.” 

A cruel laugh escaped her throat. “You won’t be needing it, Gabe,” she 
said softly. 

She waved the hand at the mummy. “Destroy them, my brother!” she 
ordered. “Destroy them now! There can be no witnesses!” 

“Nooo!” Sari shrieked. She and I both dove to the doorway. But Nila 
moved quickly to block our path. 

I shoved my shoulder against her, trying to push her away like a 
football lineman. But Nila held her ground with surprising strength. 

“Nila—let us go!” Sari demanded, breathing hard. 

Nila smiled and shook her head. “No witnesses,” she murmured. 

“Nila—we just want to get Daddy out of here. You can do what you 
want!” Sari insisted desperately. 

Nila ignored her and raised her eyes to the mummy. “Destroy them 
both!” she called. “They cannot leave this tomb alive!” 

Sari and I spun around to see the mummy lumbering toward us. Its 
blackened skull glowed in the dim light. It trailed long strips of yellowed 
gauze across the dirt floor as it dragged itself closer. 

Closer. 

I turned back to the door. Nila blocked the way. My eyes darted 
frantically around the chamber. 

No way to escape. 

No escape. 

The mummy lurched toward Sari and me. 

And reached out its cold, cold hands to obey Nila’s cruel command. 

24 

Sari and I darted toward the door. But Nila blocked our escape. 

Its vacant eyes gazing blindly at us, its jaw frozen in a hideous skeletal 
grin, the mummy hurtled toward us. 

Raised its arms stiffly. 

Stretched out its hands. 

Dove at us with a final, desperate lurch. 

And to my shock, reached past Sari and me—and wrapped its tarred 
hands around Nila’s throat. 

Her mouth opened in a choked cry of protest. 

The mummy tilted back its head as it gripped her. Its tarred lips 
moved, and a dry cough cut through the air. And then the whispered words, 
dry as death, escaped the mummy’s throat: 

“Let me ... rest in peace! ” 

Nila uttered a choked cry. 

The mummy tightened its fierce grip on her throat. 

I spun around and grabbed its arm. “Let her go!” I screamed. 

A dry wheeze erupted from the blackened skull. Its hands tightened 
around Nila, bending her back, bending her toward the floor. 

Nila’s eyes shut in defeat. Her hands flew up helplessly. The flashlight 
and the mummy hand fell to the floor. 

I grabbed my little mummy hand and shoved it into my jeans pocket. 
“Let go! Let go! Let go!” I shrieked. I leaped on to the mummy’s back and 
tried to pull its hands from Nila’s throat. 

It let out a defiant roar, a harsh whisper of anger. 

Then it heaved itself up straight and struggled to toss me off its 
shoulders. 

I gasped, startled by the mummy’s surprising strength. 

As I started to slide off the mummy’s bandaged back, I reached out my 
hand, grabbing desperately, grabbing air, trying not to fall. 

My hand grabbed onto Nila’s amber pendant. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as the mummy gave a hard toss. 

I tumbled off. 

The pendant tore off its chain. It fell from my hand, crashed to the 
floor—and shattered. 

“Noooooooooo!” Nila’s horrified wail shook the walls. 

The mummy froze. 

Nila spun out of the mummy’s grasp. Backed away. Her eyes wide 
with terror. “My life! My life]” she shrieked. 

She bent and struggled to pick up shards of amber from the floor. But 
the pendant had shattered into a hundred tiny pieces. 

“My life!” Nila wailed, staring at the smooth pieces in her palm. She 
raised her eyes to Sari and me. “I lived inside the pendant!” she cried. “At 
night, I crept inside. It kept me alive for over four thousand years! And 
now... now... ohhhhh...” 

As her voice trailed off, Nila began to shrink. 

Her head, her arms, her entire body grew tinier... tinier... until she 
disappeared into her clothes. 

And a few seconds later, as Sari and I gaped down in horror and shock, 
a black scarab crawled out from under the sweatshirt and jeans. The scarab 
moved unsteadily at first. Then it quickly scuttled away over the dirt floor, 
disappearing into the darkness. 

“That—that beetle—” Sari stammered. “Is it Nila?” 

I nodded. “I guess,” I said, staring down at Nila’s crumpled clothes. 

“Do you think she was really an ancient Egyptian princess? Prince 
Khor-Ru’s sister?” Sari murmured. 

“It’s all so weird,” I replied. I was thinking hard, trying to piece it all 
together, trying to make sense of what Nila had said. 

“She must have returned to her scarab form every night,” I told Sari, 
thinking out loud. “She crawled into the amber and slept inside it. It kept 
her alive—until...” 

“Until you smashed the amber pendant,” Sari whispered. 

“Yes.” I nodded. “It was an accident—” I started. 

But I choked on my words as I felt a cold hand close on my shoulder. 

And knew that the mummy had grabbed me from behind. 

25 

The hand rested on my shoulder. The cold seeped through my T-shirt. “Let 
go!” I screamed. 

I spun around—and my heart skipped a beat. “Uncle Ben!” I cried. 

“Daddy!” Sari leaped forward and threw her arms around him. “Daddy 
—you’re okay!” 

He pulled his hand off my shoulder and rubbed the back of his head. 
He blinked his eyes uncertainly and shook his head, still a little dazed. 

Behind him, I saw the mummy standing hunched over, frozen. Lifeless 
once again. 

“Whew. I’m still groggy,” Uncle Ben said, sweeping a hand back 
through his thick, black hair. “What a close call.” 

“It’s all my fault,” I admitted. “I repeated the words five times, Uncle 
Ben. I didn’t mean to bring the mummy back to life, but—” 

A smile crossed my uncle’s face. He lowered his arm around my 
shoulders. “You didn’t do it, Gabe,” he said softly. “Nila got there first.” 

He sighed. “I didn’t believe in the power of the chant,” he said softly. 
“But I do now. Nila stole your mummy hand and chanted the ancient words. 
She used The Summoner to bring the mummy to life. Dr. Fielding and I 
were both suspicious of her.” 

“You were?” I cried, surprised. “But I thought—” 

“I became suspicious of Nila at dinner,” Uncle Ben explained. 
“Remember? She asked me what were the six ancient words to bring the 
dead to life? Well, I had never revealed that there were six. So I wondered 
how Nila knew there were six words.” 

Uncle Ben put an arm around Sari’s shoulders, too, and led us to the 
wall. Then he leaned his back against the wall, rubbing the back of his 
head. 

“That’s why I hurried to the communications tent right after dinner,” 
Uncle Ben continued. “I phoned the Cairo Sun. They had never heard of 
Nila at the newspaper. So I knew she was a fake.” 

“But we saw Dr. Fielding pull you from the tent,” Sari broke in. “We 
saw him force you into the pyramid, and—” 

Unde Ben chuckled. “You two aren’t very good spies,” he scolded. 
“Dr. Fielding didn’t force me to do anything. He had spotted Nila sneaking 
into the pyramid. So he found me at the communications tent. And the two 
of us hurried to the pyramid to see what Nila was up to. 

“We got there too late,” Uncle Ben continued. “She had already 
brought the mummy to life. Dr. Fielding and I tried to stop her. She hit me 
over the head with her flashlight. She dragged me to the mummy case. I 
guess she stuffed me inside.” 

He rubbed his head. “That’s all I remember. Until now. Until I awoke 
and saw Nila turn into a scarab.” 

“We saw Dr. Fielding hurry out of the pyramid,” Sari reported. “He 
walked right past me. He had the weirdest look on his face, and—” 

She stopped and her mouth dropped open. We all heard the sounds at 
the same time. 

The scraping of feet on the floor outside the burial chamber. 

My heart jumped to my throat. I grabbed Uncle Ben’s arm. 

The footsteps dragged closer. 

More mummies. 

More mummies brought to life, staggering toward the prince’s tomb. 

26 

I reached into my jeans pocket for my little mummy hand. Pressing my 
back against the wall, I raised my eyes to the chamber doorway—and 
waited. 

Waited for the mummies to appear. 

But to my surprise, Dr. Fielding burst into the room, followed by four 
dark-uniformed police officers, hands at their gun holsters. 

“Ben—are you okay?” Dr. Fielding called to my uncle. “Where is the 
young woman?” 

“She... escaped,” Uncle Ben told him. 

How could he explain that she had turned into a bug? 

The police explored the chamber warily. Their eyes came to rest on the 
mummy, frozen in place near the doorway. 

“I’m so glad you’re okay, Ben,” Dr. Fielding said, placing a hand 
warmly on Uncle Ben’s shoulder. Then he turned to Sari. “I’m afraid I owe 
you an apology, Sari,” he said, frowning. “When I ran out of here, I must 
have been in shock. I remember seeing you outside the pyramid. But I don’t 
remember saying anything to you.” 

“That’s okay,” Sari replied quietly. 

“I’m really sorry if I frightened you,” Dr. Fielding told her. “Your dad 
had been knocked unconscious by that crazy young woman. And all I could 
think about was calling the police as fast as possible.” 

“Well, the excitement is over,” Uncle Ben said, smiling. “Let’s all get 
out of here.” 

We started toward the doorway, but a police officer interrupted. “Could 
I just ask one question?” he asked, staring at the upright mummy in the 
center of the floor. “Did that mummy walk?” 

“Of course not!” Uncle Ben replied quickly, a grin spreading over his 
face. “If it could walk, what would it be doing in this dump?” 

Well, once again, I turned out to be the hero of the day. And, of course, later 
in the tent, I wasted no time in bragging about my courage to Sari. 
'Sari had no choice. She had to sit there and take it. After all, / was the 
one who had stopped the mummy and turned Nila back into a beetle by 
smashing her pendant. 

“At least you’re not too conceited!” Sari shot back, rolling her eyes. 

Lame. Really lame. 

“Well, that scarab crawled away and disappeared,” she said. An evil 
smile crossed Sari’s lips. “I’ll bet that bug is waiting for you, Gabe. I’ll bet 
it’s waiting for you in your cot, waiting to bite you.” 

I laughed. “Sari, you’d say anything to try to scare me. You just can’t 
stand the idea that I’m the hero!” 

“You’re right,” she replied dryly. “I can’t stand the idea. Good night, 
Gabe.” 

A few minutes later, I was in my pajamas and ready for bed. What a 
night! What an amazing night! 

As I slid into the cot and pulled up the covers, I knew it was a night I 
would never forget. 

“Ouch!” 


PHANTOM OF THE 
AUDITORIUM 

1 

A mysterious phantom haunted our school. 

No one ever saw him. No one knew where he lived. 

But he haunted our school for more than seventy years. 

My best friend, Zeke, and I were the ones who found him. We found him 
while we were doing a school play about a phantom. 

Our teacher told us that the play was cursed, but we didn’t believe her. We 
thought it was all just a big joke. 

But when I saw the Phantom for myself, I knew it was no joke. It was all 
true. Every bit of it. 

The night we found the Phantom was the scariest night of our lives! 

But I should start at the beginning. 

My name is Brooke Rodgers, and I’m in the sixth grade at Woods Mill 
Middle School. 

Zeke Matthews is my best friend. A lot of the other girls think it’s weird 
that my best friend is a boy, but I don’t care. Zeke is cooler and funnier than any 
girls I know. He is also a big horror movie fan, like me. 

Zeke and I have been best friends for nine years. We know just about 
everything about each other. For instance, I know that Zeke still wears Kermit 
the Frog pajamas! 

He hates it when I tell people that. His face always turns a bright shade of 
red. Then his freckles stand out even more. 

Zeke hates his freckles almost as much as I hate my glasses. I don’t know 
why he’s so hung up over a couple of freckles. After a while, you hardly even 
notice them. And in the summer when he gets tan, they practically disappear 
altogether. 

I wish my glasses could disappear. They make me look so nerdy. But if I 
don’t wear them, I walk into walls! 

Some girls at school think Zeke is cute. I never think about him that way. I 
guess it’s because I’ve known him for nearly my entire life. Ever since our 
moms met in their bowling league and discovered they lived on the same street. 

The excitement about the Phantom started a couple of Fridays ago. School 
had ended for the day, and I was trying to get my locker open. I pushed my hair 

off my face and turned the combination dial. The stupid lock always jams, and it 
drives me crazy. 

After trying the combination four times, I finally got it open. I threw my 
books inside and slammed the door shut. No way was I dragging home any 
textbooks over the weekend. As of right this second, I was on vacation! Two 
whole days of no school. 

Excellent. 

Before I could turn around, a fist came whizzing by my ear and punched 
my locker with a loud bang! 

“What’s up, Brookie?” a voice called from behind me. “No homework this 
weekend?” 

I didn’t have to turn around to know who it was. Only one person in the 
whole world can ever get away with calling me Brookie. 

I turned around to see Zeke’s dopey grin. His blond hair, which was really 
long in the front and very short—almost shaved—in the back, fell over one eye. 

I smiled, then stuck my tongue out at him. 

“Real mature, Brookie,” he muttered. 

Then I flipped my eyelids up so they stayed that way. It’s a really gross 
talent I have that usually makes people scream and gag. 

Zeke didn’t bat an eye. He has seen my eyelid trick at least a zillion times. 

“Nope, no homework!” I replied. “No books. No nothing. I’m totally free 
this weekend.” 

Then I got a great idea. “Hey, Zeke,” I said, “do you think Rich can take us 
to see the Creature festival tomorrow?” 

I was dying to see the three Creature movies playing at the Cineplex. One 
was supposed to be in 3-D! Zeke and I go to scary movies all the time just to 
laugh at the scary parts. We have nerves of steel. We never get scared. 

“Maybe,” Zeke answered, brushing his hair away from his face. “But Rich 
is grounded. He can’t use the car for a week.” 

Rich is Zeke’s older brother. He spends most of his life being grounded. 

Zeke shifted his backpack onto his other shoulder. “Forget about the 
Creature festival, Brooke. Aren’t you forgetting something?” He narrowed his 
eyes at me. “Something big?” 

I scrunched up my nose. Forgetting something? I couldn’t think of a thing. 
“What?” I asked finally. 

“Come on, Brookie! Think!” 

I really had no idea what Zeke was talking about. I pulled my long hair into 
a ponytail and tied it together with the hair scrunchie that was on my wrist. 

I always wear a hair scrunchie on each wrist. I like to be prepared. You 
never know when you’re going to need a hair scrunchie. 

“Really, Zeke, I don’t know,” I said, making a tight ponytail. “Why don’t 
you just tell me?” 

And that’s when it hit me. “The cast list!” I yelled, slapping my forehead. 
How could I have forgotten? Zeke and I had been waiting two long weeks to find 
out if we got parts in the school play. 

“Come on! Let’s check it out!” I grabbed hold of Zeke’s flannel shirtsleeve. 
And I pulled him all the way to the auditorium. 

Zeke and I had both tried out for the play. Last year, we had small parts in 
the musical Guys and Dolls. Ms. Walker, our teacher, told us that the play this 
year was going to be scary. 

That’s all Zeke and I had to hear. We had to be in this play! 

We found a big crowd of kids at the bulletin board. They were all trying to 
read the cast list at once. 

I was so nervous! “I can’t look, Zeke!” I cried. “You check, okay?” 

“Yeah, no prob—” 

“Wait! I’ll do it!” I yelled, changing my mind. I do that a lot. Zeke says it 
drives him crazy. 

I took a deep breath and pushed through the crowd of kids. Biting my left 
thumbnail, I crossed the fingers on my right hand and stared up at the list. 

But when I saw what was posted up there, I nearly bit off my whole thumb! 

Tacked on the board beside the cast list was a sign: 

Attention Brooke Rodgers: Please report to Mr. Levy’s office. You have 
been suspended from school. 

2 

Suspended? 

I gasped in shock. 

Had Mr. Levy found out that I was the one who let the gerbil loose in the 
teachers’ lounge? 

Suspended. 

I felt sick to my stomach. My parents were going to be so horrified. 

Then I heard giggling. 

I spun around to find Zeke laughing his head off. Other kids were laughing, 

too. 

I stared angrily at Zeke. “Did you put that sign up?” 

“Of course! ” he replied, laughing even harder. 

He has a sick sense of humor. 

“I didn’t believe it for a second,” I lied. 

I turned back to the board to read the cast list. I had to read the list three 
times. I couldn’t believe what I saw. “Zeke!” I shouted over the other kids’ 
heads. “You and I—we’re the stars!” 

Zeke’s mouth dropped open in surprise. Then he grinned at me. “Yeah. For 
sure,” he muttered, rolling his eyes. 

“No. Really!” I cried. “We got the two biggest parts! Come check it out for 
yourself! You got the part of the Phantom!” 

“No way!” Zeke still didn’t believe me. 

“She’s telling the truth, Zeke,” a girl behind me said. Tina Powell, a 
seventh-grader, pushed through the crowd. 

I always get the feeling that Tina Powell doesn’t like me very much. I have 
no idea why. I hardly even know her. But she always seems to be frowning at 
me. Like I have a piece of spinach caught on my tooth or something. 

“Let me see that list!” Zeke demanded, pushing past everyone. “Wow! I did 
get the starring part!” 

“I’m going to be Esmerelda,” I read. “I wonder who Esmerelda is. Hey, 
maybe she’s the Phantom’s crazy old stepmother, or maybe she’s the headless 
wife who comes back from the dead to—” 

“Give it a rest, Brooke,” Tina said, frowning at me. “Esmerelda is just the 

daughter of some guy who owns a theater.” She said it as if Esmerelda were a 
nothing part. 

“Uh, what part did you get, Tina?” I asked. 

Tina shifted uncomfortably. A few other kids turned to hear her reply. 

“I’m your understudy!” she muttered, staring down at the floor. “So if you 
get sick or something and you can’t be in the show, I’ll play the part of 
Esmerelda. 

“I’m also in charge of all the scenery!” she boasted. 

I wanted to say something mean and nasty, something to put Miss High- 
and-Mighty Tina Powell in her place in front of everybody. But I couldn’t think 
of anything. 

I’m not a mean, nasty person. And it’s hard to think of mean, nasty things to 
say—even when I want to. 

So I decided to ignore her. I was too excited about the play to let Tina 
Powell get to me. 

I pulled on my denim jacket and swung my backpack over my shoulder. 
“Come on, Phantom,” I said to Zeke. “Let’s go haunt the neighborhood!” 

On Monday afternoon, we started rehearsing the play. Ms. Walker, my teacher, 
was in charge. 

She stood on the stage in the auditorium, staring down at us. She clutched a 
tall stack of scripts in her arms. 

Ms. Walker has curly red hair and pretty green eyes. She is very skinny, as 
skinny as a pencil. She is a very good teacher—a little too strict. But a good 
teacher. 

Zeke and I chose two seats next to each other in the third row. I glanced 
around at the other kids. Everyone was talking. Everyone seemed really excited. 

“Do you know what this play is about?” Corey Sklar asked me. He was 
playing my father. I mean, Esmerelda’s father. Corey has chestnut-brown hair 
like me. And he also wears glasses. Maybe that’s why we were playing relatives. 

“Beats me,” I answered him with a shrug. “Nobody knows what the play is 
about. I just know it’s supposed to be scary.” 

“I know what it’s about!” Tina Powell announced loudly. 

I turned around in my seat. “How do you know?” I demanded. “Ms. Walker 
hasn’t passed out the scripts yet.” 

“My great-grandfather went to Woods Mill Middle School a long, long time 

ago. He told me all about The Phantom, ” Tina bragged. 

I started to tell Tina that nobody cared about her great-grandfather’s dumb 
story. But then she added, “He also told me about the curse on the play!” 

That shut everyone up. Even me. 

Even Ms. Walker was listening now. 

Zeke nudged me, his eyes wide with excitement. “A curse?” he whispered 
happily. “Cool!” 

I nodded. “Very cool,” I muttered. 

“My great-grandfather told me a really scary story about this play,” Tina 
continued. “And he told me about a phantom in the school. A real phantom who 

55 

“Tina!” Ms. Walker interrupted, stepping to the front of the stage. She 
peered down sharply at Tina. “I really don’t think you should tell that story 
today.” 

“Huh? Why not?” I cried. 

“Yeah. Why not?” Zeke joined in. 

“I don’t think this is a good time to listen to scary stories that may not be 
true,” Ms. Walker replied sternly. “Today I’m going to pass out the scripts, and 

55 

“Do you know the story?” Tina demanded. 

“Yes, I’ve heard it,” Ms. Walker told her. “But I wish you would keep it to 
yourself, Tina. It’s a very scary story. Very upsetting. And I really don’t think—” 

“Tell us! Tell us! Tell us!” Zeke started to chant. 

And, instantly, we were all grinning up at our teacher and chanting loudly: 
“Tell us! Tell us! Tell us!” 

Why didn’t Ms. Walker want us to hear the story? I wondered. 

How scary could it be? 

3 

“Tell us! Tell us! Tell us!” we all continued to chant. 

Ms. Walker raised both hands for us to be silent. 

But that only made us stamp our feet in time to our chanting. 

“Tell us! Tell us! Tell us!” 

“Okay!” she shouted finally. “Okay, I’ll tell you the story. But, remember— 
it’s just a story. I don’t want you to get too scared.” 

“You can’t scare us/” Zeke cried. 

Everyone laughed. But I was staring hard at Ms. Walker. I could see that 
she really didn’t want us to know this story. 

Ms. Walker always said we could talk about anything we wanted to with 
her. I began to wonder why she didn’t want to talk about the Phantom. 

“The story starts seventy-two years ago,” Ms. Walker began, “the year 
Woods Mill Middle School was first built. I guess Tina’s great-grandfather was a 
student here that year.” 

“Yes, he was,” Tina called out. “He was in the first class that went to this 
school. He told me there were only twenty-five kids in the whole school.” 

Ms. Walker crossed her skinny arms over the front of her yellow sweater 
and continued her story. “The students wanted to put on a play. A boy was 
hunting around in the basement of the Old Woods Mill Library. He found a script 
down there. It was called The Phantom. 

“It was a very scary play about a girl who is kidnapped by a mysterious 
phantom. The boy showed it to his teacher. The teacher decided it would be fun 
to perform the play. It would be a grand production with the best scary special 
effects they could create.” 

Zeke and I exchanged excited glances. The play had special effects! We 
loved special effects! 

“Rehearsals for The Phantom began,” Ms. Walker continued. “The boy who 
had discovered the play at the library won the lead role of The Phantom. ” 

Everybody turned to look at Zeke. He smiled proudly, as if he had 
something to do with it. 

“They practiced the play after school every day,” Ms. Walker continued. 
“Everyone was having a really good time. Everyone was working really hard to 

make it a good play. It was all going smoothly, until—until—” 

She hesitated. 

“Tell us!” I called out loudly. 

“Tell us! Tell us!” a few kids started chanting again. 

“I want you all to remember this is just a story,” Ms. Walker said again. 
“There’s no proof that it ever happened.” 

We all nodded. 

Ms. Walker cleared her throat, then continued. “On the night of the play, the 
kids were all in costume. Parents and friends filled the auditorium. This 
auditorium. The kids were really excited and nervous. 

“Their teacher called them together to give them a pep talk. The play was 
about to start. But to everyone’s surprise, the boy playing the Phantom was 
nowhere to be found.” 

Ms. Walker began pacing back and forth on the stage as she continued the 
story. “They called to him. They looked for him backstage. But they couldn’t 
find the Phantom, the star of the show. 

“They spread out. They searched everywhere. But they couldn’t find him. 
The boy had vanished. 

“They searched for an hour,” Ms. Walker continued. “Everyone was so 
upset, so frightened. Especially the boy’s parents. 

“Finally, the teacher stepped out onstage to announce that the play could not 
go on. But before she could speak, a horrible scream rang out over the 
auditorium.” 

Ms. Walker stopped pacing. “It was a frightening scream. People said it was 
like an animal howl. 

“The teacher ran toward the sound. She called to the boy. But now there 
was only silence. A heavy silence. No more screams. 

“Once again, the entire school was searched. But the boy was never found.” 

Ms. Walker swallowed hard. 

We were all silent. No one even breathed! 

“He was never seen again,” she repeated. “I guess you could say that the 
Phantom became a real phantom. He just disappeared. And the play was never 
performed.” 

She stopped pacing and stared out at us. Her eyes moved from seat to seat. 

“Weird,” someone behind me murmured. 

“Do you think it’s true?” I heard a boy whisper. 

And then, beside me, Corey Sklar let out a gasp. “Oh, no!” he cried, 
pointing to the side door. “There he is! There’s the Phantom!” 

I turned—along with everyone else—and saw the hideous face of the 
Phantom, grinning at us from the doorway. 

4 

Corey Sklar screamed. 

A lot of kids screamed. I think even Tina screamed. 

The Phantom’s face was twisted in an ugly grin. His bright red hair stood 
straight up on his head. One eyeball bulged out from its socket. Black stitches 
covered a deep scar that ran all the way down the side of his face. 

“BOO!” the Phantom yelled, bursting into the aisle. 

More screams. 

I just laughed. I knew it was Zeke. 

I had seen him wear that dumb mask before. He kept it in his locker in case 
he needed it. 

“Zeke, give us a break!” I called. 

He pulled the mask off by the hair. His face was red underneath it. Zeke 
grinned at everyone. He knew he had just pulled off a really good joke. 

Kids were laughing now. 

Someone threw an empty milk container at Zeke. Another kid tried to trip 
Zeke as he headed back to his seat. 

“Very funny, Zeke,” Ms. Walker said, rolling her eyes. “I hope we won’t 
have any more visits from the Phantom!” 

Zeke dropped back into the seat next to me. “Why did you scare everyone 
like that?” I whispered. 

“Felt like it.” Zeke grinned back at me. 

“So, will we be the first kids to perform this play?” Corey asked Ms. 
Walker. 

Our teacher nodded. “Yes, we will. After the boy disappeared seventy-two 
years ago, the school decided to destroy all the scripts and the scenery. But one 
copy of the script was kept, locked up in the school vault for all these years. And 
now we’re going to perform The Phantom for the first time!” 

Kids started talking excitedly. It took Ms. Walker a while to quiet us down. 

“Now listen,” she said, putting her hands on her pencil-thin waist. “This 
was just a story. An old school legend. I’ll bet even Tina’s great-grandfather will 
tell you that it isn’t true. I only told it to put you all in a horror mood.” 

“But what about the curse?” I shouted up to her. “Tina said there was a 

curse!” 

“Yes,” Tina called out. “My great-grandfather said the play is cursed. The 
Phantom won’t let anyone perform it. Grandpa says the Phantom is still here in 
the school. The Phantom has been haunting the school for over seventy years! 
But no one has ever seen him.” 

“Excellent!” Zeke declared, his eyes lighting up. 

Some kids laughed. Some kids looked kind of uncomfortable. Kind of 
scared. 

“I told you, it’s just a story,” Ms. Walker said. “Now, let’s get down to 
business, okay? Who wants to help me pass the scripts out? I’ve made a copy for 
each of you. I want you to take them home and begin studying your parts.” 

Zeke and I practically fell over each other running up to the stage to help 
Ms. Walker. She handed us each a stack of scripts. We climbed back down and 
started to hand them out. When I came to Corey, he pulled his hand back. “Wh- 
what if the curse is true?” he called up to Ms. Walker. 

“Corey, please,” she insisted. “Enough talk about the Phantom and the 
curse, okay? We have a lot of work to do, and—” 

She didn’t finish. 

Instead, she screamed. 

I turned back to the stage, where Ms. Walker had been standing a second 
before. 

She was gone. 

She had vanished into thin air. 

5 

The scripts fell from my hands. 

I turned and made a dash for the stage. I heard kids shouting and crying out 
in surprise. 

“She just disappeared!” I heard Corey utter. 

“But that’s impossible! ” a girl shrieked. 

Zeke and I scrambled onstage together. “Ms. Walker—where are you?” I 
called. “Ms. Walker?” 

Silence. 

“Ms. Walker? Can you hear me?” Zeke called. 

Then I heard Ms. Walker’s faint cry for help. “I’m down here!” she called. 

“Down where?” Zeke cried. 

“Down here!” 

Down below the stage? That’s where her voice seemed to be coming from. 

“Help me up!” Ms. Walker called again. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. How come we can hear her, but we 
can’t see her? 

I was the first to spot the big, square hole in the stage. Zeke and the other 
kids gathered around it. I stepped to the edge of the opening and peered down. 

Ms. Walker stared up at me. She was standing on a small, square platform, 
five or six feet below the stage. “You’ll have to raise the platform,” she said. 

“How do we bring it up?” Zeke asked. 

“Press that peg. Over there on the stage,” Ms. Walker instructed. She 
pointed to a small wooden peg to the right of the trapdoor. 

“Got it!” Zeke cried. He pushed down the peg. We heard a clanking sound. 
Then a grinding sound. Then a groaning sound. 

Slowly, the platform came rising up. Ms. Walker stepped off the platform. 
She grinned at us and brushed off the back of her blue slacks. “I forgot about the 
trapdoor,” she said. “I could have broken a leg or something. But I think I’m 
okay.” 

We all gathered around. Zeke dropped down on his hands and knees, staring 
down at the trapdoor. 

“I forgot to mention the best part about this play,” Ms. Walker told us. “This 
trapdoor was built for the first production of The Phantom. It was totally 
forgotten. It’s never been used in a school play—until now!” 

My mouth dropped open. A trapdoor! How awesome! 

Ms. Walker reached down and tugged Zeke back from the opening. 
“Careful. YouTl fall,” she said. “I lowered the platform earlier. I forgot it was 
still down.” 

Zeke climbed to his feet. I could see he was really interested in the trapdoor. 

“When The Phantom was first supposed to be performed,” Ms. Walker told 
us, “the school had this trapdoor built so that the Phantom could disappear or 
rise up from below. Back then, it was a very impressive special effect.” 

I turned my eyes to Zeke. He seemed about to explode with excitement. 
“Am I the only one who gets to use it in the play?” he asked eagerly. “Can I try it 
now? Please?” 

“Not yet, Zeke,” Ms. Walker replied firmly. “I still need to have it checked 
out for safety reasons. Until it has been checked, I don’t want anybody fooling 
with the trapdoor.” 

Zeke was already back on his hands and knees, inspecting the trapdoor. 

Ms. Walker cleared her throat loudly. “Is that clear? Zeke?” she asked. 

Zeke glanced up. He sighed. “Yes, Ms. Walker,” he muttered. 

“Good,” Ms. Walker said. “Now let’s get back to our seats. I’d like to read 
through the play once before we leave today. Just to give you an idea of the story 
and the characters.” 

We returned to our seats. Zeke’s expression caught my eye. I’d seen that 
look on his face before. His forehead was wrinkled, and his left eyebrow was up. 
I could tell he was deep in thought. 

It took more than an hour to read through the play. The Phantom was a 
really scary play! 

It was about a man named Carlo who owns a very old theater where plays 
and concerts are performed. Carlo thinks his theater is haunted. 

It turns out that there really is a phantom living in the basement. His face is 
scarred. He looks like a monster. So he wears a mask. But Carlo’s daughter, 
Esmerelda, falls in love with the Phantom. She plans to run away with him. But 
her handsome boyfriend, Eric, finds out. 

Eric is in love with Esmerelda. He tracks down the Phantom in his secret 
home in a dark passage far beneath the theater. They fight. And Eric kills the 

Phantom. 

This breaks Esmerelda’s heart. She runs away, never to be seen again. And 
the Phantom survives as a ghost. He will haunt the theater forever. 

Pretty dramatic, huh? 

I think we all enjoyed reading through the play. We could see that it was 
going to be a lot of fun to perform. 

When I read my lines as Esmerelda, I tried to picture what it would be like 
to be in costume, saying the lines onstage. Once, I glanced back and saw Tina 
mouthing my lines silently to herself. 

She stopped when she caught me watching her. 

She frowned at me the way she always does. 

Tina is totally jealous, I told myself. She really wants to be Esmerelda. 

For a moment, I felt bad for Tina. I didn’t like Tina very much. But I didn’t 
want her to hate me because I had the part she wanted to play. 

But I didn’t have much time to think about Tina. I had a lot of lines to read. 
Esmerelda was onstage a lot in this play. It was a really big part. 

When we finally finished reading the play, we all clapped and cheered. 

“Okay. Go home, everyone,” Ms. Walker instructed, waving us to the door. 
“Start learning your parts. We’ll meet again tomorrow.” 

As I began to follow the other kids to the door, I felt a hand pull me back. I 
turned to find Zeke pulling me behind a wide concrete beam. 

“Zeke—what are you doing?” I demanded. 

He raised a finger to his lips. “Shhhh.” His eyes were really excited. “Let 
them all go,” he whispered. 

I peeked out from behind the pillar. Ms. Walker lowered the lights. Then 
she collected her papers and made her way out through the auditorium door. 

“Why are we hiding here?” I whispered impatiently. 

Zeke grinned at me. “Let’s try out the trapdoor,” he whispered back. 

“Huh?” 

“Let’s try it out. Quick. While there’s no one in here.” 

I glanced quickly around the auditorium. Dark. And empty. 

“Come on. Don’t be a wimp,” Zeke urged, pulling me toward the stage. 
“Let’s try it out, okay? What could happen?” 

I turned uncertainly to the stage. “Okay,” I said. 

Zeke was right. What could happen? 

6 

Zeke and I climbed on to the stage. It was darker than before. And it felt colder. 

Our sneakers thudded over the floorboards. Every sound seemed to echo 
over the whole auditorium. 

“This trapdoor is so cool!” Zeke exclaimed. “Too bad you don’t get to use it 
in the play.” 

I gave him a playful shove and started to reply. But I suddenly felt one of 
my sneezing attacks coming on. The dusty auditorium curtain must have 
triggered my allergies. 

I have the worst allergies in creation. I am allergic to absolutely everything. 
You name it. Dust, pollen, cats, dogs—even some sweaters. 

When I have an allergy attack, sometimes I sneeze thirteen or fourteen 
times in a row. My all-time record is seventeen. 

Zeke likes to count my sneezes. He thinks he’s a riot. He slaps the floor and 
yells, “Seven! Eight! Nine!” 

Ha-ha. After ten sneezes in a row, I’m in no mood for jokes. I’m usually a 
pitiful, dripping mess with foggy glasses. 

We tiptoed over to the trapdoor. “Check the floor around there,” Zeke said 
quietly. “Find that peg that makes it work.” 

Zeke stood on the trapdoor while I searched for the peg in the darkness. I 
desperately tried to hold in my sneezes, but it wasn’t easy. 

Then the small peg on the stage floor caught my eye. “Hey—I found it!” I 
shouted happily. 

Zeke glanced nervously around the auditorium. “Ssshhh! Someone will 
hear you!” 

“Sorry,” I whispered. Then I realized I couldn’t hold out any longer. My 
eyes were watering like crazy, and I just had to sneeze. 

I grabbed a handful of tissues from my pocket and put the whole wad up to 
my nose. Then I started sneezing. I tried to keep them as silent as possible. 

“Four! Five!” Zeke counted. 

Fuckily, it wasn’t a record-breaking attack. I only made it to seven. I wiped 
my nose and shoved the dirty tissues in my pocket. It was gross, but I had 
nowhere else to throw them. 

“Okay, Zeke, here goes!” I cried. 

I stepped on the peg and jumped beside Zeke on the trapdoor. 

We heard a clanking sound. Then a rumbling. Then a grinding. 

The square section of floor began to lower itself. 

Zeke grabbed my arm. “Hey—this thing is kind of shaky!” he cried. 

“You’re not scared—are you!” I challenged him. 

“No way!” he insisted. 

The clanking grew louder. The square platform shook beneath us as we slid 
down. Down, down—until the stage disappeared, and we were surrounded by 
darkness. 

I expected the platform to come to a stop just beneath the stage. That’s 
where it stopped for Ms. Walker. 

But, to my surprise, the platform kept dropping. 

And it picked up speed as it slid farther and farther down. 

“Hey—what’s happening?” Zeke cried, holding on to my arm. 

“How far down does this thing go?” I wondered out loud. 

“Ohh!” Zeke and I both cried out as the platform finally hit the bottom with 
a hard thud! 

We were both thrown to the floor. 

I scrambled to my feet quickly. “Are you okay?” 

“Yeah. I guess.” Zeke definitely sounded scared. 

We seemed to be in a long, black tunnel. 

Dark. And silent. 

I don’t like to admit it. But I was very close to being scared, too. 

Suddenly the silence was broken by a soft, raspy noise. 

I felt panic choke my throat. That sound. What was it? 

The sound repeated softly, steadily. 

Like breathing. 

My heart pounded in my chest. Yes! Breathing. The raspy breathing of a 
strange creature. So close to me. 

Right next to me. 

Zeke! 

“Zeke—why are you breathing like that?” I demanded, feeling my heartbeat 
slow to normal. 

“Breathing like what?” he whispered. 

“Oh. Never mind,” I muttered. He was breathing that way because he was 
scared. We were both scared. But there was no way we would ever admit it to 
each other. 

We both raised our eyes to the auditorium ceiling. It was a small, square 
glow in the far distance. It seemed to be miles and miles above us. 

Zeke turned to me. “Where do you think we are?” 

“We’re about a mile beneath the stage,” I replied, feeling a chill. 

“No kidding, Sherlock,” Zeke replied nastily. 

“If you’re so smart, you tell me!” I challenged him. 

“I don’t think it’s the basement,” he said thoughtfully. “I think we’re way 
below the basement.” 

“It feels like it’s a big tunnel or something,” I said, trying to keep my voice 
from shaking. “Want to explore?” 

He didn’t answer for a long moment. “Too dark to explore,” he replied 
finally. 

I didn’t really want to explore. I was just pretending to be brave. Usually, I 
liked having the creeps. But being way down here was too creepy, even for me. 

“We’ll come back with flashlights,” Zeke said softly. 

“Yeah. Flashlights,” I repeated. I didn’t plan to ever come back! 

I played nervously with the denim hair scrunchie on my wrist and stared out 
into the darkness. Something bothered me. Something didn’t make sense. 

“Zeke,” I said thoughtfully, “why would the stage trapdoor come all the 
way down here?” 

“I don’t know. Maybe so the Phantom can get home quicker after he haunts 
the auditorium!” Zeke joked. 

I punched him in the arm. “No jokes about the Phantom—okay?” 

If there really is a phantom, I told myself, this is where he would live. 

“Let’s get out of here!” Zeke said, staring up at the square of light so far 
above our heads. “I’m going to be late for dinner.” 

“Yeah, sure,” I replied, folding my arms across my chest. “Just one 
question, Mr. Know-It-All.” 

“What question?” Zeke asked uncertainly. 

“How do we get back up?” 

We both thought about that one for a while. 

After a minute or so, I saw Zeke drop to his knees and begin running his 
hand along the platform floor. “There’s got to be a peg to push down here,” he 

said. 

“No. The peg is up there,” I replied, pointing way up to the stage floor. 

“Then there’s got to be a switch or a lever or a button to push!” Zeke cried. 
His voice grew high and shrill. 

“Where? Where could it be?” My voice sounded just as shrill, just as 
frightened. 

We both started feeling around in the darkness, feeling for something we 
could push, or pull, or turn. Something to make the little square platform rise up 
again and carry us back up to the auditorium. 

But after a few minutes of desperate searching, I gave up. 

“We’re trapped down here, Zeke,” I murmured. “We’re trapped.” 

7 

“This is all your fault,” I muttered. 

I don’t know why I said that. I guess I was so frightened, I didn’t know 
what I was saying. 

Zeke forced a laugh. “Hey, I like it down here!” he boasted. “I may just stay 
down here for a while. You know. Do some exploring.” He was trying to sound 
brave. But his voice came out tiny and trembling. 

He wasn’t fooling me. No way. 

“How could you bring us down here?” I cried. 

“You wanted to come, too!” he shot back. 

“I did not!” I screamed. “Ms. Walker told us this thing isn’t safe! And now 
we’ll be down here all night! Maybe forever!” 

“Unless we’re eaten by rats!” Zeke joked. 

“I’m sick of your stupid jokes!” I shouted. I totally lost it. I gave him a hard 
shove with both hands. He went sprawling off the platform. 

It was so dark, I couldn’t see him for a moment. 

“Ow!” I cried out as he shoved me back. 

Then I shoved him harder. 

Then he shoved me harder than that. 

I stumbled back—onto some kind of a switch. My back hit the switch. 

A loud clanking sound made me nearly jump out of my skin. 

“Brooke—jump back on! Quick!” Zeke screamed. 

I leaped back onto the platform just as it started to move. 

Up, up. Sliding slowly but steadily. 

The square of light above our heads grew larger and brighter as we rose 
back up to the auditorium. 

“Hey!” I cried out as the platform stopped with a jolt. 

“Way to go, Brookie!” Zeke yelled happily. He slapped me on the back. 

“Don’t celebrate yet,” I told him. We still weren’t back on the stage. The 
platform had stopped about five feet down from the top. Just where it had been 
for Ms. Walker. 

I guessed that the only way to raise it all the way up was to step on the peg 

onstage. 

“Give me a boost up,” Zeke urged eagerly. 

I cupped my hands together. He lowered his sneaker into my hands. 

“Wait!” he cried, stepping back down. “Whoa! What if the Phantom is up 
there waiting for us? Maybe you should go first!” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” I said, rolling my eyes. “Remind me to laugh later.” 
“Okay, okay. I’ll go first,” he muttered. 

He put his sneaker into my cupped hands, reached up to the stage floor, and 
I gave him a boost. 

I watched him scramble on to the stage. He disappeared from view. 

I waited for him to reach down for me. 

A whole minute went by. 

“Zeke?” The word came out tiny and weak. 

I waited some more. Listening hard. 

I couldn’t hear him up there. Where was he? 

“Zeke? Where are you?” I called up. “Come on. Raise the platform. Or give 
me a hand,” I called up. “I can’t make it by myself.” 

Another minute passed. It seemed like an hour. 

I suddenly realized what Zeke was trying to do. 

That big jerk! He was trying to scare me! 

“Hey! Enough!” I shouted. 

I had had more than enough of Zeke Matthews for one day. 

“Zeke!” I yelled. “Give me a break! Get me up!” 

Finally, his hands lowered down over the side. 

“It’s about time!” I shouted angrily. 

I grabbed both hands and let him pull me up to the stage. 

I shook my hair back. My eyes were slowly adjusting to the brighter light. 
“You know, you’re not funny!” I snapped. “Keeping me waiting down there was 
really—” 

I stopped and swallowed hard. It wasn’t Zeke who had pulled me from the 
trapdoor. 

A strange pair of dark, angry eyes stared into mine. 

8 

I swallowed hard. A strange little man stared back at me, an angry scowl on his 
face. He wore baggy gray pants and a loose-fitting gray sweatshirt, torn at the 
collar. 

His thick white hair fell wild and unbrushed over his forehead like a floor 
mop. He had a deep purple scar down the side of his face, nearly as long as the 
scar on Zeke’s creature mask. 

I could see that he was old. But he was tiny, no bigger than a kid. He stood 
only an inch or two taller than Zeke. 

As he squinted at me with his strange, gray eyes, his face twisted into an 
ugly frown. 

He looks like a phantom! The frightening thought flashed through my mind. 

“Wh-who are you?” I stammered. 

“I’m Emile. The night janitor,” the man rasped. 

“Where’s my friend Zeke?” I demanded in a shrill, frightened voice. 

“Brooke, I’m over here,” Zeke called out from behind me. 

I whirled around. Zeke stood on the other side of the trapdoor. He had his 
hands shoved deep into his jeans pockets. He was biting his lower lip. 

“Zeke!” I cried. “What’s going on? Why—” 

“The school is closed!” the janitor growled. He had a hoarse voice, like 
sandpaper. “What are you two doing in here?” 

Zeke and I exchanged glances. Zeke took a step forward. “We... uh... 
stayed for play rehearsal,” he told the man. 

“That’s right,” I chimed in. “We had a late rehearsal.” 

The janitor continued to squint suspiciously at me. “Play rehearsal?” he 
repeated. “Then where is everybody else?” 

I hesitated. This guy was scaring me so much, my legs wobbled. “We left,” 
I blurted out. “But we had to come back to get my jacket.” 

Behind Emile, I saw Zeke nodding, approving my lie. 

“How do you know about the trapdoor?” the janitor demanded in his 
sandpaper voice. 

I hesitated. It’s strange that I’ve never seen him in the school building 
before, I thought. 

“Ms. Walker, our teacher, showed it to us,” Zeke said softly. I could see that 
he was as scared as I was. 

The man leaned closer to me, squinting so that one side of his face was 
completely twisted up. “Don’t you know how dangerous it is?” he whispered. 

He leaned even closer, so close that I could feel his hot breath on my face. 
His pale gray eyes stared into mine. “Don’tyou know how dangerous it is?” 

Zeke and I talked on the phone that night. “That man wasn’t trying to warn us,” I 
told Zeke. “He was trying to scare us.” 

“Well, he didn’t scare me at all,” Zeke boasted. “I’m sorry if he got you 
upset, Brookie.” 

Oh, wow, I thought. Sometimes Zeke is such a phoney. 

“If you weren’t scared, how come you were shaking all the way home?” I 
demanded. 

“I wasn’t shaking. I was just exercising,” Zeke joked. “You know. Working 
out the calf muscles.” 

“Give me a break,” I moaned. “How come we’ve never seen that janitor 
before?” 

“Because he’s not a janitor. He is... the PHANTOM!” Zeke cried in a deep, 
scary voice. 

I didn’t laugh. “Get serious,” I told him. “It wasn’t a joke. He was really 
trying to frighten us.” 

“Hope you don’t have nightmares, Brookie,” Zeke replied, laughing. 

I hung up on him. 

* * * 

On Tuesday morning, I walked to school with my little brother, Jeremy. As we 
walked, I talked about the play. 

I told Jeremy the whole story. But I left out the part about the trapdoor. Ms. 
Walker said it would be better if we kept it a secret until the performance. 

“Is it really scary?” Jeremy asked me. Jeremy is seven, and he gets scared if 
you say “boo” to him. Once, I made him watch the movie Poltergeist with me, 
and he woke up screaming every night for three weeks. 

“Yeah, it’s pretty scary,” I told him. “But not scary like Friday the 13th 
scary.” 

Jeremy seemed relieved. He really hated scary things. On Halloween, he 
hid in his room! I would never make him watch Friday the 13th. He would 
probably have nightmares till he was fifty! 

“The play has a surprise,” I added. “And it’s a pretty awesome surprise.” 

“What is it?” Jeremy demanded. 

I reached over and messed up his hair. It’s chestnut-brown, like mine. “If I 
told you that,” I said, making a funny voice, “it wouldn’t be a surprise, would 
it?” ” 

“You sound just like Mom!” Jeremy cried. 

What an insult! 

I dropped him off at his school and then crossed the street to my school. As 
I made my way down the hall, I thought about my part in the play. Esmerelda 
had so many lines. I wondered if I could memorize them all in time. 

And I wondered if my old stage fright would come back. Last year, I had 
terrible stage fright in Guys and Dolls. And I didn’t even have any lines to say! 

I walked into the classroom, said good morning to some kids, made my way 
to my table—and stopped. 

“Hey!” A boy I had never seen before was at my place. 

He was kind of cute. He had dark brown hair and bright green eyes. He was 
wearing a big red-and-black flannel shirt over black sweatpants. 

He had made himself right at home. His books and notebooks were spread 
out. And he was tilting back in my chair with his black high-tops resting on the 
table. 

“You’re in my place,” I said, standing over him. 

He gazed up at me with those green eyes. “No, I’m not,” he replied 
casually. “This is my place.” 

9 

“Excuse me?” I said, staring down at him. 

He blushed. “I think this is where Ms. Walker told me to sit.” He glanced 
around nervously. 

I saw an empty spot at the table behind mine. “She probably meant over 
there,” I said, pointing. “I’ve been in this seat all year. Next to Zeke.” I motioned 
to Zeke’s chair. Zeke wasn’t there. He was late, as usual. 

The boy blushed even darker. “Sorry,” he muttered shyly. “I hate being the 
new kid.” He started to gather his books together. 

“This is your first day?” I asked. I introduced myself. 

“I’m Brian Colson,” he replied, climbing to his feet. “My family just moved 
to Woods Mill. From Indiana.” 

I said I’d never been to Indiana. It was a boring thing to say, but it was true. 

“You’re Brooke Rodgers?” he asked, studying me. “I heard you got the 
starring role. In the play.” 

“How did you hear that already?” I demanded. 

“Some kids were talking about it on the bus. You must be a good actress, 
huh?” he added shyly. 

“I guess. I don’t know. Sometimes I get pretty bad stage fright,” I told him. 

I don’t know why I told him all that. Sometimes I just rattle on. I guess 
that’s why my parents call me Babbling Brooke. 

Brian smiled shyly and sighed. “Back at my school in Indiana, I was in all 
the plays,” he told me. “But I never had the lead role. I wish I had moved here 
sooner. Then I could have tried out for The Phantom. ” 

I tried to picture Brian onstage in a play, but I couldn’t. He didn’t seem like 
the acting type to me. He seemed so shy. And he kept blushing all the time. 

But I decided to give the poor guy a break. “Brian, why don’t you come to 
rehearsal with me this afternoon?” I suggested. “Maybe you can get a small part 
or something.” 

Brian smiled as if I’d just offered him a million dollars. “You mean it?” he 
asked, wide-eyed. 

“Sure,” I replied. “No big deal.” 

Zeke came slinking into his seat, his eyes on Ms. Walker’s desk. “Am I 

late?” he whispered. 

I shook my head. Then I started to introduce him to Brian. But Ms. Walker 
stepped into the room and closed the door. Time for class to begin. 

Brian hurried to his place at the other table. I started to sit down, but 
realized I’d left my science notebook in my locker. 

“Be right back!” I called to Ms. Walker. I hurried out the door and jogged 
around the corner to my locker. 

“Hey!” To my surprise, the locker door stood half open. 

That’s weird, I thought. I remembered locking it. 

I pulled the door open the rest of the way. Started to reach inside for my 
notebook. 

And let out a startled gasp. 

Someone was in there—and he was staring right at me! 

10 

His ugly blue-and-green face grinned out at me. 

I gasped again and clamped my hand over my mouth. Then I cracked up 
laughing. 

Zeke and his dumb rubber creature mask. 

“Well, you got me this time, Zeke!” I murmured out loud. 

Then I saw the folded-up sheet of paper dangling beneath the mask. Some 
kind of note? 

I pulled it out and unfolded it. Scribbled in red crayon was a message: 

STAY AWAY FROM MY 
HOME SWEET HOME. 

“Ha-ha,” I murmured. “Very good, Zeke. Very amusing.” 

I pulled out my science notebook, slammed the locker shut, and locked it. 
Then I hurried back to the classroom. 

Ms. Walker stood behind her desk. She had just finished introducing Brian 
to everyone. Now she was reading the morning announcements. I slid into my 
seat beside Zeke. “You didn’t scare me one bit,” I lied. 

He looked up from his math notebook. Zeke always did his math homework 
first thing in class. “Huh?” He flashed me his innocent look. 

“Your mask,” I whispered. “It didn’t scare me.” 

“Mask? What mask?” he replied, tapping the pencil eraser against my arm. 

I shoved him away. “Stop acting stupid,” I said sharply. “Your note wasn’t 
funny, either. You can do better than that.” 

“I didn’t write you any note, Brooke,” Zeke replied impatiently. “I don’t 
know what you’re talking about. Really.” 

“For sure,” I said, rolling my eyes. “You don’t know anything about the 
mask in my locker or the note, right?” 

“Shut up and let me finish my math,” he said, staring down at his textbook. 
“You’re not making any sense.” 

“Oh. Well. I guess the real Phantom did it, then,” I said. 

He ignored me. He was scribbling equations in his notebook. 

What a phoney baloney! I thought. Zeke did it, and he knows it. 
For sure. 

* * * 

After school, I led Brian to the auditorium. I practically had to drag him up on 
the stage. He was so shy! 

“Ms. Walker, are there any parts still available?” I asked. “Brian is really 
interested in being in the play.” 

Ms. Walker glanced up from the script in her hands. I saw that she had 
scribbled notes all over the script. She studied Brian. 

“I’m really sorry, Brian,” she said, shaking her head. “You came to school a 
few days too late.” 

Brian blushed. I’ve never seen anyone blush so often. 

“There aren’t any speaking parts left,” Ms. Walker told him. “They’ve all 
been given out.” 

“Do you need a stand-in for anyone?” Brian asked. “I’m a very fast 
memorizer. I could memorize more than one part.” 

Wow, I thought. He really is eager to be in the play. 

“Well, we really don’t need any more stand-ins,” Ms. Walker told him. 
“But, I have an idea. You can join the scenery crew if you wish.” 

“Great!” Brian exclaimed with real enthusiasm. 

“Go see Tina over there,” Ms. Walker told him, pointing to the group of 
kids meeting at the back wall of the stage. Tina was busily pointing out where 
she wanted the scenery to go, motioning dramatically with both hands, making 
everyone follow her all around the stage. 

Brian seemed really happy. I watched him trot over to find Tina. 

I took a seat in the auditorium and concentrated on my script. I was in 
practically every scene. How could I possibly memorize my whole part? I sighed 
and slouched back in the seat, slinging my feet over the seat in front of me. 

I was memorizing my third line in the play, which went, “What proof do 
you have that this man might be dangerous ?”, when all the lights suddenly went 
out. 

A total blackout! I couldn’t see a thing. 

Kids started to shout. “Hey! Who turned out the lights?” 

“I can’t see!” 

“What’s happening? Turn them back on!” 

I sat straight up when I heard the shrill scream. 

A terrifying scream—like an animal howl—that ripped through the 
darkness and exploded over the auditorium. 

“No! Noooo!” I heard Corey Sklar moan. 

And then I heard someone else cry out, “It’s coming from up on the 
catwalk!” 

Another shrill wail rose up over the frightened cries of my friends. 

“Turn on the lights!” I heard Corey plead. “Please—turn on the lights!” 
Other frightened voices called out, “Who is screaming?” 

“Somebody—do something!” 

“There’s someone up on the catwalk!” 

The auditorium lights flickered back on. 

Another long howl from above the stage forced me to raise my eyes. 

And I saw him. A green-and-blue-masked creature wearing a shiny black 

cape. 

Gripping a long, heavy rope, he came swinging down from high on the 
catwalk. 

As he swung down to the stage, he threw his head back and laughed a 
horrifying evil laugh. 

I jumped to my feet and stared in amazement. 

The Phantom! 

11 

The Phantom landed hard on his feet. His shoes hit the stage floor with a thud. 

He let go of the rope and it flew away from him. 

The green-and-blue face glanced quickly around the stage. Tina and her 
scenery crew stood frozen against the wall, staring at him in horrified silence. 
Ms. Walker appeared stunned. She had her arms tightly crossed over her chest. 

The Phantom’s cape swirled around him as he stomped one shoe on the 
stage. 

He’s short, I realized, standing and staring from down in the second row of 
seats. He’s about Zeke’s height. Maybe an inch or two taller. 

Or maybe he’s exactly Zeke’s height—because he is Zeke! 

“Zeke! Hey—Zeke!” I called. 

The ugly, masked face peered out to the auditorium. The Phantom started to 
sink. His feet disappeared. The legs of his dark pants. Down. Down. 

He had stepped on the peg and was riding the trapdoor down. 

“Zeke!” I yelled. I ran up the aisle and pulled myself up onto the stage. 
“Zeke—you’re not funny!” I shouted. 

But the Phantom had vanished below the stage. 

I ran up to the opening in the stage and stared down into the darkness. Ms. 
Walker stepped up beside me, an angry scowl on her face. “Was that Zeke?” she 
asked me. “Was that really Zeke?” 

“I—I’m not sure,” I stammered. “I think so.” 

“Zeke!” Ms. Walker called down into the opening. “Zeke—are you down 
there?” 

No reply. 

The platform had lowered all the way down. I couldn’t see anything but a 
deep well of blackness. 

Kids gathered around the opening, chattering excitedly, laughing and 
teasing each other. “Was that Zeke?” I heard Corey ask. “Was Zeke wearing that 
dumb mask again?” 

“Is Zeke going to ruin our rehearsal today?” Ms. Walker demanded angrily. 
“Does he think we need to be scared every afternoon?” 

I shrugged. I couldn’t answer. 

“Maybe it wasn’t Zeke,” I heard Corey say. He sounded very frightened. 

“It had to be Zeke. Zeke—are you here?” Ms. Walker shouted, cupping her 
hands around her mouth. She turned slowly, her eyes darting over the stage and 
then all the seats of the auditorium. “Zeke Matthews? Can you hear me?” 

No answer. No sign of Zeke. 

“He’s your friend, Brooke,” Tina said nastily. “Don’t you know where he 
is? Can’t you tell him to stop ruining our play?” 

I sputtered an answer. I was so angry, I didn’t know what I was saying. 

I mean, Zeke is my friend. But I’m not responsible for him! 

Tina was just trying to make me look bad and score some points with Ms. 
Walker. 

“Okay, scenery people,” Ms. Walker instructed. “Back to work. I’ll take 
care of this. The rest of you—” 

She stopped. We all heard it. The loud clanking sound. 

A loud hum rose up over the clanking. 

“The trapdoor—it’s coming back up!” I cried, pointing. 

“Good,” Ms. Walker said, crossing her arms over her chest again. She 
narrowed her eyes at the opening in the stage floor. “Now I will let Zeke know 
how we feel about his little joke. His last little joke, if I have anything to say 
about it!” 

Uh-oh, I thought. Poor Zeke. 

Ms. Walker was a really good teacher, and a really nice person, too—until 
you got on her bad side. But once you did that, once you made her angry, once 
you had her crossing her arms and squinting her eyes at you—then you were in 
major trouble. 

Because she could be really mean. 

I knew that Zeke was just having some fun. He loved being the center of 
attention. And he loved to scare people. He especially loved to scare me. 

This was a game for him, I knew. He was trying to show everyone that they 
were scaredy-cat wimps, and he wasn’t. 

Zeke played this game all the time. 

But this time it had backfired. This time he had gone too far. 

And Ms. Walker was waiting for him, arms crossed, eyes squinting. 

Will she toss him out of the play? I wondered. Or will she just yell at him 
until his ears curl? 

The hum grew louder. The stage floor vibrated. 

We all heard the platform stop—its usual five feet below the stage. 

Poor Zeke, I thought. He’s standing there innocently. He doesn’t know what 
’s in for. 

Poor Zeke. 

I peered down into the opening—and gasped. 

12 

The platform was empty. No one there. 

Zeke—or whoever it was—had sent it back up empty. And had disappeared 
into the dark tunnels far below the school. 

Zeke wouldn’t do that, I told myself. Even Zeke wouldn’t be crazy enough 
to go down in that darkness by himself. Without a flashlight. Without a clue as to 
what was down there. 

Would he? 

Yes, he would. I answered my own question. If he thought he could really 
terrify us, Zeke would do anything! 

Ms. Walker canceled the rehearsal. She told the scenery crew to stay and 
paint the backdrop. She told the rest of us to go home and study our parts. 

“I’m going to have a long talk with Zeke when I find him,” she muttered. 
Then she turned and made her way quickly out of the auditorium. 

I took my time walking home. I thought about Zeke all the way. I was 
thinking so hard, I walked right past my house! 

Down the block, I saw Zeke’s mother’s red Pontiac pull up their driveway. 
Shielding my eyes against the late afternoon sun, I saw Mrs. Matthews climb out 
of the car. And then I saw Zeke on the other side. 

“Hey! Zeke!” I shouted as I went running across the lawns toward him. 
“Zeke!” 

His mother waved to me and disappeared into the house. Zeke looked 
surprised to see me. “Is play rehearsal over so early?” he asked. 

“Yes. Thanks to you,” I muttered. 

“Huh?” He gave me his innocent look again. “What did / do?” 

“You didn’t scare me, Zeke,” I told him. “No one thought it was funny. And 
now you’re in a load of trouble with Ms. Walker.” 

He narrowed his eyes and scrunched up his face, pretending not to 
understand. “What are you talking about, Brooke? How can I be in trouble? I 
wasn’t even there!” 

“You were there long enough,” I told him. 

He shook his head. His freckles seemed to grow darker. His blond hair 
fluttered in the wind. “No, I wasn’t,” he said quietly. “I told Ms. Walker I 

wouldn’t be there. I told her this morning that I had to miss rehearsal.” 

“So you could get into your mask and cape and come flying down from the 
catwalk?” I demanded suspiciously. 

“No. I told her I had a dentist appointment.” 

I gaped at him in shock. My mouth dropped open. 

“What’s your problem, Brooke?” he demanded. “It was only a checkup.” 

“You—you really weren’t at school?” I stammered. 

He shook his head. “No way.” 

“Then who was the Phantom?” I asked in a tiny voice. 

A strange smile spread over Zeke’s face. 

“It was you!” I cried angrily. “You did your Phantom act, and then you went 
to your dentist appointment! Didn’t you, Zeke! Didn’t you!” 

He only laughed. He wouldn’t answer. 

After school the next afternoon, I walked with Brian to the auditorium. He 
looked cute in a black vest over a plain white T-shirt and faded jeans. “How are 
you doing with Tina?” I asked. 

“Okay, I guess,” Brian replied. “She’s a little bossy. But she’s letting me 
design the backdrop pretty much on my own.” 

I waved to some kids who were heading out the door for home. We turned 
the corner. I saw Corey and Tina walking into the auditorium. 

“Did Zeke work things out with Ms. Walker?” 

Brian asked. “I saw him talking to her this morning.” 

“I guess,” I replied. “She’s letting Zeke stay in the play—for now.” 

“Do you think it was Zeke who pulled that stunt yesterday?” Brian asked. 

I nodded. “Yes, I do. Zeke likes scaring people. He’s been doing it since we 
were little. I think Zeke is trying to scare us. He’s trying to make us think there’s 
a real Phantom in the school.” I smiled at Brian. “But I don’t scare so easy!” I 
declared. 

Soon after rehearsal started, Ms. Walker called Zeke and me onstage. She said 
she wanted to walk us through one of our scenes together. She wanted to show 
us where we should stand when we said our lines. She called it “blocking”. 

She also asked Tina Powell and Robert Hernandez, Zeke’s understudy, to 
come up onstage. Ms. Walker said they should know all the blocking, too. Just in 

case. 

Just in case? I thought. Then I remembered Tina’s warning: “In case you 
get sick or something on the night of the play, I get to play your part. ” 

Well, Tina, I hate to disappoint you, I muttered to myself, but I plan to be 
perfectly fine. So have fun painting your scenery. It’s the only time you’ll be 
onstage. 

I know, I know. That’s kind of mean. But Tina deserved it. 

Ms. Walker showed Zeke where to stand. I stood off to the side of the stage 
with Tina, waiting for my cue to go on. 

“I guess Ms. Walker and Zeke worked things out,” Tina said. “I heard him 
this morning telling her he was at the dentist’s, and so he couldn’t be the one to 
swing down from the ceiling.” 

I started to tell Tina to be quiet so I could hear my cue. But I was too late. I 
already heard Ms. Walker calling my name. 

“Brooke Rodgers!” She sounded angry. “What’s going on over there? 
You’re supposed to be onstage!” 

“Thanks a bunch, Tina,” I muttered under my breath. I ran out onto the 
stage. Glancing back, I could see Tina laughing to herself. 

I couldn’t believe it! Tina had made me miss my cue on purpose! 

Onstage, I didn’t know where I was supposed to stand. I didn’t even know 
what page of the script we were on. 

What was my next line? 

I couldn’t remember. 

In a panic, I stared out at the kids in the auditorium seats. They all stared 
back at me, waiting for me to speak. 

I opened my mouth, but nothing came out. 

“The line is, ‘Is somebody down here?’\” Tina yelled loudly from offstage. 

Oh, wow, I thought unhappily. Tina will do anything to show me up! She’s 
just hoping Ms. Walker will kick me out of the play. 

I felt so angry, my head was spinning. I couldn’t think straight. I repeated 
the line, then took a deep breath to calm down. 

Zeke had the next line. He was supposed to appear onstage and scare 
Esmerelda. 

But Zeke wasn’t onstage. He wasn’t anywhere in sight! 

I peered out into the auditorium. Ms. Walker stood at the foot of the stage. 
She had her hands on her waist. She tapped one toe impatiently on the hard floor. 

The auditorium grew silent, except for that tap. Tap, tap, tap, tap, tap. Ms. 

Walker seemed to be very annoyed. 

“Where is Zeke?” she asked wearily. “What is he doing now? Is he going to 
come flying down from the catwalk in full costume or something?” 

I should have guessed what Zeke was up to. But it didn’t dawn on me until I 
heard a familiar noise. The loud clanking. Followed by the hum. 

The trapdoor platform! It was rising! 

I sighed. “Here comes Zeke,” I told Ms. Walker. 

And a second later, Zeke’s blue-and-green masked head appeared. 

I stepped back and watched him rise from down below. It looked awesome. 
Really dramatic. 

Slowly, he appeared, rising up over the stage floor. 

He reached the top and just stood there for a long moment, staring out at the 
auditorium, as if posing for a picture. He was in full costume: his mask, a black 
cape down to his ankles, black shirt and pants. 

What a ham! I thought. He really loves having everyone stare at him and 
think he’s hot stuff! 

And then he stepped toward me, taking quick strides. Through the mask, he 
raised his eyes to me. 

I tried to remember what I was supposed to say next. 

But before I could utter a sound, he grabbed both of my shoulders. He 
shook them really hard. Too hard. 

Ease up, Zeke, I thought. It’s only a rehearsal. 

“Go away! ” he cried in a furious whisper. 

I remembered what I was supposed to say. I opened my mouth to speak... 

But then I froze. 

I saw someone waving to me from the edge of the stage. 

Waving frantically. 

It was Zeke! 

13 

I knew I was in major trouble. 

If Zeke was standing way over there, who was shaking my shoulders, 
grinning at me through the ugly mask? 

“Help! Somebody—help me!” I screamed, struggling to free myself. 

“No, Brooke!” Ms. Walker called out to me. “The line is, ‘Help. Help me, 
Father. ’ ” 

She didn’t get it. 

Couldn’t she see that there was a real phantom up here trying to shake me 
to death? 

Suddenly, the Phantom lowered his masked face and whispered harshly in 
my ear, “Stay away. Stay away from my home sweet home!” 

I gazed into his eyes. 

They looked familiar to me. 

Who was he? I knew I’d seen him before. 

But before I could remember, he spun away from me, took a diving leap off 
the stage, and ran up the long aisle, his cape flowing behind him. 

I stood watching in horror as he disappeared out through the auditorium 
doors. 

Some kids laughed. I heard Tina mutter to someone, “Was that in the 
script?” 

Zeke came running over to me. “Brookie, are you all right?” 

“I—I don’t know,” I replied. I felt really shaken up. 

“That was weirdl” Zeke exclaimed. 

Ms. Walker came striding across the stage, swinging her clipboard in one 
hand. She had a very confused expression on her face. “Can anyone explain 
what just happened here?” she asked. 

“There’s a real phantom in this school,” Zeke said softly. He narrowed his eyes 
at me thoughtfully. 

We were sitting in the front row of the auditorium. Brian scraped at a 
smudge of black paint on the back of his hand. I sat between the two boys, 
studying Zeke. 

The lights had been dimmed. Rehearsal had ended a few minutes before. I 
could hear a few voices out in the hall. The door had just closed behind Ms. 
Walker. 

“Why are you staring at me like that?” Zeke demanded. 

“I’m still wondering if you aren’t responsible for everything ,” I told him 
bluntly. 

He rolled his eyes. “Yeah. Sure,” he muttered. “How could I be in two 
places at once today, Brooke? Answer me that. That’s pretty tricky, even for 
someone as brilliant and clever as me! ” 

I laughed. “It’s possible,” I replied. 

“I can’t get this paint off,” Brian moaned. “Look. I got it on my shirt, too.” 

“Is it washable paint?” Zeke asked. 

“How should I know?” Brian replied unhappily. “I didn’t read the label on 
the can. Do you read labels on cans?” 

“Zeke only reads cereal boxes,” I joked. 

“Will you stop kidding around?” Zeke demanded impatiently. “We’ve got a 
real phantom in this school. And for some reason, he’s trying to mess up our 
play.” 

I was still studying Zeke’s face, trying to figure out if he was telling the 
truth. “I saw you talking to Andy Seltzer this morning before school,” I told 
Zeke. “You could have planned this whole phantom thing with him. You gave 
Andy the costume, right? You told him what to do. You and Andy planned out 
the whole thing. Right?” 

Zeke’s mouth dropped open. “Huh? Why would I do that?” 

“To scare me,” I replied. “To scare everyone. To make us think there’s a 
real phantom. And then when you get us really scared, you laugh and say 
‘gotcha!’ And we all feel like total jerks.” 

A smile crossed Zeke’s face. “Wish I’d thought of that,” he murmured. “But 
I’m serious, Brooke. I know you don’t believe me, but I didn’t plan anything 
with Andy. And I didn’t—” 

Tina hopped down from the stage. I guessed she’d been working on scenery 
behind the curtain. “Are you feeling better, Brooke?” she asked coldly. 

I turned to her. “Feeling better? I’m okay. What do you mean?” 

“You looked so stressed out onstage, I thought maybe you were sick,” Tina 
replied nastily. “Are you coming down with the flu? I hear there’s a really bad 
one going around.” 

“I’m fine,” I replied curdy. 

“Is this paint washable?” Brian asked Tina. 

Tina shrugged. “Beats me. Try turpentine.” She smiled at Brian. “You’re 
doing a good job on the backdrop.” Then she turned back to me and her smile 
faded. “At least someone is doing a good job on this play.” 

Before I could reply, she turned and hurried across the aisle and out the 
auditorium door. 

“She’s praying I get the flu,” I told Zeke. “Isn’t that sick?” 

He didn’t reply. He was thinking so hard about the Phantom, I don’t think 
he even heard me. 

“Do you think Tina could be doing all these terrible things?” I asked. “Just 
to frighten me away so she can be Esmerelda?” 

“That’s crazy,” Zeke replied softly. 

“Yeah. I guess,” I agreed. 

Brian just kept trying to peel the black paint off his hand. 

“Let’s go home,” I suggested. “It’s really late. Maybe we can talk about the 
Phantom later.” I climbed to my feet. 

Zeke glared up at me. “You still don’t believe me—do you?” he accused. 
“You still think this is all some plot just to scare you.” 

“Maybe. Maybe not,” I replied, climbing over him to get to the aisle. I 
really didn’t know what to think. 

Brian got up and followed me toward the door. I turned back to Zeke, who 
was still in his seat. “Are you coming? Are you going to walk with us?” 

Zeke stood up without replying. “Yeah. I guess.” 

We were heading down the hall to our lockers when Zeke suddenly stopped. 
“Oh. I forgot,” he uttered. 

“Forgot what?” I asked. It was nearly dinnertime. I was eager to get home. 
My mom was probably wondering if I’d been mn over by a bus or something. 
Mom always imagines me run over by a bus. I don’t really know why. I never 
knew anyone who was ever run over by a bus! 

“My math book,” Zeke said. “I have to go to the office. I left it in the 
auditorium the other night. I’ve got to see if anyone turned it in.” 

“I’ll see you later,” Brian said, backing down the hall. 

“Where do you live?” I called to him. 

He pointed in a direction. South, I think. “See you tomorrow!” He turned 
and jogged around the corner. 

I followed Zeke to Mr. Levy’s office. All the lights were on, but the office 
was empty, except for Dot, the secretary. She was shutting down her computer, 
getting ready to go home. 

“Did anyone turn in my math book?” Zeke asked her, leaning on the 
counter. 

“Math book?” She squinted back at Zeke thoughtfully. 

“I left it in the auditorium the other night,” Zeke said. “I thought maybe that 
guy Emile turned it in.” 

Dot’s expression turned to confusion. “Who? Who is Emile?” 

“You know,” Zeke replied. “The little old guy with the white hair. The night 
janitor.” 

Dot shook her head. “You’re a little mixed up, Zeke,” she said. “There’s no 
one named Emile who works at the school. We don’t have a night janitor.” 

14 

Tina Powell called me at home that night. “Just wanted to see how you’re 
feeling,” she said. “You looked so pale, Brooke.” 

“I’m not getting the flu!” I shouted. I really lost my cool. But I couldn’t 
help it. 

“I heard you sneezing a lot yesterday,” Tina said, pretending to be 
concerned. 

“I always sneeze a lot,” I replied. “Bye, Tina.” 

“Who was that other phantom who jumped onstage this afternoon?” Tina 
asked before I could hang up. 

“I don’t know,” I said. “I really—” 

“That was kind of scary,” Tina interrupted. “I hope you weren’t too scared 
or anything, Brooke.” 

“See you tomorrow, Tina,” I said coldly. 

I hung up the phone before she could say anything else. Tina was really 
becoming a pain, I decided. 

How much does she want to play Esmerelda? I found myself wondering. 

Just how much does she want the part? Enough to try to scare me away? 

Zeke called later and convinced me that Emile had to be our phantom. “He lied 
to us, right?” Zeke asked excitedly. “He told us he worked for the school. And he 
tried to frighten us. It’s got to be him,” Zeke insisted. 

“Yeah. Probably,” I replied, twirling the hair scrunchie on my wrist. 

“He’s the right size,” Zeke continued. “And he knew about the trapdoor.” 
Zeke took a breath. “And why was he there, Brookie? Why was he there in the 
auditorium at night?” 

“Because he’s the Phantom?” I asked. 

It made sense. 

I agreed to get to school early so that Zeke and I could tell Ms. Walker 
about Emile. 

That night I dreamed about the play. I was onstage in my costume. The 
spotlights were all on me. I stared out at the seats, filled with people. 

The auditorium grew silent. Everyone was waiting for Esmerelda to speak. 

I opened my mouth—and realized I didn’t remember what I was supposed 
to say. 

I stared out at the faces of the audience. 

I had forgotten everything. Every word. Every line. 

The words had all flown away, like birds leaving a nest. 

My nest was empty. My mind was a total blank. 

I stood there in panic. I couldn’t move. I couldn’t speak. 

I woke up in a cold sweat. My entire body trembled. My muscles had all 
knotted up. I had kicked all the covers onto the floor. 

What a horrible dream. 

I couldn’t wait to get dressed and get to school. I wanted to forget about 
that awful nightmare as quickly as I could. 

I had to walk Jeremy to school. So I didn’t get there as early as I wanted. 

Jeremy kept asking me about the play. He wanted to hear more about the 
Phantom. But I really didn’t feel like talking about it. I kept remembering my 
dream, remembering the panic of standing in front of three hundred people and 
looking like a total jerk. 

I dropped Jeremy off, then hurried across the street. I found Zeke waiting 
for me by the front door. He was staring impatiently at his watch. 

I don’t know why. It doesn’t have the correct time on it. It’s one of those 
digital watches with seventeen different controls on it. Zeke can’t figure out how 
to set it. He can play games on it—and play a dozen different songs. But he can’t 
get it to tell the time. 

“Sorry I’m late,” I said. 

He grabbed my arm and pulled me right into the classroom. He wouldn’t 
even let me get my books from my locker or take off my coat. 

We marched up to Ms. Walker, who was sitting behind her desk, glancing 
over the morning announcements. She smiled at us, but her smile faded as she 
saw the solemn looks on our faces. 

“Is something wrong?” Ms. Walker asked. 

“Could we speak to you?” Zeke whispered, glancing at the kids already in 
class. “In private?” 

Ms. Walker gazed up at the wall clock. “Can’t it wait? The bell is going to 
ring in two minutes.” 

“It will only take a minute,” Zeke promised. 

She followed us out into the hall and leaned her back against the tile wall. 

“What’s the problem?” 

“There’s a phantom in the school,” Zeke told her breathlessly. “A real one. 
Brooke and I have seen him.” 

“Whoa!” Ms. Walker murmured, raising both hands to say stop. 

“No! Really!” I insisted. “We did see him, Ms. Walker. In the auditorium. 
We sneaked in. To use the trapdoor, and—” 

“You did what?” she cried, narrowing her eyes first at me, then at Zeke. 

“I know, I know,” Zeke said, blushing. “We weren’t supposed to. But that’s 
not the point.” 

“There’s a phantom,” I said. “And he’s trying to stop the play.” 

“I know you think I’ve been doing all those things,” Zeke added. “But I 
haven’t. It’s the Phantom. He—” 

Ms. Walker raised her hands again. She started to say something, but the 
bell rang—right over our heads. 

We raised our hands to protect our ears. 

When the bell finally stopped clanging, Ms. Walker took a few steps toward 
the classroom door. It was really noisy inside. The kids were all taking 
advantage of her not being in there. 

“I’m sorry I upset you with that story,” she told us. 

“Huh?” Zeke and I both cried out. 

“I never should have told that old phantom story,” Ms. Walker said fretfully. 
“It got a lot of kids upset. I apologize for scaring you.” 

“But you didn’t!” Zeke protested. “We saw a guy, and—” 

“Have you been having nightmares about a phantom?” Ms. Walker 
demanded. 

She didn’t believe us. She didn’t believe a word we had said. 

“Listen—” I started. 

All three of us jumped when we heard a loud crash inside the room. A crash 
followed by wild laughter. 

“Let’s get inside,” Ms. Walker said. She pointed at Zeke. “No more 
practical jokes—okay? No more jokes. We want the play to be good, don’t we?” 
Before we could answer, she turned and hurried into the room. 

“What am I doing here?” Brian moaned. He shivered and stared up at the dark 
trees. “Why am I doing this?” 

“You came with us because you’re a nice guy,” I told him, patting the 

shoulder of his sweater. 

“No. Because I’m an idiot!” Brian corrected me. 

This was all Zeke’s idea. He came to my house after dinner. I told my 
parents we had our play rehearsal. A lie. 

Then Zeke and I walked to school. We met Brian on the front walk, where 
he’d promised to wait for us. 

“I can’t believe Ms. Walker didn’t believe us,” Zeke fretted. 

“Would you believe such a nutty story?” I demanded. 

“Well, we’re going to find the Phantom and prove we’re right,” Zeke said 
firmly. “We have no choice now. I mean, if Ms. Walker won’t help us, we’ll have 
to find him on our own.” 

“You just like a good adventure,” I teased him. 

He raised his eyes to mine. “Well, Brookie, if you’re too scared...” 

“But what am / doing here?” Brian repeated, staring at the dark school 
building. 

“We need all the help we can get!” I told him. 

I gave Zeke a shove. “Let’s go. I’ll show you who’s scared and who isn’t.” 

“I think I’m a little scared,” Brian admitted. “What if we get caught?” 

“Who’s going to catch us?” Zeke asked him. “You heard what Dot said in 
the office. There’s no night janitor.” 

“But what if there’s an alarm or something?” Brian demanded. “You know. 
A burglar alarm.” 

“For sure,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “Our school can’t even afford pencil 
sharpeners! No way they’ve got burglar alarms.” 

“Well, we’re going to have to break in,” Zeke said quietly, his eyes on the 
street. A station wagon rolled by without slowing. He tugged at the front doors 
again. “They’re locked tight.” 

“Maybe a side door?” Brian suggested. 

We crept around to the side of the building. The playground stretched out, 
silent and empty. The grass glowed all silvery under the bright half-moon. 

The side doors were locked, too. 

And the back door that led into the band room was also locked. 

I raised my eyes to the roof. The building hovered over us like some kind of 
dark creature. The windows reflected the white moonlight. It was the only light I 
could see. 

“Hey—that window is open!” Zeke whispered. 

We ran full speed up to the half-open window in a ground-floor classroom. 
It was the home ec room, I saw. Mrs. Lamston probably left the window open to 
let out the horrible smell of the muffins we baked that afternoon. 

Zeke raised both hands to the window ledge and hoisted himself up. Sitting 
on the ledge, he pushed the window open wider. 

A few seconds later, Brian and I followed him into the home ec room. The 
aroma of burned cranberry muffins lingered in the air. We tiptoed through the 
darkness to the door. 

“Ouch!” I cried out as I banged my thigh into a low table. 

“Be quiet!” Zeke scolded. 

“Hey—I didn’t do it on purpose!” I whispered back angrily. 

He was already out the door. Brian and I followed, moving slowly, 
carefully. 

The hall was even darker than the classroom. We kept pressed against the 
wall as we made our way toward the auditorium. 

My heart was racing. I felt all tingly. My shoes scraped loudly over the hard 
floor. 

Nothing to be afraid of, I told myself. It’s just the school building, the 
building you’ve been in a million times. And there’s no one else here. 

Just you. Zeke. Brian. And a phantom. 

A phantom who doesn’t want to be found. 

“I don’t think I like this,” Brian whispered as we edged our way around a 
corner. “I’m really pretty scared.” 

“Just pretend you’re in a scary movie,” I told him. “Pretend it’s just a 
movie.” 

“But I don’t like scary movies!” he protested. 

“Ssshhh,” Zeke warned. He stopped suddenly. I bumped right into him. 
“Try not to be a klutz, Brookie,” he whispered. 

“Try not to be a jerk, Zekey,” I replied nastily. 

I squinted into the darkness. We had reached the auditorium. 

Zeke pulled open the nearest door. We peered inside. Total blackness. The 
air in the auditorium felt cooler. 

Cool and damp. 

That’s because a ghost lives in here, I thought. 

That made my heart pump even harder. I wished I could control my 
thoughts a little better. 

Zeke fumbled with his hand against the wall and clicked on a row of lights 
over the section of seats to our left. The stage came into view. Empty and silent. 
Someone had left a ladder leaning against one wall. Several paint cans were 
lined up beside the ladder. 

“How about turning on ah the lights?” Brian suggested. He sounded really 
frightened. 

“No way,” Zeke replied, his eyes on the stage. “We want to take the 
Phantom by surprise, don’t we? We don’t want to warn him that we’re coming.” 

Huddled close together, we made our way slowly down the center aisle 
toward the stage. In the dim light, long shadows fell over the seats. 

Ghostly shadows, I thought. 

Did a shadow move near the stage? 

No. 

Stop it, Brooke, I scolded myself. Don’t let your imagination go wild. Not 
tonight. 

I kept moving my eyes back and forth, checking out the stage and the rows 
of seats as we slowly made our way to the front. 

Where is he? I wondered. Where is the Phantom? 

Does he live in that dark chamber so far below the stage? 

We were just a few feet from the stage when we heard the sound. 

A footstep? A floorboard creaking? 

All three of us stopped. A11 three of us heard it. 

I grabbed Zeke’s arm. I saw Brian’s green eyes go wide with fright. 

And then we heard another sound. A cough. 

“We’re... n-not alone!” I stammered. 

15 

“Wh-who’s there?” I called. But my voice caught in my throat. 

“Is anybody up there?” Zeke called to the stage. 

No reply. 

Another footstep. 

Brian took a step back. He grabbed the back of a seat and held on. 

“He’s back there,” Zeke said, leaning close to me, his eyes excited. “I know 
he’s back there.” 

“Where?” I demanded, choking out the word. It was hard to talk with my 
heart in my throat. 

I stared up at the stage. I couldn’t see anyone. 

I jumped when I heard another cough. 

And then a clanking sound rose up over the stage and echoed through the 
auditorium. 

At first I thought the trapdoor was about to move. 

Was someone riding up on it? Was the Phantom about to rise in front of our 
eyes? 

No. 

I cried out when I saw the backdrop begin to unfurl. 

The clanking sound grew louder. The backdrop was slowly being lowered 
at the back of the stage. 

“Who is doing it?” I whispered. “Who on earth is sending it down?” 

Zeke and Brian stared straight ahead and didn’t reply. 

Zeke’s mouth was wide open. His eyes didn’t blink. 

Brian gripped the back of the chair with both hands. 

The painted backdrop clanked down, unrolling as it lowered. 

All three of us gasped as we saw what had been done to it. 

It had been a gray brick theater wall. Brian and several other kids had 
worked for days on it, sketching it out, then painting it brick by brick. 

“Who—who did that to my painting?” Brian cried out. 

Zeke and I remained staring at it in silent horror. 

The gray wall had been covered with red paint splotches and thick, red 

smears. 

It looked as if someone had dipped a wide brush in red paint, then smeared 
and stabbed it all over the backdrop. 

“It’s mined!” Brian declared shrilly. 

Zeke was the first to move. He raised his hands to the stage floor and pulled 
himself up onto the stage. Brian and I followed after him. 

“Who’s here?” Zeke called out, cupping his hands around his mouth. 
“Who’s in here?” 

Silence. 

Someone is here, I knew. Someone had to lower that backdrop so that we 
could see what had been done to it. 

“Who’s here? Where are you?” Zeke repeated. 

Again, no reply. 

We moved closer, making our way slowly, keeping close together. 

And as we stepped up to it, words came into view. They were scrawled 
across the bottom, thick letters in heavy red paint. 

I stopped and squinted to read the message in the dim light: 

STAY AWAY FROM MY 
HOME SWEET HOME. 

“Whoa,” I murmured. I felt a chill roll down my back. 

Then I heard a side door being pulled open. 

All three of us turned away from the backdrop in time to see a figure step 
into the auditorium. 

We cried out in surprise when we saw who it was. 

16 

She stood gaping up at us. She blinked her eyes several times, as if she didn’t 
believe what she was seeing. 

“I—I am really shocked,” Ms. Walker said finally. 

I swallowed hard. I stmggled to say something, but no sound would come 
out. 

Zeke and Brian stood frozen like me. 

“I am so disappointed in all three of you,” Ms. Walker said, stepping closer. 
“Breaking and entering is a serious crime. And the three of you have no business 

She stopped short and let out a little gurgle as her eyes fell on the backdrop. 
She had been so surprised to find Zeke, Brian, and me onstage, she hadn’t seen it 
—until now. 

“Oh, no! Oh good heavens!” she cried, raising both hands to her face. She 
tilted. Sort of toppled from side to side. I thought she was about to fall over! 

“How could you?” she gasped. She hurried across the stage, her eyes on the 
paint-splotched backdrop. “How could you ruin it? All the students worked for 
so many days to get it right. How could you ruin it for everyone?” 

“We didn’t,” Zeke said quietly. 

“We didn’t do it,” I repeated. 

She shook her head hard, as if trying to shake us away. “I’m afraid I’ve 
caught you red-handed,” she said quietly, almost sadly. I saw tears brim in her 
eyes. 

“Ms. Walker, really—” I started. 

She raised a hand to stop me. “Was it so important to you three to have your 
little joke?” she asked, her voice trembling. 

“Ms. Walker—” 

“Was it so important to make everyone believe there is a phantom? So 
important that you broke into the school—committed a serious crime—and then 
completely destroyed the scenery for our play? Was your joke so important?” 

“We really didn’t do it,” I insisted, my voice trembling, too. 

Ms. Walker stepped forward and rubbed a finger over a red paint splotch on 
the backdrop. When she pulled the finger away, it was smeared with red paint. 

“The paint is still wet,” she said, her eyes burning accusingly into mine. 
“There’s no one else here. Are you going to keep lying to me all night?” 

“If you’d just give us a chance—” Zeke started. 

“I’m especially disappointed in you, Brian,” Ms. Walker said, shaking her 
head, a frown tightening her features. “You just started at this school a week or 
so ago. You should be on your best behavior.” 

Brian blushed redder than I’ve ever seen a human blush. He lowered his 
eyes, as if he were guilty. 

I took a deep breath. “Ms. Walker, you have to let us explain!” I cried 
shrilly. “We really didn’t do this! We found it like this! Really!” 

Ms. Walker opened her mouth to speak, but changed her mind. “Okay.” She 
crossed her arms over her skinny chest. “Go ahead. But I want the truth. ” 

“The truth,” I said. I raised my right hand, as if swearing an oath. “Brian, 
Zeke and I did sneak into the school. We didn’t really break in. We climbed in 
through a window.” 

“Why?” Ms. Walker demanded sternly. “What are you doing here? Why 
aren’t you home where you should be?” 

“We came to look for the Phantom,” Zeke broke in. He swept his blond hair 
back with one hand. He always did that to his hair when he was really tense. 

“We told you about the Phantom this morning, but you didn’t believe us.” 

“Of course I didn’t believe you!” Ms. Walker declared. “It’s an old legend. 
Just a story.” She frowned at Zeke. 

Zeke let out a frustrated sigh. “We saw the Phantom, Ms. Walker. Brooke 
and I. We saw him. He’s the one who painted all over the backdrop. Not us. He’s 
the one who swung down from the catwalk. And grabbed Brooke at rehearsal.” 

“Why should I believe that?” Ms. Walker demanded, her arms still tightly 
crossed in front her. 

“Because it’s true,” I said. “Zeke, Brian, and I—we came to the auditorium 
to look for the Phantom.” 

“Where were you going to look for him?” Ms. Walker asked. 

“Well,” Zeke stammered. “Probably underneath the stage.” 

“You were going to take the trapdoor down?” Ms. Walker asked. 

I nodded. “Maybe. If we had to.” 

“But I clearly instructed everyone to stay away from the trapdoor,” she said. 

“I know,” I told her. “And I’m sorry. We’re all sorry. But we are really 
desperate to find the Phantom, to prove to you that he is real, that we’re not 

making him up.” 

Her expression remained hard. She continued to glare at us. “I haven’t 
heard anything to convince me,” she said. 

“When we got here, we heard some noises,” Zeke told her, shifting 
uncomfortably from foot to foot. “Footsteps. Floorboards creaking. So we knew 
someone else was here.” 

“And then the backdrop started to come down,” Brian broke in, his voice 
shaky and small. “We just stood here and watched it, Ms. Walker. That’s the 
truth. And then when we saw how it was messed up, we... we couldn’t believe 
it!” 

Ms. Walker’s expression softened a little. Brian sounded so upset, I think 
she was starting to believe him. 

“I worked so hard on that backdrop,” Brian continued. “It was the first 
thing I ever worked on at this school, and I wanted it to be good. I wouldn’t 
wreck my own backdrop for a dumb joke. I really wouldn’t.” 

Ms. Walker uncrossed her arms. She glanced at each of us, then returned 
her eyes to the backdrop. Her lips silently formed the words of the scrawled 
message: 


STAY AWAY FROM MY 
HOME SWEET HOME. 

She shut her eyes and kept them shut for a long moment. Then she turned 
back to us. “I want to believe you,” she confessed with a sigh. “But I just don’t 
know.” 

She began to pace back and forth in front of us. “I drove back to school 
because I’d forgotten your math test papers. I heard voices in the auditorium. I 
come in here, and I find you on the stage. The scenery totally smeared and 
destroyed. The paint still wet. And you ask me to believe that a mysterious 
phantom from over seventy years ago is responsible.” 

I didn’t say a word. Neither did Zeke or Brian. I don’t think we had 
anything more to say. 

“The weird thing is, I’m starting to believe you,” Ms. Walker said, 
frowning. 

The three of us let out relieved sighs. 

“At least, I’m starting to believe that you didn’t paint on the backdrop.” She 

shook her hair hard. Her skinny body shuddered. “It’s getting late,” she said 
softly. “Let’s all go home. I need to think about this. Maybe we need to ask Mr. 
Levy for an investigation. Maybe he can help us find the culprit who is trying to 
ruin our play.” 

Oh, no, I thought. Not the principal. What if he decides to cancel our play? 
But I didn’t say anything. None of us did. We didn’t even look at one another. 
We followed Ms. Walker out into the hall. 

I was just so relieved that she had started to believe us. And that she was 
letting us go. 

She clicked on a hall light so we could see our way. 

We took a few steps, walking behind her. 

Then we all stopped at once. 

We all saw the red paint spots on the hall floor. A trail of red paint spots. 

“Well, look at this!” Ms. Walker declared. “Our painter was a little careless. 
He or she left a trail to follow.” 

She clicked on more lights. 

We followed the red paint splotches down the long hall. We could clearly 
see a shoe print in one of the bigger paint puddles. 

“I don’t believe this!” Zeke whispered to me. “Someone left a trail.” 

“I’m glad,” I whispered back. “Maybe the paint drips will lead us to the one 
who splotched up the backdrop.” 

“You mean the Phantom?” Zeke whispered. 

We turned a corner. We passed a small paint smear. 

“At least this will prove to Ms. Walker that we’re telling the truth,” Brian 
said softly. 

We turned another corner. 

The paint trail stopped suddenly. One last tiny red puddle stood in front of a 
locker. 

“Hmmmm,” Ms. Walker said thoughtfully, moving her eyes from the paint 
smear to the locker. “The trail seems to lead right to here.” 

“Hey!” Zeke cried out, startling all of us. I could see his eyes go wide with 
shock. “That’s my locker!” 

17 

No one said anything for a moment. 

I could hear Zeke’s breaths, short and fast. I turned to him. He was staring 
at his locker, staring hard at the gray metal door as if he could see inside. 

“Open your locker, Zeke,” Ms. Walker instructed. She said it through 
gritted teeth. 

“Huh?” Zeke gaped at her, as if he didn’t understand what she meant. He 
lowered his eyes to the smear of red paint on the floor under his locker door. 

“Go ahead. Open your locker,” Ms. Walker repeated patiently. She suddenly 
looked very tired. 

Zeke hesitated. “But there’s nothing in there,” he protested. “Just books and 
notebooks and stuff.” 

“Please.” Ms. Walker motioned to the combination lock with one hand. 
“Please, Zeke. It’s really late.” 

“But you don’t think—?” Zeke started. 

Ms. Walker motioned to the lock again. 

“Maybe somebody wanted to make it look like Zeke was the one with the 
paint,” I suggested. “Maybe someone deliberately made that trail of paint lead to 
Zeke’s locker.” 

“Maybe,” Ms. Walker replied calmly. “That’s why I want him to open his 
locker.” 

“Okay, okay,” Zeke muttered. His hand shook as he reached for the 
combination lock. He leaned his head forward and concentrated as he spun the 
dial, first one direction, then the other. 

“Give me some light,” he said edgily. 

I backed up. “Sorry.” I didn’t realize I was standing in his light. 

I glanced at Brian. He had his hands shoved in his pockets. He leaned 
against the wall and stared intently at Zeke’s hands as Zeke twirled the lock. 

Finally, Zeke pulled the lock open with a loud click. 

He lifted the handle and pulled open the door. 

I leaned forward to peer inside at the same time as Ms. Walker. We nearly 
bumped heads. 

We both saw the can of paint at the same time. 

A small can of red paint resting on the locker floor. 

The lid wasn’t on tight. Splashes of red paint dripped over the side of the 

can. 

“But it isn’t mine!” Zeke wailed. 

Ms. Walker let out a long sigh. “I’m sorry, Zeke.” 

“It isn’t mine!” Zeke whined. “Really, Ms. Walker! It isn’t!” 

“I’m going to call your parents to come in for a serious talk,” Ms. Walker 
said, biting her lower lip. “And, of course, you’re out of the play.” 

“Oh, nooo!” Zeke moaned. He slammed the locker door shut as hard as he 
could. The crash echoed down the long, empty hall. 

Ms. Walker flinched from the sound. She flashed Zeke an angry look. Then 
she turned to Brian and me. “So you two were also involved? Tell the truth!” 

“No!” Brian and I both called out. “We didn’t do it,” I added. I started to 
say, “Neither did Zeke.” 

But I could see that it was too late. There was no way to argue against the 
can of paint in the locker. 

Zeke was a cooked goose. 

“If I find out that you and Brian had anything to do with it, I’ll remove you 
from the play and call your parents in, too,” Ms. Walker threatened. “Now go 
home. All of you.” 

We turned and trudged out the door without another word. 

The night air felt cold against my hot skin. I shivered. 

The half-moon was covered by a sheet of gray mist. The mist looked like a 
ghostly figure floating over the moon. 

I followed Zeke and Brian down the concrete steps. A gust of wind made 
my jacket flap behind me. 

“Do you believe it?” Zeke muttered angrily. “Do you believe it?” 

“No,” I replied, shaking my head. Poor Zeke. I could see he was really 
messed up. And when his parents got that call from Ms. Walker, Zeke was going 
to be even more messed up! 

“How did that paint get in your locker?” Brian asked him, his eyes peering 
into Zeke’s. 

Zeke turned away. “How should I know?” he snapped. 

We made our way to the sidewalk. Zeke angrily kicked an empty cardboard 
juice box into the street. 

“See you tomorrow, I guess,” Brian said unhappily. He gave us a little 

wave, then turned and started walking slowly toward his house. 

Zeke jogged off in the other direction. 

“Aren’t you going to walk home with me?” I called. 

“No,” he shouted back, and kept going. 

In a way I was glad he had left. I didn’t really know what to say to him. 

I just felt so bad. 

I started walking slowly, my head down, thinking hard, when I saw a small, 
round light floating toward me through the darkness. 

The light grew bigger. I realized it was a bicycle headlight. The bike turned 
out of the school parking lot and rolled smoothly, steadily toward me. 

When it was a few feet away, I recognized the bike rider. “Tina!” I cried in 
surprise. “What are you doing here?” 

She squealed to a stop, bouncing in the seat. Her dark eyes caught the light 
of the streetlamp above us. She smiled. An odd smile. 

“Hi, Brooke. How’s it going?” she asked. 

Was she in the school? I wondered. Did she just come out of the school? 

“Where’d you come from?” I repeated. 

Her strange smile remained on her face. “A friend’s,” she said. “I’m just 
coming from a friend’s.” 

“Were you in the school?” I blurted out. 

“The school? No. Not me,” she replied. She shifted her weight, then raised 
her feet to the pedals. “Better zip up that jacket, Brooke,” she said. “You don’t 
want to catch a cold, do you?” 

18 

On Saturday we had play rehearsals all day long in the auditorium. The 
performance was only a week away. 

We all worked hard, and the rehearsal went well. I only forgot my lines 
twice. 

But it wasn’t the same without Zeke. 

Robert Hernandez had taken Zeke’s place. I like Robert, but he’s a very 
serious guy. He doesn’t get my jokes, and he doesn’t like to kid around or be 
kidded. 

After lunch, Robert and Corey were rehearsing a scene together. Ms. 
Walker still hadn’t returned from lunch. 

I wandered over to Brian. He had a paintbrush in his hand, dripping with 
black paint. He was leaning over the new backdrop, putting some final touches 
on the gray bricks. 

“Looks good,” I told him. I had a sudden urge to slap him on the back and 
make him smear black paint all over. But I decided that might not go over too 
well. 

I don’t know where these sudden urges come from. 

“How’s it going?” Brian asked without looking up. He was filling in some 
spots he had missed. 

“Okay, I guess,” I replied. Across the stage, I saw Tina working with a large 
glue pot. She was brushing a thick layer of glue onto a cardboard chandelier. 

“Robert is going to be a good phantom,” Brian said, scratching his chin 
with the tip of the paintbrush handle. 

“Yeah,” I agreed. “But I kind of miss Zeke.” 

Brian nodded. Then he turned to look up at me. “You know what? There 
hasn’t been one practical joke since Zeke left. No scenery ruined. No mysterious 
phantoms leaping out at us. No threatening words scrawled on the walls. 
Nothing. Nothing bad since Ms. Walker kicked Zeke out.” 

I hadn’t thought about it until that second. But Brian was right. Ever since 
Zeke had been removed from the play, the Phantom had totally disappeared. 

Everything had been going so smoothly. I hadn’t even stopped to realize it. 

Did this mean that Zeke actually was the Phantom? That Zeke had been 

doing all those horrible things after all? 

“Did Zeke’s parents have a cow when Ms. Walker called them in to 
school?” Brian asked. “Did he get punished?” 

“For sure,” I replied, still thinking about the Phantom. “His parents 
grounded him for life. And they took away his VCR. That means no horror 
movies. Zeke can’t live without horror movies!” 

Brian snickered. “Maybe Zeke has seen too many horror movies,” he said. 

“Okay, people!” a voice called loudly. I turned to see that Ms. Walker had 
returned from lunch. “Let’s take it from the opening of Act Two,” she called. 
“We’ll do the whole act.” 

I said good-bye to Brian and hurried to the front of the stage. Esmerelda 
was in just about every scene of Act Two. This time, I was determined to 
remember every word. 

As I stepped beside Robert, I saw Ms. Walker pick up her script from the 
table where she always left it. She grasped it in both hands and started to open it 
to Act Two. 

I watched her expression change as her hands worked at the script. She let 
out a short, angry cry. Then she tugged some more at the thick script. 

“Hey—” she shouted angrily. “Now who’s the joker?” 

“Ms. Walker, what’s wrong?” Robert called. 

She raised the script and shook it furiously. 

“The pages of my script—they’ve all been glued together!” she fumed. 

Startled gasps rose up around the stage. 

“That’s it!” Ms. Walker cried. She heaved the script at the wall. “That was 
the last joke! The play is canceled! Everybody go home! It’s canceled!” 

19 

“Did Ms. Walker change her mind?” Zeke asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. She calmed down after a few seconds and said the play 
could go on. But she was in a really bad mood for the rest of the day.” 

“At least this time she couldn’t blame me,” Zeke said quietly. He tossed a 
pink rubber ball across the living room, and Buster, his black cocker spaniel, 
went scrambling after it. 

Brian and I had dropped by Zeke’s house to tell him how things were going. 
Zeke was grounded—probably forever—and couldn’t leave the house. His 
parents were at the movies. They’d be home in a few hours. 

Buster dropped the ball and started barking at Brian. 

Zeke laughed. “He doesn’t like you, Brian.” He picked up the ball and 
bounced it over the carpet again. 

But Buster ignored the ball and kept barking at Brian. 

Brian blushed. He reached out to pet the dog’s head. “What’s your problem, 
fella? I’m not a bad guy.” 

Buster scampered away from Brian and crossed the room to search for the 
ball, which had rolled into the hallway. 

“Well, I guess this proves there’s some other joker in the class,” Zeke said, 
his smile fading. He settled back on the couch. “Guess this proves that it wasn’t 
me doing all the bad things.” 

I started to make a joke, but I caught the serious expression on Zeke’s face. 
So I didn’t say anything. 

“There’s a phantom, and it isn’t me,” Zeke said. “And now everyone thinks 
I’m a liar. Ms. Walker thinks I tried to ruin the play. Even my parents think I’ve 
turned into a bad guy.” 

“You were a much better phantom than Robert,” I said, trying to cheer him 
up. “There’s less than a week to go, and Robert still keeps messing up his lines. 
He says he’s sorry he tried out for the play. He doesn’t even want to be in it 
now.” 

Zeke jumped to his feet. “If we could prove that I’m not the Phantom, I’ll 
bet Ms. Walker would give the part back to me.” 

“Uh-oh,” I said. I could see Zeke’s mind working. I knew what he was 

going to say next. 

“Uh-oh,” Brian echoed. He also knew what Zeke was going to say. 

“Let’s go to school,” Zeke said, his eyes wide with excitement. “Let’s find 
the Phantom this time. I really want to get my part back.” 

I shook my head. “No way, Zeke—” I started. 

“I really want to show everyone that I didn’t try to min the play,” Zeke 
insisted. 

Brian tossed the ball to the dog. The dog watched it bounce away. “But 
you’re grounded, remember?” Brian said to Zeke. 

Zeke shrugged. “If we find the Phantom and prove that I’m innocent, my 
parents will be glad I went. And I won’t be grounded anymore. Come on, guys. 
One more try. Please?” 

I stared back at Zeke, thinking hard. I didn’t think it was a good idea. The 
last time we sneaked into the auditorium, we ended up in major trouble. 

I could see by Brian’s expression that he didn’t want to go, either. 

But how could we say no to Zeke? He was practically begging us! 

It was a warm night, but I felt chilled just the same. As we walked to school, I 
kept seeing shadows moving close as if reaching for us. But when I turned to see 
them, they vanished. 

Brooke, you have too much imagination, I scolded myself. 

I wished my heart would stop thudding like a bass drum. 

I wished I were home, watching TV with Jeremy. I had a bad feeling about 
our little adventure. Avery bad feeling. 

We didn’t waste any time trying the doors. We climbed into the school 
through the same home ec room window. Then, once again we made our way 
silently down the dark halls to the auditorium. 

One row of lights had been left on at the back of the seats. The stage lay 
dark and bare, except for the gray brick backdrop against the back wall. 

Zeke led the way down the center aisle. He had given us each a flashlight. 
We clicked them on as we made our way to the stage. The beams of light played 
over the empty rows of seats. I raised mine to the stage and swept it from side to 
side. 

No one up there. No sign of anything unusual. 

“Zeke, this is a waste of time,” I said, whispering even though no one could 
hear us. 

He raised a finger to his lips. “We’re going down below the stage,” Zeke 
said quietly, his eyes straight ahead. “And we’re going to find him, Brooke. This 
time, we’re going to find him.” 

I had never seen Zeke so serious, so determined. A chill of fear went slowly 
down my back. But I decided not to argue with him. 

“Uh... maybe I should stay up on the stage while you two go down,” Brian 
suggested. “I could stand guard.” 

“Stand guard against what?” Zeke demanded, raising his flashlight to 
Brian’s face. 

I could see Brian’s frightened expression. “Against... anyone who might 
come,” he replied weakly. 

“All three of us have to go down,” Zeke insisted. “If we do find the 
Phantom, I want two witnesses—you and Brooke.” 

“But the Phantom is a qhost —right?” Brian demanded. “How do we find a 
ghost?” 

Zeke glared at him. “We’ll find him.” 

Brian shrugged. We could both see that there was no point in arguing with 
Zeke tonight. 

The floorboards on the stage creaked as we made our way to the trapdoor. 
Our flashlights moved over the outline of the square platform in the floor. 

Brian and I huddled close together in the center of the square. Zeke 
stomped hard on the little wooden peg, then jumped beside us. 

We heard the familiar clanking sound. Then the gentle hum as the platform 
started to lower. The stage appeared to rise up all around us. In a few seconds, 
we were surrounded by four black walls. 

The light from our flashlights washed over the walls as we sank lower and 
lower under the stage. My heart felt as if it were sinking, too—down to my 
knees! 

The three of us stood pressed together in the center of the platform. The 
clanking and grinding sounds grew louder as we went down. Finally, we hit the 
bottom with a hard thud. 

For a few seconds, none of us moved. 

Zeke was the first to step off the platform. He raised his flashlight and 
swept it slowly around. We were in the middle of a large, empty chamber. It 
tunneled out in two directions. 

“Here, Phantom! Here, boy!” Zeke called softly, as if calling his dog. 

“Here, Phantom. Where are you, Phantom?” he called in a singsong voice. 

I stepped off the platform and gave him a shove. “Stop it,” I insisted. “I 
thought you were serious about this. Why are you making a joke of it?” 

“Just trying to keep you from getting too scared,” Zeke replied. But, of 
course, I knew the truth. He was trying to keep himself from getting too scared. 

I turned back to Brian. In the dim light, he looked scared enough for both of 
us! “There’s no one down here. Can we go back up now?” he pleaded. 

“No way,” Zeke told him. “Follow me. Keep your light down on the ground 
so we can see where we’re going.” 

Walking side by side, Brian and I followed Zeke into the chamber. We 
stepped into a long tunnel, took a few steps, then stopped to listen. 

Silence. 

My legs were trembling. In fact, my entire body was shaking. But Zeke was 
acting so brave. There was no way I’d let him know how frightened I was. 

“This tunnel probably stretches all the way under the school,” Zeke 
whispered, moving his light ahead of us. “Maybe even farther. Maybe it goes 
under the entire block!” 

We took another few steps—then stopped when we heard a noise behind us. 

A clanking, followed by a loud hum. 

“Hey!” Brian cried out shrilly. “The trapdoor!” 

All three of us spun around and started running back toward it. Our heavy 
footsteps echoed loudly through the dark tunnel. 

My chest was aching so hard by the time we got back to the trapdoor 
platform, I could hardly breathe. 

“It—it’s going back up!” Zeke cried. 

We stood there helplessly, gazing at the platform as it rose over our heads, 
climbing back up to the stage. 

“Push the switch!” Zeke cried to me. “Bring it back down!” 

I fumbled on the wall till I found the switch. I tried to move it. But it was 
stuck. 

No. It had been locked. 

It wouldn’t budge. 

The trapdoor platform stopped high above us. 

A heavy silence fell over the three of us as we stared up in the darkness. 

“Zeke, now we’re trapped down here,” I uttered. “There’s no way back up. 
We’re totally trapped.” 

20 

We waited to see if someone was coming down. But the trapdoor remained 
closed up there. 

Brian let out a frightened sigh. “Somebody did it,” he whispered, staring up 
to the platform. “Somebody pushed the switch and sent it back up.” 

“The Phantom!” I cried. I turned to Zeke. “Now what?” 

Zeke shrugged. “Now we have no choice. If we want to get out of here, we 
have to find the Phantom!” 

Our circles of yellow light trembled over the floor as we turned and headed 
back into the tunnel. No one said a word as we followed it around one curve, 
then another. 

The floor became soft and muddy. The air grew cooler. 

I heard a soft, chittering sound in the distance. I hoped it wasn’t a bat. 

Brian and I had to hurry to keep up with Zeke. 

He was taking long strides, his flashlight swinging back and forth in front 
of him. 

Suddenly, I heard low, musical humming. It took me a while to realize it 
was coming from Zeke. He was humming a tune to himself. 

Come on, Zeke, give me a break! I thought. You’ve got to be scared! You 
can’t fool me with a little cheerful humming. You are as scared as I am! 

I started to tease him about it. But the tunnel suddenly ended, and we found 
ourselves at a low doorway. Brian hung back. But Zeke and I stepped up to the 
door, our flashlights beaming over it. 

“Anyone in there?” Zeke called in a strange, tiny voice. 

No reply. 

I reached out and pushed the door. It creaked open. Zeke and I raised our 
flashlights and aimed them inside. 

A room. All furnished. I saw a folding chair. A beat-up couch with one of 
the cushions missing. Bookshelves along one wall. 

My flashlight fell over a small table. A bowl and a box of cornflakes stood 
on the table. I swept the light around and saw a small, unmade bed against the 
far wall. 

Zeke and Brian followed me into the room. Our beams of light slid slowly 

over every object, every piece of furniture. An old-fashioned record player stood 
on a low table. A stack of old records was piled beside it. 

“Do you believe this?” Zeke whispered. A grin spread over his face. 

“I think we’ve found the Phantom’s home,” I whispered back. 

His flashlight tilting in front of him, Brian made his way to the table. He 
peered down at the cereal bowl. “The Phantom—he was just here,” Brian said. 
“The cereal isn’t soggy yet.” 

“This is amazing!” I cried. “Someone actually lives down here, way below 
the—” 

I stopped because I felt a sneeze coming on. Maybe a whole sneezing fit. 

I tried to hold it in. But I couldn’t. I sneezed once. Twice. Five times. 

“Stop it, Brooke!” Brian pleaded. “He’ll hear you!” 

“But we want to find him,” Zeke reminded Brian. 

I sneezed seven times. Then one more for good luck. Finally, I was all 
sneezed out. 

“He heard that. I know he did,” Brian fretted. His eyes darted around in fear. 
The door slammed shut. 

“Nooo!” We all jumped and cried out. 

My heart leaped to my mouth. Every muscle in my body tied itself into a 

knot. 

We turned to stare at the door. Someone had closed it, I knew. It hadn’t been 
blown shut by any wind. 

Zeke was the first to move. Lowering his flashlight, he hurtled to the door. 
He grabbed the knob and pushed hard. 

The door didn’t budge. 

Zeke lowered his shoulder against the door. Twisting the knob, he pushed 
again. 

Still no success. 

He banged his shoulder against the door. Pushed again. Strained against the 
door with all his weight. 

When he turned back to us, his face revealed his fear for the first time. “We 
—we’re locked in,” he said softly. 

21 

I rushed up beside Zeke. “Maybe if all three of us try,” I suggested. 

“Maybe,” Zeke replied. But I could see he didn’t have much hope. 

I swallowed hard. Seeing Zeke so frightened made me even more 
frightened. 

“Yeah. Let’s all push together,” Brian agreed, stepping up beside me. “We 
can break the door down if we have to.” 

Way to go, Brian! I thought. He’s finally showing some spirit. 

We lined up against the door and prepared to push. 

I took another deep breath and held it. I was trying to calm myself down. 
My arms and legs felt as if they were made of chewing gum. 

This is just so scary, I realized. If we are locked in this tiny room and can’t 
get out, we could be here for the rest of our lives. We are miles and miles away 
from the rest of the world. 

Everyone will search and search up above. And they’ll never find us. And 
even if we yell and scream at the tops of our lungs for help, there’s no way 
anyone could hear us. 

We’ll be trapped here forever. 

I took another deep breath. “Okay, on the count of three,” I said. “On three, 
everybody push.” 

Zeke started to count. “One... two...” 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I interrupted. I stared at the door. “We pushed the 
door to get in here—right?” 

“Yeah, I guess,” Zeke replied, staring hard at me. 

“So it won’t push open from inside,” I said. “We have to pull it open.” 

“Hey—you’re right!” Zeke cried. 

I grabbed the knob, twisted it, and pulled hard. 

The door slid open easily. 

And there was a man standing in the doorway. 

My flashlight moved up to his face. I recognized him instantly. 

Emile. The little, white-haired man who said he was the night janitor. 

He blocked the doorway and glared in at us, an ugly, menacing scowl on his 

scarred face. 

22 

“Let us go!” I shrieked. 

He didn’t move. His strange, gray eyes moved from Zeke to Brian to me. 

“You have to let us out of here!” I insisted. And then I added meekly, 
“Please?” 

His scowl grew even angrier. The light from the flashlight made the long 
scar on his cheek look even deeper. 

He didn’t budge from the doorway. “Why are you down here?” he 
demanded in his hoarse whisper of a voice. “Why are you in my home?” 

“So—you are the Phantom!” I blurted out. 

He narrowed his eyes at me in surprise. “Phantom?” His expression turned 
thoughtful. “I guess you could call me that.” 

Brian uttered a low cry. 

“This is my home sweet home,” the man said angrily. “Why are you here? 
Why didn’t you listen to my warnings?” 

“Your warnings?” I asked. I was shaking so hard, the light from my 
flashlight was dancing all over the wall. 

“I did everything I could to keep you away,” the Phantom said. “To keep 
you from my home.” 

“You mean the paint on the backdrop? Swinging down from the catwalk? 
The scary mask in my locker with the note?” I cried in astonishment. 

The Phantom nodded. “I tried to warn you. I didn’t want to hurt anyone. 
But I had to protect my home.” 

“And so you tried to stop our play?” Zeke demanded, huddling close to me. 
“You tried to ruin our play so we wouldn’t use the trapdoor and find you down 
here?” 

The Phantom nodded. 

“And what happened seventy-two years ago?” I asked him. “What 
happened to you the first time the play was supposed to be performed? Why did 
you disappear that night?” 

The Phantom’s expression changed. I saw confusion in his silvery eyes. “I 
—I don’t understand,” he stammered, staring hard at me, his white hair falling 
over his forehead. 

“Seventy-two years ago,” I insisted. 

A bitter smile formed on his lips. “Hey, I’m not that old!” he replied. “I’m 
only fifty-seven.” 

“Then... you’re not the Phantom?” Zeke asked uncertainly. 

Emile shook his head. He let out a weary sigh. “I don’t understand this 
Phantom talk, young man. I’m just a poor homeless guy trying to protect my 
little space.” 

All three of us studied him, trying to decide if he was telling the truth. I 
decided that he was. “You’ve been living here under the school?” I asked softly. 
“How did you know about this room down here?” 

“My father worked at the school for thirty years,” Emile replied. “He used 
to bring me here with him when I was a kid. When I lost my apartment in town, I 
remembered this space. I’ve been living here ever since. For nearly six months 
now.” 

His eyes glared angrily again. He brushed the hair off his forehead as his 
ugly scowl returned. “But you’re mining it for me, aren’t you?” he said sharply. 
“You’re ruining it all for me.” 

He moved quickly, stepping from the doorway, entering the room, walking 
toward us with that menacing expression. 

I stumbled back. “Wh-what are you going to do to us?” I cried. 

23 

“You mined everything. Everything,” he repeated, moving toward us. 

“Now, wait—” I cried, raising my hands as if to shield myself. 

Then I heard a sound. From out in the tunnel. A low clanking sound. 

I turned to Zeke and Brian. They heard it, too. 

The trapdoor! It was moving. Coming down. We could hear it at the other 
end of the tunnel. 

I think all three of us had the same idea at once. We had to get to that 
trapdoor. It was our only chance of escape. 

“You ruined everything,” Emile repeated, suddenly sounding more sad than 
angry. “Why didn’t you listen to my warnings?” 

Without saying a word to each other, Zeke, Brian, and I charged for the 
door. “Oh!” I bumped into Emile as I scooted past. 

To my surprise, he didn’t reach out to grab me, didn’t try to stop me. 

I led the way out the door, running at full speed. My legs still felt as rubbery 
as chewing gum. But I forced them to move. One running step, then another. 

I didn’t glance back. But I could hear Zeke and Brian at my heels. And then 
I heard Emile’s voice echoing through the tunnels: “You ruined everything. 
Everything!” 

Was Emile chasing after us? 

I didn’t care. I just wanted to get to that trapdoor platform and get out of 
there! 

I plunged blindly through the dark, curving tunnel. My sneakers sank into 
the soft dirt floor as I ran. My shoulder scraped the rough wall, but I didn’t slow 
down. 

The light bounced over the ground at my feet. I raised it as the trapdoor 
platform came into view. I was gasping for breath. My side ached from running. 

“Huh? What are you doing down here?” a man’s voice called. 

Zeke’s dad! 

Zeke, Brian, and I scrambled on to the platform, squeezing beside him. 

“What’s going on?” Mr. Matthews demanded. “Whose voice is that?” 

“Up!” I managed to choke out. “Take us up.” 

Zeke reached out and flipped the switch. This time it moved. 

With a hard jerk, the platform started to raise itself. 

I gazed back to the tunnel. Had Emile followed after us? 

No. No sign of him. 

He hadn’t even chased us. 

Weird, I thought. So weird. 

“I heard a man’s voice. Who was that?” Mr. Matthews demanded again. 

“A homeless guy. Living beneath the stage,” I said, explaining what 
happened and how he had been trying to scare us for weeks. 

“How did you know we were down there?” Zeke asked his dad. 

“You were supposed to be at home,” he replied sternly. “You were 
grounded. You’re still grounded. But when you weren’t at home, I figured I’d 
find you poking around the stage again. The side door to the school was open. I 
entered the auditorium and heard the trapdoor moving. I decided to see what was 
going on.” 

“I’m so glad!” I cried. I felt like hugging Mr. Matthews. 

As soon as the platform stopped, we scrambled to the stage. Zeke’s dad 
hurried to call the police. He told them there was a homeless guy living under 
the school. 

The police arrived quickly. We watched them go down the trapdoor. We 
waited for them to bring Emile up. But they returned a few minutes later without 
him. 

“No one down there,” an officer reported. He removed his helmet and 
scratched his black, wavy hair. “No sign of anyone, either. Just a bed and some 
old furniture.” 

“What about his food? His books?” I asked. 

“All gone,” the officer replied. “Guess he cleared out real fast. The 
basement door was still slightly open.” 

After the police left, Brian said good night and headed out of the 
auditorium. Zeke’s dad was going to drive me home. 

I turned to Zeke. “So, there’s your Phantom,” I said with a little sadness. 
“Just a poor homeless man. Not a seventy-two-year-old ghost who’s been 
haunting the school since it was built. Just a poor homeless man.” 

“Yeah, it’s disappointing,” Zeke replied, frowning. “I really wanted to meet 
a real ghost, a real phantom.” His expression brightened. “But at least now Ms. 
Walker will believe me. And I’ll get my part in the play back.” 

The play. I’d almost forgotten about the play. 

Zeke was right, I thought happily. He’ll get his part back now. Everything 
will go fine. 

The Phantom is gone. 

Now we can all relax, I thought. Now we can enjoy ourselves and put on a 
great performance. 

Wow. Was I wrong! 

24 

The night of the performance, I sat in the girls’ dressing room, smearing globs of 
stage makeup all over my face. I’d never worn so much makeup before, and 
didn’t think I was doing it right. I didn’t even want to wear the gunk in the first 
place. 

But Ms. Walker said we all had to. Even the guys. She said it cuts down on 
the glare from the lights and makes your face less shiny on stage. 

It was a wild scene in the girls’ dressing room. We were all struggling into 
our costumes and brushing on makeup. Lisa Rego and Gia Bentley—two fifth- 
graders who didn’t even have big parts in the play—were hogging the full-length 
mirror, laughing and giggling and admiring themselves. 

By the time I got to check myself out, the stage manager was calling, 
“Places! Places, everyone!” 

My stomach jumped. Calm down, Brooke, I ordered myself. This is 
supposed to be fun—remember? 

I stepped out of the dressing room, crossed the hall, entered the auditorium 
through the stage door, and took my place at the side of the stage. Someone 
tapped me on the shoulder, and I jumped a mile. Man, was I jittery! 

I whirled around and found myself face-to-face with the Phantom! 

I knew it was only Zeke in his costume and mask, but he startled me just 
the same. “Zeke! You look so real! You look awesome!” I told him. 

Zeke didn’t reply. He gave me a very formal bow from the waist, then 
hurried to take his place. 

The curtain was closed. But I could hear the steady rumble of voices out in 
the auditorium. I peeked out of the side of the curtain. Wow! Every seat was 
filled. That thought sent my stomach doing jumping jacks all over again. 

The lights began to dim. The audience instantly became silent. The stage 
lights went up. The music started. 

Go for it, Brooke, I told myself. Just go for it! 

The play didn’t get strange until the end of the first act. We were all doing really 
well until then. 

When the curtain opened, and the audience applauded the set, I stepped out 

onstage with Corey. And I completely forgot about my stage fright. 

“Be careful, daughter,” Corey warned, playing my father. “There’s a 
creature living beneath this theater. A twisted phantom, scarred and ugly.” 

“I do not believe you, Father,” I replied as Esmerelda. “You are only trying 
to control me, to keep me a child!” 

The audience seemed to be having a great time. They laughed in the right 
places and applauded several times. 

This is excellent! I thought. I was excited without being nervous. I was 
enjoying every minute of the performance. 

And as the first act drew near its end, I knew the real highlight of the show 
was coming. A fog of dry ice swept slowly over the stage. Blue lights swirled 
through the twisting fog, making it appear eerie and unreal. 

I heard the clank of the trapdoor. I knew it was carrying Zeke in his 
Phantom costume up from down below. 

In seconds, the Phantom would make his big entrance, rising up in the blue 

fog. 

The audience will love it, I thought, watching the fog billow up over my 
long, yellow dress. 

“Phantom, is that you?” I called. “Are you coming to see me?” 

The Phantom’s blue-and-green mask floated up in the fog. Then his black- 
caped shoulders hovered into view. 

The audience gasped and then cheered as the Phantom rose, standing stiffly 
in the fog, his black cape billowing out behind him. 

And then he stepped toward me, walking slowly, majestically. 

“Oh, Phantom! We are together at last!” I cried with all the emotion I could 
put into it. “I have dreamed of this moment for so long!” 

I took his gloved hand and led him through the swirls of blue fog to the 
front of the stage. 

A white spotlight captured us both. 

I turned to face him. Stared into his eyes behind the blue-and-green mask. 

And realized instantly that it wasn’t Zeke! 

25 

I started to cry out. But he squeezed my hand. 

His eyes burned into mine. He seemed to be begging me with his eyes, 
begging me not to say anything, not to give him away. 

Who is he? I wondered, frozen in the bright spotlight. Why does he look 
familiar? 

I turned back to the audience. Silent. Waiting for me to speak. 

I took a deep breath and said Esmerelda’s next line. “Phantom, why do you 
haunt this theater? Please tell me your story. I will not be afraid.” 

The Phantom swept his cape behind him. His eyes were still locked on 
mine. His gloved hand still squeezed mine tightly, as if to keep me from 
escaping. 

“I have lived under this theater for more than seventy years,” he declared. 
“My story is a sad one. You might even call it tragic, my fair Esmerelda.” 

“Please continue!” I exclaimed. 

Who is he? I asked myself. Who? 

“I was chosen to star in a play,” the Phantom revealed. “A play in this very 
theater. It was to be the greatest night of my life!” 

He paused to take a long, deep breath. 

My heart skipped a beat. He isn’t reciting the script, I realized. Those aren’t 
the right words. 

What is he saying? 

“But my great night was never to be!” the Phantom continued, still gripping 
my hand. “You see, my dear Esmerelda, an hour before the play was to begin, I 
fell. I plunged to my death!” 

I gasped. He was pointing to the trapdoor. 

I realized who he was now. He was the boy who had disappeared. The boy, 
seventy-two years ago, who was to star as the Phantom. But disappeared and 
was never found. 

Here he was, standing beside me on the same stage. Here he was, revealing 
to us all how he had disappeared, why the play was never performed. 

“There!” he cried, pointing to the opening in the stage floor. “That’s where I 
fell! There! I fell to my death. I became a real phantom. And I’ve waited down 

there ever since, waiting, waiting. Hoping for a night like tonight where I could 
finally play my greatest role!” 

As he finished this speech, the audience burst into cheers and loud 
applause. 

They think it’s part of the play, I realized. They don’t know the true pain 
behind his words. They don’t know that he’s revealing his true story to them. 

The Phantom took a deep bow. The applause grew even louder. 

The fog billowed over us both. 

Who is he ? Who ? 

The question repeated in my mind. 

I had to know the answer. I had to know who the Phantom was. 

As he stood up from his bow, I pulled my hand free of his. 

Then I reached up—and tugged off his mask! 

26 

I squinted into the thick, blue fog, desperate to see his face. 

The bright spotlight flashed in my eyes, blinding me for a moment. 

In that moment, the Phantom covered his face with both hands. 

I reached to pull away his hands. 

“No!” he screamed. “No—you can’t!” 

He staggered back, away from me. 

Staggered and lost his balance. 

“No! No!” he cried. “You can’t! You can’t!” 

And toppled backwards. 

Into the open trapdoor. 

And vanished in the swirling blue fog. 

I heard his scream all the way down. 

Then silence. 

A horrible, still silence. 

The audience rose to its feet and burst into loud applause and cries of 
“Bravo!” 

They all thought it was part of the play. 

But I knew better. I knew that the Phantom had finally revealed himself 
after seventy-two years. That he had finally had his moment on the stage. 

And that he had died all over again. 

As the curtain closed, muffling the excited cheers of the audience, I stood at 
the opening in the floor, my hands pressed to my face. 

I couldn’t speak. I couldn’t move. 

I stared down into the hole in the floor and saw only blackness. 

Then, raising my eyes, I saw Zeke running across the stage to me. Wearing 
jeans and a white T-shirt, he lurched toward me, his expression dazed. 

“Zeke!” I cried. 

“Ow. Someone hit me, I think,” he moaned, rubbing the back of his head. 
“I’ve been out cold.” He raised his eyes to mine. “Brooke, are you okay? Did 
_?” 

“The Phantom!” I cried. “He took your part, Zeke. He—he’s down there!” I 

pointed into the opening. “We’ve got to find him!” 

I stepped on the peg. The trapdoor clanked and groaned. The platform 
returned to the top. 

Zeke and I climbed aboard. 

We rode it down, down to the dark chamber below. 

We searched every corner. We didn’t find him. We didn’t find the mask. Or 
the costume. Or anything. Somehow I knew we wouldn’t. Somehow I knew we 
would never see him again. 

“Great job, people! Great job!” Ms. Walker called to us as we trooped offstage. 
“Phantom, I liked the new lines you added! Great job! See you all at the cast 
party!” 

Zeke and I struggled to get to the dressing room so we could get changed. 
But we were mobbed by people who wanted to congratulate us and tell us how 
talented and terrific we were. 

The play was a major success! 

I searched for Brian. I wanted to tell him all about the Phantom. But I 
couldn’t see him in the excited crowd of friends and parents. 

“Come on—let’s get out of here!” Zeke cried. He pulled me by the hand out 
of the auditorium and into the hall. 

“Wow! We’re a hit!” I exclaimed, feeling totally wrecked and pumped and 
dazed and crazed, all at the same time. 

“Let’s just get our coats and get changed at home,” Zeke suggested. “We 
can try to figure out who played my part on the way. Then we can meet at my 
house to go to the party.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. “But we have to hurry. My parents are waiting to tell me 
what a fabulous star lam!” 

The sound of excited chattering and laughter drifted from the auditorium 
and followed us as we made our way to our lockers. 

“Hey—” I stopped in front of my locker. “Look, Zeke—the door is open. I 
didn’t leave it unlocked.” 

“Weird,” Zeke murmured. 

I pulled the door all the way open, and a book toppled out onto the floor. 

I bent to pick it up. It was an old book, its brown cover worn and dusty. I 
turned it around, squinting to read the cover in the dim hall light. 

“It’s a really old yearbook,” I told Zeke. “Look. It’s from this school. 

Woods Mill. But it’s from the 1920s.” 

“Huh? How’d it get in your locker?” Zeke asked, staring down at it. 

My eyes fell on a torn sheet of paper tucked inside. A bookmark. 

Gripping the heavy, old book in both hands, I opened to the pages marked 
by the bookmark. 

“Wow!” Zeke cried. “I don’t believe it!” 

We were staring at a yearbook article about the play we had just performed. 
“The Phantom To Be Performed in the Spring,” read the headline at the top. 

“This must have been written early that school year,” I said. “We know the 
play was never performed. We know the whole story of what happened back 
then.” 

“Hold the book up to the light,” Zeke instructed. “Let’s check out the 
pictures.” 

I raised the book, and we both stared down at the small photographs that 
covered the two pages. 

Then we saw it. 

A small, blurred black-and-white photo of the boy who had won the starring 
role, the boy who was to play the Phantom. The boy who had disappeared. 

The boy was Brian. 


ATTACK OF 
THE MUTANT 

1 

“Hey—put that down!” 

I grabbed the comic book from Wilson Clark’s hand and smoothed out the 
plastic cover. 

“I was only looking at it,” he grumbled. 

“If you get a fingerprint on it, it will lose half its value,” I told him. I 
examined the cover through the clear wrapper. “This is a Silver Swan Number 
Zero,” I said. “And it’s in mint condition.” 

Wilson shook his head. He has curly, white-blond hair and round, blue eyes. 
He always looks confused. 

“How can it be Number Zero?” he asked. “That doesn’t make any sense, 
Skipper.” 

Wilson is a really good friend of mine. But sometimes I think he dropped 
down from the planet Mars. He just doesn’t know anything. 

I held up the Silver Swan cover so he could see the big zero in the corner. 
“That makes it a collector’s item,” I explained. “Number Zero comes before 
Number One. This comic is worth ten times as much as Silver Swan Number 
One.” 

“Huh? It is?” Wilson scratched his curly hair. He squatted down on the floor 
and started pawing through my carton of comic books. “How come all your 
comics are in these plastic bags, Skipper? How can you read them?” 

See? I told you. Wilson doesn’t know anything. 

“Read them? I don’t read them,” I replied. “If you read them, they lose their 
value.” 

He stared up at me. “You don’t read them?” 

“I can’t take them out of the bag,” I explained. “If I open the bag, they 
won’t be in mint condition anymore.” 

“Ooh. This one is cool!” he exclaimed. He pulled up a copy of Star Wolf. 
“The cover is metal!” 

“It’s worthless,” I mumbled. “It’s a second printing.” 

He stared at the silvery cover, turning it in his hands, making it shine in the 
light. “Cool,” he muttered. His favorite word. 

We were up in my room, about an hour after dinner. The sky was black 

outside my double windows. It gets dark so early in winter. Not like on the 
Silver Swan’s planet, Orcos III, where the sun never sets and all the superheroes 
have to wear air-conditioned costumes. 

Wilson came over to get the math homework. He lives next door, and he 
always leaves his math book at school—so he always comes over to get the 
homework from me. 

“You should collect comic books,” I told him. “In about twenty years, these 
will be worth millions.” 

“I collect rubber stamps,” he said, picking up a Z-Squad annual. He studied 
the sneaker ad on the back cover. 

“Rubber stamps?” 

“Yeah. I have about a hundred of them,” he said. 

“What can you do with rubber stamps?” I asked. 

He dropped the comic back into the carton and stood up. “Well, you can 
stamp things with them,” he said, brushing off the knees of his jeans. “I have 
different-colored ink pads. Or you can just look at them.” 

He is definitely weird. 

“Are they valuable?” I asked. 

He shook his head. “I don’t think so.” He picked up the math sheet from the 
foot of my bed. “I’d better get home, Skipper. See you tomorrow.” 

He started for the door and I followed him. Our reflections stared out at us 
from my big dresser mirror. Wilson is so tall and skinny and blond and blue¬ 
eyed. I always feel like a dark, chubby mole next to him. 

If we were in a comic book, Wilson would be the superhero, and I would be 
his sidekick. I’d be the pudgy, funny one who was always messing up. 

It’s a good thing life isn’t a comic book—right? 

As soon as Wilson left, I turned back to my dresser. My eye caught the big 
computer banner above the mirror: Skipper Matthews, Alien Avenger. 

My dad had someone at his office print out the banner for me for my 
twelfth birthday a few weeks ago. 

Beneath the banner, I have two great posters tacked on the wall on both 
sides of the dresser. One is a Jack Kirby Captain America. It’s really old and 
probably worth about a thousand dollars. 

The other one is newer—a Spawn poster by Todd McFarlane. It’s really 
awesome. 

In the mirror, I could see the excited look on my own face as I hurried to the 

dresser. 

The flat brown envelope waited for me on the dressertop. 

Mom and Dad said I couldn’t open it until after dinner, after I finished my 
homework. But I couldn’t wait. 

I could feel my heart start to pound as I stared down at the envelope. 

I knew what waited inside it. Just thinking about it made my heart pound 
even harder. 

I carefully picked up the envelope. I had to open it now. I had to. 

2 

Carefully, carefully, I tore the flap on the envelope. Then I reached inside and 
pulled out the treasure. 

This month’s issue of The Masked Mutant. 

Holding the comic book in both hands, I studied the cover. The Masked 
Mutant #24. In jagged red letters across the bottom, I read: “A TIGHT 
SQUEEZE FOR THE SENSATIONAL SPONGE!” 

The cover art was awesome. It showed SpongeLife—known across the 
universe as The Sponge of Steel—in terrible trouble. He was caught in the 
tentacles of a gigantic octopus. The octopus was squeezing him dry! 

Awesome. Totally awesome. 

I keep all of my comic books in mint condition, wrapped in collector’s 
bags. But there is one comic that I have to read every month. And that’s The 
Masked Mutant. 

I have to read it as soon as it comes out. And I read it cover to cover, every 
word in every panel. I even read the Letters page. 

That’s because The Masked Mutant is the best-drawn, best-written comic in 
the world. And The Masked Mutant has to be the most powerful, most evil 
villain ever created! 

What makes him so terrifying is that he can move his molecules around. 

That means he can change himself into anything that’s solid. Anything! 

On this cover, the giant octopus is actually the Masked Mutant. You can tell 
because the octopus is wearing the mask that The Masked Mutant always wears. 

But he can change himself into any animal. Or any object. 

That’s how he always escapes from The League of Good Guys. There are 
six different superheroes in The League of Good Guys. They are all mutants, 
too, with amazing powers. And they are the world’s best law enforcers. But they 
can’t catch The Masked Mutant. 

Even the League’s leader—The Galloping Gazelle—the fastest man in the 
solar system, isn’t fast enough to keep up with The Masked Mutant. 

I studied the cover for a few minutes. I liked the way the octopus tentacles 
squeezed SpongeLife into a limp rag. You could see by his expression that The 
Sponge of Steel was in mortal pain. 

Awesome. 

I carried the comic over to the bed and sprawled onto my stomach to read it. 
The story began where The Masked Mutant #23 left off. 

SpongeLife, the world’s best underwater swimmer, was deep in the ocean. 
He was desperately trying to escape from The Masked Mutant. But The Sponge 
of Steel had caught his cape on the edge of a coral reef. 

I turned the page. As The Masked Mutant drew nearer, he began to move 
his molecules around. And he changed himself into a huge, really gross octopus. 

There were eight drawings showing The Masked Mutant transform himself. 
And then came a big, full-page drawing showing the enormous octopus reaching 
out its slimy, fat tentacles to grab the helpless SpongeLife. 

SpongeLife struggled to pull away. 

But the octopus tentacles slid closer. Closer. 

I started to turn the page. But before I could move, I felt something cold 
and slimy wrap itself around my neck. 

3 

I let out a gasp and tried to struggle free. 

But the cold tentacles wrapped themselves tighter around my throat. 

I couldn’t move. I couldn’t scream. 

I heard laughter. 

With a great effort, I turned around. And saw Mitzi, my nine-year-old sister. 
She pulled her hands away from my neck and jumped back as I glared at her. 
“Why are your hands so cold?” I demanded. 

She smiled at me with her innocent, two-dimpled smile. “I put them in the 
refrigerator.” 

“You what ?! ” I cried. “You put them in the refrigerator? Why?” 

“So they’d be cold,” she replied, still grinning. 

My sister has a really dumb sense of humor. She has straight, dark brown 
hair like me. And she’s short and a little chubby like me. 

“You scared me to death,” I told her, sitting up on the bed. 

“I know,” she replied. She rubbed her hands on my cheeks. They were still 

cold. 

“Yuck. Get away, Mitzi.” I shoved her back. “Why did you come up here? 
Just to scare me?” 

She shook her head. “Dad told me to come up. He said to tell you if you’re 
reading comic books instead of doing your homework, you’re in big trouble.” 

She lowered her brown eyes to the comic book, open on the bed. “Guess 
you’re in big trouble, Skipper.” 

“No. Wait.” I grabbed her arm. “This is the new Masked Mutant. I have to 
read it! Tell Dad I’m doing my math, and—” 

I didn’t finish what I was saying because my dad stepped into the room. 
The ceiling light reflected in his glasses. But I could still see that he had his eyes 
on the open comic book on my bed. 

“Skipper—” he said angrily in his booming, deep voice. 

Mitzi pushed past him and ran out of the room. She liked to cause trouble. 
But she never wanted to stay around once things got really ugly. 

And I knew things were about to get ugly—because I had already been 
warned three times that week about spending too much time with my comic 

book collection. 

“Skipper, do you know why your grades are so bad?” my dad bellowed. 
“Because I’m not a very good student?” I replied. 

A mistake. Dad hates it when I answer back. 

Dad reminds me of a big bear. Not only because he growls a lot. But 
because he is big and broad. He has short, black hair and almost no forehead. 
Really. His hair starts almost right above his glasses. And he has a big, booming 
roar of a voice, like a bear’s roar. 

Well, after I answered him back, he let out an angry roar. Then he lumbered 
across the room and picked up my carton of comic books—my entire collection. 
“Sorry, Skipper, I’m tossing these all out!” he cried, and headed for the 

door. 

4 

You probably expected me to panic. To start begging and pleading for him not to 
throw away my valuable collection. 

But I didn’t say anything. I just stood beside the bed with my hands lowered 
at my sides, and waited. 

You see, Dad has done this before. Lots of times. But he doesn’t really 
mean it. 

He has a bad temper, but he’s no supervillain. Actually, I’d put him in The 
League of Good Guys most of the time. 

His main problem is that he doesn’t approve of comic books. He thinks 
they’re just trash. Even when I explain that my collection will probably be worth 
millions by the time I’m his age. 

Anyway, I stood there and waited silently. 

Dad stopped at the door and turned around. He held the carton in both 
hands. He narrowed his dark eyes at me through his black-framed glasses. 

“Are you going to get to your work?” he asked sternly. 

I nodded. “Yes, sir,” I muttered, staring at my feet. 

He lowered the carton a little. It’s really heavy, even for a big, strong guy 
like him. “And you won’t waste any more time tonight on comic books?” he 
demanded. 

“Couldn’t I just finish this new one?” I asked. I pointed to The Masked 
Mutant comic on the bed. 

Another mistake. 

He growled at me and turned to carry the carton away. 

“Okay, okay!” I cried. “Sorry. I’ll get my homework done, Dad. I promise. 
I’ll start right now.” 

He grunted and stepped back into the room. Then he dropped the carton 
back against the wall. “That’s all you think about night and day, Skipper,” he 
said quietly. “Comics, comics. It isn’t healthy. Really. It isn’t.” 

I didn’t say anything. I knew he was about to go back downstairs. 

“I don’t want to hear any more about comics,” Dad said gruffly. 
“Understand?” 

“Okay,” I murmured. “Sorry, Dad.” 

I waited to hear his heavy footsteps going down the stairs. Then I turned 
back to the new issue of The Masked Mutant. I was desperate to find out how 
SpongeLife escaped from the giant octopus. 

But I could hear Mitzi nearby. She was still upstairs. If she saw me reading 
the comic book, she’d run downstairs and tell Dad for sure. Mitzi’s hobby is 
being a snitch. 

So I opened my backpack and started pulling out my math notebook and 
my science textbook and other stuff I needed. 

I zipped through the math questions as fast as I could. I probably got most 
of the problems wrong. But it doesn’t matter. I’m not any good at math, anyway. 

Then I read the chapter on atoms and molecules in my science text. Reading 
about molecules made me think about The Masked Mutant. 

I couldn’t wait to get back to the comic book. 

I finally finished my homework a little after nine-thirty. I had to skip a few 
essay questions on the literature homework. But only the class brains answer all 
of the questions! 

I went downstairs and fixed myself a bowl of Frosted Flakes, my favorite 
late-night snack. Then I said good-night to my parents and hurried back up to my 
room, closing the door behind me, eager to get back in bed and start reading. 

Back under the ocean. SpongeLife escaped by squishing himself so small, 
he slipped out of the octopus’ tentacles. Pretty cool, I thought. 

The Masked Mutant waved his tentacles angrily and vowed he’d get 
SpongeLife another day. Then he changed his molecules back so he looked like 
himself, and flew back to his headquarters. 

His headquarters! 

I stared down at the comic book in shock. 

The secret headquarters of The Masked Mutant had never been shown 
before. Oh, sure, we’d been given glimpses of a room or two on the inside. 

But this was the first time the building had ever been shown from the 
outside. 

I brought the page up close to my face and examined it carefully. “What a 
weird place!” I exclaimed out loud. 

The headquarters building didn’t look like any building I had ever seen 
before. It certainly didn’t look like the secret hideout of the world’s worst villain. 

It kind of looked like a giant fire hydrant. A very tall fire hydrant that 
reached up to the sky. All pink stucco with a huge, green-domed roof. 

“Weird,” I repeated. 

But of course it was the perfect hiding place. Who would ever think that the 
super bad guy of all time stayed in a building that looked like an enormous pink 
fire hydrant? 

I turned the page. The Masked Mutant slipped into the building and 
disappeared into an elevator. He rode all the way to the top and stepped out into 
his private communications center. 

Waiting for him there was... a big surprise. A dark figure. We could see 
only his black silhouette. 

But I could tell instantly who it was. It was The Galloping Gazelle, leader 
of The League of Good Guys. 

How did The Gazelle get in? What was he about to do? 

To be continued next month. 

Wow. I closed the comic. My eyelids felt heavy. My eyes were too tired to 
read the tiny type on the Letters page. I decided to save it for tomorrow. 

Yawning, I carefully set the comic book down on my bed table. I fell asleep 
before my head hit the pillow. 

Two days later, a very cold, clear day, Wilson came running up to me after 
school. His blue coat was unzipped. He never zipped his coat. He didn’t like the 
way it looked when it was zipped. 

I had on a shirt, a sweater, and a heavy, quilted, down coat, zipped up to my 
chin—and I was still cold. “What’s up, Wilson?” I asked. 

His breath steamed up in front of him. “Want to come over and see my 
mbber stamp collection?” 

Was he kidding ? 

“I have to go to my orthodontist,” I told him. “My braces got comfortable. 
He has to tighten them so they’ll hurt again.” 

Wilson nodded. His blue eyes matched his coat. “How are you getting 
there?” 

I pointed to the bus stop. “City bus,” I told him. 

“I’ve seen you take that bus a lot,” he said. 

“There’s a comic book store on Goodale Street,” I replied, shifting my 
backpack onto the other shoulder. “I take the bus there once a week or so to see 
what new comics have come out. The orthodontist is just a few blocks from it.” 

“Do they have rubber stamps at the comic book store?” Wilson asked. 

“I don’t think so,” I told him. I saw the blue-and-white city bus turn the 
corner. “Got to run. See you later!” I called. 

I turned and ran full speed to the bus stop. 

The driver was a nice guy. He saw me running and waited for me. 
Breathing hard, I thanked him and climbed on to the bus. 

I probably wouldn’t have thanked him if I had known where this bus was 
going to take me. But I didn’t know that it was carrying me to the most 
frightening adventure of my life. 

5 

The bus was unusually crowded. I stood for a while. Then two people got off, 
and I slid into a seat. 

As the bus bounced along Main Street, I stared out at the passing houses 
and front yards. Dark clouds hung low over the roofs. I wondered if we were 
about to get our first snowfall of the winter. 

The comic book store was a few blocks away. I checked my watch, thinking 
maybe I had time to stop there before my orthodontist appointment. But no. No 
time for comics today. 

“Hey, do you go to Franklin?” A girl’s voice interrupted my thoughts. 

I turned to see that a girl had taken the seat beside me. Her carrot-colored 
hair was tied back in a single braid. She had green eyes and light freckles on her 
nose. 

She wore a heavy, blue-and-red-plaid ski sweater over faded jeans. She held 
her red canvas backpack in her lap. 

“Yeah. I go there,” I replied. 

“How is it?” she asked. She narrowed her green eyes at me as if checking 
me out. 

“It’s okay,” I told her. 

“What’s your name?” she asked. 

“Skipper,” I told her. 

She snickered. “That’s not a real name, is it?” 

“It’s what everyone calls me,” I said. 

“Do you live on a boat or something?” she asked. Her eyes crinkled up. I 
could see she was laughing at me. 

I guess Skipper is kind of a dumb name. But I’ve gotten used to it. I like it a 
lot better than my real name—Bradley. 

“When I was a little kid, I was always in a hurry,” I told her. “So I used to 
skip a lot. That’s why they started calling me Skipper.” 

“Cute,” she replied with a smirk. 

I don’t think I like this girl, I told myself. “What’s your name?” I asked her. 

“Skipper,” she replied, grinning. “Same as yours.” 

“No. Really,” I insisted. 

“It’s Libby,” she said finally. “Libby Zacks.” She stared past me out the 
window. The bus stopped for a red light. A baby started crying in the back. 

“Where are you going?” Libby asked me. “Home?” 

I didn’t want to tell her I had an orthodontist appointment. That was too 
geeky. “I’m going to a comic book store,” I said. “The one on Goodale.” 

“You collect comics?” She sounded surprised. “So do I.” 

It was my turn to be surprised. Most of the comic book collectors I know 
are boys. “What kind do you collect?” I asked. 

“High School Harry & Beanhead,” she replied. “I collect all the digest¬ 
sized ones and some of the regular ones, too.” 

“Yuck.” I made a face. “High School Harry and his pal Beanhead? Those 
comics stink.” 

“They do not!” Libby insisted. 

“Those are for babies,” I muttered. “They’re not real comics.” 

“They’re very well written,” Libby replied. “And they’re funny.” She stuck 
her tongue out at me. “Maybe you just don’t get them.” 

“Yeah. Maybe,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

I gazed out the window. The sky had grown darker. I didn’t recognize any 
of the stores. I saw a restaurant called Pearl’s and a tiny barbershop. Had we 
passed the comic book store? 

Libby folded her hands over her red backpack. “What do you collect? All 
that superhero junk?” 

“Yeah,” I told her. “My collection is worth about a thousand dollars. Maybe 
two thousand.” 

“In your dreams,” she shot back. She laughed. 

“High School Harry comics never go up in value,” I informed her. “Even 
the Number Ones are worthless. You couldn’t get five dollars for your whole 
collection.” 

“Why would I want to sell them?” she argued. “I don’t want to sell them. 
And I don’t care what they’re worth. I just like to read them.” 

“Then you’re not a real collector,” I said. 

“Are all the boys at Franklin like you?” Libby asked. 

“No. I’m the coolest one,” I declared. 

We both laughed. 

I still couldn’t decide if I liked her or not. She was pretty cute-looking. And 
she was funny, in a nasty sort of way. 

I stopped laughing when I glanced out the window and realized I had 
definitely passed my stop. I saw the bare trees of a small park I’d never seen 
before. The bus rumbled past it, and more unfamiliar stores came into view. 

I felt a sudden stab of panic in my chest. I didn’t know this neighborhood at 
all. 

I pushed the bell and jumped to my feet. 

“What’s your problem?” Libby demanded. 

“My stop. I m-missed it,” I stammered. 

She moved her legs into the aisle so that I could squeeze past. The bus 
squealed to a stop. I called out good-bye and hurried out the back door. 

Where am I? I asked myself, glancing around. Why did I let myself get into 
an argument with that girl? Why didn’t I pay attention instead? 

“Are you lost?” a voice asked. 

I turned and saw to my surprise that Libby had followed me off the bus. 
“What are you doing here?” I blurted out. 

“It’s my stop,” she replied. “I live two blocks down that way.” She pointed. 

“I have to go back,” I said, turning to leave. 

And as I turned, something came into view that made my breath catch in 
my throat. 

“Ohh.” I let out a startled cry and stared across the street. “But—that’s 
impossible !” I exclaimed. 

I was staring at a tall building on the other corner. A tall, pink stucco 
building with a bright green, domed roof. 

I was staring at the secret headquarters of The Masked Mutant. 

6 

“Skipper—what’s wrong?” Libby cried. 

I couldn’t answer her. I stared goggle-eyed at the building across the street. 
My mouth dropped open. My jaw nearly hit my knees! 

I raised my eyes to the bright green roof. Then I slowly lowered them over 
the shiny pink walls. I had never seen colors like these in real life. They were 
comic book colors. 

It was a comic book building. 

But here it was, standing on the corner across the street. 

“Skipper? Are you okay?” Libby’s voice sounded far away. 

It’s real! I told myself. The secret headquarters building of The Masked 
Mutant is real! 

Or is it? 

Two hands shook me by the shoulders, snapping me out of my amazed 
thoughts. “Skipper! Are you in shock or something?” 

“Th-that building!” I stammered. 

“Isn’t that the ugliest thing you ever saw?” Libby asked, shaking her head. 
She pushed back her carrot-colored braid and hiked her backpack onto her 
shoulder. 

“But it—it’s—” I still couldn’t speak. 

“My dad says the architect had to be color blind,” Libby said. “It doesn’t 
even look like a building. It looks like a blimp standing on its end.” 

“How long has it been there?” I asked, my eyes studying the glass doors 
that were the only entrance. 

Libby shrugged. “I don’t know. My family just moved here last spring. It 
was already here.” 

The clouds darkened overhead. A cold wind swirled around the corner. 

“Who do you think works in there?” Libby asked. “There’s no sign or 
anything on the building.” 

Of course there’s no sign, I thought. It’s the secret headquarters of the 
world’s most evil villain. There’s no way The Masked Mutant would put a sign 
out front! 

He doesn’t want The League of Good Guys to find his secret headquarters, 

I told myself. 

“This is crazy!” I cried. 

I turned and saw Libby staring at me. “You sure you’re okay? It’s just a 
building, Skipper. No need to go ballistic.” 

I could feel my face turning red. Libby must think I’m some kind of a nut, I 
realized. “I—I think I saw this building somewhere,” I tried to explain. 

“I’ve got to get home,” she said, glancing up at the darkening sky. “Want to 
come over? I’ll show you my comic book collection.” 

“No. I’m late for my orthodontist appointment,” I replied. 

“Huh?” She narrowed her green eyes at me. “You said you were going to a 
comic book store.” 

I could feel my face turning even redder. “Uh... I’m going to the comic 
book store after my appointment,” I told her. 

“How long have you had your braces?” she asked. 

I groaned. “Forever.” 

She started backing away. “Well, see you sometime.” 

“Yeah. Bye.” 

She turned and jogged down the street. She must think I’m a total geek, I 
thought unhappily. 

But I couldn’t help it. I really was in shock, seeing that building. I turned 
back to it. The top of the building had become hidden by the lowering clouds. 
Now the building looked like a sleek, pink rocket ship, reaching up to the clouds. 

A moving truck rumbled past. I waited for it to go by, then hurried across 
the street. 

There was no one on the sidewalk. I hadn’t seen anyone go into the building 
or come out of it. 

It’s just a big office building, I told myself. Nothing to get excited about. 

But my heart was pounding as I stopped a few feet from the glass doors at 
the entrance. I took a deep breath and peeked in. 

I know it’s crazy, but I really expected to see people wearing superhero 
costumes walking around in there. 

I narrowed my eyes and squinted through the glass doors. 

I couldn’t see anyone. It appeared dark inside. 

I took a step closer. Then another. 

I brought my face right up to the glass and peered in. I could see a wide 
lobby. Pink-and-yellow walls. A row of elevators near the back. 

But no people. No one. Empty. 

I grabbed the glass-door handle. My throat made a loud gulping sound as I 
swallowed hard. 

Should I go in? I asked myself. Do I dare? 

7 

My hand tightened on the glass-door handle. I started to tug the heavy door 
open. 

Then, out of the corner of my eye, I saw a blue-and-white bus moving 
toward me. I glanced at my watch. I was only five minutes late for my 
appointment. If I jumped on the bus, I could be at the orthodontist’s office in a 
few minutes. 

Letting go of the handle, I turned and ran to the bus stop, my backpack 
bouncing on my shoulders. I felt disappointed. But I also felt relieved. 

Walking into the headquarters of the meanest mutant in the universe was a 
little scary. 

The bus eased to a stop. I waited for an elderly man to step off. Then I 
climbed onboard, dropped my money into the box, and hurried to the back of the 
bus. 

I wanted to get one last look at the mysterious pink-and-green building. 

Two women were sitting in the back seat. But I pushed between them and 
pressed my face against the back window. 

As the bus pulled away, I stared at the building. Its colors stayed bright, 
even though the sky was so dark behind it. The sidewalk was empty. I still hadn’t 
seen anyone come out or go inside. 

A few seconds later, the building disappeared into the distance. I turned 
away from the window and walked up the aisle to find a seat. 

Weird, I thought. Totally weird. 

“And it was the exact same building as in the comic book?” Wilson asked. His 
blue eyes stared across the lunchroom table at me. 

I nodded. “As soon as I got home yesterday afternoon, I checked out the 
comic book. The building was exactly the same.” 

Wilson pulled a sandwich from his lunch bag and started to unwrap the foil. 
“What kind of sandwich did your mom pack for you?” he asked. 

I opened mine. “Tuna salad. What’s yours?” 

He lifted a slice of bread and examined his sandwich. “Tuna salad,” he 
replied. “Want to trade?” 

“We both have tuna salad,” I told him. “Why do you want to trade?” 

He shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

We traded sandwiches. His mom’s tuna salad was better than mine. I pulled 
the juice box from my lunch bag. Then I tossed the apple in the trash. I keep 
telling Mom not to pack an apple. I told her I just throw it away every day. Why 
does she keep packing one? 

“Can I have your pudding container?” I asked Wilson. 

“No,” he replied. 

I finished the first half of the sandwich. I was thinking hard about the 
mysterious building. I’d been thinking about it ever since I saw it. 

“I’ve solved the mystery,” Wilson said. He scratched his white-blond curls. 
A smile formed on his face. “Yes! I’ve solved it!” 

“What?” I demanded eagerly. 

“It’s simple,” Wilson replied. “Who draws The Masked Mutant?” 

“The artist?” I asked. “Jimmy Starenko, of course. Starenko created The 
Masked Mutant and The League of Good Guys.” How could Wilson not know 
that? 

“Well, I’ll bet this guy Starenko was here one day,” Wilson continued, 
jabbing the straw into the top of his juice box. 

“Starenko? Here? In Riverview Falls?” I said. I wasn’t following him. 

Wilson nodded. “Let’s say Starenko is here. He’s driving down the street, 
and he sees the weird building. He stops his car. He gets out. He stares at the 
building. And he thinks: What a great building! This building would make a 
perfect secret headquarters building for The Masked Mutant.” 

“Wow. I see,” I murmured. I was catching on to Wilson’s thinking. “You 
mean, he saw the building, liked it, and copied it when he drew the headquarters 
building.” 

Wilson nodded. He had a piece of celery stuck to his front tooth. “Yeah. 
Maybe he got out of the car and sketched the building. Then he kept the sketches 
in a drawer or something till he needed them.” 

It made sense. 

Actually, it made too much sense. I felt really disappointed. I knew it was 
silly, but I really wanted that building to be The Masked Mutant’s secret 
headquarters. 

Wilson had spoiled everything. Why did he have to be so sensible for once? 

“I got some new rubber stamps,” he told me, finishing the last spoonful 

from his pudding container. “Want to see them? I could bring them over to your 
house after school.” 

“No thanks,” I replied. “That would be too exciting.” 

I planned to take the bus and go see the building again that afternoon. But Ms. 
Partridge gave us a ton of homework. I had to go straight home. 

The next day, it snowed. Wilson and I and some other guys went sledding 
on Grover’s Hill. 

A week later, I finally had a chance to go back and take another look at the 
building. This time, I’m going inside, I told myself. There must be a receptionist 
or a guard, I decided. I’ll ask whose building it is and who works there. 

I was feeling really brave as I climbed on to the bus after school. It was an 
ordinary office building, after all. Nothing to get excited about. Taking a seat at 
the front of the bus, I looked for Libby. The bus was filled with kids going home 
after school. Near the back, I saw a red-haired girl arguing with another girl. But 
it wasn’t Libby. 

No sign of her. 

I stared out the window as the bus rolled past the comic book store. Then, a 
few blocks later, we bounced past my orthodontist’s office. Just seeing his 
building made my teeth ache! 

It was a sunny, clear afternoon. Bright sunlight kept filling the bus 
windows, forcing me to shield my eyes as I stared out. 

I had to keep careful watch, because I wasn’t sure where the stop was. I 
really didn’t know this neighborhood at all. 

Kids were jammed in the aisle. So I couldn’t see out the windows on the 
other side of the bus. 

I hope we haven’t already passed the building, I thought. I had a heavy 
feeling in the pit of my stomach. I have a real fear of getting lost. 

My mom says that when I was two, she lost me for a few minutes in the 
frozen foods section at the Pic ’n Pay. I think I’ve had a fear of getting lost ever 
since. 

The bus pulled up to a bus stop. I recognized the small park across the 
street. This was the stop! 

“Getting off!” I shouted, jumping into the aisle. I hit a boy with my 
backpack as I stumbled to the front door. “Sorry. Getting off! Getting off!” 

I pushed through the crowd of kids and leaped down the steps, onto the 

curb. The bus rumbled away. Sunlight streamed around me. 

I stepped to the corner. Yes. This was the right stop. I recognized it all now. 
I turned and raised my eyes to the strange building. 

And found myself staring at a large, empty lot. 

The building was gone. 

8 

“Whoa!” I cried, frozen in shock. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I stared across the street. How could that 
enormous building vanish in one week? 

I didn’t have long to think about it. Another bus pulled up to the bus stop. 
“Skipper! Hey—Skipper!” Libby hopped off the bus, waving and calling my 
name. 

She was wearing the same red-and-blue ski sweater and faded jeans, torn at 
one knee. Her hair was pulled straight back, tied in a ponytail with a blue hair 
scrunchie. 

“Hey—what are you doing back in my neighborhood?” she asked, smiling 
as she ran over to me. 

“Th-that building!” I stammered, pointing to the vacant lot. “It’s gone!” 

Libby’s expression changed. “Well, don’t say hi or anything,” she muttered, 
frowning at me. 

“Hi,” I said. “What happened to that building?” 

She turned and followed my stare. Then she shrugged. “Guess they tore it 
down.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“It was so ugly,” Libby said. “Maybe the city made them tear it down.” 

“But did you see them tear it down?” I demanded impatiently. “You live 
near here, right? Did you see them doing it?” 

She thought about it, crinkling her green eyes as she thought. “Well... no,” 
she replied finally. “I’ve gone past here a few times, but—” 

“You didn’t see any machinery?” I demanded anxiously. “Any big wrecking 
balls? Any bulldozers? Dozens of workers?” 

Libby shook her head. “No. I didn’t actually see anyone tearing the building 
down. But I didn’t really look.” 

She pulled her red backpack off her shoulder and held the strap in front of 
her with both hands. “I don’t know why you’re so interested in that ugly 
building, Skipper. I’m glad it’s gone.” 

“But it was in a comic book!” I blurted out. 

“Huh?” She stared hard at me. “What are you talking about?” 

I knew she wouldn’t understand. “Nothing,” I muttered. 

“Skipper, did you come all the way out here just to see that building?” she 
asked. 

“No way,” I lied. “Of course not.” 

“Do you want to come to my house and see my comic book collection?” 

I was so frazzled and mixed up, I said yes. 

I hurried out of Libby’s house less than an hour later. Those High School Harry 
& Beanhead comics are the most boring comics in the world! And the art is so 
lame. Can’t everyone see that the two girls are drawn exactly the same, except 
one has blond hair and one has black? 

Yuck! 

Libby insisted on showing me every High School Harry & Beanhead comic 
she had. And she had shelves full of them! 

Of course I couldn’t concentrate on those boring comics. I couldn’t stop 
thinking about the weird building. How could a whole building vanish without a 
trace? 

I jogged back to the bus stop on Main Street. The sun was sinking behind 
the buildings. Long blue shadows tilted over the sidewalks. 

When I get to the corner, I bet the building will be back! I found myself 
thinking. 

But of course it wasn’t. 

I know. I know. I have weird thoughts. I guess it comes from reading too 
many comic books. 

I had to wait nearly half an hour for the bus to come. I spent the whole time 
staring at the empty lot, thinking about the vanished building. 

When I finally got home, I found a brown envelope waiting for me on the 
little table in the hall where Mom drops the mail. 

“Yes!” I exclaimed happily. The special issue of The Masked Mutant ! The 
comics company was sending out two special editions this month, and this was 
the first. 

I called “hi” to my mom, tossed my coat and heavy backpack onto the floor, 
and raced up the stairs to my room, the comic book gripped tightly in my hot 
little hand. 

I couldn’t wait to see what had happened after The Galloping Gazelle 
sneaked into The Masked Mutant’s headquarters. Carefully, I slid the comic 

book out of the envelope and examined the cover. 

And there it stood. The pink-and-green headquarters building. Right on the 
cover. 

My hand trembled as I opened to the first page. MORNING OF A MUTANT 
was the big title in scary red letters. The Masked Mutant stood in front of a big 
communications console. 

He stared into a wall of about twenty TV monitors. Each TV monitor 
showed a different member of The League of Good Guys. 

“I’m tracking each one of them,” The Masked Mutant said in the first 
dialogue balloon. “They’ll never find me. I’ve thrown an Invisibility Curtain 
around my entire headquarters!” 

My mouth dropped open as I read those words. 

I read them three times before I let the comic book slip out of my hands to 
my bed. 

An Invisibility Curtain. 

No one can see The Masked Mutant’s building because he slipped an 
Invisibility Curtain around it. 

I sat excitedly on the edge of my bed, breathing hard, feeling the blood 
pulse at my temples. 

Is that what happened in real life? 

Is that why I couldn’t see the pink-and-green building this afternoon? 

Was the comic book giving me the answer to the mystery of the missing 
building? 

It sounded crazy. It sounded totally crazy. 

But was it real? Was there really an Invisibility Curtain hiding the building? 

My head was spinning faster than The Amazing Tornado-Man! I knew only 
one thing. I had to go back there and find out. 

9 

After school the next afternoon, I had to go with my mom to the mall to buy 
sneakers. I usually try on at least ten or twelve pairs, then beg for the most 
expensive ones. You know. The ones that pump up or flash lights when you walk 
in them. 

But this time I bought the first pair I saw, plain black-and-white Reeboks. I 
mean, who could think about sneakers when an invisible building was waiting to 
be discovered? 

Driving home from the mall, I started to tell Mom about the building. But 
she stopped me after a few sentences. “I wish you were as interested in your 
schoolwork as you are in those dumb comics,” she said, sighing. 

That’s what she always says. 

“When is the last time you read a good book?” she continued. 

That’s the next thing she always says. 

I decided to change the subject. “We dissected a worm today for science,” I 
told her. 

She made a disgusted face. “Doesn’t your teacher have anything better to 
do than to cut up poor, innocent worms?” 

There was just no pleasing Mom today. 

The next afternoon, wearing my new sneakers, I eagerly hopped on the city bus. 
Tossing my token into the box, I saw Libby sitting near the back. As the bus 
lurched away from the curb, I stumbled down the aisle and dropped beside her, 
lowering my backpack to the floor. 

“I’m going back to that building,” I said breathlessly. “I think there’s an 
Invisibility Curtain around it.” 

“Don’t you ever say hi?” she complained, rolling her eyes. 

I said hi. Then I repeated what I had said about the Invisibility Curtain. I 
told her I read about it in the newest Masked Mutant comic, and that the comic 
may be giving clues as to what was happening in real life. 

Libby listened to me intently, not blinking, not moving. I could see that she 
was finally starting to see why I was so excited about finding this building. 

When I finished explaining everything, she put a hand on my forehead. 

“You don’t feel hot,” she said. “Are you seeing a shrink?” 

“Huh?” I pushed her hand away. 

“Are you seeing a shrink? You’re totally out of your mind. You know that 
—don’t you?” 

“I’m not crazy,” I said. “I’ll prove it. Come with me.” 

She edged closer to the window, as if trying to get away from me. “No 
way,” she declared. “I can’t believe I’m sitting here with a boy who thinks that 
comic books come to life.” 

She pointed out the window. “Hey, look, Skipper—there goes the Easter 
Bunny! He’s handing an egg to the Tooth Fairy!” She laughed. A mean laugh. 

“Ha-ha,” I muttered angrily. I have a good sense of humor. But I don’t like 
being laughed at by girls who collect High School Harry & Beanhead comics. 

The bus pulled up to the bus stop. I hoisted my backpack and scrambled out 
the back exit. Libby stepped off right behind me. 

As the bus pulled away, sending out puffs of black exhaust behind it, I 
gazed across the street. 

No building. An empty lot. 

“Well?” I turned to Libby. “You coming?” 

She twisted her mouth into a thoughtful expression. “To that empty lot? 
Skipper, aren’t you going to feel like a jerk when there’s nothing there?” 

“Well, go home then,” I told her sharply. 

“Okay. I’ll come,” she said, grinning. 

We crossed the street. Two teenagers on bikes nearly ran us over. “Missed 
’em!” one of them cried. The other one laughed. 

“How do we get through the Invisibility Curtain?” Libby asked. Her voice 
sounded serious. But I could see by her eyes that she was laughing at me. 

“In the comic book, people just stepped through it,” I told her. “You can’t 
feel it or anything. It’s like a smoke screen. But once you step through it, you 
can see the building.” 

“Okay. Let’s try it,” Libby said. She tossed her ponytail over her shoulder. 
“Let’s get this over with, okay?” 

Walking side by side, we took a step across the sidewalk toward the empty 
lot. Then another step. Then another. 

We crossed the sidewalk and stepped onto the hard dirt. 

“I can’t believe I’m doing this,” Libby grumbled. We took another step. “I 
can’t believe I’m—” 

She stopped because the building popped into view. 

“Ohhh!” We both cried out in unison. She grabbed my wrist and squeezed it 
hard. Her hand was ice-cold. 

We stood a few feet from the glass entrance. The bright walls of the pink- 
and-green building rose above us. 

“You—you were right!” Libby stammered, still squeezing my wrist. 

I swallowed hard. I tried to talk, but my mouth was suddenly too dry. I 
coughed, and no words came out. 

“Now what?” Libby asked, staring up at the shiny walls. 

I still couldn’t speak. 

The comic book is real\ I thought. The comic book is real. 

Does that mean the building really belongs to The Masked Mutant? 

Whoa! I warned myself to slow down. My heart was already racing faster 
than Speedboy. 

“Now what?” Libby repeated impatiently. “Let’s get away from here— 
okay?” For the first time, she sounded really frightened. 

“No way!” I told her. “Come on. Let’s go in.” 

She tugged me back. “Go in? Are you crazy?” 

“We have to,” I told her. “Come on. Don’t stop to think about it. Let’s go.” 

I took a deep breath, pulled open the heavy glass door, and we slipped 
inside. 

10 

We took one step into the brightly lit lobby. My heart was pounding so hard, my 
chest hurt. My knees were shaking. I’d never been so scared in my life! 

I glanced quickly all around. 

The lobby was enormous. It seemed to stretch on forever. The pink-and- 
yellow walls gave off a soft glow. The sparkly white ceiling seemed to be a mile 
above our heads. 

I didn’t see a reception desk. No chairs or tables. No furniture of any kind. 

“Where is everyone?” Libby whispered. I could see that she was frightened, 
too. She clung to my arm, standing close beside me. 

The vast room was empty. Not another person in sight. 

I took another step. 

And heard a soft beep. 

A beam of yellow light shot out of the wall and rolled down over my body. 

I felt a gentle tingling. Kind of a prickly feeling, the kind of feeling when 
your arm goes to sleep. 

It swept down quickly from my head to my feet. A second or two later, the 
light vanished and the tingly feeling went away. 

“What was that?” I whispered to Libby. 

“What was what?” she replied. 

“Didn’t you feel that?” 

She shook her head. “I didn’t feel anything. Are you trying to scare me or 
something, Skipper?” 

“It was some kind of electric beam,” I told her. “It shined on me when I 
stepped forward.” 

“Let’s get out of here,” she muttered. “It’s so quiet, it’s creepy.” 

I turned my eyes to the row of elevators against the yellow wall. Did I dare 
take a ride on one? Was I brave enough to do a little exploring? 

“It—it’s just a big office building,” I told Libby, trying to work up my 
courage. 

“Well, if it’s an office building, where are the workers?” she demanded. 

“Maybe the offices are closed,” I suggested. 

“On a Thursday?” Libby replied. “It isn’t a holiday or anything. I think the 
building is empty, Skipper. I don’t think anyone works here.” 

I took a few steps toward the elevators. My sneakers thudded loudly on the 
hard marble floor. “But all the lights are on, Libby,” I said. “And the door was 
open.” 

She hurried to catch up to me. Her eyes kept darting back and forth. I could 
see she was really scared. 

“I know what you’re thinking,” she said. “You don’t think this is just an 
office building. You think this is the secret headquarters of that comic book 
character—don’t you, Skipper?!” 

I swallowed hard. My knees were still shaking. I tried to make them stop, 
but they wouldn’t. 

“Well, maybe it is,” I replied, staring at the elevators across from us. “I 
mean, how do you explain the Invisibility Curtain? It was in the comic book— 
and it was outside this building.” 

“I—I can’t explain it,” Libby stammered. “It’s weird. It’s too weird. This 
place gives me the creeps, Skipper. I really think—” 

“There’s only one way to find out the truth,” I said. I tried to sound brave, 
but my voice shook nearly as much as my knees! 

Libby followed my gaze to the elevators. She guessed what I was thinking. 
“No way!” she cried, stepping back toward the glass doors. 

“We’ll just ride up and down,” I told her. “Maybe open the elevator doors 
on a few floors and peek out.” 

“No way,” Libby repeated. Her face suddenly appeared very pale. Her 
green eyes were wide with fright. 

“Libby, it will only take a minute,” I insisted. “We’ve come this far. I have 
to explore a little. I don’t want to go home without finding out what this building 
is.” 

“You can ride the elevators,” she said. “I’m going home.” She backed up to 
the glass doors. 

Outside I saw a blue-and-white bus stop at the curb. A woman climbed off, 
carrying a baby in one hand, dragging a stroller in the other. 

I could run out the door and climb right onto that bus, I thought. I could get 
out of here, safe and sound. And be on my way home. 

But what would happen when I got home? 

I would feel like a coward, a total wimp. And I would spend day after day 

wondering about this building, wondering if I had actually discovered the secret 
headquarters of a real supervillain. 

If I jumped on the bus and rode home now, the building would still be a 
mystery. And the mystery would drive me crazy. 

“Okay, Libby, you can go home if you want,” I told her. “I’m going to ride 
the elevator to the top and back.” 

She stared at me thoughtfully. Then she rolled her eyes. “Okay, okay. Til 
come with you,” she murmured, shaking her head. 

I was glad. I really didn’t want to go alone. 

“I’m only doing this because I feel sorry for you,” Libby said, following me 
across the marble floor to the elevators. 

“Huh? Why do you feel sorry for me?” I demanded. 

“Because you’re so messed up,” she replied. “You really think a comic 
book can come to life. That’s sad. That’s really sad.” 

“Thank goodness High School Harry and Beanhead can’t come to life!” I 
teased. Then I added, “What about the Invisibility Curtain? That was real— 
wasn’t it?” 

Libby didn’t reply. Instead, she laughed. “You’re serious about this!” she 
said. The sound of her laughter echoed in the enormous, empty lobby. 

It made me feel a little braver. I laughed, too. 

What’s the big deal? I asked myself. So you’re going to take an elevator 
ride. So what? 

It’s not like The Masked Mutant is going to jump into the elevator with us, I 
assured myself. We’ll probably peek out at a lot of boring offices. And that’s all. 

I pushed the lighted button on the wall. Instantly, the silvery elevator door 
in front of us slid open. 

I poked my head into the elevator. It had walls of dark brown wood with a 
silver railing that went all the way around. 

There were no signs on the walls. No building directory. No words at all. 

I suddenly realized there were no signs in the lobby, either. Not even a sign 
with the name of the building. Or a sign to tell visitors where to check in. 

Weird. 

“Let’s go,” I said. 

Libby held back. I tugged her by the arm into the elevator. 

The doors slid shut silently behind us as soon as we stepped in. I turned to 
the control panel to the left of the door. It was a long, silvery rectangle filled 

with buttons. 

I pushed the button to the top floor. 

The elevator started to hum. It jerked slightly as we began to move. 

I turned to Libby. She had her back pressed against the back wall, her hands 
shoved into her jeans pockets. She stared straight ahead at the door. 

“We’re moving,” I murmured. 

The elevator picked up speed. 

“Hey!” Libby and I both cried out at the same time. 

“We—we’re going down!” I exclaimed. 

I had pushed the button to the top floor. But we were dropping. Fast. 

Faster. 

I grabbed the railing with both hands. 

Where was it taking us? 

Would it ever stop? 

11 

The elevator stopped with a hard thud that made my knees bend. “Whoa!” I 
cried. 

I let go of the railing and turned to Libby beside me. “You okay?” 

She nodded. She stared straight ahead at the elevator door. 

“We should have gone up,” I muttered tensely. “I pushed up.” 

“Why doesn’t the door open?” Libby asked in a trembling voice. 

We both stared at the door. I stepped to the center of the elevator. “Open!” I 
commanded it. 

The door didn’t move. 

“We’re trapped in here,” Libby said, her voice getting shrill and tiny. 

“No,” I replied, still trying to be the brave one. “It’ll open. Watch. It’s just 
slow.” 

The door didn’t open. 

“The elevator must be broken,” Libby wailed. 

“We’ll be trapped down here forever. The air is starting to run out already. I 
can’t breathe!” 

“Don’t panic,” I warned, struggling to keep my voice calm. “Take a deep 
breath, Libby. There’s plenty of air.” 

She obediently sucked in a deep breath. She let it out in a long whoosh. 
“Why won’t the door open? I knew we shouldn’t have done this!” 

I turned to the control panel. A button at the bottom read OPEN. I pushed it. 
Instantly, the door slid open. 

I turned back to Libby. “See? We’re okay.” 

“But where are we?” she cried. 

I stepped to the doorway and poked my head out. It was very dark. I could 
see some kind of heavy machinery in the darkness. 

“We’re in the basement, I think,” I told Libby. “There are all kinds of pipes 
and a big furnace and things.” 

“Let’s go,” Libby urged, hanging back against the elevator wall. 

I took a step out the door and glanced both ways. I couldn’t see much. More 
machinery. A row of metal trash cans. A stack of long metal boxes. 

“Come on, Skipper,” Libby demanded. “Let’s go back up. Now!” 

I stepped back into the elevator and pushed the button marked LOBBY. 

The door didn’t close. The elevator didn’t move, didn’t hum. 

I pushed LOBBY again. I pushed it five or six times. 

Nothing happened. 

I suddenly had a lump in my throat as big as a watermelon. I really didn’t 
want to be stuck down in this dark basement. 

I started pushing buttons wildly. I pushed everything. I pushed a red button 
marked EMERGENCY five or six times. 

Nothing. 

“I don’t believe this!” I choked out. 

“Let’s get out and take a different elevator,” Libby suggested. 

Good idea, I thought. There was a long row of elevators up in the lobby. 
We’ll just get out of this one and push the button for another one to come down 
and get us. 

I led the way out into the dark basement. Libby stayed close behind me. 

“Oh!” We both let out low cries as the elevator door quickly slid shut 
behind us. 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. “Why wouldn’t it close before?” 

Libby didn’t reply. 

I waited for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. Then I saw what Libby was 
staring at. 

“Where are the other elevators?” she cried. 

We were staring at a smooth, bare wall. The elevator that had brought us 
down here was the only elevator on the wall. 

I spun around, checking out the other walls. But it was too dark to see very 
far. 

“The other elevators don’t come down here, I guess,” Libby murmured in a 
trembling voice. 

I searched the wall for a button to push to bring our elevator back. I 
couldn’t find one. No button. 

“There’s no way out!” Libby wailed. “No way out at all!” 

12 

“Maybe there are elevators on the other wall,” I said, pointing across the huge, 
dark room. 

“Maybe,” Libby repeated doubtfully. 

“Maybe there’s a stairway or something,” I said. 

“Maybe,” she said softly. 

A sudden noise made me jump. A rumble followed by a grinding hum. 

“Just the furnace starting up,” I told Libby. 

“Let’s find a way out of here,” she urged. “I’m never going in an elevator 
again as long as I live!” 

I could feel her hand on my shoulder as I started to make my way through 
the darkness. The huge, gray furnace rumbled and coughed. Another big 
machine made a soft clattering sound as we edged past it. 

“Anybody down here?” I called. My voice echoed off the long, dust- 
covered pipes that ran along the low ceiling above our heads. I cupped my hands 
around my mouth and called again. “Anybody here? Can anybody hear me?” 

Silence. 

The only sounds I could hear were the rumble of the furnace and the soft 
scrape of our sneakers as Libby and I slowly crept over the floor. 

As we came near the far wall, we could see that there were no elevators 
over here. The smooth plaster wall was bare except for a thick tangle of cobwebs 
up near the ceiling. 

“There’s got to be some stairs leading out of here,” Libby whispered, close 
behind me. 

Dim light shone through a narrow doorway up ahead. “Let’s see where this 
leads,” I said, brushing stringy spiderwebs off my face. 

We stepped through the doorway and found ourselves in a long hallway. 
Dust-covered ceiling bulbs cast pale light onto the concrete floor. 

“Anybody here?” I called again. My voice sounded hollow in the long 
tunnel of a hallway. 

No reply. 

Dark doorways lined both sides of the hallway. I peeked into each door as 
we passed. I saw stacks of cartons, tall file cabinets, strange machinery I didn’t 

recognize. One large room was jammed with enormous coils of metal cable. 
Another room had sheets of metal piled nearly to the ceiling. 

“Helloooooo!” I called. “Helllooooooo!” 

No reply. 

Flashing red lights inside a large room caught my eye. I stopped at the 
doorway and stared in at some sort of control panel. 

One wall was filled with blinking red and green lights. In front of the lights 
stood a long counter of dials and gears and levers. Three tall stools were placed 
along the counter. But no one sat in them. 

No one worked the controls. The room was empty. As empty as the rest of 
this strange, frightening basement. 

“Weird, huh?” I whispered to Libby. 

When she didn’t answer, I turned to make sure she was okay. 

“Libby?” 

She was gone. 

13 

I spun around. “Libby?” 

My entire body shook. 

“Where are you?” 

I squinted back down the long, gray hallway. No sign of her. 

“Libby? If this is some kind of a dumb joke...” I started. But the rest of my 
words caught in my throat. 

Breathing hard, I forced myself to retrace our steps. “Libby?” I stopped at 
every door and called her name. “Libby?” 

The hallway curved, and I followed it. I began jogging, my hands down 
stiffly at my sides, calling her name, searching every door, peering into every 
dark room. 

How could she get lost? I asked myself, feeling my panic rise until I could 
barely breathe. She was right behind me. 

I turned another corner. Into a hallway I hadn’t explored yet. “Libby?” 

The narrow hall led to an enormous, brightly lit room. I had to shut my eyes 
against the sudden bright light. 

When I opened them, I found myself nearly face-to-face with a gigantic 
machine. Bright floodlights from the high ceiling covered it in light. 

The machine had to be a block long! A big control panel, filled with dials, 
and buttons, and lights, stood against the side. A long, flat part—like a conveyor 
belt—led to several rollers. And at the very end of the machine stood a huge 
white wheel. No—a cylinder. No—a roll of white paper. 

It’s a printing press! I realized. 

I lurched into the room, stepping around stacks of paper and cardboard 
cartons. The floor was littered with paper, ink-smeared paper, crumpled, folded, 
and ripped. 

As I staggered toward the huge printing press, the sea of paper rose up 
nearly to my knees! 

“Libby? Are you in here? Libby?” 

Silence. 

This room was as empty as all the others. 

The paper crackled under my sneakers. I made my way to a long table at the 

back of the room. I found a red stool in front of the table, and I dropped down 
onto it. 

I kicked big sheets of paper away from my legs and glanced around the 
room. A hundred questions pushed into my mind at once. 

Where is Libby? How could she disappear like that? 

Is she somewhere close behind me? Will she follow the hallway to this big 
room? 

Where is everyone? Why is this place totally deserted? 

Is this where they print the comic books? Am I in the basement of 
Collectable Comics, the company that publishes The Masked Mutant ? 

Questions, questions. 

My brain felt about to burst. I stared around the cluttered room, my eyes 
rolling past the gigantic printing press, searching for Libby. 

Where was she? Where ? 

I turned back to the table—and gasped. 

I nearly toppled off the stool. The Masked Mutant was staring up at me. 

14 

A large, color drawing of The Masked Mutant stared up at me from the table. 
Startled, I picked it up and examined it. 

It had been drawn on thick posterboard in colored inks. The Masked 
Mutant’s cape swept behind him. Through his mask, his eyes appeared to stare 
out at me. Evil, angry eyes. 

The ink glistened on the page, as if still wet. I rubbed my thumb over an 
edge of the cape. The ink didn’t come off. 

I wonder if Starenko drew this portrait, I thought, studying it. 

Glancing across the table, I saw a stack of papers on a low counter that ran 
along the entire back wall. Hopping off the tall stool, I made my way over to the 
counter and began shuffling through the papers. 

They were ink drawings and pencil sketches. Many of them were of The 
Masked Mutant. They showed him in different poses. Some of them showed him 
moving his molecules around, changing into wild animals and strange, unearthly 
creatures. 

I opened a thick folder and found about a dozen color sketches of the 
members of The League of Good Guys. Then I found a stack of pencil drawings 
of characters I’d never seen before. 

This must be where they make the comic books! I told myself. 

I was so excited about seeing these actual drawings and sketches, I nearly 
forgot about Libby. 

This pink-and-green building must be the headquarters of Collectable 
Comics, I realized. 

I was starting to feel calmer. My fears dropped away like feathers off The 
Battling Bird-Boy. 

After all, there was nothing to be afraid of. I hadn’t stumbled into the 
headquarters of the world’s most evil supervillain. I was in the basement of the 
comic book offices. 

This is where the writers and artists worked. And this is where they print 
the comic books every month. 

So why should I be afraid? 

I shuffled through folder after folder, making my way down the long 

counter. I found a pile of layouts for a comic book that I had just bought. 

It was so exciting seeing the actual art. The page was really big, at least 
twice as big as the comic book. I guessed that the artists made their drawings 
much bigger than the actual page. And then they shrank the drawings down 
when they printed them. 

I found some really new pencil drawings of The Masked Mutant. I knew 
they were new because I didn’t recognize them from my comics at home—and I 
have them all! 

Drawing after drawing. My eyes were practically spinning! 

I never dreamed that Collectable Comics were made right in Riverview 
Falls. 

I flipped through a sketchbook of Penguin People portraits. I never liked the 
Penguin People. I know they’re good guys, and people really think they’re great. 
But I think their black-and-white costumes just look silly. 

I was having a great time. Really enjoying myself. 

Of course it had to end. 

It ended when I opened the last folder on the counter. And stared at the 
sketches inside. 

I gaped at them in disbelief, my hands trembling as I shuffled from one to 
the next. 

“This is impossible!” I cried out loud. 

I was staring at sketches of ME. 

15 

I frantically shuffled through the big stack of drawings. 

You’re just imagining it, Skipper, I told myself. The boy in the sketches 
only looks like you. It isn’t really you. 

But it had to be me. 

In every drawing, the boy had my round face, my dark hair—cut short on 
the sides and long on top. 

He was short like me. And just a little bit chubby. He had my crooked 
smile, up a little higher on one side. He wore my clothes—baggy jeans and long- 
sleeved, pocket T-shirts. 

I stopped at a drawing halfway through the pile and stared hard at it, 
holding it close to my face. “Oh, wow!” I exclaimed. 

The boy in the drawing even had a chip on his front tooth. Just like me. 

“It’s impossible!” I cried out loud, my voice tiny and shrill in the enormous 
room. 

Who had been drawing me? And why? Why would a comic book artist 
make sketch after sketch of me? 

And how did the artist know me so well? How did the artist know that I 
have a tiny chip on one front tooth? 

A cold shiver ran down my back. I suddenly felt very frightened. I stared at 
the drawings, my heart pounding. 

In one drawing, I looked really scared. I was running from something, my 
arms out stiffly in front of me. 

Another drawing was a close-up portrait of my face. My expression in the 
sketch was angry. No. More than angry. I looked furious. 

Another sketch showed me flexing my muscles. Hey, I look pretty cool! I 
thought. The artist had given me bulging superhero biceps. 

In another drawing, my eyes were closed. Was I asleep? Or was I dead? 

I was still staring at the drawings, shuffling from one to the next, studying 
each one—when I heard the footsteps. 

And realized I was no longer alone. 

“Who-who’s there?” I cried, whirling around. 

16 

“Where were you?” Libby demanded angrily, running across the room toward 
me. “I searched everywhere!” 

“Where were you?” I shot back. “I thought you were right behind me.” 

“I thought you were right ahead of me!” she cried. “I turned a corner, and 
you were gone.” She stopped in front of me, breathing hard, her face bright red. 
“How could you leave me by myself in this creepy place?” 

“I didn’t!” I insisted. “You left me!” 

She shook her head, still gasping for breath. “Well, let’s get out of here, 
Skipper. I found some elevators that are working.” She tugged my sleeve. 

I picked up the stack of drawings. “Look, Libby.” I held them up to her. 
“You have to see these.” 

“Are you serious?” she cried. “I want to get out of here. I don’t want to look 
at comic book drawings now!” 

“But—but—” I sputtered, waving the drawings. 

She turned and started toward the doorway. “I told you I found some 
elevators. Are you coming or not?” 

“But these are drawings of me!” I cried. 

“Yeah. Sure,” she called back sarcastically. She stopped at the front of the 
big printing press and turned back to me. “Why would anyone draw you, 
Skipper?” 

“I-I don’t know,” I stammered. “But these drawings—” 

“You have a sick imagination,” she said. “You seem like a normal guy. But 
you’re totally weird. Bye.” Libby started jogging over the paper-cluttered floor 
to the door. 

“No—wait!” I called. I dropped the drawings onto the counter, slid off the 
tall stool, and chased after her. “Wait up, Libby!” 

I followed her out into the hall. I didn’t want to be left alone in this creepy 
place, either. I had to get home and think about this. I had to puzzle it out. 

My head was spinning. I felt totally confused. 

I followed her through the long tunnel of hallways. We turned a corner, and 
I saw a row of elevators against the wall. 

Libby pushed the button on the wall, and one of the elevators slid open 

silently. We both peered carefully inside before stepping on. It was empty. 

We were both panting. My head was throbbing. My side ached. Neither of 
us spoke a word. 

Libby pushed the button marked LOBBY. We heard a soft hum and felt the 
elevator start to move. 

When the door slid open, and we saw the pink-and-yellow walls of the 
lobby, Libby and I both cheered. We burst out of the elevator together and ran 
across the marble floor to the exit. 

Out on the sidewalk, I stopped, lowering my hands to my knees, sucking in 
deep breaths of fresh air. When I glanced up, I saw Libby studying her watch. 

“I’ve got to get home,” she said. “My mom is going to have a cow!” 

“Do you believe me about the drawings?” I asked breathlessly. 

“No,” she replied. “Who would believe that?” She waved and made her 
way across the street, heading for home. 

I could see a bus approaching, a few blocks down. Searching in my jeans 
pocket for a token, I turned to take one last look at the weird building. 

It had vanished once again. 

I needed time to think about everything that had happened. But Wilson was 
waiting for me when I got home, and he followed me up to my room. 

“I brought over some of my rubber stamps,” he said, raising a brown paper 
bag up to my face. He turned it over and emptied it onto my desk. “I thought you 
might like to see some of the better ones.” 

“Wilson—” I started. “I really don’t—” 

“This one is a ladybug,” he said, holding up a small wooden stamp. “It’s 
very old. It’s the oldest one I own. Here. I’ll show it to you.” He opened a blue 
inkpad, stamped the ladybug on it, and pressed it onto the top of a pad of paper I 
had on the desk. 

“How old is it?” I asked him. 

“I don’t know,” he replied. He held up another one. “It’s a cow,” he said. As 
if I couldn’t tell. He stamped it onto the pad. “I have several cows,” Wilson said. 
“But I only brought one.” 

I studied the cow, pretending to be interested. 

“It’s another really old one,” Wilson said proudly. 

“How old?” I asked. 

He shrugged. “Beats me.” He reached for another stamp. 

“Uh... Wilson... I just had a really weird thing happen,” I told him. “And I 
need to think about it. Alone.” 

He narrowed his blue eyes at me, confused. “What happened?” 

“It’s kind of a long story,” I said. “I was in a building. On the north side of 
town. I think it’s where they make the Collectable Comics.” 

“Really? Here in Riverview Falls?” Wilson’s face filled with surprise. “And 
they let you in?” 

“There was no one there,” I told him. It felt good to share the story with 
someone. “So we went in. This girl I met on the bus. Libby. And me. We tried to 
go up in the elevator. But it took us down. Then Libby got lost. And I found a 
stack of drawings of myself.” 

“Whoa!” Wilson exclaimed, raising a hand for me to stop. “I’m not 
following this too well, Skipper.” 

I realized what I had said didn’t make any sense at all. How could I explain 
it? 

I told Wilson I’d talk to him later, after I calmed down. I helped him gather 
up his rubber stamps. He’d brought about twenty of them. “Twenty of the best,” 
he said. 

I walked him downstairs and said I’d call him after dinner. 

After he left, something caught my eye on the mail table in the hall. A 
brown envelope. 

My heart jumped. Was it—? Yes! An envelope from the Collectable Comics 
company. The next special issue of The Masked Mutant 

I was so excited, I nearly knocked the whole table over as I grabbed for the 
envelope. I tucked it under my arm without opening it and ran up the stairs, two 
at a time. 

I need total privacy. I have to study this! I told myself. 

I closed the bedroom door behind me and dropped down onto the edge of 
the bed. My hands trembled as I ripped open the envelope and pulled out the 
comic book. 

The cover showed a closeup of The Masked Mutant. His eyes glared 
angrily out at the reader. A NEW FOE FOR THE MUTANT! proclaimed the title. 

Huh? A new foe? 

I took a deep breath and held it. Calm down, Skipper, I urged myself. It’s 
only a comic book. 

But would this new issue help to solve the mystery for me? 

Would it tell me anything about the strange, pink-and-green headquarters 
building? Would it help solve any of the puzzles from this afternoon? 

I turned to the first page. It showed the headquarters building from above. 
The next drawing showed the building at street level. In the deep shadows, 
someone was approaching the glass doors. 

Someone was sneaking into the headquarters building. 

I turned the page. 

And shrieked at the top of my lungs: “I don’t believe it!” 

17 

Yes. You probably guessed it. It was ME sneaking into The Masked Mutant’s 
headquarters building. 

I stared at the page so hard, I thought my eyes were going to pop out of my 
head. 

I was so excited—and so shocked—I couldn’t read the words. They became 
a gray blur. 

I turned the pages with shaking hands. I don’t think I took a breath. I 
studied each picture, holding the comic book about an inch from my face. 

The Galloping Gazelle sat in a tiny room. The room grew hotter and hotter. 
In minutes, The Galloping Gazelle would become The Boiled Gazelle! 

The Masked Mutant had trapped The Galloping Gazelle in his headquarters. 
And now he planned to leave The Gazelle there to boil. 

I turned the page. My hand shook so hard, I nearly tore the page off. 

There I was, creeping through the dark hallway. In the comic, I wore the 
same T-shirt and baggy jeans I had on right now. 

The next drawing showed a closeup of my face. Big balls of sweat rolled 
down my pink face. I guess that meant I was scared. 

I’m a little too chubby in that drawing, I thought. 

But it was me. It was definitely ME! 

“Mom!” I screamed, closing the comic and jumping off the bed. “Mom! 
Dad! You have to see this!” 

I tore out of my room and hurtled down the stairs. I don’t think my feet 
touched the floor! 

“Mom! Dad! Where are you?” 

I found them in the kitchen, preparing dinner. Dad was chopping onions by 
the sink. His eyes were filled with tears. Mom was bent over the stove. As usual, 
she was having trouble getting the oven lit. 

“I’m in this comic book!” I cried, bursting into the room. 

“Not now!” they both replied in unison. 

“No. You have to see this!” I insisted, waving it in front of Dad. 

Dad didn’t stop chopping. “You had a letter to the editor published?” he 
asked through his tears. 

“No! I’m in the comic!” I told him breathlessly. I waved it closer to him. 

“I can’t see a thing!” Dad exclaimed. “Get that away from me. Can’t you 
see what this onion is doing to my eyes?” 

“There’s a trick to chopping onions,” Mom said, bent over the stove. “But I 
don’t know what it is.” 

I ran over to Mom. “You have to check this out, Mom. I’m in here. Look. 
It’s really me!” 

Mom shook her head, frowning. “I can’t get it to light,” she said, sighing. “I 
think the pilot is out again.” 

“I’ll check it if I ever stop crying,” Dad told her. 

“Willyou look at this?!” I screamed, totally losing it. 

Mom gave a quick glance to the page I was holding in front of her. “Yes, 
yes. That does look a little like you, Skipper,” she said, waving me away. She 
turned back to the oven. “We really need a new stove, dear.” 

“Dad—take a look,” I pleaded. 

I ran back to him, but he had shoved a towel up to his face and was crying 
into the towel. “I guess you can’t look now, huh?” I said softly. 

He didn’t answer. He just cried into the towel. 

I let out a long, exasperated moan. What was their problem, anyway? 

This was the most exciting thing that had ever happened to me. And they 
couldn’t be bothered to take one look. 

Angrily, I closed the comic and stomped out of the room. 

“Skipper, set the table,” Mom shouted after me. 

Set the table? I’m starring in a famous comic book, and she’s asking me to 
set the table? 

“Why can’t Mitzi do it?” I asked. 

“Set the table, Skipper,” Mom repeated sternly. 

“Okay, okay. In a few minutes,” I called back. I dropped down onto the 
living room couch and turned to the back of the comic. I had been too excited to 
read it to the end. Now I wanted to read the part where it tells you what to expect 
in the next comic book. 

My eyes swept over the page. There was The Galloping Gazelle, still 
trapped in the boiling hot room. And there stood The Masked Mutant outside the 
door, about to declare his victory. 

I squinted at the white thought balloon over The Galloping Gazelle’s head. 
What was he saying? 

“Only the boy can save me now,” The Galloping Gazelle was thinking. 
“Only the boy can save the world from The Masked Mutant’s evil. But where is 
he?” 

I read it again. And again. 

Was it true? Was I the only one who could save The Galloping Gazelle? 

Did I really have to go back there? 

18 

After school the next day, I hurried to the bus stop. It was a clear, cold day. The 
ground beneath my sneakers was frozen hard. The sky above looked like a broad 
sheet of cold, blue ice. 

Leaning into the sharp wind, I wondered if Libby would be on the bus. I 
was dying to tell her about the comic book. I wanted to tell her I was going back 
into the strange building. 

Would she go back with me? 

No way, I decided. Libby had been frightened after our first visit, I could 
never drag her back there. 

I jogged past the playground, my eyes on the street, watching for a bus. 

“Hey, Skipper!” a familiar voice called. I turned to see Wilson running after 
me, his coat unzipped and flapping up behind him like wings. “Skipper—what’s 
up? You going home?” 

Two blocks up, the blue-and-white bus turned the corner. 

“No. I’m going someplace,” I told Wilson. “I can’t look at your rubber 
stamp collection now.” 

His expression turned serious. “I’m not collecting rubber stamps anymore,” 
he said. “I gave it up.” 

I couldn’t hide my surprise. “Huh? How come?” 

“They took up too much of my time,” he replied. 

The bus pulled to the curb. The door opened. “See you later,” I told Wilson. 

As I stepped on to the bus, I remembered where I was going. And I 
suddenly wondered if I would see Wilson later. I wondered if I would ever see 
him again! 

Libby wasn’t on the bus. In a way, I was glad. It meant I wouldn’t have to 
explain to her what I was doing. 

She would have laughed at me for believing what I read in a comic book. 

But the comic book had told the truth about the Invisibility Curtain. And 
now it had said that I was the only one who could save The Galloping Gazelle 
and stop The Masked Mutant’s evil. 

“But it’s just a comic book!” Libby would have said. “How can you be such 

a jerk to believe a comic book?” 

That’s what she would have said. And I don’t know how I could have 
answered. 

So I was glad she wasn’t on the bus. 

I climbed off the bus in front of the empty lot. 

I gazed at it from across the street. I knew it wasn’t really an empty lot. I 
knew the pink-and-green building was there, hidden behind the Invisibility 
Curtain. 

As I crossed the street, I felt a wave of fear sweep down over me. My 
mouth suddenly got dry. I tried to swallow, but nearly choked. My throat felt as 
if someone had tied a knot in it. My stomach felt kind of fluttery. And my knees 
got sweaty and refused to bend. 

I stopped on the sidewalk and struggled to calm myself down. 

It’s just a comic book. Just a comic book. That’s what I told myself, 
repeating the words over and over. 

Finally, staring straight ahead at the empty lot, I worked up my courage 
enough to move forward. One step. Another. Another. 

Suddenly, the building popped into view. 

I gasped. Even though I had crossed through the Invisibility Curtain before, 
it was still amazing to see a building suddenly appear before my eyes. 

Swallowing hard, I pulled open one of the glass entrance doors and stepped 
into the bright, pink-and-yellow lobby. 

Staying near the door, I turned to the left, then the right. 

Still empty. Not a person in sight. 

I coughed. My cough sounded tiny in the huge lobby. My sneakers 
squeaked over the marble floor as I started to the elevators on the far wall. 

Where is everyone? I asked myself. It’s the middle of the afternoon. How 
can I be the only one in this huge lobby? 

I stopped in front of the elevators. I raised my finger to the elevator button 
—but I didn’t push it. 

I wish Libby had come along, I decided. If Libby were here, at least I’d 
have someone to be terrified with ! 

I pushed the elevator button. 

“Well... here goes,” I murmured, waiting for the door to open. 

And then someone laughed. A cold, evil laugh. 

Right behind me. 

19 

I let out a low cry and spun around. 

No one there. 

The laughter repeated. Soft, but cruel. 

My eyes darted around the lobby. I couldn’t see anyone. 

“Wh-who’s there?” I choked out. 

The laughter stopped. 

I continued to search. My eyes went up to the wall above the elevator. A 
small, black loudspeaker poked out from the yellow wall. 

The laughter must have come from there, I decided. I stared up at it as if I 
expected to see someone in there. 

Get out of here! a voice inside me begged. My sensible voice. Just turn 
around, Skipper, and run out of this building as fast as your rubbery, shaky legs 
will take you! 

I ignored it and pressed the elevator button. The elevator door on the left 
slid open silently, and I stepped inside. 

The door closed. I stared at the control panel. Should I push up or down? 

The last visit, I had pushed up, the top floor—and the elevator had taken 
Libby and me down to the basement. 

My finger hesitated in front of the buttons. What would happen if this time 
I pushed down ? 

I didn’t get a chance to find out. The elevator started with a jolt before I 
pushed any button at all. 

I grabbed on to the railing. My hand was cold and wet. The elevator 
hummed as it rose. 

I’m going up, I realized. Up to where? 

The ride seemed to take forever. I watched the floor numbers whir by on 
top of the control panel. Forty... forty-one... forty-two... The elevator beeped 
each time it passed a floor. 

It came to a stop at forty-six. Was this the top floor? 

The door slid open. I let go of the railing and stepped out. 

I glanced down a long, gray hallway. I blinked once. Twice. It looked as if I 
had stepped into a black-and-white movie. The walls were gray. The ceiling was 

gray. The floor was gray. The doors on both sides of the hall were gray. 

It feels like I’m standing in a thick, gray fog, I thought, peering one way, 
then the other. Or in a dark cloud. 

No one in sight. Nothing moving. 

I listened hard. Listened for voices, for laughter, for the click and hum of 
office machinery. 

Silence—except for the thudding of my heart. 

I shoved my cold, clammy hands into the pockets of my jeans and began to 
walk, slowly following the hallway. 

I turned a corner and stared down another endless, gray hallway. The end of 
the hall seemed to fade away, to fade into a gray blur. 

I suddenly remembered the drawings in the newest issue of The Masked 
Mutant. A big, two-page drawing had shown the long hallways of The Masked 
Mutant’s secret headquarters. 

The long, twisting hallway in the comic book looked just like this hallway 
—except that the comic book hallway had bright green walls and a yellow 
ceiling. And the rooms were filled with costumed supervillains who worked for 
The Masked Mutant. 

As I slowly made my way through this gray, empty hallway, I had a weird 
thought. Everything looked so gray and washed out, I had the feeling that I was 
in a sketch of a hallway. A black-and-white pencil drawing that hadn’t been 
filled in yet. 

But, of course, that didn’t make any sense at all. 

You’re just thinking crazy thoughts because you’re so scared, I told myself. 

And then I heard a noise. 

A hard, thumping sound. A bump. 

“Whoa!” I whispered. My heart leaped up to my throat. I stopped in the 
middle of the hall. And listened. 

Bump. Thump. 

Coming from up ahead. From around the next corner? 

I forced myself to walk. I turned the corner. And gasped at the bright colors. 

The walls down this hallway were bright green. The ceiling was yellow. 
The thick carpet under my sneakers was a dark, wine-red. 

Bump. Bump. Thump. 

The colors were so bright, I had to shield my eyes with one hand. 

I squinted to the end of the hall. The green walls led to a closed yellow 

door. The door had a metal bolt against the front. 

Thump. Thump. 

The sounds were coming from behind the bolted doorway. 

I made my way slowly down the hall to the doorway. 

I stopped outside the bolted door. “Anyone in there?” I tried to call into the 
room. But my voice came out in a choked whisper. 

I coughed and tried again. “Anyone in there?” 

No reply. 

Then, another loud bumping sound. Like wood thumping against wood. 

“Anyone in there?” I called, my voice a little stronger. 

The thumping sounds stopped. “Can you help me?” a man’s voice called 
from inside the room. 

I froze. 

“Can you help me?” the man pleaded. 

I hesitated for a second. Should I try to help him? 

Yes. 

I raised both hands to the metal bolt. I took a deep breath and shoved the 
bolt with all my strength. 

To my surprise, it slid easily. 

The door was unlocked. I turned the handle and pushed the door open. 

I stumbled off-balance into the room and stared in amazement at the figure 
staring back at me. 

“You—you’re real?” I cried. 

20 

His cape was twisted, and his mask had rolled down over one eye. But I knew I 
was staring at The Galloping Gazelle. 

“You’re really alive?” I blurted out. 

“Of course,” he replied impatiently. “Untie me, kid.” He gazed toward the 
open door. “You’d better hurry.” 

I realized that his powerful arms and legs were tied to the chair. The 
thumping and bumping had been the sounds of his chair banging against the 
floor as he had tried to escape. 

“I—I can’t believe that you’re here!” I cried. I was so amazed—and so 
frightened—I didn’t know what I was saying! 

“I’ll give you my autograph later,” he said, his eyes still on the doorway. 
“Just hurry, okay? We’ve got to get out of here. I don’t think we have much 
time.” 

“T-time?” I stammered. 

“He’ll be back,” The Galloping Gazelle murmured. “We want to get to him 
before he gets to us, right, kid?” 

“Us?!” I cried. 

“Just untie me,” The Galloping Gazelle instructed. “I can handle him.” He 
shook his head. “I wish I could contact my buddies at the League. They’re 
probably all searching the universe for me.” 

Still half dazed, I stumbled across the tiny room to the chair and began 
working at the ropes. The knots were big and tight and hard to untie. The coarse 
rope scraped my hands as I struggled to loosen them. 

“Hurry, kid,” The Galloping Gazelle urged. “Hey, how did you find the 
secret headquarters, anyway?” 

“I... just found it,” I replied, tugging at the knots. 

“Don’t be modest, kid,” the superhero said in his flat, low voice. “You used 
your secret cyber-radar powers, right? Or did you use ultra-mind control to read 
my thoughts and hurry to my rescue?” 

“No. I just took the bus,” I replied. 

I didn’t really know how to answer him. Did he have me confused with 
someone else? 

Why was I here? What was going to happen to us? To me? 

Questions, questions. They flew through my mind as I frantically worked at 
the heavy ropes. 

I tried to ignore the pain from the cuts and scrapes to my hands. But it hurt 

a lot. 

Finally, one of the knots slid open. The Galloping Gazelle flexed his 
muscles and stretched out his powerful chest—and the ropes popped away 
easily. 

“Thanks, kid,” he boomed, jumping to his feet. He adjusted his mask so that 
he could see through both eyeholes. Then he swept his long cape behind him and 
straightened his tights. 

“Okay. Let’s go pay him a surprise visit,” he said, pulling up the ends of his 
gloves. He started toward the door, taking long, heavy strides. His boots 
thundered loudly as he walked. 

“Uh... do you really want me to come, too?” I asked, lingering behind the 
chair. 

He nodded. “I know what you’re worried about, kid. You’re worried that 
you won’t be able to keep up with me because I have dyno-legs and I’m the 
fastest living mutant in the known universe.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“Don’t worry,” he replied. “I’ll go slow.” He motioned impatiently. “Let’s 
get moving.” 

I tripped over the tangle of ropes on the floor. Grabbed the chair to catch 
my balance. Then followed him out into the green-and-yellow hallway. 

He turned and began running down the hall. As I started to follow, he 
became a blue-and-red blur of light—and then vanished. 

A few seconds later, he came jogging back. “Sorry. Too fast for you?” he 
called. 

I nodded. “A little.” 

He rested a gloved hand heavily on my shoulder. His gray eyes peered at 
me solemnly through the slits in his mask. “Do you have wall-climbing 
abilities?” he demanded. 

I shook my head. “No. Sorry.” 

“Okay. We’ll take the stairs,” he said. 

He grabbed my hand and pulled me down the hall. He moved so fast, both 
of my feet were in the air. 

I guess it was impossible for him to go slow. 

The walls whirred past in a bright green blur. He pulled me around a corner, 
then another corner. 

I felt as if I were flying! We were moving so fast, I didn’t have time to 
breathe. 

Around another corner. Then through an open doorway. 

The doorway led to a flight of steep, dark stairs. I peered up to the top, but I 
could see only heavy blackness. 

I expected The Galloping Gazelle to pull me up the stairs. But to my 
surprise, he stopped just past the doorway. 

He narrowed his eyes at the stairs. “There is a disintegrator-ray there,” he 
announced, rubbing his square jaw thoughtfully. 

“A what?” I cried. 

“A disintegrator-ray,” he repeated, his eyes locked on the stairs. “If you step 
into it, it will disintegrate you in one hundredth of a second.” 

I swallowed hard. My entire body started to tremble. 

“Do you think you can jump the first two steps?” The Galloping Gazelle 
asked. 

“You mean—?” I started. 

“Land on the third step,” he instructed. “Get a good running start.” 

I’ll need it, I thought, staring at the steep steps. 

I suddenly wished I hadn’t eaten so many Pop-Tarts and bowls of Frosted 
Flakes for breakfast every morning. If only I were a little slimmer, a little lighter. 

“Get a good running start and make sure you clear the first two steps,” The 
Galloping Gazelle warned. “Land on the third step and keep moving. If you land 
on the first or second step, you’ll disintegrate.” He motioned with his fingers. 
“Poof.” 

I let out a low, frightened moan. I couldn’t help myself. I wanted to be 
brave. But my body wasn’t cooperating. It was shaking and quaking as if I were 
made of Jell-O. 

“I’ll go first,” the superhero said. He turned to the stairs, bent his knees, 
stretched both hands forward—and leaped over the invisible disintegrator-ray. 
He landed on the fifth step. 

He turned around and motioned for me to follow. “See? It’s easy,” he said 
brightly. 

Easy for you! I thought darkly. Some of us don’t have dyno-legs. 

“Hurry,” he urged. “If you stop to think about it, you won’t be able to do it.” 

I’m already thinking about it! I thought. 

How can I not think about it? 

“I—I’m not very athletic,” I murmured in a tiny, trembling voice. What an 
understatement! Whenever the kids I know play any sports, I am always the last 
kid chosen for a team. 

“Hurry,” The Galloping Gazelle urged. He reached out both hands. “Take a 
good running jump, kid. Aim for the third step. It isn’t that high. I’ll catch you.” 

The third step looked about a mile in the air to me. But I held my breath, 
bent my knees, took a running leap—my best leap— 

—and I landed with a hard thud on the first step. 

21 

I screamed and clamped my eyes shut as the disintegrator-ray poured through 
me, and my body crumbled into thin air. 

Actually, I didn’t feel anything. 

I opened my eyes to find myself still standing on the bottom step. Still in 
one chubby piece. 

“I—I—I—” I stammered. 

“I guess he doesn’t have it turned on,” The Galloping Gazelle said calmly. 
He smiled at me through the mask. “You caught a break, kid.” 

I was still trembling. Cold beads of sweat rolled down my forehead. I 
couldn’t speak. 

“Hope your luck holds out,” The Galloping Gazelle muttered. He turned 
and started up the stairs, his cape floating behind him. “Come on. Let’s go meet 
our destiny.” 

I didn’t like the sound of that. Not one bit. 

But I didn’t like anything that was going on. The Galloping Gazelle had 
said that I was lucky. 

But I certainly didn’t feel lucky as I followed him up the dark stairs. 

At the top landing, he pushed open a wide metal door, and we stepped into 
an amazing room. 

The room glowed with color. It was decorated like an office, the fanciest, 
most luxurious office I have ever seen. 

The shaggy white carpet was soft and so thick, I sank in it nearly to my 
ankles. Silky blue curtains were draped over enormous windows that overlooked 
the town. Sparkly, crystal chandeliers hung from the ceiling. 

Velvety couches and chairs were arranged around dark wood tables. One 
wall was covered with floor-to-ceiling bookshelves, each shelf filled with 
leather-covered books. 

A giant TV screen—dark—stood in one corner. Beside it, a wall of 
electronic equipment. Enormous oil paintings of green farm fields covered one 
wall. 

A shiny, gold-plated desk stood in the middle of the room. The tall desk 
chair behind it looked more like a throne than a chair. 

“Wow!” I cried, lingering near the door, my eyes taking in the splendor of 
the vast room. 

“He treats himself nice,” The Galloping Gazelle commented. “But his time 
is over.” 

“You mean—?” I started. 

“I’m too fast for him,” the superhero boasted. 

“I’ll run circles around him, faster and faster—until I become a raging 
tornado. He’ll be swept away forever.” 

“Wow,” I repeated. I didn’t know what else to say. 

“He caught me napping before,” The Galloping Gazelle continued. “That’s 
the only way he can catch me. When I’m asleep. Otherwise, I’m much too fast 
for him. Too fast for anybody. Know how fast I run the one-hundred?” 

“How fast?” I asked. 

“I run it in one-tenth. One-tenth of a second. That would be an Olympic 
record. But they don’t let me in the Olympics because I’m a mutant.” 

I started to follow The Galloping Gazelle to the center of the room. But I 
stopped when I heard the laughter. 

The same cold laughter I had heard in the lobby. 

I froze in fright. 

And stared as the gold desk began to move. And change. 

The shiny gold shimmered as it shifted and bent, raising itself up and 
forming a human figure. 

I took a step back, trying to hide behind The Galloping Gazelle as the desk 
melted away—and The Masked Mutant rose up in its place. 

His dark eyes burned menacingly through the slits in his mask. He was a lot 
taller than he appeared in the comic. And a lot more powerful-looking. 

And a lot scarier. 

He raised a fist at The Galloping Gazelle. “You dare to invade my private 
office?” he demanded. 

“Say good-bye to all this ill-gotten splendor,” The Galloping Gazelle told 
the Mutant. 

“I’ll say good-bye to you!” The Masked Mutant shot back, spitting the 
words angrily. 

Then he turned his frightening, cold eyes on me. “I’ll handle you easily, 
Gazelle,” the world’s most evil supervillain said softly. “But, first, watch me 
destroy the kid!” 

22 

I shrank back as The Masked Mutant took a step toward me, his fist still raised, 
his black eyes glaring furiously into mine. 

My heart pounding, I turned and frantically searched for a hiding place. 

But there was nowhere to hide. 

And I couldn’t make a run for it. The door slammed shut as The Masked 
Mutant moved closer. 

“Whoa!” I cried. I raised both hands in front of my face, as if shielding 
myself. 

I couldn’t bear to see his cold, cruel eyes glaring at me as he approached. 
He’s going to destroy me, I thought. But I don’t have to watch! 

And, then, as The Masked Mutant took one more step, The Galloping 
Gazelle moved to block his way. “You’ll deal with me, Mutant!” he declared in 
his booming voice. “If you want the kid, you’ll have to take me out first.” 

“No problem,” The Masked Mutant declared softly. 

But his expression changed as The Galloping Gazelle began to circle him. 
Faster and faster—until the Gazelle appeared to disappear into a whirling, 
spinning tornado of blue and red. 

The Gazelle is carrying out his plan, I realized as I backed up to the wall. 
He’s going to run faster and faster around The Masked Mutant until he creates a 
whirlwind that will blow the evil Mutant away. 

Pressing my back against the wall, I watched the amazing battle eagerly. 
The Galloping Gazelle whirled faster. Faster. So fast, a powerful wind swept 
over the room, slapping the curtains, toppling over a vase of flowers, sending 
books flying from the shelves. 

Yes! I thought happily, shooting both fists into the air. Yes ! We win! We 

win! 

I lowered my hands and let out a horrified groan when I saw The Masked 
Mutant casually stick his foot out. 

The Galloping Gazelle tripped over the foot and slammed facedown onto 
the floor with a shattering thud. 

He bounced hard a couple of times and then lay still. 

The wind stopped. The curtains fell back in place. 

The Masked Mutant stood over the fallen superhero, hands triumphantly on 
the waist of his costume. 

“Get up!” I screamed, without even realizing I was doing it. “Get up, 
Gazelle! Please!” 

The Gazelle groaned, but didn’t move. 

“Dinnertime,” sneered The Masked Mutant. 

My back pressed hard against the wall, I stared in horror as The Mutant 
began to change again. His face twisted and appeared to flatten. His body 
lowered, and he leaned forward, spreading his hands on the floor. 

He stepped forward as a snarling leopard. Tilting its head to one side, the 
leopard uttered a ferocious growl of attack. 

Then it arched its back, tensed its back legs—and leaped on to the sprawled 
body of The Galloping Gazelle. 

“Get up! Get up, Gazelle!” I shrieked as the leopard attacked. 

The Masked Mutant clawed and gnawed at the helpless Gazelle. 

“Get up! Get up!” I screamed. 

To my shock, The Galloping Gazelle opened his eyes. 

The ferocious leopard ripped away the bottom of The Gazelle’s mask with 
its teeth. 

The Galloping Gazelle rolled out from under the enormous beast and 
scrambled to his feet. 

With a roar, the leopard swiped its paws, sending a long tear down the 
length of The Gazelle’s cape. 

“I’m outta here!” The Gazelle cried, making tracks to the door. He turned 
back to me. “You’re on your own, kid!” 

“No! Wait!” I screamed. 

I don’t think The Gazelle heard me. He shoved open the door with one 
shoulder and vanished. 

The door slammed behind him. 

Quickly, the leopard changed, rising up on its hind legs, its body shifting 
and moving—until The Masked Mutant stepped forward. 

He smiled at me as he approached, a cold, menacing smile. 

“You’re on your own, kid,” he said softly. 

23 

I edged along the wall as The Masked Mutant moved slowly, steadily toward me. 
I knew I couldn’t get to the door, as The Galloping Gazelle had. I wasn’t fast 
enough. 

He should call himself The Galloping Chicken! I thought bitterly. 

How could he save his own skin and leave me here like this? 

I couldn’t run. I couldn’t fight. What could I do? 

What could I do against a deadly foe who could turn himself into anything 
solid? 

The Masked Mutant stopped in the center of the room, hands on his waist, 
his dark eyes twinkling. He was enjoying my fright. And already tasting his 
victory. 

“What are your powers, kid?” he demanded, a sneer in his voice. 

“Huh?” His question caught me by surprise. 

“What are your powers?” he repeated impatiently, swirling his cape behind 
him. “Do you shrink down to a tiny bug? Is that your secret?” 

“Huh? Shrink? Me?” I was shaking so hard, I couldn’t think straight. 

Why was he asking me these questions? 

“Do you burst into flames?” he continued, moving closer. “Is that your 
power? Are you magnetic? Are you a mind-fogger?” His voice turned angry. 
“What is it, kid? Answer me! What is your power?” 

“I—I don’t have any powers,” I stammered. If I pressed any harder into the 
wall, I’d become part of the wallpaper! 

The Masked Mutant laughed. “So you won’t tell me, huh? Okay, okay. 
Have it your way.” 

His smile faded. His dark eyes turned cold and hard. “I was just trying to 
make it easy on you,” he said, moving even closer. “I want to destroy you in the 
easiest way possible.” 

“Oh. I see,” I muttered. 

My eye caught something on the shelf. A large, smooth stone as big as a 
coconut. It was some kind of decoration. I wondered if it would make a good 
weapon. 

“Say bye-bye, kid,” he said through clenched teeth. 

He came toward me quickly. 

And as he moved, I grabbed the big stone off the shelf. It was a lot heavier 
than I’d thought. It wasn’t stone, I realized. It was shaped like a smooth stone. 
But it was made of solid steel. 

I hoisted it up and took careful aim. Then I heaved it at The Masked 
Mutant’s head. And missed. 

The stone thudded heavily onto the carpet. “Nice try,” he muttered... 

.. .and moved quickly to destroy me. 

24 

I tried to duck away from him, but he was too quick. 

His powerful hands grabbed me around the waist and lifted me off the floor. 

Higher. Higher. 

I realized he was moving his molecules, making his arms stretch until he 
had lifted me above the chandelier. 

I thrashed my arms and legs and tried to squirm away. But he was too 
strong. 

Higher. Higher. Until my head banged hard against the ceiling, at least 
twenty feet above the floor. 

“Happy landings!” The Masked Mutant cried gleefully as he prepared to 
drop me and send me plummeting to my doom. 

But before he could drop me, I heard the door swing open. 

The Masked Mutant heard it, too. Holding me suspended in the air, he 
turned to see who had entered. “You!” he cried in surprise. 

High above the floor, I squirmed around and bent my head to see through 
the chandelier. The light sparkled through the crystals, making it impossible to 
see. 

“How dare you burst in here!” The Masked Mutant cried to the intruder. 

He lowered me a little. Just enough for me to see the doorway. 

“Libby!” I cried. “What are you doing here?” 

25 

The Masked Mutant lowered me to the floor and turned to face Libby. My legs 
were wobbling so badly, I had to grab on to a bookshelf to hold myself up. 

“Libby—get out of here! Get away!” I tried to warn her. 

But she stormed into the room, her red hair flying behind her. She had her 
eyes on me and completely ignored The Masked Mutant. 

Doesn’t she know that he is the most evil supervillain in the known 
universe? 

“Skipper—didn’t you hear me calling you?” Libby demanded sharply. 

“Huh? Libby—” 

“I was across the street,” she said. “I saw you going into this building. I 
called to you.” 

“I—I didn’t hear you,” I stammered. “Listen, you’d better get out of here, 
Libby.” 

“I’ve been searching and searching for you,” she continued, ignoring my 
warning, ignoring my frantic gestures. “What are you doing in here, Skipper?” 

“Uh... I really can’t talk right now,” I replied, pointing to The Masked 
Mutant. 

He stood impatiently, hands at his waist, tapping his boot on the carpet. “I 
see that I will have to destroy you both,” he said quietly. 

Libby spun around. She seemed to notice the supervillain for the first time. 
“Skipper and I are leaving now,” she said with a sneer. 

I gasped. Didn’t she know who she was talking to ? 

No. Of course she didn’t know. She reads only High School Harry & 
Beanhead comics. She has no idea how much danger we are in! I realized. 

“I’m sorry,” The Masked Mutant replied, sneering back at Libby from 
under his mask. “You are not leaving. In fact, you are never leaving this building 
again.” 

Libby glared back at him, and I saw her expression change. Her green eyes 
grew wide, and her mouth dropped open. 

She took a step back until she stood beside me. “We have to do something,” 
she whispered. 

Do something? 

What could we do against the monstrous mega-mutant? 

I swallowed hard. I couldn’t think of how to answer her. 

The Masked Mutant tossed back his cape and took a step toward us. 
“Which one of you wants to go first?” he demanded softly. 

I turned and saw that Libby had backed up to the bookshelves. She pulled a 
yellow plastic toy gun from her backpack. 

“Libby—what are you doing?” I whispered. “That’s just a toy!” 

“I know,” she whispered back. “But this is a comic book—right? It can’t be 
real. So if it’s a comic book, we can do anything !” 

She raised the plastic toy pistol and aimed it at The Masked Mutant. 

He let out a cold laugh. “What do you plan to do with that toy?” he asked 
scornfully. 

“It only l-looks like a toy,” Libby stammered. “It’s a Molecule-Melter. 
Leave this room—or I’ll melt all your molecules!” 

The Mutant’s smile grew wider. “Nice try,” he said, flashing two rows of 
perfect, white teeth. 

He narrowed his eyes at Libby and took another step toward her. “I guess 
you want to go first. I’ll try not to hurt you—too much.” 

Libby held the toy gun in front of her with both hands. She gritted her teeth, 
preparing to pull the trigger. 

“Put down that toy. It can’t help you,” The Masked Mutant declared, 
moving closer. 

“I’m not kidding,” Libby insisted in a shrill voice. “It isn’t a toy. It really is 
a Molecule-Melter.” 

The Masked Mutant laughed again and took another step closer. Then 
another step. 

Libby aimed the gun at The Mutant’s chest. She pulled the trigger. 

A high-pitched whistle burst out of the gun. 

The Masked Mutant took another step closer. Then another. 

26 

Libby lowered the plastic gun. 

We both stared in horror as The Masked Mutant came nearer. 

He took one more step. Then stopped. 

A bright white light circled his body. The light became a crackling electrical 
current. 

The Mutant uttered a low moan. Then he began to melt. 

His head melted down into his mask. Tinier and tinier—until it disappeared 
completely. The empty mask slumped on to the shoulders of his costume. And 
then the rest of his body melted away, shrinking until there was nothing left but a 
wrinkled costume and cape, heaped on the carpet. 

Libby and I stood staring down at the costume in silence. 

“It—it worked!” I finally managed to choke out. “The toy gun—it worked, 
Libby!” 

“Of course,” she replied with surprising calm. 

She walked over to the empty costume and kicked it with her sneaker. “Of 
course it worked. I warned him it was a Molecule-Melter. He wouldn’t listen.” 

My brain was doing flip-flops. I didn’t really understand. It was just a toy 
pistol. Why did it destroy the mightiest mutant on Earth? 

“Let’s get out of here!” I pleaded, starting toward the door. 

Libby moved to block my path. “I’m sorry, Skipper,” she said softly. 

“Sorry? What do you mean?” 

She raised the plastic pistol and aimed it at me. “I’m sorry,” she said, 
“because you’re disappearing next.” 

27 

At first I thought Libby was joking. “Libby, put down the gun,” I told her. “You 
have a sick sense of humor!” 

She kept the plastic gun aimed at my chest. 

I let out a feeble laugh. 

But I quickly cut it short when I saw the hard expression on her face. 
“Libby—what’s your problem?” I demanded. 

“I’m not Libby,” she replied softly. “I hate to break the news to you, 
Skipper—but there is no Libby.” 

As she said those words, she began to change. Her red hair slid into her 
head. Her cheeks grew wider. Her nose lengthened. Her eyes changed from 
green to black. 

She stretched up, growing taller. Muscles bulged on her skinny arms. And 
as she grew, her clothing changed, too. Her jeans and T-shirt appeared to melt 
away—replaced by a familiar-looking costume. 

The costume of The Masked Mutant. 

“Libby—what’s going on?” I cried in a tiny, frightened voice. I still didn’t 
understand. “How are you doing that?” 

She shook her head. “You don’t catch on very fast, do you?” she said, 
rolling her eyes. Her voice came out deep and booming. A man’s voice. 

“Libby, I—” 

She swept her cape behind her. “I’m The Masked Mutant, Skipper. I 
changed my molecules into a girl your age and called myself Libby. But I’m The 
Masked Mutant.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

She tossed the toy gun aside and grinned at me triumphantly. 

“But you just melted The Masked Mutant!” I cried. “We both saw him 
melt!” 

She shook her head. “No. You’re mistaken. I just melted The Magnificent 
Molecule Man.” 

I gaped at her in astonishment. “Huh? Molecule Man?” 

“He worked for me,” she explained, glancing down at the crumpled, empty 
costume on the floor. “Sometimes I ordered him to dress like me. To keep people 

off my track.” 

“He worked for you—and you melted him?” I cried. 

“I’m a villain,” The Masked Mutant replied, smiling. “I do very bad things 
—remember?” 

It all started to come clear. There never was a Libby. It had been The 
Masked Mutant all along. 

The Masked Mutant stepped over the crumpled costume to move closer to 
me. Once again, I pressed my back against the wall. “Now I have no choice. 
Now I have to do something very bad to you, Skipper,” he said flatly, his black 
eyes staring hard into mine through his mask. 

“But—why?” I cried. “Why can’t I just leave? I’ll go straight home. I’ll 
never tell anyone about you. Really!” I pleaded. 

He shook his head. “I can’t let you leave. You belong here now.” 

“Huh?” I gasped. “What are you saying, Libby—I mean, Mutant?” 

“You belong here now, Skipper,” he replied coldly. “I knew it when I saw 
you on the bus for the first time. I knew you were perfect when you told me you 
knew everything about my comics.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered again. 

“It’s so hard to find good characters for my stories, Skipper. It’s so hard to 
find good foes. I’m always looking for new faces. That’s why I was so pleased 
when I discovered you.” 

His evil grin grew wider. “Then when you recognized my headquarters 
building, I knew you were right. I knew you were ready to star in a story.” 

The smile faded quickly. “I’m so sorry, Skipper. But the story is over. Your 
part has come to an end.” 

“What—what are you going to do?” I stammered. 

“Destroy you, of course!” The Mutant replied coldly. 

I pressed my back against the wall. I stared back at him, thinking hard. 

“Good-bye, Skipper,” The Masked Mutant said softly. 

“But you can’t do this!” I screamed. “You’re just a character in a comic 
book! But I’m real! I’m a real, live person! I’m a real boy!” 

A strange smile formed on The Mutant’s lips. “No, you’re not, Skipper,” he 
said, snickering. “You’re not real. You’re just like me now. You’re a comic book 
character, too.” 

28 

I pinched my arm. It felt as warm and real as always. 

“You’re a liar!” I shouted. 

The Masked Mutant nodded. A pleased smile formed on his face. “Yes, I’m 
a liar,” he agreed. “That’s one of my better qualities.” His smile faded. “But I’m 
not lying this time, Skipper. You’re not real anymore.” 

I refused to believe him. “I feel the way I always have,” I declared. 

“But I changed you into a comic book character,” he insisted. “Remember 
when you entered this building for the first time? Remember when you walked 
through the glass door and a beam of light passed over you?” 

I nodded. “Yes. I remember that,” I muttered. 

“Well, that was a scanner,” The Masked Mutant continued. “When you 
stepped through it, it scanned your body. It turned you into tiny dots of ink.” 

“No!” I shouted. 

He ignored my cry. “That’s all you are now, Skipper. Tiny dots of red, blue, 
and yellow ink. You’re a comic book character, just like me.” 

He slid toward me menacingly, his cape spreading out behind him. “But I’m 
sorry to say you’ve made your last appearance in my comic book. Or in any 
comic book.” 

“Wait!” I cried. 

“I can’t wait any longer,” The Masked Mutant replied coldly. “I’ve already 
wasted too much time on you, Skipper.” 

“But I’m not Skipper!” I declared. 

“I’m not Skipper Matthews,” I said. “There is no Skipper Matthews.” 

“Oh, really?” he asked, rolling his eyes. “Then who are you?” 

“I’m The Colossal Elastic Boy!” I replied. 

29 

The Masked Mutant uttered a low gasp. “Elastic Boy!” he exclaimed. “I thought 
you looked familiar!” 

“Good-bye, Mutant,” I said in a deep voice. 

“Where are you going?” he asked sharply. 

“Back to my home planet of Xargos,” I replied, starting toward the door. 
“I’m not allowed to guest-star in other comic books.” 

He moved quickly to block the door. “Nice try, Elastic Boy,” he said. “But 
you have invaded my secret headquarters. I have to destroy you.” 

I laughed. “You can’t destroy Elastic Boy!” I boasted. “I’ll stretch out my 
elastic arms and wrap you in them, and squeeze you into Play-Doh!” 

“I don’t think so,” The Masked Mutant replied dryly. He let out an angry 
growl. “I’m tired of all this talk, talk, talk. I’m going to tear you to pieces—and 
then tear your pieces into tiny pieces!” 

I laughed again. “No way!” I told him. “I’m elastic, remember? I can’t be 
torn into pieces. I bend—but I don’t break! There’s only one way that Elastic 
Boy can be destroyed!” 

“What’s that?” The Masked Mutant asked. 

“By sulphuric acid,” I replied. “That’s the only thing that can destroy my 
elastic body!” 

A pleased smile spread behind the masked face. 

“Oops!” I cried. “I didn’t mean to let that slip out!” 

I tried to make it to the door. But I wasn’t fast enough. 

I saw The Masked Mutant quickly begin to change. He changed into a 
steaming hot wave of sulphuric acid. 

And before I could move, the tall wave of acid swept toward me. 

30 

With a loud cry, I leaped away. 

The tall wave swept past. It missed me by inches. 

I turned and watched it splash over the carpet. The carpet began to sizzle 
and burn. 

“Yes!” I shouted gleefully. “Yes!” 

I had never felt so happy, so strong, so triumphant! 

I had defeated The Masked Mutant. I had totally tricked him. I had 
destroyed the most evil supervillain ever to walk the planet! 

Me! A twelve-year-old boy named Skipper Matthews! I had sent The 
Masked Mutant to his doom! 

Such a simple trick. But it had worked. 

From reading the comics, I knew that The Masked Mutant could change his 
molecules into anything solid. And then change back again. 

But I tricked him into changing himself into a liquid ! And once he changed 
into a liquid, he could not re-form himself. 

The Masked Mutant was gone forever. 

“Skipper, you are a clever guy!” I shouted out loud. I was so happy, I did a 
little dance on the thick carpet. 

I couldn’t believe The Masked Mutant had believed that I was Elastic Boy. 
I’d made that name up. I’ve never heard of any Elastic Boy! 

But he fell for it. And now the evil supervillain is gone! I thought happily. 

And I am alive! Alive! 

I couldn’t wait to get home and see my family again. The bus ride seemed 
to take hours. 

Finally, I was running up my front lawn. Into the house through the front 

door. 

I immediately saw a brown envelope lying on the mail table. The new issue 
of The Masked Mutant. 

Who needs it? I asked myself. 

I ignored it and hurried to say hi to my parents. I was so glad to be home, I 
was even happy to see Mitzi. “Mitzi—how about a game of Frisbee?” I asked. 

“Huh?” She gaped at me in shock. I never want to play anything with my 
little sister. 

But, today, I just wanted to be happy and celebrate being alive. 

Mitzi and I hurried out to the back yard. We threw a Frisbee around for 
about half an hour. We had a great time. 

“How about a snack?” I asked her. 

“Yeah. I’m starving,” she replied. “Mom left some chocolate cake on the 
counter.” 

Chocolate cake sounded just right. 

Humming happily to myself, I trotted into the kitchen. I pulled down two 
plates from the cabinet. Then I found the big cake knife in the drawer. 

“Don’t make your slice bigger than mine!” Mitzi warned, watching me 
carefully as I prepared to cut the cake. 

“Mitzi, I promise I won’t cheat you,” I said sweetly. I was in such a good 
mood, even Mitzi couldn’t get me upset. 

“This looks like awesome chocolate cake!” I exclaimed. 

I slid the big knife over the cake. 

It slipped. 

“Ow!” I cried out as the knife blade cut the back of my hand. 

I raised my hand and stared down at the cut. “Hey!” I uttered in surprise. 

What was trickling out from the cut? 

Not blood. 

It was red, blue, yellow, and black. 

INK! 

“Cool!” Mitzi cried. 

“Where’s that new Masked Mutant comic?” I asked. I suddenly had the 
feeling that my comic book career wasn’t over! 

MY HAIRIEST ADVENTURE

1 

Why were there so many stray dogs in my town? 

And why did they always choose me to chase? 

Did they wait quietly in the woods, watching people go by? Then did 
they whisper to each other, “See that blond kid? That’s Larry Boyd—let’s 
go get him”? 

I ran as fast as I could. But it’s so hard to run when you’re carrying a 
guitar case. It kept banging against my leg. 

And I kept slipping in the snow. 

The dogs were catching up. They were howling and barking, trying to 
scare me to death. 

Well, it’s working, guys! I thought. I’m scared. I’m plenty scared! 

Dogs are supposed to sense when you’re afraid of them. But I’m not 
usually afraid of dogs. In fact, I really like dogs. 

I’m only afraid of dogs when there’s a pack of them, running furiously 
after me, drooling hungrily, eager to tear me to tiny shreds. Like now. 

Scrambling over the snow, I nearly toppled into a drift up to my knees. 
I glanced back. The dogs were gaining on me. 

It isn’t fair! I thought bitterly. They have four legs, and I only have 

two! 

The big black dog with the evil black eyes was leading the pack, as 
usual. He had his lips pulled back in an angry snarl. He was close enough 
so that I could see his sharp, pointy teeth. 

“Go home! Go home! Bad dogs! Go home!” 

Why was I yelling at them? They didn’t even have homes! 

“Go home! Go home!” 

My boots slipped in the snow, and the weight of my guitar case nearly 
pulled me over. Somehow I staggered forward, caught my balance, and kept 
moving. 

My heart was pounding like crazy. And I felt as if I were burning up, 
even though it was about twelve degrees. 

I squinted against the bright glare of the snow. I struggled to run faster, 
but my leg muscles were starting to cramp. 

I don’t stand a chance! I realized. 

“Ow!” The heavy guitar case bounced against my side. 

I glanced back. The dogs were leaping excitedly, making wide 
crisscrosses across the yards, howling and yowling, as they scrambled after 
me. 

Moving closer. And closer. 

“Go home! Bad dogs! Bad! Go home!” 

Why me? 

I’m a nice guy. Really. Ask anybody. They’ll tell you—Larry Boyd is 
the nicest twelve-year-old kid in town! 

So why did they always chase me? 

The last time, I dived into a parked car and shut the door just as they 
pounced. But today, the dogs were too close. And the cars along the street 
were all snow-covered. By the time I got a car door open, the dogs would 
be having me for dessert! 

I was only half a block from Lily’s house. I could see it on the corner 
across the street. It was my only chance. 

If I could get to Lily’s house, I could—“NOOOOOOOO!” 

I slipped on a small rock, hidden under the snow. The guitar case flew 
from my hand and hit the snow with a soft thud. 

I was down. Facedown in the snow. 

“They’ve got me this time,” I moaned. “They’ve got me.” 

2 

Everything went white. 

I struggled to my knees, frantically brushing snow off my face with 
both hands. 

The dogs barked hungrily. 

“Scat! Get away! Get going!” Another voice. A familiar voice. “Get 
going, dogs! Get away!” 

The barking grew softer. 

I brushed the wet snow from my eyes. “Lily!” I cried happily. “How 
did you get here?” 

She swung a heavy snow shovel in the dogs’ direction. “Scat! Go 
away! Go!” 

The growls turned to low whimpers. The dogs backed up, started to 
retreat. The huge black dog with the black eyes lowered his head and loped 
slowly away. The others followed. 

“Lily—they’re listening to you!” I cried thankfully. I climbed slowly 
to my feet and brushed the snow off the front of my blue down parka. 

“Of course,” she replied, grinning. “I’m tough, Larry. I’m real tough.” 

Lily Vonn doesn’t exactly look tough. She’s twelve like me, but she 
looks younger. She’s short and thin and kind of cute. She has chin-length 
blond hair with bangs that go straight across her forehead. 

The strange thing about Lily is her eyes. One is blue and one is green. 
No one can really believe she has two different colors—until they see them. 

I brushed most of the snow off the front of my coat and the knees of 
my jeans. Lily handed me my guitar case. “Hope it’s waterproof,” she 
muttered. 

I raised my eyes to the street. The dogs were barking wildly again, 
chasing a squirrel through several front yards. 

“I saw you from my window,” Lily said as we started toward her 
house. “Why do they always chase after you?” 

I shrugged. “I was just asking myself the same question,” I told her. 
Our boots made crunching noises in the snow. Lily led the way. I stepped in 
her bootprints. 

We waited for a car to move past, its tires sliding on the slick road. 
Then we crossed the street and made our way up her driveway. 

“How come you’re late?” Lily asked. 

“I had to help my dad shovel the drive,” I replied. Some snow had 
caught inside my hood and was trickling down the back of my neck. I 
shivered. I couldn’t wait to get inside the house. 

The others were all hanging out in Lily’s living room. I waved hi to 
Manny, Jared, and Kristina. Manny was down on his knees, fiddling with 
his guitar amp. It made a loud squeal, and everybody jumped. 

Manny is tall and skinny and kind of goofy-looking, with a crooked 
smile and a mop of curly, black hair. Jared is twelve like the rest of us, but 
he looks eight. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him without his black-and-silver 
Raiders cap on. Kristina is a little chubby. She has curly, carrot-colored hair 
and wears glasses with blue plastic frames. 

I tugged off my wet coat and hung it on a peg in the front entryway. 
The house felt steamy and warm. I straightened my sweatshirt and joined 
the others. 

Manny glanced up from his amp and laughed. “Hey, look—Larry’s 
hair is messed up. Somebody take a picture!” 

Everybody laughed. 

They’re always teasing me about my hair. Can I help it if I have really 
good hair? It’s dark blond and wavy, and I wear it long. 

“Hairy Larry!” Lily declared. 

The other three laughed and then picked up the chant. “Hairy Larry! 
Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry!” 

I made an angry face and swept my hand back through my hair, 
pushing it off my forehead. I could feel myself blushing. 

I really don’t like being teased. It always makes me angry, and I 
always blush. 

I guess that’s why Lily and my other friends tease me so much. They 
tease me about my hair, and about my big ears, and about anything else they 
can think of. 

And I always get angry. And I always blush. Which makes them tease 
me even more. 

“Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry!” 

Great friends, huh? 

Well, actually, they are great friends. We have a lot of fun together. 
The five of us have a band. This week, it’s called The Geeks. Last week, we 
called ourselves The Spirit. We change the name a lot. 

Lily has a gold coin that she wears on a chain around her neck. Her 
grandfather gave the coin to her. He told her it’s real pirate gold. 

So Lily wants to call our band Pirate Gold. But I don’t think that’s cool 
enough. And Manny, Jared, and Kristina agree. 

At least our name—The Geeks—is a lot cooler than Howie and the 
Shouters. That’s the band who’s challenging us in the big Battle of the 
Bands contest at school. 

We still can’t believe that Howie Hurwin named the band after 
himself! He’s only the drummer. His stuck-up sister, Marissa, is the singer. 
“Why didn’t you call it Marissa and the Shouters?” I asked him one day 
after school. 

“Because Marissa doesn’t rhyme with anything,” he replied. 

“Huh? What does Howie rhyme with?” I asked him. 

“Zowie!” he said. Then he laughed and messed up my hair. 

What a creep. 

No one likes Howie or his sister. The Geeks can’t wait to blow the 
Shouters off the stage. 

“If only one of us played bass,” Jared moaned as we tuned up. 

“Or saxophone or trumpet or something,” Kristina added, pulling out a 
couple of pink guitar picks from her open case. 

“I think we sound great,” Manny said, still down on the floor, fiddling 
with the cord to his amp. “Three guitars is a great sound. Especially when 
we put on the fuzztone and crank them all the way up.” 

Kristina, Manny, and I all play guitar. Lily is the singer. And Jared 
plays a keyboard. His keyboard has a drum synthesizer with ten different 
rhythms on it. So we also have drums. Kind of. 

As soon as Manny got his amp working, we tried to play a Rolling 
Stones song. Jared couldn’t find the right drum rhythm on his synthesizer. 
So we played without it. 

As soon as we finished, I shouted, “Let’s start again!” 

The others all groaned. “Larry, we sounded great!” Lily insisted. “We 
don’t need to play it again.” 

“The rhythm was way off,” I said. 

“You’re way off!” Manny exclaimed, making a face at me. 

“Larry is a perfectionist,” Kristina said. “Did you forget that, Manny?” 

“How could I forget?” Manny groaned. “He never lets us finish one 
song!” 

I could feel myself blushing again. “I just want to get it right,” I told 
them. 

Okay. Okay. Maybe l am a perfectionist. Is that a bad thing? 

“The Battle of the Bands is in two weeks,” I said. “We don’t want to 
get onstage and embarrass ourselves, do we?” 

I just hate being embarrassed. I hate it more than anything in the 
world. More than steamed broccoli! 

We started playing again. Jared hit the saxophone button on his 
keyboard, and it sounded as if we had a saxophone. Manny took the first 
solo, and I took the second. 

I messed up one chord. I wanted to start again. 

But I knew they’d murder me if I stopped. So I kept on playing. 

Lily’s voice cracked on a high note. But she has such a sweet, tiny 
voice, it didn’t sound too bad. 

We played without taking a break for nearly two hours. It sounded 
pretty good. Whenever Jared found the right drum rhythm, it sounded really 
good. 

After we put our instruments back in their cases, Lily suggested we go 
outside and mess around in the snow. The afternoon sun was still high in a 
shimmery blue sky. The thick blanket of snow sparkled in the golden 
sunlight. 

We chased each other around the snow-covered evergreen shrubs in 
Lily’s front yard. Manny crushed a big, wet snowball over Jared’s Raiders 
cap. That started a snowball fight that lasted until we were all gasping for 
breath and laughing too hard to toss any more snow. 

“Let’s build a snowman,” Lily suggested. 

“Let’s make it look like Larry,” Kristina added. Her blue-framed 
glasses were completely steamed up. 

“Whoever heard of a snowman with perfect blond hair?” Lily replied. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered. 

They started to roll big balls of snow for the snowman’s body. Jared 
shoved Manny over one of the big snowballs and tried to roll him up in the 

ball. But Manny was too heavy. The whole thing crumbled to powder under 
him. 

While they worked on the snowman, I wandered down to the street. 
Something caught my eye at the curb next door. 

A pile of junk standing next to a metal trash Dumpster. 

I glanced up at the neighbors’ house. I could see that it was being 
remodeled. The pile of junk at the curb was waiting to be carted away. 

I leaned over the side of the Dumpster and began shuffling through the 
stuff. I love old junk. I can’t help myself. I just love pawing through piles of 
old stuff. 

Leaning into the Dumpster, I shoved aside a stack of wall tiles and a 
balled-up shower curtain. Beneath a small, round, shag rug, I found a white 
enamel medicine chest. 

“Wow! This is cool!” I murmured to myself. 

I pulled it up with both hands, moved away from the Dumpster, and 
opened the chest. To my surprise, I found bottles and plastic tubes inside. 

I started to examine them, moving them around with my hand, when 
an orange bottle caught my eye. “Hey, guys!” I shouted up to my friends. 
“Look what I found!” 

3 

I carried the orange bottle back up to Lily’s yard. “Hey, guys—look!” I 
called, waving the bottle. 

No one looked up. Manny and Jared were struggling to lift one big 
snowball and set it on the other one to form the snowman’s body. Lily was 
shouting encouragement. Kristina was wiping snow off her glasses with one 
of her gloves. 

“Hey, Larry—what’s that?” Kristina finally asked, putting her glasses 
back on. The others turned and saw the bottle in my hand. 

I read the label to them: “INSTA-TAN. Rub on a dark suntan in 
minutes.” 

“Cool!” Manny declared. “Let’s try it.” 

“Where did you find it?” Lily demanded. Her cheeks were bright red 
from the cold. There were white flecks of snow in her bangs. 

I pointed to the Dumpster. “Your neighbors threw it out. The bottle is 
full,” I announced. 

“Let’s try it!” Manny repeated, grinning his crooked grin. 

“Yeah. Let’s all go into school on Monday with dark suntans!” Kristina 
urged. “Can you see the look on Miss Shindling’s face? We’ll tell her we all 
went to Florida!” 

“No! The Bahamas!” Lily declared. “We’ll tell Howie Hurwin that The 
Geeks went to the Bahamas to practice!” 

Everyone laughed. 

“Do you think the stuff works?” Jared asked, adjusting his cap and 
staring at the bottle. 

“It has to,” Lily said. “They couldn’t sell it if it didn’t work.” She 
grabbed the bottle from my hand. “It’s nearly full. We can all get great tans. 
Come on. Let’s do it. It’ll be so cool!” 

We all followed Lily back into the house, our boots crunching over the 
snow, our breath steaming up above our heads. 

I pulled off my coat and tossed it onto the pile with the others. As I 
made my way into the living room, I began to have second thoughts. What 
if the stuff doesn’t work? I asked myself. What if it turns us bright yellow 

or green instead of tan? 

I’d be so totally embarrassed if I had to show up at school with bright 
green skin. I couldn’t do it. I just couldn’t. Even if it took months, I’d hide 
in my house—in my closet—till the stuff wore off. 

The others didn’t seem to be worried. 

We jammed into the downstairs bathroom. Lily still had the bottle of 
INSTA-TAN. She twisted off the cap and poured a big glob of it into her 
hand. It was a creamy white liquid. 

“Mmmmm. Smells nice,” Lily reported, raising her hand to her face. 
“Very sweet-smelling.” 

She began rubbing it on her neck, then her cheeks, then her forehead. 
Tilting the bottle, she poured another big puddle into her palm. Then she 
mbbed the liquid over the backs of both hands. 

Manny took the INSTA-TAN bottle next. He splashed a big glob of it 
into his hand. Then he started rubbing it all over his face. 

“Leels cool and creamy,” Kristina reported when her turn came. Jared 
went next. He practically emptied the bottle as he rubbed the stuff on his 
face and neck. 

Linally it was my turn. I took the bottle and started to tilt it into my 
palm. 

But something made me stop. I hesitated. I could see that the others 
were all watching me, waiting for me to splash the liquid all over my skin, 
too. 

But, instead, I turned the bottle over and read the tiny print on the 
label. 

And what I read made me gasp out loud. 

4 

“Larry, what’s your problem?” Lily demanded. “Just pour a little in your 
hand and rub it on.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“Do I look darker?” Kristina asked Lily. “Is it working?” 

“Not yet,” Lily told her. She turned back to me. “What’s wrong, 
Larry?” 

“The 1-label,” I stammered. “It says ‘Do not use after February, 
1991.’” 

Everyone laughed. Their laughter rang off the tile walls in the narrow 
bathroom. 

“It can’t hurt you,” Lily said, shaking her head. “So what if the stuff is 
a little old? That doesn’t mean it will make your skin fall off!” 

“Don’t wimp out,” Manny said, grabbing the bottle and tilting the top 
toward my hand. “Go ahead. Pour it. We’ve all done it, Larry. Now it’s your 
turn.” 

“I think my skin is starting to tan,” Kristina said. She and Jared were 
admiring themselves in the mirror over the sink. 

“Go ahead, Larry,” Lily urged. “Those dates on the labels don’t mean 
anything.” She shoved my arm. “Put it on. What could happen?” 

I could see that they were all staring at me now. My face grew hot, and 
I knew that I was blushing. 

I didn’t want them to call me a wimp. I didn’t want to be the only one 
to chicken out. Sol tilted the bottle down and poured the last sticky glob of 
the liquid into the palm of my hand. 

Then I splashed it onto my face and rubbed it all over. I covered my 
face, my neck, and the back of my hands. It felt cool and creamy. And it did 
have a sweet smell, a little like my dad’s aftershave. 

The others cheered when I finished rubbing the cream in. “Way to go, 
Larry!” Jared clapped me on the back so hard, I nearly dropped the empty 
INSTA-TAN bottle. 

We all pushed and shoved, struggling to get a good view of ourselves 
in the small medicine chest mirror. Manny gave Jared a hard shove and sent 

him sprawling into the shower. 

“How long is it supposed to take?” Kristina asked. The bright ceiling 
light reflected off her glasses as she studied herself in the mirror. 

“I don’t think it’s working at all,” Lily said, letting out a disappointed 

sigh. 

I studied the label again. “It says we should have a dark, good-looking 
tan almost instantly,” I reported. I shook my head. “I knew this stuff was 
too old. I knew we shouldn’t have—” 

Manny’s shrill scream cut off my words. We all turned to him and saw 
his horrified expression. 

“My face!” Manny shrieked. “My face! It’s falling off!” 

He had his hands cupped. They trembled as he held them up. And I 
saw that he was holding a pale blob of his own skin! 

5 

“Ohhhh.” A weak moan escaped my lips. 

The others stared down at Manny’s hands in silent horror. 

“My skin!” he groaned. “My skin!” 

And then a grin burst out over his face, and he started to laugh. 

As he held up his hand, I saw that it wasn’t a piece of pale skin at all. 
It was a wet, wadded-up tissue. 

Laughing his head off, Manny let the tissue float down to the bathroom 
floor. 

“You jerk!” Lily cried angrily. 

We all began shouting and shoving Manny. We pushed him into the 
shower. Lily reached for the knobs to turn on the water. 

“No—stop!” Manny pleaded, laughing hard, struggling to break free. 
“Please! It was just a joke!” 

Lily changed her mind and backed away. We all took final glances into 
the mirror as we paraded out of the bathroom. 

No change. No tan. The stuff hadn’t worked at all. 

We grabbed our coats and hurried back outside to finish the snowman. 
I took the empty INSTA-TAN bottle with me and tossed it into the snow as 
Lily and Kristina rolled a snowball to make the head. Then they lifted it 
onto the snowman’s body. 

I found two dark stones for eyes. Manny grabbed Jared’s Raiders cap 
and placed it on the snowman’s head. It looked pretty good, but Jared 
quickly grabbed his cap back. 

“It looks a lot like you, Manny,” Jared said. “Except smarter.” 

We all laughed. 

A strong gust of wind whipped around the side of the house. The wind 
toppled the snowman’s head. It rolled off the body and crumbled to powder 
on the ground. 

“Now it really looks like you!” Jared told Manny. 

“Think fast!” Manny cried. He scooped up a big handful of snow and 
heaved it at Jared. 

Jared tried to duck. But the snow poured over him. He instantly bent 

down, scooped up an even bigger pile of snow, and dropped it over 
Manny’s head. 

This started a long, funny, snowball fight among the five of us. 
Actually, it turned out to be Lily and me against Manny, Jared, and Kristina. 

The two of us held our own for a while. Lily is the fastest snowball 
maker I ever saw. She can make one and throw it in the time it takes me to 
bend down and start rolling the snow between my gloves. 

The snowball fight quickly became a war. We weren’t even bothering 
to make snowballs. We were just heaving big handfuls of snow at each 
other. And then we started rolling in the snow. And then we chased each 
other to the next yard, where the snow was fresh—and started another 
heavy-duty snowball fight. 

What a great time! We were laughing and shouting, all breathing hard, 
all steaming hot despite the cold, swirling winds. 

And then suddenly I felt sick. 

I dropped to my knees, swallowing hard. The snow started to gleam 
brightly. Too brightly. The ground swayed and shook. 

I felt really sick. 

What’s happening to me? I wondered. 

6 

Dr. Murkin raised the long hypodermic needle. It gleamed in the light. A 
tiny droplet of green liquid spilled from the tip. 

“Take a deep breath and hold it, Larry,” the doctor instructed in his 
whispery voice. “This won’t hurt.” 

He said the same words every time I had to see him. 

I knew he was lying. The shot hurt. It hurt every time I got one, which 
was about every two weeks. 

He grabbed my arm gently with his free hand. He leaned close to me, 
so close I could smell the peppermint mouthwash on his breath. 

I took a deep breath and turned away. I could never bear to watch the 
long needle sink into my arm. 

“Ow!” I let out a low cry as the needle punctured the skin. 

Dr. Murkin tightened his grip on my arm. “That doesn’t hurt much, 
does it?” he asked, his voice just above a whisper. 

“Not too much,” I groaned. 

I glanced up at my mother. She was biting her lower lip, her face 
twisted in worry. She looked as if she were getting the shot! 

Finally, I felt the needle slide out. Dr. Murkin dabbed a cold, alcohol- 
soaked cotton ball against the puncture spot. “You’ll be okay now,” he said, 
patting my bare back. “You can put your shirt back on.” 

He turned and smiled reassuringly at my mother. 

Dr. Murkin is a very distinguished-looking man. I guess he’s about 
fifty or so. He has straight white hair that he slicks down and brushes 
straight back. He has friendly blue eyes behind square-shaped, black 
eyeglasses, and a warm smile. 

Even though he lies when he says the shot won’t hurt, I think he’s a 
really good doctor, and I like him a lot. He always makes me feel better. 

“Same old sweat gland problem,” he told my mother, writing some 
notes in my file. “He got overheated. And we know that’s not good—don’t 
we, Larry?” 

I muttered a reply. 

I have a problem with my sweat glands. They don’t work very well. I 

mean, I can’t sweat. So when I get really overheated, I start to feel sick. 

That’s why I have to see Dr. Murkin every two weeks. He gives me 
shots that make me feel better. 

Our snowball battle was a lot of fun. But out in the snow and cold 
wind, I didn’t even realize I was getting overheated. 

That’s why I started to feel weird. 

“Do you feel better now?” my mom asked as we made our way out of 
the doctor’s office. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m okay,” I told her. I stopped at the door and turned 
to face her. “Do I look any different, Mom?” 

“Huh?” She narrowed her dark eyes at me. “Different? How?” 

“Do I look like maybe I have a suntan or something?” I asked 
hopefully. 

Her eyes studied my face. “I’m a little worried about you, Larry,” she 
said quietly. “I want you to take a short nap when we get home. Okay?” 

I guessed that meant I didn’t look too tanned. 

I knew that INSTA-TAN wouldn’t work. The bottle was too old. And it 
probably didn’t work even when it was new. 

“It’s hard to get a suntan in the winter,” Mom commented as we 
headed across the snowy parking lot to the car. 

Tell me about it, I thought, rolling my eyes. 

Lily called me right after dinner. “I felt a little sick, too,” she admitted. “Are 
you okay?” 

“Yeah. I’m fine,” I replied. I held the cordless phone in one hand and 
flipped TV channels with the remote control in my other hand. 

It’s a bad habit of mine. Sometimes I flip channels for hours at a time 
and never really watch anything. 

“Howie and Marissa walked by after you left,” Lily said. 

“Did you massacre them?” I asked eagerly. “Did you bury them in 
snowballs?” 

Lily laughed. “No. We were all soaked and exhausted by the time 
Howie and Marissa showed up. We all just sort of stood there, shivering.” 

“Did Howie say anything about their band?” I asked. 

“Yeah,” Lily replied. “He said he bought an Eric Clapton guitar book. 
He said he’s learning some new songs that will blow us away.” 

“Howie should stick to drums. He is the worst guitar player in the 
world,” I muttered. “When he plays, the guitar actually squeaks ! I don’t 
know how he does it. How do you make a guitar squeak?” 

Lily laughed. “Marissa squeaks, too. But she calls it singing!” 

We both laughed. 

I cut my laughter short. “Do you think Howie and the Shouters are any 
good?” 

“I don’t know,” Lily replied thoughtfully. “Howie brags so much, you 
can’t really believe him. He says they’re good enough to make a CD. He 
says his dad wants them to make a demo tape so he can send it to all the big 
CD companies.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered sarcastically. “We should sneak over to 
Howie’s house some afternoon when they’re all practicing,” I suggested. 
“We could listen at the window. Check them out.” 

“Marissa is actually a pretty good singer,” Lily said. “She has a nice 
voice.” 

“But she’s not as good as you,” I said. 

“Well, I think we’re getting better,” Lily commented. Then she added, 
“It’s a shame we don’t have a real drummer.” 

I agreed. “Jared’s drum machine doesn’t always play the same song we 
play!” 

Lily and I talked about the Battle of the Bands a while longer. Then I 
said good night, turned off the phone, and sat down at my desk to start my 
homework. 

I didn’t finish until nearly ten. Yawning, I went downstairs to tell Mom 
and Dad I was going to sleep. Back upstairs, I changed into pajamas and 
crossed the hall to the bathroom to brush my teeth. 

Under the bright bathroom light, I studied my face in the mirror over 
the sink. No tan. My face stared back at me, as pale as ever. 

I picked up my toothbrush and spread a small line of blue toothpaste 

on it. 

I started to raise the toothbrush to my mouth—and then stopped. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. 

The toothbrush dropped into the sink as I gazed at the back of my 
hand. 

At first I thought the hand was covered by a dark shadow. 



But as I raised it closer to my face, I saw to my horror that it was no 
shadow. 

I let out a loud gulping sound as I stared at the back of my hand. 

It was covered by a patch of thick, black hair. 

7 

Staring down in shock, I shook the hand hard. I think I expected the black 
hair to fall off. 

I grabbed at it with my other hand and tugged it. 

“Ow!” 

The hair really was growing from the back of my hand. 

“How can this be?” I cried to myself. Holding the hand in the light, I 
struggled to stop it from trembling so that I could examine it. 

The hair was nearly half an inch high. It was shiny and black. Very 
spikey. Very prickly. It felt kind of rough as I rubbed my other hand over it. 

“Hairy Larry.” 

That dumb name Lily called me suddenly popped back into my head. 

“Hairy Larry.” 

In the mirror I could see my face turning red. They’ll call me Hairy 
Larry for the rest of my life, I thought unhappily, if they ever see this black 
hair growing out of my hand! 

I can’t let anyone see this! I told myself, feeling my chest tighten in 
panic. I can’t ! It would be so embarrassing! 

I examined my left hand. It was as smooth and clear as ever. 

“Thank goodness it’s only on one hand!” I cried. 

I tugged frantically at the patch of black hair again. I pulled at it until 
my hand ached. But the hair didn’t come out. 

My mouth suddenly felt dry. I gripped the edge of the sink with both 
hands, struggling to stop my entire body from trembling. 

“What am I going to do?” I murmured. 

Do I have to wear a glove for the rest of my life? 

I can’t let my friends see this. They’ll call me Hairy Larry forever. 
That’s how I’ll be known for the rest of my life! 

A panicky sob escaped my throat. 

Got to calm down, I warned myself. Got to think clearly. 

I was gripping the sink so tightly, my hands ached. I lifted them, then 
rolled up both pajama sleeves. 

Were my arms covered in black hair, too? 

No. 

I let out a long sigh of relief. 

The square patch of prickly hair on the back of my right hand seemed 
to be the only hair that had grown. 

What to do? What to do? 

I could hear my parents climbing the stairs, on their way to their 
bedroom. Quickly, I closed the bathroom door and locked it. 

“Larry—are you still up? I thought you went to bed,” I heard my mom 
call from out in the hall. 

“Just brushing my hair!” I called out. 

I brush my hair every night before I go to bed. 

I know it doesn’t make any sense. I know it gets messed up the instant 
I put my head down on the pillow. 

It’s just a weird habit. 

I raised my eyes to my hair. My dark blond hair, so soft and wavy. 

So unlike the disgusting patch of spikey black hair on my hand. 

I felt sick. My stomach hurtled up to my throat. 

I forced back my feeling of nausea and pulled open the door to the 
medicine chest. My eyes slid desperately over the bottles and tubes. 

Hair Remover. I searched for the words Hair Remover. 

There is such a thing—isn’t there? 

Not in our medicine cabinet. I read every jar, every bottle. No Hair 
Remover. 

I stared down at the black patch on my hand. Had the hair grown a 
little bit? Or was I imagining it? 

Another idea flashed into my mind. 

I pulled down my dad’s razor. On the bottom shelf of the medicine 
cabinet, I found a can of shaving cream. 

I’ll shave it all off, I decided. It will be easy. 

I’d watched my dad shave a million times. There was nothing to it. I 
started the hot water running in the sink. I splashed some onto the back of 
my hand. Then I rubbed the bar of soap over the bristly black hair until it 
got all lathery. 

My hands were wet and slippery, and the can of shaving cream nearly 
slid out of my grip. But I managed to push the top and spray a pile of white 

shaving cream onto the back of my hand. 

I smoothed it over the ugly black hair. Then I picked up the razor in 
my left hand, held it under the hot water, the way I’d seen Dad do it. 

And I started to shave. It was so hard to shave with my left hand. 

The razor blade slid over the thick patch. The bristly hair came right 
off. 

I watched it flow down the sink drain. 

Then I held my hand under the faucet and let the water rinse away the 
rest of the shaving cream lather. 

The water felt warm and soothing. I dried off my hand and then 
examined it carefully. 

Smooth. Smooth and clean. 

Not a trace of the disgusting black hair. 

Feeling a lot better, I put my dad’s razor and shaving cream back in the 
medicine chest. Then I crept across the hall to my bedroom. 

Rubbing the back of my hand, enjoying its cool smoothness, I clicked 
off the ceiling light and climbed into bed. 

My head sank heavily into the pillow. I yawned, suddenly feeling 
really sleepy. 

What had caused that ugly hair to grow? The question had been 
nagging at me ever since I discovered it. 

Was it the INSTA-TAN? Was it that old bottle of tanning lotion? 

I wondered if any of my friends had grown hair, too? I had to giggle as 
I pictured Manny covered in hair, like a big gorilla. 

But it wasn’t funny. It was scary. 

I rubbed my hand. Still smooth. The hair didn’t seem to be growing 
back. 

I yawned again, drifting to sleep. 

Oh, no. I’m itchy, I suddenly realized, half-awake, half-asleep. My 
whole body feels itchy. 

Is spikey black hair growing all over my body? 

8 

“Did you sleep?” Mom asked as I dragged myself into the kitchen for 
breakfast. “You look pale.” 

Dad lowered his newspaper to check me out. A white mug of coffee 
steamed in front of him. “He doesn’t look pale to me,” he muttered before 
returning to his newspaper. 

“I slept okay,” I said, sliding on to the stool at the breakfast counter. I 
studied my hand, keeping it under the counter just in case. 

No hair. It looked perfectly smooth. 

I had jumped out of bed the instant Mom called from downstairs. I 
turned on the light and studied my entire body in front of my dresser mirror. 

No black hair. 

I was so happy, I felt like singing. I felt like hugging Mom and Dad 
and doing a dance on the breakfast table. 

But that would be embarrassing. 

So I happily ate my Frosted Flakes and drank my orange juice. 

Mom sat down beside Dad and started to crack open a hard-boiled egg. 
She had a hard-boiled egg every morning. But she threw away the yellow 
and only ate the white. She said she didn’t want the cholesterol. 

“Mom and Dad, I have to tell you something. I did a pretty stupid 
thing yesterday. I found an old bottle of a cream called INSTA-TAN in a 
trash Dumpster. And my friends and I all rubbed it on ourselves. You know. 
So we’d have tans. But the date had run out on the bottle. And... well... 
last night, I suddenly grew some really gross black hair on the back of my 
hand.” 

That’s what I wanted to say. 

I wanted to tell them about it. I even opened my mouth to start telling 
them. But I couldn’t do it. 

I’d be so embarrassed. 

They would just start yelling at me and telling me what a jerk I was. 
They’d probably drag me off to Dr. Murkin and tell him what I had done. 
And then he would tell me how stupid I had been. 

So I kept my mouth shut. 

“You’re awfully quiet this morning,” Mom said, sliding a sliver of egg 
white into her mouth. 

“Nothing much to talk about,” I muttered. 

I ran into Lily on the way to school. She had her coat collar pulled up and a 
red-and-blue wool ski cap pulled down over her short blond hair. 

“It isn’t that cold!” I said, jogging to catch up with her. 

“Mom said it’s going down to ten,” Lily replied. “She made me bundle 

up.” 

The morning sun floated low over the houses, a red ball in the pale 
sky. The wind felt sharp. We leaned into it as we walked. A hard crust had 
formed over the snow, and our boots crunched loudly. 

I took a deep breath. I decided to ask Lily the big question on my 
mind. “Lily,” I started hesitantly. “Did any... uh... well... did any strange 
hair grow on the back of your hands last night?” 

She stopped walking and stared at me. A solemn expression darkened 
her face. “Yes,” she confessed in a hushed whisper. 

9 

“Huh?” I gasped. My heart skipped a beat. “You grew hair on your hand?” 

Lily nodded grimly. She moved closer. Her blue eye and her green eye 
stared at me from under the wool ski cap. 

“Hair grew on my hands,” she whispered, her breath steaming up the 
cold air as she talked. “Then it grew on my arms, and my legs, and my 
back.” 

I let out a choked cry. 

“Then my face changed into a wolf’s face,” Lily continued, still 
staring hard at me. “And I ran out to the woods and howled at the moon. 
Like this.” She threw back her head and uttered a long, mournful howl. 

“Then I found three people in the woods, and I ate them!” Lily 
declared. “Because I’m a werewolf !” 

She growled at me and snapped her teeth. And then she burst out 
laughing. 

I could feel my face turning red. 

Lily gave me a hard, playful shove. I lost my balance and nearly fell 
on to my back. 

She laughed even harder. “You believed me—didn’t you, Larry!” she 
accused. “You actually believed that dumb story!” 

“No way!” I cried. My face felt red-hot. “No way, Lily. Of course I 
didn’t believe you!” 

But I had believed her story. Up to the part where she said she ate 
three people. 

Then I finally figured out that she was joking, that she was teasing me. 

“Hairy Larry!” Lily chanted. “Hairy Larry!” 

“Stop it!” I insisted angrily. “You’re not funny, you know? You’re not 
funny at all!” 

“Well, you are!” she shot back. “Funny-looking!” 

“Ha-ha,” I replied sarcastically. I turned and crossed the street, taking 
long strides, trying to get away from her. 

“Hairy Larry!” she called, chasing after me. “Hairy Larry!” 

I slid on a patch of ice. I quickly caught my balance, but my backpack 

slid off my shoulder and dropped with a thud onto the street. 

As I bent to pick it up, Lily stood over me. “Did you grow hair last 
night, Larry?” she demanded. 

“Huh?” I pretended not to hear her. 

“Did you grow hair on the back of your hand? Is that why you asked 
me?” Lily asked, leaning over me. 

“No way,” I muttered. I hoisted the backpack onto my shoulder and 
started walking again. “No way,” I repeated. 

Lily laughed. “Are you a werewolf?” 

I pretended to laugh, too. “No. I’m a vampire,” I replied. 

I wished I could tell Lily the truth. I really wanted to tell her about the 
patch of ugly hair. 

But I knew she could never keep it a secret. I knew she would spread 
the story over the whole school. And then everyone I knew would call me 
Hairy Larry for the rest of my life! 

I felt bad about lying to her. I mean, she is my best friend. 

But what could I do? 

We walked the rest of the way to school without saying much. I kept 
glancing over at Lily. She had the strangest smile on her face. 

“Are you ready to present your book reports?” Miss Shindling asked. 

The classroom erupted with sounds—chairs scraping, Trapper-Keepers 
being opened, papers being rustled, throats being cleared. 

Standing in front of the entire class and reciting a book report makes 
everyone nervous. It makes me very nervous! I just hate having everyone 
stare at me. 

And if I goof up a word or forget what I want to say next, I always turn 
bright red. And then everyone laughs and makes fun of me. 

The night before, I had practiced my book report standing in front of 
the mirror. And I had done pretty well. Only a few tiny mistakes. 

Of course, I hadn’t been nervous giving the report to myself in my 
room. Now, my knees were shaking—and I hadn’t even been called on yet! 

“Howie, would you give your report first?” Miss Shindling asked, 
motioning for Howie Hurwin to come to the front of the class. 

“It’s a shame to have the best go first!” Howie replied, grinning. 

A few kids laughed. Other kids groaned. 

I knew that Howie wasn’t joking. He really thought he was the best at 
everything. 

He stepped confidently to the front of the room. Howie is a big guy, 
sort of chubby, with thick, brown hair that he never brushes, and a big, 
round face with freckles on his cheeks. 

He always has a smirk on his face. A stuck-up look that says, “I’m the 
best—and you’re an insect.” 

He usually wears baggy faded denim jeans about five sizes too big, 
and a long-sleeved T-shirt with a shiny black vest opened over it. 

He held up the book he was reporting on. One of the Matt Christopher 
baseball books. 

I groaned to myself. I knew in advance exactly what Howie was going 
to say: “I recommend this book to anyone who likes baseball.” 

That’s how Howie always started his book reports. So boring! 

But Howie always got A’s anyway. I never understood why Miss 
Shindling thinks he’s so terrific. 

Howie cleared his throat and grinned at Miss Shindling. Then he 
turned to the class and started his report in a loud, steady voice. “I 
recommend this book to anyone who likes baseball,” he began. 

Told you. 

I yawned loudly. No one seemed to notice. 

Howie droned on. “This is a very exciting book with a very good 
plot,” he said. “If you like a lot of excitement, you’ll like this book. 
Especially if you’re a baseball fan.” 

I didn’t hear the rest of it. I kept silently going over and over my own 
book report. 

A few minutes later, when Miss Shindling announced, “Larry, you’re 
next!” I almost didn’t hear her. 

I took a deep breath and climbed to my feet. Stay cool, Larry, I told 
myself. You’ve practiced and practiced your report. There’s nothing to be 
nervous about. 

Clearing my throat loudly, I started up the aisle to the front of the 
room. I was halfway up the aisle when Howie stuck out his foot. 

I saw his big grin—but I didn’t see his foot. 

“Oh!” I cried out in surprise as I stumbled over it—and went sprawling 
on the floor. 

The classroom exploded with laughter. 

My heart pounding, I started to pull myself up. 
But I stopped when I saw my hands. 

Both of them were bristling with thick, black hair. 

10 

“Larry, are you okay?” I heard Miss Shindling call from her desk. 

“Uh..I was too stunned to answer. 

“Larry, are you hurt?” 

“Uh... well...” I couldn’t speak at all. I couldn’t move. I couldn’t 
think. 

Crouched on the floor, I stared in horror at my hairy hands. 

Above me, I could hear kids still laughing about how Howie had 
tripped me. I glanced up to see the kid next to Howie slapping him a high- 
five. 

Ha-ha. Very funny. 

Usually, I’d be totally embarrassed. But I didn’t have time to be 
embarrassed. I was too scared. 

Had anyone seen my hairy hands? 

Still down on the floor, I glanced quickly around the room. 

No one was pointing in horror or crying out. 

Maybe no one had caught a glimpse of them yet. 

Quickly, I jammed both hands deep into my jeans pockets. 

When I was sure that both hands were completely hidden, I climbed 
slowly to my feet. 

“Look! Larry is blushing!” someone called from the back row. The 
room exploded with more laughter. 

Of course, that made me blush even redder. But blushing wasn’t 
exactly my biggest problem. 

There was no way I could stand in front of the class with these two 
hairy hands. I’d rather die! 

Without even thinking about it, I started hurrying back up the aisle to 
the classroom door. With my hands jammed into my jeans, it wasn’t easy to 
walk fast. 

“Larry—what’s wrong?” Miss Shindling called from the front of the 
room. “Where are you going?” 

“Uh... I’ll be right back,” I managed to choke out. 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” the teacher asked. 

“Yeah. Fine,” I mumbled. “Be right back. Really.” 

I knew everyone was staring at me. But I didn’t care. I just had to get 
out of there. I had to figure out what to do about my hands. 

As I reached the door, I heard Miss Shindling scold Howie. “You 
could have hurt Larry. You shouldn’t trip people, Howie. I’ve warned you 
before.” 

“But, Miss Shindling—it was an accident,” Howie lied. 

I slipped out the door. Into the long, empty hall. 

I checked to make sure no one was around to see me. Then I pulled my 
hands from my pockets. 

I had a dim hope that maybe my hands would be back to normal. But 
that hope vanished as soon as I raised them to the light. 

Thick, black hair—nearly an inch high!—covered both hands. How 
could it grow so fast? I wondered. 

The backs of my hands were hairy. And my palms were hairy, too. 
Hair poked up from the knuckles of my fingers. And clumps of black hair 
grew in the space between my fingers. 

I rubbed my hands together, as if trying to rub the ugly hair away. But 
of course it didn’t come off. 

“Nooooooo. Please—noooooo!” I moaned out loud without realizing 
it. 

What could I do? 

I couldn’t go back to class with these hairy monster hands. They would 
make everyone sickl 

I would be embarrassed for the rest of my life. Whenever anyone 
would see me coming, they’d say, “Here comes Hairy Larry Boyd. 
Remember that day the black hair grew all over his hands?” 

I’ll run home, I decided. I’ll get away from here. 

No. How could I leave school in the middle of the morning? Miss 
Shindling was waiting for me to return and give my book report. 

I stood frozen, my back against the tile wall, gazing at the hideous 
hands. 

And I suddenly realized that I wasn’t alone in the hallway. 

I glanced up—and gasped when I saw Mr. Fosburg, the principal. 

He was carrying a stack of textbooks. But he had stopped a few feet 

away from me. 

And he was staring in shock at my hairy hands. 

11 

I swung my hands down and tucked them behind my back. 

But it was too late. Mr. Fosburg had already seen them. His blue eyes 
narrowed as he studied me. 

I shuddered. 

What was he going to say? What was he going to do now? 

“Is it too cold in the building?” the principal asked. 

“Huh?” I replied. What was he asking? 

I leaned back against my hands, pressing them against the wall. Even 
through my shirt, I could feel the prickly hair all over them. 

“Should I have the furnace turned up, Larry?” Mr. Fosburg asked. “Is 
it too cold? Is that why you’re wearing gloves to class?” 

“G-gloves?” I stammered. 

He thought I was wearing gloves! 

“Yes. I... uh... was a little cold,” I told him, starting to feel a little 
better. “That’s why I went to my locker. For gloves.” 

He stared at me thoughtfully. Then he turned and headed the other 
way, balancing the stack of textbooks in both hands. “I’ll talk to the 
custodian about it,” he called back. 

I breathed a sigh of relief as he disappeared around the corner. That 
had been a close call. 

But he had given me a good idea. Gloves. 

I hurried to my locker. Turning the dial on the combination lock felt 
strange with my hairy fingers. But I opened the locker easily and pulled my 
black leather gloves from the pockets of my parka. 

A few seconds later, I stepped back into the classroom. Lily stood at 
the front of the class, giving her book report. She glanced at me curiously as 
I slid back into my seat. 

When Lily finished, Miss Shindling called me to the front of the room. 
“Are you okay now, Larry?” she asked. 

“Yes,” I replied. “My... uh... hands were cold.” I climbed out of my 
seat and stepped quickly to the front of the room. 

Some kids started to giggle and point at my gloves. But I didn’t care. 

At least no one could see my hands with the ugly black fur sprouting 
all over them. 

I took a deep breath and started my report. “The book I read is by 
Bruce Coville,” I began. 

“And I would recommend it to anyone who likes funny science fiction 
stories....” 

After school, I hurried to my locker. I kept my head down and tried to avoid 
everyone. 

I had worn the gloves all day. They were hot and uncomfortable. And 
they seemed to grow tighter and tighter. 

I wondered if the black hair on my hands was growing. But I was 
afraid to take off the gloves to check it out. 

I tugged on my parka and slung my backpack over one shoulder. I 
have to get out of here and think, I told myself. 

A few steps from the front exit, I heard Lily calling my name. I turned 
and saw her chasing after me. She was wearing an oversized yellow sweater 
pulled down over bright green tights. 

I kept walking. “Catch you later!” I called back to her. “I’m in a 
hurry.” 

But she came running up and stepped in front of me. “Aren’t you 
coming to band practice?” she asked. 

I was so upset about my hairy hands that I’d completely forgotten. 

“It’s at my house again this afternoon—remember?” Lily continued, 
walking backwards as I made my way to the doors. 

“I—I can’t,” I stammered. “I don’t feel very well.” 

That was the truth. 

She stared hard at me. “What’s your problem, Larry? How come 
you’ve been so weird all day?” 

“I just don’t feel well,” I insisted. “Sorry about the practice. Can we do 
it tomorrow?” 

“I guess,” she replied. She said something else, but I didn’t hear it. I 
pushed open the door and hurried out of the school. 

I ran all the way home. The sun beamed down on the snow, making it 
gleam like silver. It was beautiful, but I couldn’t enjoy it. I was lost in my 
own troubled thoughts. 

Thinking about hair. Thick patches of black, spikey hair. 

I burst into the house and tossed my backpack onto the floor. I started 
up the stairs to my room—but stopped when I heard Mom call my name. 

I found her in the living room, on the chair by the front window. She 
had Jasper, our cat, in her lap and the cordless phone up to her ear. She said 
something into it, then lowered it as she raised her eyes to me. 

“Larry, you’re home early. Don’t you have band practice?” 

“Not today,” I lied. “I have a lot of homework, so I came straight 
home.” Another lie. 

I didn’t want to tell her the truth. I didn’t want to tell her that I had 
mbbed INSTA-TAN all over myself and now I was sprouting disgusting 
black hair. 

I didn’t want to tell her. But it suddenly burst out of me. The whole 
story. I just couldn’t hold it in any longer. 

“Mom, you won’t believe this,” I started in a tiny, choked voice. “I’m 
growing hair, Mom. Really gross black hair. On my hands. You see, my 
friends and I—we found this old bottle of tanning lotion. And I know it was 
really stupid. But we all poured it on ourselves. I rubbed it all over my face, 
and hands, and neck. And now I’m growing hair, Mom. In school today, I 
looked down. And both of my hands were covered in black hair. I’m so 
embarrassed. And I’m scared, too. I’m really scared.” 

I was breathing hard as I finished the story. I had been staring down at 
the floor as I told it. But now I raised my eyes to see my mom’s reaction. 

What would she say? Could she help me? 

12 

I heard her mumble something. But I couldn’t understand the words. 

Then I realized that she wasn’t talking to me. 

She had the phone pressed to her ear, and she was talking into it. 

Mom had gone back to her telephone conversation. She was 
concentrating so hard, she hadn’t heard a word I had said! 

I let out an annoyed groan. Then I spun around and hurried up the 
stairs to my room. I closed the door behind me and tore off the hot, 
uncomfortable gloves. 

Jasper had run upstairs and perched on the window seat. She spent 
most of the day on the window seat in my room, staring down at the front 
yard. 

As I tossed the gloves onto a chair, she turned to me. Her bright yellow 
eyes glowed happily. 

I crossed the room and picked her up. Then I sat down on the window 
seat and hugged her. 

“Jasper, you’re the only real friend I have,” I whispered, petting her 
back. 

To my surprise, the cat let out a squawk, arched her back, and jumped 
to the floor. She ran halfway across the room, then turned back, her yellow 
eyes glaring at me. 

It took me a few seconds to realize the problem. I held up my hands. 
“It’s these hairy paws, isn’t it, Jasper?” I said sadly. “They frightened you— 
didn’t they?” 

The cat tilted her head, as if trying to understand me. 

“Well, they frighten me, too,” I told her. 

I jumped up and hurried across the hall to the bathroom. Once again, I 
pulled my dad’s shaving equipment from the medicine cabinet. 

I set to work, shaving off the thick hair. 

It wasn’t easy. Especially trying to shave off the tufts of hair that had 
grown in the spaces between my fingers. That hair was really hard to reach. 

The hair was stiff and tough. Like the bristles on a hairbrush. I cut 
myself twice, on the palm and the back of my right hand. 

As I rinsed the shaving cream off, I glanced down and saw Jasper 
staring up at me from the bathroom doorway. “Don’t tell Mom and Dad,” I 
whispered. 

She blinked her yellow eyes and yawned. 

The next morning, I awoke before Mom and Dad. Most mornings, I lie 
in bed and wait for Mom to shout that it’s time to get up. 

But this morning I jumped out of bed, turned on all the lights, and 
stepped up to my dresser mirror. 

Would I find new hair? 

I held up my hands and checked them out first. My eyes were still 
heavy from sleep. But I could see clearly that the hair had not grown back. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. 

The razor cuts on my right hand still hurt. But I didn’t care. Both 
hands were smooth and hairless. 

I turned them over and gazed at them for a long while. I was so glad 
they looked normal. 

I had dreamed about hair during the night. It had started out as 
spaghetti. In the dream, I was sitting in the kitchen, starting to eat a big 
plate of spaghetti. 

But as I started to twirl the noodles on my fork, they instantly turned to 
hair. Long, black hairs. 

I was twirling long, black hairs onto my fork. The plate was piled high 
with long strands of black hair. 

Then I raised the forkful of hair to my mouth. I opened my mouth. I 
brought the hairy fork up closer, closer. 

And then I woke up. 

Yuck! What a gross dream. 

I had felt really sick to my stomach. And it had been hard getting back 
to sleep. 

Now at last it was morning, and I continued my inspection. I leaned 
over and checked my feet. Then my legs. No black clumps of hair. 

No weird fur growing anywhere. 

I guess it’s safe to go to school, I told myself happily. But I’ll be sure 
to keep my gloves handy. 

After breakfast, I pulled on my coat, grabbed my backpack, and 
headed out of the house. 

It was a bright, warm day. The snow glistened wetly. The sunshine had 
started to melt it. I stepped carefully around puddles of slush as I walked 
along the sidewalk. 

I was feeling better. A lot better. In fact, I was feeling really good. 

Then I turned and saw that pack of dogs. Snarling dogs. Heading right 
for me. 

13 

My heart jumped up to my throat. The dogs were running full speed, their 
heads bobbing up and down, their eyes trained on me. They barked and 
growled furiously with each bounding step. 

My legs suddenly felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds. But I 
whirled around and forced myself to run. 

If they catch me, they’ll tear me to pieces! I told myself. They must 
smell Jasper on me, I decided. That’s why they always chase me. 

I loved my cat. But why did she have to get me in so much trouble? 

Who owned these vicious dogs, anyway? Why were they allowed to 
run wild like this? 

Questions, questions. They flew through my mind as I ran. Across 
front yards. Then across the street. 

A car horn blared. I heard the squeal of brakes. 

A car skidded toward the opposite curb. 

I had forgotten to check the traffic before I crossed. 

“Sorry!” I called. And kept running. 

A sharp pain in my side forced me to slow down. I turned and saw the 
yapping dogs racing steadily toward me. They crossed the street and kept 
moving over the snowy ground. Closer. Closer. 

“Hey, Larry!” Two kids stepped on to the sidewalk ahead of me. 

“Run!” I screamed breathlessly. “The dogs—” 

But Lily and Jared didn’t move. 

I stepped up to them, holding my side. It ached so hard, I could barely 
breathe. 

Lily turned to stare down the dogs, as she had done before. Jared 
stepped up to meet them. All three of us watched the dogs approach. 

Seeing the three of us standing together, the dogs slowed to a stop. The 
snarls and growls stopped instantly. They stared back at us uncertainly. 
They were panting hard, their tongues drooping down nearly to the snow. 

“Go home!” Lily shouted. She stamped her shoe hard on the sidewalk. 

The big black dog, the leader, uttered a low whimper and hung his 
head. 

“Go home! Go home!” All three of us chanted. 

The pain in my side started to fade. I felt a little better. The dogs 
weren’t going to attack, I could see. They didn’t want to tangle with all 
three of us. 

They turned and started to trot away, following the big black dog. 

Suddenly Jared started to laugh. “Look at that one!” he cried. He 
pointed to a long, scrawny dog with black, curly fur. 

“What’s so funny about that one?” I demanded. 

“He looks just like Manny!” Jared declared. 

Lily started to laugh. “You’re right! He does!” 

All three of us laughed. The dog had Manny’s curly hair. And he had 
Manny’s dark, soulful eyes. 

“Come on. We’ll be late,” Lily said. She kicked a hard clump of snow 
off the sidewalk. Jared and I followed her toward school. 

“Why were those dogs chasing you?” Jared asked. 

“I think because they smelled my cat,” I replied. 

“Those dogs are mean,” Lily said, a few steps ahead of us. “They 
shouldn’t let them run wild like that.” 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

A sharp gust of wind nearly blew us backwards over the slippery 
sidewalk. Jared’s Raiders cap went flying into the street. A station wagon 
rumbled past, nearly running it over. 

Jared darted into the street and snatched the cap back. “I’ll be glad 
when winter is over,” he muttered. 

We met Kristina in front of the school. Her red hair blew wildly 
around her head in the swirling wind. “Do we have band practice this 
afternoon?” she asked. She was chewing a Snickers bar. 

“Great breakfast,” I said sarcastically. 

“Mom didn’t have time to make eggs,” Kristina replied, chewing. 

“Yes. Practice at my house,” Lily said. “We’ve got to get to work, 
guys. We don’t want Howie to win the contest.” 

Kristina turned to me. “Where were you yesterday?” 

“I... uh... didn’t feel too well,” I replied. 

That reminded me of the INSTA-TAN lotion. Were any of my friends 
growing hair, too, because of that suntan gunk? I had to know. I had to ask. 

But if they weren’t growing hair—if I was the only one—then I’d be 

totally embarrassed. 

“Uh... remember that INSTA-TAN stuff?” I asked quietly. 

“Great stuff,” Jared replied. “I think it made me paler!” 

Kristina laughed. “It didn’t work at all. You were right, Larry. That 
bottle was too old.” 

“Look at us,” Lily added. “We’re all as pale as the snow. That stuff 
didn’t do anything.” 

But are you growing weird black patches of hair now? 

That’s what I was dying to ask. 

But none of them said anything about growing hair. 

Were they like me? Were they too embarrassed to admit it? 

Or was I the only one? 

I took a deep breath. Should I ask? Should I ask if anyone was 
sprouting hair? 

I opened my mouth to ask. But I stopped when I realized that the 
subject had changed. They were talking about our band again. 

“Can you bring your amp to my house?” Lily asked Kristina. “Manny 
will bring his. But it only has jacks to plug in two guitars.” 

“Maybe I can bring mine—” I started to say. 

But a gust of wind blew my parka hood back. 

I reached up to pull the hood back on my head. 

But my hand brushed the back of my neck—and I gasped. 

The back of my neck was covered with thick hair. 

14 

“Larry—what’s wrong?” Lily demanded. 

“Uh... uh...” I couldn’t speak. 

“What’s wrong with your scarf?” Jared asked. “Is it too tight?” He 
tugged at the wool scarf around my neck. 

The scratchy scarf my mom made me wear because my great-aunt 
Hildy had knitted it. 

I had forgotten I was wearing it. When my hand brushed against it, I’d 
thought... 

“You looked scared to death!” Lily exclaimed. “Are you okay, Larry?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m okay,” I muttered, feeling my face go red. “The 
scarf was choking me, I guess.” What a lame lie. 

But I had to say something. I couldn’t say that I had mistakenly 
thought that my neck had sprouted fur! 

Larry, you’ve got to stop thinking about hair! I scolded myself. If you 
don’t, you’ll drive yourself crazy! 

I shivered. “Let’s go inside,” I said, wrapping the wool scarf tightly 
around my neck. 

I hurried to the boys’ room to brush my hair before the bell rang. Gazing at 
my wavy, blond hair in the mirror as I brushed it, I had a horrifying thought. 

What if my real hair suddenly fell out? And the gross, prickly black 
hair grew in its place? 

What if I woke up one morning, and my entire head was covered in the 
disgusting black fur? 

I took a long look at myself in the mirror. Someone had smeared soap 
over the glass, and my reflection appeared to stare back through hazy, white 
streaks. 

“Shape up,” I told myself. 

I pointed a finger at my reflection. A smooth, hairless finger. 

“Stop thinking about hair, Larry,” I instructed my reflection. “Stop 
thinking about it. You’re going to be okay.” 

The INSTA-TAN lotion has worn off, I decided. 

It had been several days since my friends and I had splashed it on 
ourselves. I had taken at least three showers and two baths. 

It wore off, I told myself. It’s all gone. Stop worrying about it. 

I took one last glance at my hair. It was getting pretty long, but I liked 
it that way. I liked brushing the sides back over my ears. 

Maybe I’ll let it grow really long, I thought. I tucked the hairbrush into 
my backpack and headed to class. 

I had a pretty good day until Miss Shindling handed back the history term 
papers. 

It wasn’t the grade that upset me. She gave me a ninety-four, which is 
really good. I knew that Lily would probably brag that she got a ninety- 
eight or a ninety-nine. But Lily was great at writing. 

A ninety-four was really excellent for me. 

The grade made me happy. But when I flipped through the pages, 
glancing over Miss Shindling’s comments on my writing, I found a black 
hair on page three. 

Was it my black hair? I wondered. Was it one of the disgusting black 
hairs that had sprouted on my hands? 

Or was it Miss Shindling’s? Miss Shindling had short, straight black 
hair. It could be one of hers. 

Or else... 

I squinted at the hair, afraid to touch it. 

I knew I was starting to get weird. I knew I had made a solemn vow 
that I was going to stop thinking about hair. 

But I couldn’t help it. 

Seeing this one, stubby little black hair stuck to the third page of my 
term paper gave me the shudders. Finally, I raised the term paper close to 
my face—and blew the hair away. 

I didn’t hear a word Miss Shindling said for the rest of the class. I was 
glad when the bell rang and it was time to go to gym. 

It will feel good to run around and get some exercise, I decided. 

“Basketball today!” Coach Rafferty shouted as we filed into the 
brightly lit gym. “Basketball today! Change into your shorts! Come on— 
hustle!” 

I usually don’t like basketball that much. There’s so much running 

back and forth. Back and forth the entire length of the floor. Also, I don’t 
have a very good shooting eye. And I get really embarrassed when a 
teammate passes me the ball and I miss an easy shot. 

But, today, basketball sounded just right. A chance to run and get rid of 
a lot of my nervous energy. 

I followed the other guys into the locker room. We all opened our gym 
lockers and pulled out our shorts and T-shirts. 

At the end of the row of lockers, Howie Hurwin kept shouting, “In 
your face! In your face!” 

Another guy snapped a towel at Howie. 

Serves him right, I thought. Howie is such a jerk. 

“In your face!” I heard Howie chant. Someone shouted to him to shut 
up. 

“In your face, man! In your face!” 

I sat down on the bench and pulled off my sneakers. Then I stood up 
and started to pull off my jeans. 

I stopped when I got the jeans about halfway down. 

I stopped and let out a low cry when I saw my knees. 

Bushy clumps of furry black hair had sprouted from both knees. 

15 

“How come you kept your jeans on in gym?” Jared asked. 

“Huh?” His question caught me by surprise. It was the next day, and 
we were walking along the slushy sidewalks, lugging our instruments to 
Lily’s house for another band practice. 

“You refused to change into gym shorts, remember?” Jared said, 
swinging his keyboard case at his side. 

“I... was just cold,” I told him. “My legs got cold. That’s all. I don’t 
know why Coach Rafferty gave me such a hard time.” 

Jared laughed. “Rafferty nearly swallowed his whistle when you sank 
that three-point jump shot from midcourt!” 

I laughed, too. I am the worst shot in school. But I was so crazed about 
my hairy knees, so totally pumped, that I played better than I’d ever played 
in my life. 

“Maybe you should wear jeans all the time!” Coach Rafferty had 
joked. 

But, of course, it was no joke. 

I ran all the way home after school and spent nearly half an hour 
locked in the upstairs bathroom, shaving the clumps of black hair off my 
knees. 

When I finally finished, both knees were red and sore. But at least they 
were smooth again. 

I spent the rest of the afternoon closed up in my room, thinking hard 
about what was happening to me. Unfortunately, all I came up with were 
questions. Dozens of questions. 

But no answers. 

Sprawled on my stomach on top of the bed, my knees throbbed as I 
thought. Why did my knees grow hair? I asked myself. I didn’t spread any 
INSTA-TAN on my knees. So why did the ugly black hair sprout there? 

Had the INSTA-TAN worked itself into my system? Had the strange 
liquid seeped into my pores? Had it spread through my entire body? 

Was I going to turn into some kind of big, hairy creature? Was I soon 
going to look like King Kong or something? 

Questions—but no answers. 

The questions still troubled me as I crossed the street with Jared, and 
Lily’s white-frame house came into view on the corner. 

The sun beamed down above the two bare maple trees that leaned over 
Lily’s driveway. The air felt warm, almost like spring. The snow had melted 
a lot in one day. Patches of wet grass poked up through the white. 

In the yard across the street from Lily’s house, a half-melted snowman 
looked sad and droopy. My hightops splashed through the slushy puddles as 
Jared and I carried our instruments up the driveway. 

Lily opened the door for us. She and Kristina had already been 
practicing. Lily was wearing a bright red-and-blue ski sweater pulled down 
over pale blue leggings. Kristina wore faded jeans and a green-and-gold 
Notre Dame sweatshirt. 

“Where’s Manny?” Lily asked, closing the front door behind Jared and 
me. 

“Haven’t seen him,” I replied, scraping my wet sneakers on the floor 
mat. “Isn’t he here?” 

“He wasn’t in school again today,” Kristina reported. 

“We’ve got to get serious,” Lily said, biting her lower lip. “Did you 
talk to Howie today? Did he tell you what his dad bought him?” 

“Anew synthesizer?” I replied, bending to open my guitar case. “Yeah. 
Howie told me all about it. He says it can sound like an entire orchestra.” 

“Who wants to sound like an orchestra?” Jared asked. He had a wet 
leaf stuck to his shoe. He pulled it off, but then didn’t know where to throw 
it away. So he jammed it in his jeans pocket. 

“If Howie sounds like an orchestra, and we sound like three guitars 
and a kiddie keyboard, we’re in major trouble,” Lily warned. 

“It’s not a kiddie keyboard!” Jared protested. 

I laughed. “Just because you wind a crank at the side of it doesn’t 
make it a kiddie keyboard!” 

“It’s small—but it has all the notes,” Jared insisted. He set the 
keyboard on the coffee table and bent down to plug it in. 

“Let’s stop messing around and get to work,” Kristina said, moving 
her fingers over the frets of her shiny red Gibson. “What song do you want 
to practice first?” 

“How can we practice without Manny?” I asked. “I mean, what’s the 

point?” 

“I tried calling him,” Lily said. “But his phone is messed up or 
something. It didn’t even ring.” 

“Let’s go to his house and get him,” I suggested. 

“Yeah. Good idea!” Kristina agreed. 

All four of us started for the front entryway to get our coats. But Lily 
stopped at the door. “Larry and I will go,” she announced to Kristina. “You 
and Jared should stay and practice. Why should we all go?” 

“Okay,” Jared agreed quickly. “Besides, someone should be here in 
case Manny shows up.” 

With that settled, Lily and I pulled on our coats and headed out the 
front door. Lily’s Doc Martens splashed through a wide puddle as we made 
our way along the sidewalk. 

“I hate it when the snow gets all gray and slushy,” she said. “Listen. 
All you can hear is dripping. Water dripping from the trees, dripping from 
the houses.” 

She stuck out her arm to block my path and stop me from walking. We 
listened in silence to the dripping sounds. 

“It’s deafening—isn’t it?” Lily asked, smiling. The sunlight reflected 
in her eyes. One blue eye, one green eye. 

“Deafening,” I repeated. Lily can be pretty weird sometimes. She once 
told me that she writes poetry. Long poems about nature. But she’s never 
shown any of them to me. 

We trudged through the slush. The sun felt warm on my face. I 
unzipped my parka. 

Manny’s house came into view as we turned the corner. Manny lives in 
a square-shaped brick house on top of a hill. It’s a great sledding hill. There 
were two little kids sledding down it now on blue plastic discs. They were 
going pretty slow since most of the snow had melted. 

We walked past them and made our way up to Manny’s front stoop. 
Lily rang the doorbell, and I knocked. “Hey, Manny—open up!” I shouted. 

No reply. 

No sounds at all. Just the drip drip drip of water from the gutter. 

“Hey, Manny!” I called. We rang and knocked again. 

“No one home,” Lily said quietly. She stepped off the stoop and 
moved to the front window. Edging up on tiptoes, she tried to peer in. 

“See anything?” I called. 

She shook her head. “No. The sun is reflecting on the glass. It looks 
dark inside.” 

“There’s no car in the driveway,” I said. I knocked one more time, as 
hard as I could. To my surprise, the front door swung in a little. 

“Hey—the door is open!” I called to Lily. She hurried back to the 
stoop. I pushed the door open a little further. “Anyone home?” I called in. 

No reply. 

“Hey—your door is open!” I shouted. 

Lily pushed the door all the way, and we stepped inside. “Manny?” she 
called, cupping her hands around her mouth. “Manny?” 

I stepped into the living room—and gasped. 

I tried to speak. But I couldn’t. I couldn’t believe what I saw. 

16 

Lily grabbed my arm as we both stared around the living room. 

The room was totally bare. No furniture. No curtains. No paintings or 
posters on the wall. Even the carpet had been removed, leaving shiny dark 
floorboards. 

“Wh-where did they go?” I managed to choke out. 

Lily made her way through the back hall to the kitchen. Also empty. 
Everything gone. An empty hole where the refrigerator had stood. 

“They moved!” Lily exclaimed. “I don’t believe it!” 

“But why didn’t Manny tell us?” I demanded, my eyes moving around 
the deserted room. “Why didn’t he tell us his family was moving away?” 

Lily shook her head and didn’t reply. The house was silent. I could 
hear water dripping from the gutter outside. 

“Maybe they had to move suddenly,” Lily said finally. 

“Suddenly? Why?” I demanded. 

It was a question that neither of us could answer. 

I love to run. 

Not when I’m running from snarling dogs. But I do love to run. 

I like the way it gets my heart pounding. And I like the thud of my 
sneakers on the ground, and the feeling of my muscles all working together. 

On Saturday mornings I like to go jogging with my dad. He always 
jogs at Miller Woods, along a path that curves around a small lake. 

It’s really pretty there. The air is always fresh-smelling. And it’s a very 
quiet place. 

Dad is tall and lean and pretty athletic. He used to be blond like me, 
but now his hair is mostly gray, and he has a big bald spot on top. 

He jogs every morning before work. I think he usually jogs pretty fast. 
But on Saturdays, he slows down so that we can run side by side. 

We usually jog without talking. That way we can concentrate on the 
scenery and the fresh air. 

But this Saturday morning, I felt like talking. I had decided to tell Dad 
everything. About the bottle of INSTA-TAN. And about the black hair that 

kept sprouting. 

As I talked, I kept my eyes straight ahead. I saw two big crows float 
down from the clear blue sky and perch side by side on the bare limb of a 
tree. The crows cawed loudly, as if talking to us. 

The lake sparkled brightly as Dad and I followed the curving path 
around it. Small patches of ice bobbed in the blue-green water. 

I started at the beginning and told the whole story. Dad slowed down a 
little more to listen. But we kept jogging as I talked. 

I told him about finding the bottle of tanning lotion and how we all 
splashed it on ourselves as a joke. Dad nodded but kept his eyes straight 
ahead. “I guess it didn’t work,” he said, sounding a little breathless from 
running. “You don’t look too tan, Larry.” 

“No, it didn’t work,” I continued. “The bottle was really old, Dad. It 
had expired a long time ago.” 

I took a deep breath. The next part was the hardest to tell. “It didn’t 
give me a tan, Dad. But something really weird started happening to me.” 

He kept jogging. We both leaped over a fallen tree branch. I slipped 
over a pile of wet leaves, but quickly caught my balance. 

“This weird hair started growing on me,” I told him in a shaky voice. 
“First on the back of my hand. Then on both hands. Then on my knees.” 

Dad stopped. He turned to me with a worried expression on his face. 
“Hair?” 

I nodded, breathing hard. “Black hair. Thick clumps of it. Very rough 
and spikey.” 

Dad swallowed hard. His eyes grew wide. With surprise? With fear? 
With disbelief? 

I couldn’t tell. 

But to my surprise, he grabbed my arm and started to pull me. “Come 
on, Larry. We’ve got to go.” 

“But, Dad—” I started, holding back. 

He tightened his grip and pulled harder. “I said we’ve got to go!” he 
insisted through gritted teeth. “Now!” 

He tugged so hard, he nearly pulled me off my feet! 

“Dad—what’s wrong?” I demanded in a high, shrill voice. “What is 

it?” 

He didn’t answer. He pulled me back along the path toward the street. 

His eyes were wild. His whole face was twisted into a tight, frightened 
scowl. 

“Dad—what’s wrong?” I cried. “Where are you taking me? Where?” 

17 

Dr. Murkin raised the hypodermic needle and examined it in the light. 
“Turn away, Larry,” he said softly. “I know you don’t like to watch. This 
won’t hurt at all.” 

Pain shot through my arm as the needle sank in. I shut my eyes and 
held my breath until he pulled out the needle. 

“I know it’s early,” he said, rubbing my arm with a cotton ball dipped 
in alcohol. “But since you were here, I thought I’d give you your shot.” 

My dad sat tensely in a folding chair against the wall of the small 
examining room. He had his arms crossed tightly over the front of his 
sweatshirt. 

“Wh-what about the hair?” I stammered to Dr. Murkin. “Did the 
INSTA-TAN—” 

The doctor shook his head. “I really don’t think tanning lotion can 
cause hair to grow, Larry. Those lotions work on the pigments of the skin. 
They—” 

“But it was a very old bottle!” I insisted. “Maybe the ingredients 
turned sour or something!” 

He waved his hand, as if to say, “No way.” 

Then he turned and started scribbling notes in my file. “I’m sorry, 
Larry,” he said, writing rapidly in a tiny handwriting. “It wasn’t the tanning 
lotion. Trust me.” 

He turned his head to me, his eyes studying me. “I’ve examined you 
from head to foot. You passed every test. You seem fine to me.” 

“Whew! That’s a relief!” Dad said, sighing. 

“But the hair—!” I insisted. 

“Let’s wait and see,” Dr. Murkin replied, his eyes on my dad. 

“Wait and see?” I cried. “You’re not going to give me any medicine or 
anything to stop it?” 

“Maybe it won’t happen again,” Dr. Murkin said. He closed my file. 
Then he motioned for me to jump down from the examining table. 

“Try not to worry, Larry,” he said, handing my coat to me. “You’ll be 
okay.” 

“Thank you, Dr. Murkin,” Dad said, climbing to his feet. He flashed 
the doctor a smile, but I could see that it was forced. Dad still looked really 
tense. 

I followed Dad out to the parking lot. We didn’t say anything until we 
were in the car and on the way home. “Feel better?” Dad asked, his eyes 
narrowed straight ahead on the road. 

“No,” I replied glumly. 

“What’s wrong?” Dad asked impatiently. “Dr. Murkin said you 
checked out fine.” 

“What about the ugly black hair?” I demanded angrily. “What about it? 
Why didn’t he do anything about it? Do you think he didn’t believe me?” 

“I’m sure he believed you,” Dad said softly. 

“Then why didn’t he do anything to help me?” I wailed. 

Dad didn’t reply for the longest time. He stared straight through the 
windshield, chewing his lower lip. Then, finally, he said in a hushed voice, 
“Sometimes the best thing is to wait.” 

We met at Lily’s house for band practice that afternoon. We sounded pretty 
good—but it wasn’t the same without Manny. 

We were all really upset that he had moved away without saying good¬ 
bye. Lily asked her mom to call some friends who were friendly with 
Manny’s parents. She wanted to find out where Manny and his family had 
moved. 

But the friends turned out to be as surprised as we were. 

We couldn’t find anyone who knew that Manny’s family planned to 
move from our town. 

I have to admit that our songs sounded better with two guitars instead 
of three. Lily has a very light singing voice—not much power. And three 
guitars nearly always drowned her out. 

With Manny gone, we could actually hear Lily some of the time. 

I kept messing up the Beatles song we were rehearsing—“I Want to 
Hold Your Hand.” I played the wrong chords and couldn’t get the rhythm 
right. 

I knew what the trouble was. I couldn’t stop thinking about Dr. Murkin 
and how he didn’t believe me about the hair. He said it wasn’t the INSTA- 
TAN. But maybe he was wrong. 

I felt so angry—and so... alone. 

Glancing around Lily’s living room as we started “I Want to Hold Your 
Hand” for the twentieth time, I studied my friends. Were they having the 
same problem? Were they growing ugly, black hair, too, and afraid to tell 
anyone? 

The first time I had asked, Lily had laughed at me and called me Hairy 
Larry. But I had to ask again. I couldn’t think about anything else. I had to 
know the truth. 

I waited till practice was over. Kristina was tucking her guitar into its 
case. Jared went into the kitchen to get a Coke from the fridge. Lily was 
standing beside the couch, one hand twirling the gold pirate coin at her 
throat. 

“I—I have to ask you something,” I said nervously when Jared 
returned to the room. 

He popped the top on the can, and a spray of Coke hit him in the face. 

Everyone laughed. 

“Can’t you work a Coke can?” Lily joked. “Do you need an instruction 
book?” 

“Ha-ha,” Jared replied sarcastically, wiping his face with his sleeve. 
“You deliberately shook the cans, Lily, so people would get squirted. Admit 
it.” 

Kristina laughed as she snapped her guitar case shut. “Maybe you 
should stick to juice boxes, Jared.” 

He stuck out his tongue at her. 

I cleared my throat loudly. “I want to ask you guys something,” I 
repeated in a shaky voice. 

They were all in a great mood, laughing and kidding around. They all 
seemed totally normal. 

Why was I the only one who felt worried and afraid? 

“Remember the INSTA-TAN stuff?” I started. “Have any of you been 
growing hair since we put that stuff on?” I could feel my face turning red. 
“I mean, really ugly patches of black hair?” 

Jared started to laugh, and Coke spurted out of his nose. He started to 
choke. Kristina hurried over to slap him on the back. 

“Hairy Larry!” Jared cried when he stopped choking. He pointed the 
Coke can at me and started chanting. “Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry!” 

“Come on, guys!” I pleaded. “I’m serious!” 

That made Kristina and Jared laugh even harder. 

I turned to Lily, who was still standing beside the couch. She had a 
troubled expression on her face. She definitely wasn’t laughing. She 
lowered her eyes to the floor as I continued to stare at her. 

“Larry is a werewolf!” Jared declared. 

“I hope The Geeks don’t have to play when there’s a full moon!” 
Kristina exclaimed. 

“Maybe Larry’s howling is better than his guitar playing!” Jared said. 
They both laughed. 

“I—I was just making a joke!” I stammered. I wanted a hole to open 
up in the floor so that I could disappear into it. 

I’m the only one, I realized. I’m the only one who is growing the ugly 

hair. 

That’s why Jared and Kristina thought it was so funny. It wasn’t 
happening to them. They didn’t have to worry about it. 

But Lily wasn’t joining in with the jokes. She turned away and started 
picking up music sheets from the floor and straightening the room. 

Lily always enjoys teasing me and making me blush. I stared at her, 
wondering if she had the same secret I did. 

I packed up my guitar slowly and waited for Jared and Kristina to 
leave. Then I put on my coat and baseball cap and followed Lily to the front 
door. 

On the front stoop, I turned back to her. “Lily, tell me the truth,” I 
insisted, studying her face. “Have you been growing weird patches of black 
hair on your hands and knees?” 

She hesitated, chewing her bottom lip. “I... I don’t want to talk about 
it,” she replied in a whisper. 

Then she slammed the front door. 

I didn’t move from the concrete stoop. I kept picturing her troubled 
expression. I kept hearing her whispered voice. 

Was it happening to Lily? If it was, why wouldn’t she admit it to me? 
Was she too embarrassed? 

Or was she embarrassed for me? 

Maybe it wasn’t happening to her, I realized. Maybe she just thinks 
I’m crazy. Maybe she feels bad for me because I keep acting like such a 

jerk. 

Feeling totally confused, I turned and headed for the street. The sun 
was still high in the sky, but the air felt cold. A sharp wind blew at my face 
as I started toward home. 

Leaning into the wind, I reached up and tugged down my cap to keep 
it from blowing away. To my surprise, I couldn’t pull it down. 

The cap suddenly felt tight. Too tight. 

I removed it and held it close to my face to study it. Had someone 
adjusted the back to make it tighter? 

No. 

A chill of dread ran down my back as I raised a hand to my forehead. 
And discovered why my cap didn’t fit. 

My entire forehead was covered with thick, bristly hair. 

18 

I burst through the back door, into the kitchen. “Mom—look at this!” I 
cried. “Look at my head!” 

My eyes darted around the room. “Mom?” 

Not there. 

I ran through the house, calling for her. I decided it was time to show 
my parents what was happening to me. Time to make them believe me. 

The stripe of hair would totally gross them out, would finally convince 
them this was serious. 

“Mom! Dad? Anybody home?” 

No. 

When I returned to the kitchen, I found a note on the refrigerator: WE 
WENT SHOPPING IN BROOKESDALE VILLAGE. HOME LATE. FIX 
YOURSELF A SNACK. 

With a cry of disgust, I tossed my cap across the room. Then I pulled 
off my parka and let it fall to the floor. 

My heart pounding, I made my way to the mirror in the front hall and 
studied myself. I looked like some kind of comic book mutant! 

My pale face stared back at me. It appeared exactly the same. Except 
that I had a thick, black stripe of fur across my forehead. 

Looks like I’m wearing a bandanna, I thought miserably. Like one of 
those headbands that skiers wear. Except this one is made of disgusting hair. 

I ran a trembling hand over the thick hair. 

My chest heaved up and down. I felt like crying and screaming 
furiously at the same time. I felt like grabbing the stripe of fur and ripping it 
out of my head. 

I couldn’t bear to look at myself. The hair was so gross, so disgusting. 

I decided there was no way I could wait for Mom and Dad to get 
home. I couldn’t leave that horrible hair on my face. Spinning away from 
the mirror, I ran upstairs to shave it off. 

I lathered up the strip of hair with shaving cream. Then I began to 
scrape my dad’s razor over it. 

“Ow!” It hurt, but I didn’t care. I had to cut it off. Every thick, bristly 

strand of it. 

Watching the hair fall into the sink, I suddenly knew what I had to do. 
I had to find the INSTA-TAN bottle. I had to find it and take it to Dr. 
Murkin. 

“If I bring him the bottle, I can make him believe me!” I told myself. 
Then Dr. Murkin can do tests on it. He can figure out why it’s making hair 
grow on me. 

And once he knows that it’s the INSTA-TAN that’s growing hair, Dr. 
Murkin will give me a cure, I decided. 

But where did we toss the bottle? 

I shut my eyes and struggled to remember. 

After I discovered the bottle, we had all run into Lily’s house to splash 
the stuff on. Then we had gone back outside to mess around in the snow. 

Did we toss the INSTA-TAN bottle back in the trash Dumpster next 
door? 

I had to find out. 

I scribbled a note to my parents, telling them I left something at Lily’s 
and would be back soon. Then I grabbed my coat and hurried out the door. 

The air had become a lot colder. Clouds had rolled over the sun, 
making the evening sky gray. I zipped up my parka and pulled the hood 
over my head. My forehead still tingled from where I had shaved it. 

The three blocks to Lily’s house seemed like three miles! As I turned 
the corner, her house came into view. 

I don’t want her to see me, I realized. If she sees me poking around 
that trash Dumpster, she’ll want to know why. And I’m not ready to tell her 
the whole story. 

She wouldn’t tell me the truth, I thought bitterly. Instead, she slammed 
the door on me. 

So I’m not ready to tell her the truth, either. 

I felt glad that it had become so dark out. Maybe Lily wouldn’t see me. 

I kept my eyes on her house as I approached. The lights were on in the 
dining room. Maybe her family was having an early dinner. 

Good, I thought. I’ll dig into the trash Dumpster, pull out the bottle, 
and disappear before they finish, before anyone has a chance to glance out 
the window. 

I stopped short when I saw that there was just one little problem. 

The trash Dumpster was gone. 

The workers must have hauled it away. 

I let out a long sigh and nearly slumped to my knees. “Now what?” I 
murmured out loud. 

Now how do I prove to Dr. Murkin that the INSTA-TAN is making me 
grow hair? 

The cold wind swirled around me as I stared at the curb where the 
Dumpster had stood. Fat brown leaves, blown by the twisting wind, 
fluttered around my legs. 

I shivered. 

Turning to leave, a memory flashed through my mind. 

The INSTA-TAN bottle. We hadn’t dropped it back into the Dumpster. 
We had tossed it into the woods on the other side of the neighbors’ house. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. “Yes!” 

We had chased each other across the neighbors’ yard—and I’d heaved 
the bottle into the trees. 

It will still be there, I told myself. It has to be there. 

I darted past Lily’s house, glancing up at the front windows. I couldn’t 
see anyone looking out. 

Past the neighbors’ house, dark and empty. The remodeling work not 
finished. 

Into the woods. The dead leaves wet and slippery under my shoes. The 
bare tree branches shook and rattled in the shifting, sharp wind. 

Where had the bottle landed? I asked myself. Where? 

It hadn’t gone far, I remembered. Just past the first trees. 

It had to be nearby, I knew. Somewhere near where I stood. 

A blanket of deep shadow had fallen over the woods. I kicked at a pile 
of dead leaves. My shoe hit something hard. 

Bending quickly, I tossed leaves away with both hands. 

Only a tree branch. 

I moved deeper into the woods, pushing my way through clumps of 
tall, dead weeds. 

I stopped. 

It has to be around here, I knew. My eyes desperately searched the 
shadows. 

There it is. No. Just a smooth stone. 



I kicked it away. Then I turned slowly, making a complete circle, my 
eyes sweeping the dark ground. 

Where is the bottle? Where? 

I sucked in my breath when I heard the sound. 

The crack of a twig. 

I listened hard. I heard the crackle of leaves. The brush of a leg against 
a winter-dry shrub. 

Another twig cracking. 

Swallowing hard, I realized I was no longer alone. 

“Wh-who’s there?” I called. 

19 

“Who’s there?” 

No reply. 

Frozen as still as a statue, I listened. I heard the scrape of feet moving 
rapidly over the ground. I heard heavy breathing. 

“Hey—who is it?” I called. 

I glanced down—and saw the bottle. Lying on its side, nestled in a pile 
of leaves right in front of me. 

I bent quickly, reached eagerly for the bottle with both hands. But I 
jerked back up to my feet in fright as a dark figure lumbered out from the 
trees. 

Panting hard. Its long tongue flapping from its open mouth. 

A tall, brown dog. Even in the dim light, I could see how scraggly and 
tangled its fur was. I could see large burrs stuck in its heaving side. 

I took a step back. “Are you alone, boy?” I called in a frightened 
whisper. “Huh? Are you alone, doggie?” 

The animal lowered its head and let out a whimper. 

I searched the woods for other dogs. Was he part of a pack? Part of the 
pack of stray dogs that liked to chase me, growling and snapping? 

I didn’t see any others. 

“Good dog,” I told him, keeping my voice low and calm. “Good 
doggie.” 

He stared up at me, still panting. His scraggly, brown tail wagged 
once, then drooped. 

I bent slowly, keeping my eyes on the dog, and picked up the bottle. It 
felt surprisingly cold. I held it up and tried to see if any of the liquid 
remained inside. 

But it was too dark to see. 

I’m pretty sure I didn’t use every last drop, I thought, struggling to 
remember. There has to be a little left. Enough for Dr. Murkin to test. 

I shook the bottle close to my ear, listening for the splash of liquid 
inside. Please, please, let there be a drop left! I pleaded silently. 

The trees shivered in a sharp, swirling gust. Leaves rustled and scraped 

against each other. 

The dog let out another soft whimper. 

I grasped the bottle tightly in my right hand and started to back away. 
“Bye-bye, doggie.” 

He tilted his head and stared up at me. 

I took another step back. “Bye, doggie,” I repeated softly. “Go home. 
Go home, boy.” 

He didn’t move. He let out another whimper. Then his tail began to 

wag. 

I took another step back, grasping the INSTA-TAN bottle tightly. 
Then, as I started to turn away from the staring dog, I saw the others. 

They poked out quickly, silently, from the dark trees. Five or six big 
dogs, their eyes glowing angrily. Then five or six more. 

As they lumbered nearer, moving quickly, steadily, I could hear their 
growls, low and menacing. They pulled back their lips and bared their teeth. 

I froze, staring in terror at their darkly glowing eyes, listening to their 
menacing, low growls. 

Then I spun around awkwardly. Started to run. 

“Ohh!” I let out a shrill cry as I stumbled over a fallen tree branch. 

The bottle flew out of my hand. 

As I fell, I reached out for it, grasping desperately. 

Missed. 

I watched in horror as it hit a sharp rock—and shattered. The jagged 
pieces flew in all directions. A tiny puddle of brown liquid washed over the 
rock. 

I landed hard on my knees and elbows. Pain shot through my body. 
But I ignored it and scrambled to my feet. 

I whirled around to face the dogs. 

But to my surprise, they were running in a different direction. Through 
the trees, I glimpsed a frightened rabbit, scrabbling over the leafy ground. 
Barking and growling, the dogs chased after it. 

My heart pounding, my knees still throbbing, I walked over to the rock 
and stared down at the jagged pieces of orange glass. I picked one up and 
examined it closely. 

“Now what do I do?” I asked myself out loud. I could still hear the 
excited barking of the dogs in the distance. “Now what?” 

The bottle was shattered into a dozen pieces. My evidence was gone. I 
had nothing to show Dr. Murkin. Nothing at all. 

With an angry cry, I tossed the piece of glass at the trees. Then I 
wearily slunk toward home. 

Mom and Dad hurried to a school meeting after dinner. I went upstairs to 
my room to do my homework. 

I didn’t feel like being alone. 

I took Jasper in my lap and petted her for a while. But she wasn’t in 
the mood. She glared at me with those weird yellow eyes. When that didn’t 
work, she scratched my hand, jumped away, and disappeared out of the 
room. 

I tried calling Lily, but no one answered at her place. 

Outside, the wind howled around the corner of the house. It made my 
bedroom windows rattle. 

A chill ran down my back. 

I leaned my elbows on my desk and hunched over my government 
textbook. But I couldn’t concentrate. The words on the page became a gray 
blur. 

I walked across the room and picked up my guitar. Then I bent down 
and plugged it into my amp. 

Lots of times when I’m feeling nervous or upset, I play my guitar for a 
while. It always calms me down. 

I cranked the amp up really high and started to play a loud blues 
melody. There was no one else home, no one to tell me to turn it down. I 
wanted to play as loud as I could—loud enough to drown out my troubled 
thoughts. 

But I had played for only three or four minutes when I realized that 
something was wrong. 

I kept missing notes. Messing up the chords. 

What’s wrong with me? I wondered. I’ve played this tune a million 
times. I can play it in my sleep. 

When I glanced down at my fingers, I saw the problem. 

“Ohh!” I uttered a weak groan. That disgusting hair had sprouted over 
both of my hands. My fingers were covered in thick, black hair. 

I turned my hands over. Both palms were covered, too. 

The guitar fell heavily to the floor as I jumped to my feet. 

My arms began to itch. 

With trembling hands, I tore at the cuffs. Pulled up the sleeves. 

My arms were covered, too! The thick, bristly hair swept over both 
arms and hands. 

I stood there, swallowing hard, staring down at my hairy arms and 
hands. My legs were trembling. I felt weak. 

My mouth suddenly felt dry. My throat ached. 

I tried to swallow. 

Was the disgusting hair growing on my tongue ? 

Feeling a jolt of nausea, I lurched across the hall to the bathroom. 
Clicking on the ceiling light, I leaned over the sink. I brought my face up 
close to the mirror and stuck out my tongue. 

No. 

My tongue was okay. 

But my face—my cheeks and chin—were covered with black hair. 

It’s spreading so fast! I realized. The mirror reflected my horror. 

It’s spreading so fast now—all over me. 

What am I going to do? 

Isn’t there anything I can do? 

20 

I got to school early on Monday morning and waited for Lily at her locker. 

It had taken hours to shave off all the bristly clumps of hair. But I did 
it. 

This morning I wore a sweater with extra-long sleeves, and I pulled a 
baseball cap down low on my head in case the hair grew back during the 
day. 

“Lily, where are you?” I murmured impatiently. I paced nervously 
back and forth in front of the row of green lockers. 

Lily and I have to face this problem together, I told myself. I 
remembered the frightened expression on Lily’s face when I asked her if 
she had been growing weird hair. 

I knew the same thing was happening to Lily. I just knew it. 

And I knew that Lily must be embarrassed like me, too embarrassed to 
admit it, to talk about it. 

But the two of us can figure out what to do, I decided. 

If the two of us go to Dr. Murkin and tell him about the INSTA-TAN 
lotion and the hair, he’ll have to believe us. 

But where was Lily? 

Kids jammed the hall, slamming lockers, laughing and talking. I 
glanced at my watch. Only three minutes till the bell rang. 

“How’s it going, Larry?” a voice called. 

I turned and saw Howie Hurwin grinning at me. His sister, Marissa, 
stood beside him. Her braid was caught in her backpack strap, and she was 
struggling to free it. 

“Hi, Howie,” I said, sighing. He was the last person I wanted to see 
this morning! 

“Ready for tomorrow?” he asked. Why did he have to grin like that 
when he talked? That grin just made me want to punch him. 

“Tomorrow?” I glanced down the crowded hall, searching for Lily. 

Howie laughed. “Did you forget about the Battle of the Bands?” 

“Ow!” Marissa cried. She finally managed to tug her braid free. “Is 
your band still going to play?” she asked. “We heard about Manny leaving.” 

“Yeah. We’ll be there,” I told her. “We sound pretty good.” 

“We do, too!” Howie replied, grinning even wider. “We might be on 
TV. My uncle knows a woman who works on Star Search. He thinks maybe 
he can get us on.” 

“Great,” I replied, without any enthusiasm. 

Where was Lily? 

“If we get on that show, we’ll probably win,” Marissa added, still 
fiddling with her long braid. “And then we’ll be famous.” 

“They asked us to play at the next school dance,” Howie said. “They 
didn’t ask your band, did they?” 

“No,” I replied. “No one asked us.” 

That made Howie’s grin practically burst off his face. “Too bad,” he 

said. 

The bell rang. “I’ve got to go,” I said, hurrying toward Miss 
Shindling’s room. 

“See you at the contest tomorrow,” Marissa called. 

“We’re going first,” Howie shouted. “I guess they’re saving the best 
for first]” 

I heard the two of them laughing as I stepped into the classroom. I 
made my way to my seat, searching for Lily. Had she slipped past me while 
I was talking with Howie and Marissa? 

No. No sign of her. 

I sank into my seat, feeling worried and disappointed. Was Lily sick 
today? I hoped not. She can’t get sick the day before the Battle of the 
Bands, I told myself. She just can’t. 

“Larry, would you hand out the tests?” Miss Shindling asked, dropping 
a heavy stack of papers into my arms. 

“Huh? Test?” 

I had totally forgotten. 

Lily didn’t come to school. I tried phoning her at lunchtime. The phone 
rang and rang, but no one answered. 

After school, I decided to go to Lily’s house to see what had happened 
to her. But as I walked out of the school building, I remembered that my 
mom had asked me to come straight home after school. She had some 
chores she wanted me to help her with. 

It was a clear, cold day. Puffy, white clouds floated high in the 
afternoon sky. All the snow had finally melted, but the ground was still soft 
and wet. 

I waited for several cars to pass. Then I crossed the street and headed 
for home. 

I had walked nearly a block when I realized I was being followed. 

A dog brushed softly against my leg. Startled, I stopped and stared 
down at it. 

The dog had light brown fur, almost red, with a white patch at its 
throat. It was a medium-sized dog, a little bigger than a cocker spaniel. It 
had long, floppy brown ears and a long, furry tail that swept slowly back 
and forth as it gazed up at me. 

“Who are you?” I asked it. “I’ve never seen you before.” 

I glanced around, making sure there weren’t a dozen other dogs 
lurking in the bushes, getting ready to chase after me. 

Then I turned and started walking again. 

The dog brushed my leg again and kept on going. As I walked, it 
stayed a few yards ahead of me, glancing back to make sure I was 
following. 

“Are you following me —or am I following you?” I called to it. 

The dog’s tail gave a single wag in reply. 

It followed me all the way home. 

My mom was waiting for me in the driveway. She had a long green 
sweater pulled down over her jeans. “Nice day,” she commented, glancing 
up at the sunny sky. 

“Hi, Mom,” I greeted her. “This dog followed me home.” 

The dog sniffed at the low evergreen shrubs that lined the front walk. 

“She’s kind of pretty,” Mom said. “What a nice color. Who does she 
belong to?” 

I shrugged. “Beats me. I’ve never seen her before.” 

The dog came over and stared up at Mom. 

“At least she’s friendly,” I said, setting my heavy backpack down on 
the driveway. “Maybe we should keep her.” 

“No way,” Mom replied sharply. “No dogs. Not with Jasper in the 
house.” 

I bent down and petted the top of the dog’s head. 

“She has a tag on her collar,” Mom said, pointing. “Check it out, Larry. 
Maybe it says the owner’s name.” 

The dog’s tail wagged furiously as I petted her head. “Good dog,” I 
said softly. 

“Come on, Larry. See what the tag says,” Mom insisted. 

“Okay, okay.” I reached for the round, gold tag hanging down from the 
dog’s collar. Then I dropped to my knees and lowered my face so that I 
could see it clearly. 

“Huh?” 

I recognized it instantly. 

It wasn’t a dog tag. It was Lily’s gold pirate coin. 

21 

I nearly fell over. I felt as if someone had kicked me in the stomach. 

“M-mom!” I stammered. But my voice came out as a gasp. 

“Larry—what are you doing?” Mom called. She had wandered to the 
side of the driveway and was pulling up some dead weeds. “What does the 
tag say?” 

“It—it isn’t a tag,” I finally managed to choke out. 

She turned her head back to me. “Huh?” 

“It isn’t a dog tag,” I repeated, still holding it between my fingers. “It’s 
Lily’s gold pirate coin.” 

Mom laughed. “Why would Lily give her coin to a dog? Didn’t her 
grandfather give her that coin?” 

“I—I don’t know why,” I stammered. “I don’t get it, Mom.” 

The dog’s hot breath brushed over my hand. She pulled away from me, 
settled back, and started scratching her long, floppy ear with her back paw. 

“Are you sure it’s a gold coin, Larry?” Mom asked, crossing the drive, 
standing right behind me. 

I nodded and reached for the coin again. “Yeah. It’s Lily’s gold coin, 
Mom.” 

“It must be some other gold coin,” Mom suggested. “I’m sure it isn’t 
the same coin.” 

Mom must be right, I decided. 

I let go of the coin and raised my hand to pet the dog’s head. 

But my hand stopped in midair when I saw the dog’s eyes. 

She had one blue eye and one green eye. 

22 

“It’s Lily! It’s Lily!” I shrieked, jumping to my feet. 

My shouts frightened the dog. She uttered a shrill yip, turned, and 
bolted from the front yard. 

“Lily—come back!” I called after her. “Come back! Lily!” 

“Larry—wait!” Mom cried. “Please—!” 

I didn’t hear the rest of what she said. Jumping over my backpack, I 
darted toward the street. I hurtled across without slowing to look for cars— 
and kept running toward Lily’s house. 

It is Lily! I told myself. That dog has a green eye and a blue eye. And 
it’s wearing Lily’s coin! 

It is Lily! I know it! 

I could hear my mom calling for me to come back. But I ignored her 
and kept running. 

Lily’s house was three blocks away. I ran at full speed the whole way. 
By the time her house came into view, I was gasping for breath, and I had a 
sharp pain in my side. 

But I didn’t care. 

I had to see Lily. I had to know for sure that the dog wasn’t Lily. 

Such a crazy thought! As I crossed the street, I started to realize how 
crazy it was. 

Lily, a dog? 

Larry, are you totally losing it? I asked myself. Mom must think I’m 
totally wacko! I realized. 

Lily, a dog? 

I slowed down, rubbing the pain at my side, trying to massage it away. 

I spotted Lily’s parents in the driveway. The trunk of their blue Chevy 
was open. Mr. Vonn was lifting a suitcase into it. 

“Hi!” I called breathlessly. “Hey—hi!” 

“Hello, Larry,” Mrs. Vonn said as I stepped up to the car. I saw two 
other suitcases and some smaller bags waiting to be loaded into the car. 

“Going on a trip?” I asked, struggling to catch my breath. The pain in 
my side kept throbbing, refusing to go away. 

They didn’t answer. Mr. Vonn groaned as he hoisted a heavy suitcase 
into the trunk. 

“Where’s Lily?” I asked. I handed him one of the smaller bags. “She 
wasn’t in school today.” 

“We’re going away,” Mrs. Vonn said quietly from behind me. 

“Well, where’s Lily?” I repeated. “Is she inside?” 

Mr. Vonn frowned, but didn’t reply. 

I turned to Lily’s mom. “Can I see her?” I asked impatiently. “Is Lily 
inside?” 

“You must have the wrong house,” she replied softly. 

My mouth dropped open. “Wrong house? Mrs. Vonn—what do you 
mean?” 

“There’s no one here named Lily,” she said. 

23 

For some reason, I burst out laughing. 

Startled laughter. Frightened laughter. 

Mrs. Vonn’s sad expression cut my laughter short—and sent a chill 
down my back. 

“Is Lily—?” I started to say. 

Mrs. Vonn grabbed my shoulder and squeezed it. She lowered her face 
close to mine. “Listen to what I’m telling you, Larry,” she said through 
gritted teeth. 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“There is no Lily,” she repeated, squeezing my shoulder hard. “Just 
forget about her.” She had tears in her eyes. 

Mr. Vonn slammed the car trunk. I jumped out of Mrs. Vonn’s grasp, 
my heart pounding. 

“You’d better go,” Mr. Vonn said firmly, coming over to join his wife. 

I took a step back. My legs felt weak and shaky. 

“But, Lily—” I started. 

“You’d better go,” Mr. Vonn repeated. 

At the side of the garage, I spotted the red-brown dog. She whimpered 
sadly, her head hung low. 

I whirled around and ran, as fast as I could. 

Mom and Dad acted so strange at dinner. They refused to discuss Lily or 
the dog or Lily’s parents. 

Mom and Dad kept glancing at each other, giving each other 
meaningful looks that I wasn’t supposed to see. 

They think I’m crazy! I realized. That’s why they’re refusing to talk 
about it. They think I’m losing my mind. They don’t want to say anything 
to me until they decide how they’re going to handle me. 

“I’m not crazy!” I shouted suddenly, dropping my fork and knife onto 
the table. I hadn’t touched my spaghetti and meatballs. 

How could I eat? 

“I’m not crazy! I’m not making this up!” 

“Can’t we talk about it another time?” Mom pleaded, glancing at Dad. 

“Let’s just finish our dinner,” Dad added, keeping his eyes on his plate. 

After dinner, I called Jared and Kristina over to give them the bad 
news. I didn’t want them to think that I was crazy. So I simply told them 
that Lily had gone away. 

“But what about tomorrow?” Jared cried. 

“Yeah. What about the Battle of the Bands?” Kristina demanded. 
“How could Lily leave on the day before the contest?” 

I shrugged. We were sitting in the living room. Kristina and I sat on 
opposite ends of the couch. Jared was sprawled in the chair across from me. 

Jasper brushed over my feet. I leaned down and lifted her into my lap. 
Her yellow eyes stared up at me. Then she closed them and settled against 
me, purring softly. 

“Where did Lily go?” Kristina asked angrily, drumming her fingers on 
the couch arm. “On vacation? Why didn’t she tell us she was going to miss 
the contest?” 

“Howie Hurwin will jump for joy when he hears this news,” Jared 
muttered glumly, shaking his head. 

“I don’t know where Lily went,” I told them. “I saw her parents 
loading suitcases into the car. Now they’re gone. That’s all I know. I’m sure 
Lily is very unhappy. I know Lily wanted to be with us. I don’t think she 
had a choice.” 

I had a sudden urge to tell them everything that had happened. But I 
didn’t want them to start laughing at me. Or worrying about me. 

I felt so mixed up. I didn’t know what I wanted to do. 

I wanted Lily back. And Manny. That I knew. 

And I wanted the ugly hair to stop sprouting all over my body. 

If only I had never found that bottle of INSTA-TAN. 

This was all my fault. All of it. 

“So I guess The Geeks have to pull out of the band contest tomorrow,” 
I said glumly. 

“I guess,” Jared repeated, shaking his head. 

“No way!” Kristina cried, surprising both of us. She jumped to her feet 
and stood between Jared and me. She balled both hands into fists. “No 
way!” she repeated. 

“But we don’t have a singer—” Jared protested. 

“I can sing,” Kristina replied quickly. “I’m a pretty good singer.” 

“But you haven’t rehearsed any of the songs,” Jared said. “Do you 
know the words?” 

Kristina nodded. “All of them.” 

“But, Kristina—” I started. 

“Listen, guys,” she said sharply, “we have to go onstage tomorrow. 
Even if it’s just the three of us. We can’t let Howie Hurwin win tomorrow— 
can we?” 

“I’d like to wipe that grin off Howie’s face,” I muttered. 

“Me, too,” Jared agreed. “But how can we? Two guitars and a 
keyboard? Howie has his full band. He’ll blast us out of the auditorium.” 

“Not if we play our hearts out!” Kristina exclaimed with emotion. 
“Not if we give it our best.” 

“Let’s do it for Lily!” I blurted out. The words just tumbled from my 
mouth. As soon as I said it, I felt embarrassed. 

But Kristina and Jared picked right up on it. “Let’s do it for Lily!” they 
both cried. “We can win! We really can! Let’s win it for Lily!” 

So it was decided. The Geeks would go onstage tomorrow afternoon. 
Could we win? Could we beat Howie and the Shouters? 

Probably not. 

But we’d give it our best shot. 

“Let’s go up to my room and practice a little,” I suggested. 

Jared started toward the stairs. But Kristina didn’t move. 

I turned and found her staring at my face in horror. 

“Larry—!” she cried, pointing. “What’s that on your forehead?” 

24 

I gasped in horror. 

My hand shot up to my forehead. 

The ugly black hair—it had grown back, I knew. And now Kristina 
and Jared were both staring at it. They both saw it—saw that I was 
becoming some kind of hairy monster. 

I rubbed my forehead with a trembling hand. 

Smooth. 

My forehead was smooth! 

“It’s right there.” Kristina pointed. 

I hurried over to the hallway mirror and gazed up at my forehead. I 
discovered an orange smear near my right temple. 

“It’s spaghetti sauce,” I moaned. “I must have rubbed my face during 
dinner.” 

I rubbed off the orange spot. My entire body was shaking. Kristina had 
scared me to death! Over a dumb spot of spaghetti sauce! 

“Larry, are you okay?” she asked, standing behind me and staring at 
my reflection in the mirror. “You look kind of weird.” 

“I’m okay,” I replied quickly, trying to force my body to stop shaking 
and quaking. 

“Hey—don’t get sick,” Jared warned. “Kristina and I can’t go on the 
stage by ourselves tomorrow.” 

“I’ll be there,” I told them. “Don’t worry, guys. I’ll be there.” 

The next afternoon, the whole school jammed into the auditorium to watch 
the Battle of the Bands. 

Feeling really nervous, I stood backstage and peeked out through the 
curtain. The lights in the auditorium were all on, and Mr. Fosburg, the 
principal, stood in front of the curtain, both arms raised, trying to get 
everyone quiet. 

Behind me, Howie Hurwin and his band were tuning up, adjusting the 
amps, making sure the sound was right. Marissa was wearing a very short, 
sparkly red dress over black tights. She caught me staring at her and flashed 

me a smug smile. 

The Geeks should have dressed up, I realized, watching Marissa. We 
didn’t even think of it. The three of us were wearing T-shirts and jeans, our 
normal school clothes. 

I turned and gazed at Howie’s new synthesizer keyboard. It was about 
a mile long, and it had a thousand buttons and dials on it. It made Jared’s 
keyboard look like a baby toy. 

Howie caught me staring at it. “Cool, huh?” he called, grinning that 
gruesome grin of his. “Hey, Larry—after we win the contest, you can have 
my autograph!” 

Howie laughed. So did Marissa and the rest of the Shouters. 

I turned and slumped away to join Jared and Kristina at the side of the 
stage. “We’re total losers,” I moaned, shaking my head. 

“Good attitude, Larry,” Jared replied sarcastically. 

“Maybe Howie’s giant keyboard will blow out all the fuses,” I said 
glumly. “That’s our only chance.” 

Kristina rolled her eyes. “They can’t be that good,” she muttered. 

But they were. 

The auditorium lights darkened. The curtain slid open. Howie and the 
Shouters stepped into the red-and-blue stage lights. And began blasting out 
the old Chuck Berry rock-and-roll song “Johnny B. Goode.” 

They sounded great. And they looked great. 

Marissa’s dress sparkled in the light. They had worked out dance 
moves, and they all danced and moved as they played. 

We should have thought of that, I told myself glumly, watching from 
the side of the stage. When we play, the three of us just stand around—like 
geeks ! 

The kids in the auditorium went crazy. They all jumped to their feet 
and began clapping along, moving and dancing. 

They stayed on their feet for all four of the Shouters’ songs. Each song 
came louder and faster than the last. The old auditorium rocked and shook 
so hard, I thought the floor might cave in! 

Then, as Howie and Marissa and the others took their bows, the 
auditorium erupted in wild cheers and shouts of, “More! Moooore! 
Mooooore!” 

So Howie and the Shouters did two more songs. 

Jared, Kristina, and I kept casting tense glances at each other as they 
played. This wasn’t doing a whole lot for our confidence! 

Finally, Howie and Marissa took several more bows and ran off the 
stage, waving their fists high above their heads in triumph. 

“Your turn!” Howie called to me as he ran past. He grinned. “Hey, 
Larry—where’s the rest of your band?” 

I started to reply angrily. But Jared gave me a hard shove, and the three 
of us moved uncertainly onto the stage. 

I bent down and plugged my guitar into the amp. Jared worked quickly 
to adjust the sound level of his little keyboard. 

Howie’s giant keyboard had been pushed to the back of the stage. It 
seemed to stare at us, reminding us how good—and loud—the Shouters had 
sounded. 

Kristina stood tensely at the microphone, her arms crossed in front of 
her T-shirt. I played a few chords, testing the level of the amp. My hands 
felt cold and sweaty. They slipped over the strings. 

The audience was talking and laughing, restless, waiting for us to start. 

“Are we ready?” I whispered to Jared and Kristina. “Let’s do T Want 
to Hold Your Hand’ first. Then go into the Rolling Stones song.” 

They nodded. 

I took a deep breath and steadied my hands on my guitar. 

Jared leaned over the keyboard. Kristina uncrossed her arms and 
stepped to the microphone, jamming both hands into her jeans pockets. 

We started the Beatles song. 

Shaky at first. All three of us sang on this one. And the harmony was 
off. 

My guitar was too loud. It was drowning out our voices. I wanted to 
stop and turn it down. But of course I couldn’t. 

The audience sat quietly, listening. They didn’t jump to their feet and 
start dancing. 

They applauded loudly as we finished the song. But it was polite 
applause. No loud cheering. No real enthusiasm. 

At least we got through it! I told myself, wiping my sweaty hands on 
my jeans legs. 

I stepped forward as we started the Rolling Stones song. 

I had a really long guitar solo in this number. I was praying I didn’t 

mess up. 

I nodded to Jared and Kristina. Kristina grabbed the floor microphone 
with both hands, leaning close to it. Jared started the song on the keyboard. 

I started my solo. Badly. I messed up the first chords. 

My heart started to thump. My mouth was suddenly too dry to 
swallow. 

I closed my eyes and tried to shut out everything—to concentrate on 
my fingers, on the music. 

As I played, the audience started to cheer. A few shouts at first. Some 
scattered applause. 

But then the cheering grew louder and louder. 

Happily, I opened my eyes. Several kids were on their feet, shouting 
and laughing. 

I bent my knees and let my fingers move over the frets, the pick 
moving automatically now over the strings. 

I was starting to feel good—really good. 

The cheers grew louder. I realized that several kids were pointing at 
me. 

What’s going on? I wondered. 

And I suddenly knew that something was wrong. The cheers were too 
loud. The laughter was too loud. Too many kids were jumping up and 
pointing fingers at me. 

“Great special effects!” I heard a boy shout from the first row. 

“Yeah. Great special effects!” 

Huh? I thought. What special effects? 

It didn’t take me long to figure it out. 

As Kristina started to sing, I reached my hand up and rubbed it over 
my face. 

I cried out in horror as I felt the stiff, prickly hair. 

My face was covered in it. My chin, my cheeks, my forehead. 

The thick, black hair had sprouted over my entire face. 

And the whole school was staring at it, staring at me. 

The whole school knew my horrible, embarrassing secret. 

25 


“We won! We won!” I heard Jared and Kristina shouting gleefully behind 
me. 

But I set my guitar on the stage floor, turned away from them, and 
started to run. 

The kids in the auditorium were still shouting and cheering. 

We had won the contest because of my amazing hairy transformation. 
“Great special effects!” that kid had shouted. The “special effects” had won 
the day. 

But I wasn’t feeling like a winner. 

I felt like an ugly freak. 

The bushy hair had covered my face, then spread down to my neck and 
shoulders. Both hands were covered in bristly fur, and I could feel it 
growing up my arms. My back began to itch. Was it growing on my back, 
too? 

“Hey, Larry—Larry!” I heard Kristina and Jared calling. “The trophy! 
Come get your trophy!” 

But I was out the stage door, the wild cheers of the audience ringing in 
my ears. Out the back door of the school. Into a chilly, gray afternoon. Dark 
clouds low over the trees. 

Running now. Running blindly, my heart thudding. 

Running home. Covered in thick, black fur. 

Running in panic, in shame. In fear. 

The houses and trees passed in a gray blur. As I turned up my 
driveway, I saw Mom and Dad back by the garage. They both turned to me, 
surprise on their faces. 

“Look at me!” I shrieked. “Look!” My voice burst out, hoarse and 
terrified. “Now do you believe me?” 

They gaped at me, their mouths wide open in shock and horror. 

I held my hands up so they could see my arms. “Do you see my face?” 
I wailed. “See my arms? My hands?” 

They both gasped. Mom grabbed Dad’s arm. 

“Now do you believe me?” I cried. “Now do you believe that the 

INSTA-TAN lotion makes hair grow?” 

I stood staring at them, my chest heaving, panting loudly, tears in my 
eyes. I stood waiting, waiting for them to say something. 

Finally, Mom broke the silence. “Larry, it isn’t the tanning lotion,” she 
said softly, holding tightly onto Dad. “We tried to keep it from you. But we 
can’t any longer.” 

“Huh? Keep what from me?” I demanded. 

They exchanged glances. Mom let out a sob. Dad slipped his arm 
around her. 

“It isn’t the tanning lotion,” Dad said in a trembling voice. “Larry, you 
have to know the truth now. You’re growing all that hair because you’re not 
a human. You’re a dog.” 

26 

I bent down and lapped up some water from the plastic water bowl Mom 
and Dad put on the front stoop for me. It’s so hard to drink without 
splashing water all over my snout. 

Then I bounded down the steps on all fours and joined Lily over by the 
evergreen shrubs. We sniffed the shrubs for a while. Then we loped off to 
the next yard to see if there was anything interesting to sniff. 

It’s been two weeks since my human body vanished and I turned back 
into my real dog identity. Luckily, before I changed back, Mom and Dad— 
or, I should say, Mr. and Mrs. Boyd—were nice enough to explain to me 
what had happened. 

They work for Dr. Murkin, you see. In fact, everyone in town works 
for Dr. Murkin. The whole town is kind of an experimental testing lab. 

A few years ago, Dr. Murkin found a way to change dogs into children. 
He discovered a serum that made us dogs look and think and act like 
people. That’s what my shots were. He gave me fresh serum every two 
weeks. 

But after a while, the serum doesn’t work anymore. It wears off. And 
the children go back to being dogs. 

“Dr. Murkin has decided to stop testing the serum on dogs,” Mom told 
me. “It just doesn’t work. And it causes the families too much pain when 
the children turn back into dogs.” 

“He’s never going to work with dogs again,” Dad explained. “The 
serum just doesn’t last long enough with dogs. So, no more dogs.” 

It was nice of the Boyds to explain to me what had happened. I felt so 
grateful, I licked their hands. Then I ran off to find Lily and show her that I 
was a dog, too. 

Lily and I roam around together all the time. Sometimes Manny joins 
us. There are so many dogs roaming around in this town. I guess they all 
were human for a while. 

I’m glad Dr. Murkin isn’t using dogs for his tests anymore. Dogs 
should be dogs, in my humble opinion. 

Lily and I found some good dirt to sniff in the neighbors’ flower 

garden. There aren’t any flowers to dig up yet. But the dirt smells really 
great. 

Then I saw the Boyds’ car roll up the driveway. They’d been gone all 
afternoon. I went running up eagerly to the car, wagging my tail happily. 

I jumped up and barked out a greeting. 

To my surprise, Mrs. Boyd was carrying a baby. A tiny baby, tightly 
wrapped in pink blankets. 

She held the baby in both arms, and carried it carefully up the walk 
toward the house. Mr. Boyd had a big smile on his face as he caught up to 
her. 

“What a good little girl,” Mrs. Boyd cooed to the baby. “Yes, you are. 
You’re a good little girl. Welcome to your new home, Jasper.” 

Huh? I thought. Isn’t Jasper a funny name for a little girl? 

Then I stared up at the baby and saw her bright yellow eyes. 

A NIGHT IN  TERROR TOWER 

1 

“I’m scared,” Eddie said. 

I shivered and zipped my coat up to my chin. “Eddie, this was your idea,” I 
told my brother. “I didn’t beg and plead to see the Terror Tower. You did.” 

He raised his brown eyes to the tower. A strong gust of wind fluttered his 
dark brown hair. “I have a strange feeling about it, Sue. A bad feeling.” 

I made a disgusted face. “Eddie, you are such a wimp! You have a bad 
feeling about going to the movies!” 

“Only scary movies,” he mumbled. 

“You’re ten years old,” I said sharply. “It’s time to stop being scared of your 
own shadow. It’s just an old castle with a tower,” I said, gesturing toward it. 
“Hundreds of tourists come here every day.” 

“But they used to torture people here,” Eddie said, suddenly looking very 
pale. “They used to lock people in the Tower and let them starve to death.” 

“Hundreds of years ago,” I told him. “They don’t torture people here 
anymore, Eddie. Now they just sell postcards.” 

We both gazed up at the gloomy old castle built of gray stones, darkened 
over time. Its two narrow towers rose up like two stiff arms at its sides. 

Storm clouds hovered low over the dark towers. The bent old trees in the 
courtyard shivered in the wind. It didn’t feel like spring. The air was heavy and 
cold. I felt a raindrop on my forehead. Then another on my cheek. 

A perfect London day, I thought. A perfect day to visit the famous Terror 
Tower. 

This was our first day in England, and Eddie and I had been sight-seeing all 
over London. Our parents had to be at a conference at our hotel. So they signed 
us up with a tour group, and off we went. 

We toured the British Museum, walked through Harrods department store, 
visited Westminster Abbey and Trafalgar Square. 

For lunch, we had bangers and mash (sausages and mashed potatoes) at a 
real English pub. Then the tour group took a great bus ride, sitting on top of a 
bright red double-decker bus. 

London was just as I had imagined it. Big and crowded. Narrow streets 
lined with little shops and jammed with those old-fashioned-looking black taxis. 

The sidewalks were filled with people from all over the world. 

Of course my scaredy-cat brother was totally nervous about traveling 
around a strange city on our own. But I’m twelve and a lot less wimpy than he 
is. And I managed to keep him pretty calm. 

I was totally surprised when Eddie begged to visit the Terror Tower. 

Mr. Starkes, our bald, red-faced tour guide, gathered the group together on 
the sidewalk. There were about twelve of us, mostly old people. Eddie and I 
were the only kids. 

Mr. Starkes gave us a choice. Another museum—or the Tower. 

“The Tower! The Tower!” Eddie pleaded. “I’ve got to see the Terror 
Tower!” 

We took a long bus ride to the outskirts of the city. The shops gave way to 
rows of tiny redbrick houses. Then we passed even older houses, hidden behind 
stooped trees and low, ivy-covered walls. 

When the bus pulled to a stop, we climbed out and followed a narrow street 
made of bricks, worn smooth over the centuries. The street ended at a high wall. 
Behind the wall, the Terror Tower rose up darkly. 

“Hurry, Sue!” Eddie tugged my sleeve. “We’ll lose the group!” 

“They’ll wait for us,” I told my brother. “Stop worrying, Eddie. We won’t 
get lost.” 

We jogged over the old bricks and caught up with the others. Wrapping his 
long, black overcoat around him, Mr. Starkes led the way through the entrance. 

He stopped and pointed at a pile of gray stones in the large, grass-covered 
courtyard. “That wall was the original castle wall,” he explained. “It was built by 
the Romans in about the year 400. London was a Roman city then.” 

Only a small section of the wall still stood. The rest had crumbled or fallen. 
I couldn’t believe I was staring at a wall that was over fifteen hundred years old! 

We followed Mr. Starkes along the path that led to the castle and its towers. 
“This was built by the Romans to be a walled fort,” the tour guide told us. “After 
the Romans left, it became a prison. That started many years of cruelty and 
torture within these walls.” 

I pulled my little camera from my coat pocket and took a picture of the 
Roman wall. Then I turned and snapped a few pictures of the castle. The sky had 
darkened even more. I hoped the pictures would come out. 

“This was London’s first debtor prison,” Mr. Starkes explained as he led the 
way. “If you were too poor to pay your bills, you were sent to prison. Which 

meant that you could never pay your bills! So you stayed in prison forever.” 

We passed a small guardhouse. It was about the size of a phone booth, 
made of white stones, with a slanted roof. I thought it was empty. But to my 
surprise, a gray-uniformed guard stepped out of it, a rifle perched stiffly on his 
shoulder. 

I turned back and gazed at the dark wall that surrounded the castle grounds. 
“Look, Eddie,” I whispered. “You can’t see any of the city outside the wall. It’s 
as if we really stepped back in time.” 

He shivered. I don’t know if it was because of my words or because of the 
sharp wind that blew through the old courtyard. 

The castle cast a deep shadow over the path. Mr. Starkes led us up to a 
narrow entrance at the side. Then he stopped and turned back to the group. 

I was startled by the tense, sorrowful expression on his face. “I am so sorry 
to give you this bad news,” he said, his eyes moving slowly from one of us to the 
next. 

“Huh? Bad news?” Eddie whispered, moving closer to me. 

“You will all be imprisoned in the north tower,” Mr. Starkes announced 
sternly. “There you will be tortured until you tell us the real reason why you 
chose to come here.” 

2 

Eddie let out a startled cry. Other members of the tour group uttered shocked 
gasps. 

Mr. Starkes began to chuckle as a grin spread over his round, red face. “Just 
a little Terror Tower joke,” he said brightly. “Eve got to have some fun, you 
know.” 

We all laughed, too. Except Eddie. He still seemed shaken. “That guy is 
crazy!” Eddie whispered. 

Actually, Mr. Starkes was a very good tour guide. Very cheerful and 
helpful, and he seemed to know everything about London. My only problem was 
that sometimes I had trouble understanding his British accent. 

“As you can see, the castle consists of several buildings,” Mr. Starkes 
explained, turning serious. “That long, low building over there served as a 
barracks for the soldiers.” He pointed across the broad lawn. 

I snapped a picture of the old barracks. It looked like a long, low hut. Then 
I turned and snapped a picture of the gray-uniformed guard standing at attention 
in front of the small guardhouse. 

I heard several gasps of surprise behind me. Turning back, I saw a large 
hooded man creep out of the entrance and sneak up behind Mr. Starkes. He wore 
an ancient-looking green tunic and carried an enormous battle-axe. 

An executioner! 

He raised the battle-axe behind Mr. Starkes. 

“Does anyone here need a very fast haircut?” Mr. Starkes asked casually, 
without turning around. “This is the castle barber!” 

We all laughed. The man in the green executioner’s costume took a quick 
bow, then disappeared back into the building. 

“This is fun,” Eddie whispered. But I noticed he was clinging very close to 
me. 

“We are going to enter the torture chamber first,” Mr. Starkes announced. 
“Please stick together.” He raised a red pennant on a long stick. “I’ll carry this 
high so you can find me easily. It’s so easy to get lost inside. There are hundreds 
of chambers and secret passages.” 

“Wow. Cool!” I exclaimed. 

Eddie glanced at me doubtfully. 

“You’re not too scared to go into the torture chamber, are you?” I asked 

him. 

“Who? Me?” he replied shakily. 

“You will see some very unusual torture devices,” Mr. Starkes continued. 
“The wardens had many ways to inflict pain on their poor prisoners. We 
recommend that you do not try them at home.” 

A few people laughed. I couldn’t wait to get inside. 

“I ask you again to stick together,” Mr. Starkes urged as the group began to 
file through the narrow doorway into the castle. “My last tour group was lost 
forever in there. Most of them are still wandering the dark chambers. My boss 
really scolded me when I got back to the office!” 

I laughed at his lame joke. He had probably told it a thousand times. 

At the entrance, I raised my eyes to the top of the dark tower. It was solid 
stone. No windows except for a tiny square one near the very top. 

People were actually imprisoned here, I thought. Real people. Hundreds of 
years ago. I suddenly wondered if the castle was haunted. 

I tried to read the serious expression on my brother’s face. I wondered if 
Eddie was having the same chilling thoughts. 

We stepped up to the dark entranceway. “Turn around, Eddie,” I said. I took 
a step back and pulled my camera from my coat pocket. 

“Let’s go in,” Eddie pleaded. “The others are getting ahead of us.” 

“I just want to take your picture at the castle entrance,” I said. 

I raised the camera to my eye. Eddie made a dumb face. I pressed the 
shutter release and snapped the picture. 

I had no way of knowing that it was the last picture I would ever take of 
Eddie. 

3 

Mr. Starkes led the way down a narrow stairway. Our sneakers squeaked on the 
stone floor as we stepped into a large, dimly lit chamber. 

I took a deep breath and waited for my eyes to adjust to the darkness. The 
air smelled old and dusty. 

It was surprisingly warm inside. I unzipped my coat and pulled my long 
brown hair out from under the collar. 

I could see several display cases against the wall. Mr. Starkes led the way to 
a large wooden structure in the center of the room. The group huddled closely 
around him. 

“This is the Rack,” he proclaimed, waving his red pennant at it. 

“Wow. It’s real!” I whispered to Eddie. I’d seen big torture devices like this 
in movies and comic books. But I never thought they really existed. 

“The prisoner was forced to lie down here,” Mr. Starkes continued. “His 
arms and legs were strapped down. When that big wheel was turned, the ropes 
pulled his arms and legs, stretching them tight.” He pointed to the big wooden 
wheel. 

“Turn the wheel more, and the ropes pulled tighter,” Mr. Starkes said, his 
eyes twinkling merrily. “Sometimes the wheel was turned and the prisoner was 
stretched and stretched—until his bones were pulled right out of their sockets.” 

He chuckled. “I believe that is what is called doing a long stretch in 
prison!” 

Some of the group members laughed at Mr. Starkes’ joke. But Eddie and I 
exchanged solemn glances. 

Staring at the long wooden contraption with its thick ropes and straps, I 
pictured someone lying there. I imagined the creak of the wheel turning. And the 
ropes pulling tighter and tighter. 

Glancing up, my eye caught a dark figure standing on the other side of the 
Rack. He was very tall and very broad. Dressed in a long black cape, he had 
pulled a wide-brimmed hat down over his forehead, hiding most of his face in 
shadow. 

His eyes glowed darkly out from the shadow. 

Was he staring at me? 

I poked Eddie. “See that man over there? The one in black?” I whispered. 
“Is he in our group?” 

Eddie shook his head. “Eve never seen him before,” he whispered back. 
“He’s weird! Why is he staring at us like that?” 

The big man pulled the hat lower. His eyes disappeared beneath the wide 
brim. His black cape swirled as he stepped back into the shadows. 

Mr. Starkes continued to talk about the Rack. He asked if there were any 
volunteers to try it out. Everyone laughed. 

I’ve got to get a picture of this thing, I decided. My friends will really think 
it’s cool. 

I reached into my coat pocket for my camera. 

“Hey—!” I cried out in surprise. 

I searched the other pocket. Then I searched my jeans pockets. 

“I don’t believe this!” I cried. 

The camera was gone. 

4 

“Eddie—my camera!” I exclaimed. “Did you see—?” 

I stopped when I saw the mischievous grin on my brother’s face. 

He held up his hand—with my camera in it—and his grin grew wider. “The 
Mad Pickpocket strikes again!” he declared. 

“You took it from my pocket?” I wailed. I gave him a hard shove that sent 
him stumbling into the Rack. 

He burst out laughing. Eddie thinks he’s the world’s greatest pickpocket. 
That’s his hobby. Really. He practices all the time. 

“Fastest hands on Earth!” he bragged, waving the camera at me. 

I grabbed it away from him. “You’re obnoxious,” I told him. 

I don’t know why he enjoys being a thief so much. But he really is good at 
it. When he slid that camera from my coat pocket, I didn’t feel a thing. 

I started to tell him to keep his hands off my camera. But Mr. Starkes 
motioned for the group to follow him into the next room. 

As Eddie and I hurried to keep up, I glimpsed at the man in the black cape. 
He was lumbering up behind us, his face still hidden under the wide brim of his 
hat. 

I felt a stab of fear in my chest. Was the strange man watching Eddie and 
me? Why? 

No. He was probably just another tourist visiting the Tower. So why did I 
have the frightening feeling he was following us? 

I kept glancing back at him as Eddie and I studied the displays of torture 
devices in the next room. The man didn’t seem interested in the displays at all. 
He kept near the wall, his black cape fading into the deep shadows, his eyes 
straight ahead—on us! 

“Look at these!” Eddie urged, pushing me toward a display shelf. “What are 
these?” 

“Thumbscrews,” Mr. Starkes replied, stepping up behind us. He picked one 
up. “It looks like a ring,” he explained. “See? It slides down over your thumb 
like this.” 

He slid the wide metal ring over his thumb. Then he raised his hand so we 
could see clearly. “There is a screw in the side of the ring. Turn the screw, and it 

digs its way into your thumb. Keep turning it, and it digs deeper and deeper.” 
“Ouch!” I declared. 

“Very nasty,” Mr. Starkes agreed, setting the thumbscrew back on the 
display shelf. “This is a whole room of very nasty items.” 

“I can’t believe people were actually tortured with this stuff,” Eddie 
murmured. His voice trembled. He really didn’t like scary things—especially 
when they were real. 

“Wish I had a pair of these to use on you!” I teased. Eddie is such a wimp. 
Sometimes I can’t help myself. I have to give him a hard time. 

I reached behind the rope barrier and picked up a pair of metal handcuffs. 
They were heavier than I imagined. And they had a jagged row of metal spikes 
all around on the inside. 

“Sue—put those down!” Eddie whispered frantically. 

I slipped one around my wrist. “See, Eddie, when you clamp it shut, the 
jagged spikes cut into your wrist,” I told him. 

I let out a startled gasp as the heavy metal cuff clicked shut. 

“Ow!” I screamed, tugging frantically at it. “Eddie—help! I can’t get it off! 
It’s cutting me! It’s cutting me!” 

5 

“Ohhhh.” A horrified moan escaped Eddie’s throat as he gaped at the cuff around 
my wrist. His mouth dropped open, and his chin started to quiver. 

“Help me!” I wailed, thrashing my arm frantically, tugging at the chain. 
“Get me out of this!” 

Eddie turned as white as a ghost. 

I couldn’t keep a straight face any longer. I started to laugh. And I slid the 
handcuff off my wrist. 

“Gotcha back!” I jeered. “That’s for stealing my camera. Now we’re even!” 

“I—I—I—” Eddie sputtered. His dark eyes glowered at me angrily. “I 
really thought you were hurt,” he muttered. “Don’t do that again, Sue. I mean it.” 

I stuck my tongue out at him. I know it wasn’t very mature. My brother 
doesn’t always bring out the best in me. 

“Follow me, please!” Mr. Starkes’ voice echoed off the stone walls. Eddie 
and I moved closer as our tour group huddled around Mr. Starkes. 

“We’re going to climb the stairs to the north tower now,” the tour guide 
announced. “As you will see, the stairs are quite narrow and steep. So we will 
have to go single file. Please watch your step.” 

Mr. Starkes ducked his bald head as he led the way through a low, narrow 
doorway. Eddie and I were at the end of the line. 

The stone stairs twisted up the Tower like a corkscrew. There was no 
handrailing. And the stairs were so steep and so twisty, I had to hold on to the 
wall to keep my balance as I climbed. 

The air grew warmer as we made our way higher. So many feet had 
climbed these ancient stones, the stairs were worn smooth, the edges round. 

I tried to imagine prisoners being marched up these stairs to the Tower. 
Their legs must have trembled with fear. 

Up ahead, Eddie made his way slowly, peering up at the soot-covered stone 
walls. “It’s too dark,” he complained, turning back to me. “Hurry up, Sue. Don’t 
get too far behind.” 

My coat brushed against the stone wall as I climbed. I’m pretty skinny, but 
the stairway was so narrow, I kept bumping the sides. 

After climbing for what seemed like hours, we stopped on a landing. 

Straight ahead of us was a small dark cell behind metal bars. 

“This is a cell in which political prisoners were held,” Mr. Starkes told us. 
“Enemies of the king were brought here. You can see it was not the most 
comfortable place in the world.” 

Moving closer, I saw that the cell contained only a small stone bench and a 
wooden writing table. 

“What happened to these prisoners?” a white-haired woman asked Mr. 
Starkes. “Did they stay in this cell for years and years?” 

“No,” Mr. Starkes replied, rubbing his chin. “Most of them were beheaded.” 

I felt a chill at the back of my neck. I stepped up to the bars and peered into 
the small cell. 

Real people stood inside this cell, I thought. Real people held on to these 
bars and stared out. Sat at that little writing table. Paced back and forth in that 
narrow space. Waiting to meet their fate. 

Swallowing hard, I glanced at my brother. I could see that he was just as 
horrified as I was. 

“We have not reached the top of the Tower yet,” Mr. Starkes announced. 
“Let us continue our climb.” 

The stone steps became steeper as we made our way up the curving 
stairway. I trailed my hand along the wall as I followed Eddie up to the top. 

And as I climbed, I suddenly had the strangest feeling—that I had been here 
before. That I had followed the twisting stairs. That I had climbed to the top of 
this ancient tower before. 

Of course, that was impossible. 

Eddie and I had never been to England before in our lives. 

The feeling stayed with me as our tour group crowded into the tiny chamber 
at the top. Had I seen this tower in a movie? Had I seen pictures of it in a 
magazine? 

Why did it look so familiar to me? 

I shook my head hard, as if trying to shake away the strange, troubling 
thoughts. Then I stepped up beside Eddie and gazed around the tiny room. 

A small round window high above our heads allowed a wash of gloomy 
gray light to filter down over us. The rounded walls were bare, lined with cracks 
and dark stains. The ceiling was low, so low that Mr. Starkes and some of the 
other adults had to duck their heads. 

“Perhaps you can feel the sadness in this room,” Mr. Starkes said softly. 

We all huddled closer to hear him better. Eddie stared up at the window, his 
expression solemn. 

“This is the tower room where a young prince and princess were brought,” 
Mr. Starkes continued, speaking solemnly. “It was the early fifteenth century. 
The prince and princess—Edward and Susannah of York—were locked in this 
tiny tower cell.” 

He waved the red pennant in a circle. We all followed it, gazing around the 
small, cold room. “Imagine. Two children. Grabbed away from their home. 
Locked away in the drab chill of this cell in the top of a tower.” Mr. Starkes’ 
voice remained just above a whisper. 

I suddenly felt cold. I zipped my coat back up. Eddie had his hands shoved 
deep in his jeans pockets. His eyes grew wide with fear as he gazed around the 
tiny, dark room. 

“The prince and princess weren’t up here for long,” Mr. Starkes continued, 
lowering the pennant to his side. “That night while they slept, the Lord High 
Executioner and his men crept up the stairs. Their orders were to smother the 
two children. To keep the prince and princess from ever taking the throne.” 

Mr. Starkes shut his eyes and bowed his head. The silence in the room 
seemed to grow heavy. 

No one moved. No one spoke. 

The only sound was the whisper of wind through the tiny window above 
our heads. 

I shut my eyes, too. I tried to picture a boy and a girl. Frightened and alone. 
Trying to sleep in this cold, stone room. 

The door bursts open. Strange men break in. They don’t say a word. They 
msh to smother the boy and girl. 

Right in this room. 

Right where I am standing now, I thought. 

I opened my eyes. Eddie was gazing at me, his expression troubled. “This 
is... really scary,” he whispered. 

“Yeah,” I agreed. Mr. Starkes started to tell us more. 

But the camera fell out of my hand. It clattered noisily on the stone floor. I 
bent to pick it up. “Oh, look, Eddie—the lens broke!” I cried. 

“Ssshhh! I missed what Mr. Starkes said about the prince and princess!” 
Eddie protested. 

“But my camera—!” I shook it. I don’t know why. It’s not like shaking it 

would help fix the lens. 

“What did he say? Did you hear?” Eddie demanded. 

I shook my head. “Sorry. I missed it.” 

We walked over to a low cot against the wall. A three-legged wooden stool 
stood beside it. The only furniture in the chamber. 

Did the prince and princess sit here? I wondered. 

Did they stand on the bed and try to see out the window? 

What did they talk about? Did they wonder what was going to happen to 
them? Did they talk about the fun things they would do when they were freed? 
When they returned home? 

It was all so sad, so horribly sad. 

I stepped up to the cot and rested my hand on it. It felt hard. 

Black markings on the wall caught my eye. Writing? 

Had the prince or the princess left a message on the wall? 

I leaned over the cot and squinted at the markings. 

No. No message. Just cracks in the stone. 

“Sue—come on,” Eddie urged. He tugged my arm. 

“Okay, okay,” I replied impatiently. I ran my hand over the cot again. It felt 
so lumpy and hard, so uncomfortable. 

I gazed up at the window. The gray light had darkened to black. Dark as 
night out there. 

The stone walls suddenly seemed to close in on me. I felt as if I were in a 
dark closet, a cold, frightening closet. I imagined the walls squeezing in, choking 
me, smothering me. 

Is that how the prince and princess felt? 

Was I feeling the same fear they had known over five hundred years ago? 

With a heavy sigh, I let go of the cot and turned to Eddie. “Let’s get out of 
here,” I said in a trembling voice. “This room is just too frightening, too sad.” 

We turned away from the cot, took a few steps toward the stairs—and 
stopped. 

“Hey—!” We both cried out in surprise. 

Mr. Starkes and the tour group had disappeared. 

6 

“Where did they go?” Eddie cried in a shrill, startled voice. “They left us here!” 

“They must be on their way back down the stairs,” I told him. I gave him a 
gentle push. “Let’s go.” 

Eddie lingered close to me. “You go first,” he insisted quietly. 

“You’re not scared—are you?” I teased. “All alone in the Terror Tower?” 

I don’t know why I enjoy teasing my little brother so much. I knew he was 
scared. I was a little scared, too. But I couldn’t help it. 

As I said, Eddie doesn’t always bring out the best in me. 

I led the way to the twisting stairs. As I peered down, they seemed even 
darker and steeper. 

“Why didn’t we hear them leave?” Eddie demanded. “Why did they leave 
so fast?” 

“It’s late,” I told him. “I think Mr. Starkes was eager to get everyone on the 
bus and back to their hotels. The Tower closes at five, I think.” I glanced at my 
watch. It was five-twenty. 

“Hurry,” Eddie pleaded. “I don’t want to be locked in. This place gives me 
the creeps.” 

“Me, too,” I confessed. 

Squinting into the darkness, I started down the steps. My sneakers slid on 
the smooth stone. Once again, I pressed one hand against the wall. It helped me 
keep my balance on the curving stairs. 

“Where are they?” Eddie demanded nervously. “Why can’t we hear the 
others on the stairs?” 

The air grew cooler as we climbed lower. A pale yellow light washed over 
the landing just below us. 

My hand swept through something soft and sticky. Cobwebs. 

Yuck. 

I could hear Eddie’s rapid breathing behind me. “The bus will wait for us,” 
I told him. “Just stay calm. Mr. Starkes won’t drive off without us.” 

“Is anybody down there?” Eddie screamed. “Can anybody hear me?” 

His shrill voice echoed down the narrow stone stairwell. 

No reply. 

“Where are the guards?” Eddie demanded. 

“Eddie—please don’t get worked up,” I pleaded. “It’s late. The guards are 
probably closing up. Mr. Starkes will be waiting for us down there. I promise 
you.” 

We stepped into the pale light of the landing. 

The small cell we had seen before stood against the wall. 

“Don’t stop,” Eddie pleaded, breathing hard. “Keep going, Sue. Hurry!” 

I put my hand on his shoulder to calm him. “Eddie, we’ll be fine,” I said 
soothingly. “We’re almost down to the ground.” 

“But, look—” Eddie protested. He pointed frantically. 

I saw at once what was troubling him. There were two stairways leading 
down—one to the left of the cell, and one to the right. 

“That’s strange,” I uttered, glancing from one to the other. “I don’t 
remember a second stairway.” 

“Wh-which one is the right one?” he stammered. 

I hesitated. “I’m not sure,” I replied. I stepped over to the one on the right 
and peered down. I couldn’t see very far because it curved so sharply. 

“Which one? Which one?” Eddie repeated. 

“I don’t think it matters,” I told him. “I mean, they both lead down —right?” 

I motioned for him to follow me. “Come on. I think this is the one we took 
when we were climbing up.” 

I took one step down. 

Then stopped. 

I heard footsteps. Heavy footsteps. Coming up the stairs. 

Eddie grabbed my hand. “Who’s that?” he whispered. 

“Probably Mr. Starkes,” I told him. “He must be coming back up to get us.” 

Eddie breathed a long sigh of relief. 

“Mr. Starkes—is that you?” I called down. 

Silence. Except for the approaching footsteps. 

“Mr. Starkes?” I called in a tiny voice. 

When the dark figure appeared on the stairway below, I could see at once 
that it wasn’t our tour guide. 

“Oh!” I uttered a startled cry as the huge man in the black cape stepped into 

view. 

His face was still hidden in darkness. But his eyes glowed like burning 
coals as he glared up at Eddie and me from under the black, wide-brimmed hat. 

“Is—is this the way down?” I stammered. 

He didn’t reply. 

He didn’t move. His eyes burned into mine. 

I struggled to see his face. But he kept it hidden in the shadow of the hat, 
pulled low over his forehead. 

I took a deep breath and tried again. “We got separated from our group,” I 
said. “They must be waiting for us. Is—is this the way down?” 

Again, he didn’t reply. He glared up at us menacingly. 

He’s so big, I realized. He blocks the entire stairway. 

“Sir—?” I started. “My brother and I—” 

He raised a hand. A huge hand, covered in a black glove. 

He pointed up at us. 

“You will come with me now,” he growled. 

I just stared at him. I didn’t understand. 

“You will come now,” he repeated. “I do not want to hurt you. But if you 
try to escape, I will have no choice.” 

7 

Eddie let out a sharp gasp. 

My mouth dropped open as the man edged closer. 

And then I realized who he was. “You’re a guard here—right?” I asked. 

He didn’t reply. 

“You—you scared me,” I said, letting out a shrill laugh. “I mean, that 
costume and everything. You work here—right?” 

He stepped forward, bringing his black-gloved hands up in front of him, 
moving the fingers. 

“I’m sorry we’re here so late,” I continued. “We lost our group. I guess you 
want to close up so you can go home.” 

He took another step closer. His eyes flared darkly. “You know why I am 
here,” he snarled. 

“No. I don’t. I—” My words were cut off as he grabbed me by the shoulder. 

“Hey—let go of her!” Eddie cried. 

But the caped man grabbed my brother, too. 

His gloved fingers dug sharply into my shoulder. “Hey—!” I cried out in 

pain. 

He backed us against the cold stone wall. 

I caught a glimpse of his face, a hard, angry face. A long, sharp nose, thin 
lips twisted in a snarl. And the eyes. The cold, glowing eyes. 

“Let us go!” Eddie demanded bravely. 

“We have to meet our group!” I told the man shrilly. “We’re leaving now. 
You can’t keep us here!” 

He ignored our pleas. “Do not move,” he uttered in a low growl. “Stand 
there. Do not try to escape.” 

“Listen, sir—if we’ve done something wrong...” My voice trailed off. 

I watched him reach into the folds of his black cape. He struggled for a 
moment, then pulled something out. 

At first I thought they were rubber balls. Three of them. 

But as he clicked them together, I realized he was holding smooth, white 
stones. 

What is going on here? I asked myself. 

Is he crazy? 

Crazy and dangerous ? 

“Listen, sir—” Eddie started. “We have to go now.” 

“Don’t move!” the caped man screamed. He shoved his cape violently 
behind him. “Don’t move—and don’t make a sound. You have my final 
warning!” 

Eddie and I exchanged frightened glances. My back against the stone wall, I 
tried edging slowly toward the nearest stairway. 

Mumbling to himself, the man concentrated on the three smooth white 
stones. He piled one on top of the other. 

He let out an angry cry as one of the stones fell to the floor. It bounced once 
and slid across the smooth floor. 

This is our chance! I thought. 

I shoved Eddie toward the other stairwell. “Run!” I screamed. 

8 

“Do not move!” the man bellowed, grabbing up the stone. He had a booming 
voice that thundered off the stone walls. “I warned you. You cannot escape me!” 

My brother’s eyes were bugging out of his head. But he didn’t have to be 
told twice to run! 

“Stop!” the caped man bellowed. The booming voice followed us as we 
scrambled down, stumbling on the twisting, curving stairs, our hands trailing 
against the cold stone of the tower wall. 

Down, down. 

Turning so fast, my head spun. But I squinted into the dim light and forced 
myself not to be dizzy, not to fall, not to give in to the terror that rose up over 
me. 

My camera fell out of my coat pocket. It clattered down the stairs. I didn’t 
stop to pick it up. It was broken, anyway. 

“Keep going,” I urged Eddie. “Keep going! We’re almost out of here!” 

Or were we? 

The climb down seemed so much longer. 

Our sneakers slapped against the stone steps. But even louder were the 
heavy footsteps of the caped man behind us. His bellowed cries boomed down 
the narrow tower, echoed all around us—as if we were being chased by a 
hundred frightening men instead of one. 

Who is he? 

Why is he chasing us? 

Why is he so angry? 

The questions bounced through my mind as I scrambled frantically down, 
following the twisting stairs. 

No time for answers. 

The big, gray door rose up in front of us before we could stop. 

Eddie and I both ran right into it. 

“The exit! We—we’re here!” I stammered. I could hear the rumble of the 
man’s footsteps above us on the stairway. Coming closer. Closer. 

We’re out! I thought. We’re safe! 

Eddie shoved the door hard with his shoulder. Shoved it again. 

He turned to me, his chin quivering in fright. “It’s locked. We’re locked in!” 
“No!” I screamed. “Push!” 

We both lowered our shoulders and pushed with all our strength. 

No. 

The door didn’t budge. 

The man lumbered closer. So close, we could hear his muttered words. 
We’re trapped, I realized. 

He’s caught us. 

Why does he want us? What is he going to do? 

“One more try,” I managed to choke out. 

Eddie and I turned back to the door. 

“Stay there!” the caped man commanded. 

But Eddie and I gave the door one more desperate shove. 

And it finally moved, scraping the stone floor as it slid open partway. 

Eddie sucked in his breath and pushed through the opening first. Then I 
squeezed through. 

Panting hard, we shoved the door shut behind us. The door had a long metal 
bar on the outside. I slid it all the way, bolting it. Locking the caped man inside. 
“We’re safe!” I cried, spinning away from the door. 

But we weren’t outside. We were in a huge, dark room. 

And a cruel voice—in the room with us—a man’s voice, laughing softly— 
told me that we weren’t out of trouble. 

9 

The laughter rose up in front of us, making us both gasp. 

“You have entered the king’s dungeon. Abandon all hope,” the man 
declared. 

“Who—who are you?” I cried. 

But more laughter was the only reply. 

A single beam of pale green light from the low ceiling broke the darkness. 
Huddled close to Eddie, I squinted in the eerie glow, desperate to find a way to 
escape. 

“Over there! Look!” Eddie whispered, pointing. 

Across the room, I could see a barred cell against the wall. 

We crept forward a few steps. Then we saw it. 

A bony hand reaching out from between the bars. 

“No!” I gasped. 

Eddie and I jumped back. 

The pounding on the door behind us made us both jump again. “You cannot 
escape!” the caped man raged from the other side of the door. 

Eddie grabbed my hand as the man furiously pounded on the door. The 
sound boomed louder than thunder. 

Would the bolt hold? 

Ahead of us, two bony hands reached out from another dungeon cell. 

“This can’t be happening!” Eddie choked out. “There aren’t any dungeons 
today!” 

“Another doorway!” I whispered, trembling with fright as I stared at the 
hands poking out from the dark cells. “Find another doorway.” 

My eyes frantically searched the darkness. Off in a distant corner, I 
glimpsed a slender crack of light. 

I started to run toward it—and tripped over something. Something chained 
to the floor. 

It was a body. A body of a man sprawled on the floor. And I landed on his 
chest with a sickening thud. 

The chains rattled loudly as my foot tangled in them. 

My knees and elbows hit the stone floor hard. Pain shot through my entire 
body. 

The old man didn’t move. 

I scrambled up. Stared down at him. 

And realized he was a dummy. 

Not real. Just a dummy, chained to the floor. 

“Eddie—it’s not real!” I cried. 

“Huh?” He stared at me, his face twisted in confusion, in fright. 

“It’s not real! None of it!” I repeated. “Look! The hands in the dungeon 
cells—they’re not moving! It’s all a display, Eddie. Just a display!” 

Eddie started to reply. But the cruel laughter interrupted him. 

“You have entered the king’s dungeon. Abandon all hope,” the voice 
repeated. Then more evil laughter. 

Just a tape. Just a recording. 

There wasn’t anyone in the room with us. No dungeon keeper. 

I let out a long sigh. My heart was still pounding like a bass drum. But I felt 
a little better knowing that we weren’t trapped in a real dungeon. 

“We’re okay,” I assured Eddie. 

And then the door burst open with a loud crack. And the big man roared 
into the room, his cape fluttering behind him, his dark eyes glowing in victory. 

10 

Eddie and I froze in the middle of the floor. 

The caped man froze, too. The only sound was his harsh, raspy breathing. 

We stared through the dim light at each other. Frozen like the dummies in 
the cells. 

“You cannot escape,” the man growled once again. “You know you will not 
leave the castle.” 

His words sent a cold shiver down my back. 

“Leave us alone!” Eddie pleaded in a tiny voice. 

“What do you want?” I demanded. “Why are you chasing us?” 

The big man pressed his gloved hands against his waist. “You know the 
answer,” he replied flatly. He took a step toward Eddie and me. “Are you ready 
to come with me now?” he demanded. 

I didn’t reply. Instead, I leaned close to Eddie and whispered, “Get ready to 

run.” 

Eddie continued to stare straight ahead. He didn’t blink or nod his head. I 
couldn’t tell if he had even heard me. 

“You know you have no choice,” the man said softly. He reached both 
hands into the folds of his cape. Once again, he pulled out the mysterious white 
stones. And once again, I caught a glimpse of his dark eyes, saw the cold sneer 
on his lips. 

“You—you’ve made a mistake!” Eddie stammered. 

The man shook his head. The wide brim of the black hat cast tilting 
shadows on the floor. “I have made no mistake. Do not run from me again. You 
know you must come with me now.” 

Eddie and I didn’t need a signal. 

Without saying a word to each other, without glancing at each other, we 
spun around—and started to run. 

The man shouted in protest and took off after us. 

The room seemed to stretch on forever. It must be the entire basement of 
the castle, I realized. 

Beyond the beam of light, the darkness rose up like fog. 

My fear weighed me down. My legs felt as if they were a thousand pounds 

each. 

I’m moving in slow motion, I thought, struggling to speed up. Eddie and I 
are crawling like turtles. 

He’ll catch us. He’ll catch us in two seconds. 

I glanced back when I heard the caped man cry out. He had tripped over the 
same dummy chained to the floor. He had fallen heavily. 

As he scrambled to his feet, my eyes searched the far wall for a door. Or a 
hallway. Or any kind of opening. 

“How—how do we get out of here?” Eddie cried. “We’re trapped, Sue!” 

“No!” I cried. I spotted a worktable against the wall. Cluttered with tools. I 
searched for something to use as a weapon. Didn’t see anything. Grabbed a 
flashlight, instead. 

Frantically pushed the button. 

Would it work? 

Yes. 

A white beam of light darted over the floor. I raised it to the far wall. “Eddie 
—look!” I whispered. 

A low opening in the wall. Some kind of tunnel? A tunnel we could escape 
through? 

In another second, we were ducking our heads and stepping into the dark 
opening. 

I kept my light ahead of us, down at our feet. We had to stoop as we ran. 
The tunnel was curved at the top, and not high enough for us to stand. 

The tunnel ran straight for a while, then curved down and to the right. The 
air felt damp and cool. I could hear the trickle of water nearby. 

“It’s an old sewer,” I told Eddie. “That means it has to lead us out 
somewhere.” 

“I hope so,” Eddie replied breathlessly. 

Running hard, we followed the curve of the sewer. My light leaped about, 
jumping from the low ceiling to the damp stone floor. 

The light revealed wide metal rungs hanging from the ceiling. Eddie and I 
had to duck even lower to keep from smashing our heads against them. 

The light from my flashlight bounced wildly from the floor to the rungs 
along the top of the sewer. Eddie and I splashed through puddles of dirty water. 

We both gasped when we heard the footsteps behind us. 

Heavy, ringing footsteps. Thundering in the low tunnel. Growing louder. 

Louder. 

I glanced back. But the caped man was hidden by the curve of the sewer 
tunnel. 

His footsteps boomed steadily, rapidly. I could tell he wasn’t far behind. 

He’s going to catch us, I told myself in a panic. 

This tunnel is never going to end. 

Eddie and I can’t run much farther. 

He’s going to catch us in this dark, damp sewer. 

And then what? 

What does he want? 

Why did he say that we knew what he wanted? 

How could we know? 

I stumbled forward. The flashlight bumped against the wall and fell from 
my hand. 

It clattered to the tunnel floor and rolled in front of me. 

The light shone back into the tunnel, back toward the caped man. 

I saw him move into view, bent low, running hard. 

“Ohhh.” A frightened moan escaped my lips. 

I bent to pick up the flashlight. It slid out of my trembling hand. 

That was all the time the caped man needed. 

He grabbed Eddie with both hands. He pulled the black cape around my 
brother, trapping him. 

Then he reached for me. “I told you—there is no escape,” he rasped. 

11 

I ducked out of the caped man’s grasp. 

With another frightened groan, I grabbed the flashlight off the floor. 

I planned to use it as a weapon. To shine it in the caped man’s eyes. Or 
swing it at his head. 

But I didn’t get a chance. 

I froze in horror as the beam of light bounced down the tunnel—and I saw 
the rats. 

Hundreds of them. Hundreds of chittering gray rats. 

The darting light made their eyes glow red as fire. The rats came scrabbling 
over the sewer floor. Snapping their jaws hungrily, gnashing their jagged teeth as 
they came charging at us. 

Their shrill whistling and chittering echoed through the tunnel. The 
terrifying sound made my breath catch in my throat. 

The tiny red eyes glowed in the light as they scrabbled toward us. As they 
pulled their scrawny bodies over the hard floor, their tails slithered behind them 
like dark snakes. 

The caped man saw them, too. He leaped back in surprise. 

And Eddie came tearing out from under the cape. He gulped in shock as his 
eyes locked on the charging rats. 

“Jump!” I cried. “Eddie—jump!” 

Eddie didn’t move. We both gaped at the rats in horror. A churning sea of 
whistling, chewing, red-eyed rats. A living tidal wave of rats. 

“Jump! Jump—now!” I shrieked. 

I raised both hands. Jumped. 

Eddie jumped, too. We grabbed on to the metal bars imbedded in the sewer 

roof. 

Pulling myself up, I frantically lifted my feet as high as I could from the 
floor. 

Higher. Higher. As the rats charged underneath me. 

A foul odor rose up, nearly choking me as the rats ran past. 

I could hear the tap tap tap of their long toenails against the floor. Hear the 
swish of their sweeping tails. 

I couldn’t see the rats in the darkness. But I could hear them. And feel 
them. They jumped at my shoes. Scratched at my legs with their sharp claws. 
And kept coming. 

I turned to see the caped man start to run back. 

He stumbled with lurching steps as he tried to flee the thundering wave of 
rats. His arms shot forward as if reaching for safety. The black cape whipped up 
behind him. 

The wide-brimmed hat flew off his head and floated to the floor. A dozen 
rats pounced on it, climbed all over it, and began chewing it to pieces. 

The man’s footsteps echoed in the tunnel as he ran faster. Rats leaped up at 
his cape, clawing it, snapping their jaws, and shrieking excitedly. 

A second later, he disappeared around the curve of the sewer. 

The rats scrambled noisily after him. As they vanished around the curve, 
the sounds all blended together, became a roar, a roar that rang through the long 
sewer. 

A roar of horror. 

My arms were both aching, throbbing with pain. But I kept my feet high off 
the floor. I didn’t let go of the metal rung until I was sure all the rats had 
disappeared. 

The roar faded into the distance. 

I heard Eddie’s heavy breathing. He let out a sharp groan and dropped to 
the floor. 

I let go of the bar and lowered myself, too. I waited for my heart to stop 
pounding, for the blood to stop throbbing at my temples. 

“That was a close call,” Eddie murmured. His chin trembled. His face was 
as gray as the tunnel walls. 

I shuddered. I knew I’d see the hundreds of tiny red eyes in my dreams, 
hear the clicking of their long toenails and the swish of their scraggly tails. 

“Let’s get out of this disgusting sewer!” I cried. “Mr. Starkes must be 
frantic searching for us.” 

Eddie picked up the flashlight and handed it to me. “I can’t wait to get back 
on the tour bus,” he said. “I can’t wait to get away from this awful tower. I can’t 
believe we’ve been chased by a crazy person through a sewer. This can’t really 
be happening to us, Sue!” 

“It’s happening,” I declared, shaking my head. I suddenly had another 
thought. “Mom and Dad are probably out of their meeting,” I said. “They’re 

probably worried sick about us.” 

“Not as worried as lam!” Eddie exclaimed. 

I beamed the light ahead, keeping it down on the sewer floor, and we started 
walking. The tunnel floor rose up and curved to the left. We started to climb. 

“There’s got to be an end to this sewer,” I muttered. “It’s got to end 
somewhere! ” 

A faint roar up ahead made me cry out. 

More rats! 

Eddie and I both stopped. And listened. 

“Hey—!” I uttered excitedly when I realized it was a different sound. 

The sound of wind rushing into the tunnel. 

That meant we had to be close to the end. And that the sewer emptied 
somewhere outside. 

“Let’s go!” I cried excitedly. The beam of light bounced ahead of us as we 
started to run. 

The tunnel curved again. And then suddenly ended. 

I saw a metal ladder, reaching straight up. Straight up to a large, round hole 
in the tunnel ceiling. Gazing up at the hole, I saw the night sky. 

Eddie and I let out shouts of joy. He scrambled up the ladder, and I pulled 
myself up right behind him. 

It was a cold, damp night. But we didn’t care. The air smelled so fresh and 
clean. 

And we were out. Out of the sewer. Out of the Terror Tower. 

Away from that frightening man in the black cape. 

I gazed around quickly, trying to figure out where we were. The Tower 
tilted up toward us, a black shadow against the blue-black sky. 

The lights had all been turned off. The tiny guardhouse lay dark and empty. 
Not another soul in sight. 

I saw the low wall that divided the Tower from the rest of the world. And 
then I found the stone path that led to the exit and the parking lot. 

Our shoes thudded over the smooth stones as we hurried toward the parking 
lot. A pale half-moon slid out from behind wispy clouds. It cast a shimmering 
silver light over the whispering trees and the long stone wall. 

It all suddenly looked unreal. 

Without stopping, I glanced back at the old castle. The moonlight shone off 
the jutting towers, as if casting them in a pale spotlight. 

Real people walked on this path hundreds of years ago, I thought. 

And real people died up in that tower. 

With a shiver, I turned back and kept jogging. Eddie and I moved through 
the open gate and out past the wall. 

We’re back in modern times, I thought. Back where we are safe. 

But our happiness didn’t last long. 

The parking lot shimmered darkly in the pale moonlight. Empty. 

The tour bus was gone. 

Eddie and I both turned to search up and down the street. The long, empty 
street. 

“They left us,” Eddie murmured with a sigh. “How are we going to get back 
to the hotel?” 

I started to answer—but stopped when I saw the man. 

A tall, white-haired man, limping toward us, moving fast, pointing and 
calling, “You there! You there!” 

Oh, no, I thought wearily, feeling my body freeze in fear. 

Now what? 

12 

“You there! You there!” 

The man’s shoulder dipped in the big, gray overcoat he wore as he charged 
at us, limping with each step. 

Eddie and I huddled close together, staring back at him as he hurried across 
the empty parking lot. His white hair tumbled out from under a small gray cap. 
The overcoat hung down nearly to his ankles and bulged over his skinny frame. 

He stepped up in front of us and waited to catch his breath. His tiny eyes 
caught the moonlight as he narrowed them at us, studying Eddie, then me. 

“Are you the two kids that bus driver was looking for?” he asked in a shrill, 
high voice. He had a different accent from Mr. Starkes’. I think it was Scottish. 

Eddie and I nodded. 

“Well, I’m the night guard here,” the man told us. “There’s no one here but 
me after closing.” 

“Uh... where is our bus?” Eddie asked quietly. 

“It left,” the man replied sharply. “He searched all over for you. But he 
couldn’t wait any longer. What happened? Did you get lost in there?” He 
motioned back toward the Tower. 

“A man chased us,” Eddie replied breathlessly. “He said we had to come 
with him. He was really scary, and—” 

“Man? What man?” The night guard eyed us suspiciously. 

“The man in the black cape!” I replied. “And the black hat. He chased us. In 
the Tower.” 

“There’s no man in the tower,” the guard replied, shaking his head. “I told 
you. I’m the only one here after closing.” 

“But he’s in there!” I cried. “He chased us! He was going to hurt us! He 
chased us through the sewer and the rats—” 

“Sewer? What were you two doing in the sewer?” the guard demanded. 
“We have rules here about where tourists are allowed. If you break the rules, we 
can’t be responsible.” 

He sighed. “Now you come out here with a wild story about a man in a 
black cape. And running through the sewers. Wild stories. Wild stories.” 

Eddie and I exchanged glances. We could both see that this man wasn’t 

going to believe us. 

“How do we get back to our hotel?” Eddie asked. “Our parents will be 
really worried.” 

I glanced at the street. There were no cars or buses in sight. 

“Do you have any money?” the guard asked, replacing his cap. “There’s a 
phone box on the corner. I can call for a taxi.” 

I reached into my jeans pocket and felt the heavy coins my parents had 
given me before Eddie and I set out on the tour. Then I breathed a long sigh of 
relief. 

“We have money,” I told the guard. 

“It’ll cost you at least fifteen or twenty pounds from way out here,” he 
warned. 

“That’s okay,” I replied. “Our parents gave us British money. If we don’t 
have enough, my parents will pay the driver.” 

He nodded. Then he turned to Eddie. “You look all done in, lad. Did you 
get frightened up in that tower?” 

Eddie swallowed hard. “I just want to get back to our hotel,” he murmured. 

The guard nodded. Then, tucking his hands into the pockets of the big 
overcoat, he led the way to the phone booth. 

The black taxi pulled up about ten minutes later. The driver was a young man 
with long, wavy blond hair. “What hotel?” he asked, leaning out the passenger 
window. 

“The Barclay,” I told him. 

Eddie and I climbed into the back. It was warm in the taxi. It felt so great to 
sit down! 

As we pulled away from the Terror Tower, I didn’t glance back. I never 
wanted to see that old castle again. 

The car rolled smoothly through the dark streets. The taxi meter clicked 
pleasantly. The driver hummed to himself. 

I shut my eyes and leaned my head back against the leather seat. I tried not 
to think about the frightening man who had chased us in the Tower. But I 
couldn’t force him from my mind. 

Soon we were back in the center of London. Cars and taxis jammed the 
streets. We passed brightly lit theaters and restaurants. 

The taxi pulled up to the front of the Barclay Hotel and eased to a stop. The 

driver slid open the window behind his seat and turned to me. “That’ll be fifteen 
pounds, sixty pence.” 

Eddie sat up drowsily. He blinked several times, surprised to see that we 
had reached our destination. 

I pulled the big, heavy coins from my pocket. I held them up to the driver. 
“I don’t really know what is what,” I confessed. “Can you take the right amount 
from these?” 

The driver glanced at the coins in my hands, sniffed, then raised his eyes to 
me. “What are those?” he asked coldly. 

“Coins,” I replied. I didn’t know what else to say. “Do I have enough to pay 
you?” 

He stared back at me. “Do you have any real money? Or are you going to 
pay me with play money?” 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. My hand started to tremble, and I 
nearly dropped the coins. 

“I don’t either,” the driver replied sharply. “But I do know that those aren’t 
real coins. We use British pounds here, miss.” 

His expression turned angry. He glared at me through the little window in 
the glass partition. “Now, are you going to pay me in British pounds, or are we 
going to have some major trouble? I want my money—now!” 

13 

I pulled the coins away from him and raised them close to my face. It was dark 
in the back of the taxi, and hard to see. 

The coins were large and round. They felt heavy, made of real gold or 
silver. It was too dark to read the words on them. 

“Why would my parents give me play money?” I asked the driver. 

He shrugged. “I don’t know your parents.” 

“Well, they will pay you the fifteen pounds,” I told him. I struggled to 
shove the big coins back into my pocket. 

“Fifteen pounds, sixty—plus tip,” the driver said, frowning at me. “Where 
are your parents? In the hotel?” 

I nodded. “Yes. They were at a meeting in the hotel. But they’re probably 
up in the room now. We’ll get them to come down and pay you.” 

“In real money, if you please,” the driver said, rolling his eyes. “If they’re 
not down here in five minutes, I’ll come in after you.” 

“They’ll be right down. I promise,” I told him. 

I pushed open the door and scrambled out of the cab. Eddie followed me 
onto the sidewalk, shaking his head. “This is weird,” he muttered. 

A red-uniformed doorman held the hotel door open for us, and we hurried 
into the huge, chandeliered lobby. Most people seemed to be heading the other 
way, going out for dinner, I guessed. 

My stomach grumbled. I suddenly realized I was starving. 

Eddie and I made our way past the long front desk. We were walking so 
fast, we nearly collided with a bellman pushing a big cart stacked high with 
suitcases. 

To our right, I could hear dishes clattering in the hotel restaurant. The 
aroma of fresh-baked bread floated in the air. 

The elevator doors opened. A red-haired woman in a fur coat stepped off, 
walking a white toy poodle. Eddie got tangled in the leash. I had to pull him free 
so we wouldn’t miss the elevator. 

We stumbled into the elevator. As the doors slid shut, I pushed Six. “What 
was wrong with that money?” Eddie asked. 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess Dad made a mistake.” 

The doors slid open on six, and we hurried side by side down the long, 
carpeted hall to our room. 

I stepped around a room service tray on the floor. Someone had left half a 
sandwich and part of a bowl of fruit. My stomach rumbled again, reminding me 
how hungry I was. 

“Here we are.” Eddie ran up to the door to room 626 and knocked. “Hey, 
Mom! Dad! It’s us!” 

“Open up!” I called impatiently. 

Eddie knocked again, a little louder. “Hey—!” 

We pressed our ears close to the door and listened. 

Silence. No footsteps. No voices. 

“Hey—are you in there?” Eddie called. He knocked again. “Hurry up! It’s 

us!” 

He turned to me. “They must be out of that meeting by now,” he muttered. 

I cupped my hands around my mouth. “Mom? Dad? Are you there?” I 
called in. 

No reply. 

Eddie’s shoulders slumped, and he let out an unhappy sigh. “Now what?” 

“Are you having trouble?” a woman’s voice asked. 

I turned to see a hotel maid. She wore a gray uniform and a small white cap 
over her short, dark hair. She had been pushing a cart loaded with towels. She 
stopped across from Eddie and me. 

“Our parents are still at a meeting,” I told her. “My brother and I—we’re 
locked out.” 

She studied us for a moment. Then she stepped away from the cart and 
raised a large keychain filled with keys. 

“I’m not really supposed to do this,” she said, shuffling through the 
clattering keys. “But I guess it’s okay to let you kids in.” 

She put a key into the lock, turned it, and pushed open the door for us. 
Eddie and I both thanked her and told her she was a lifesaver. She smiled and 
moved on down the hall, pushing her towel cart. 

The room was dark. I clicked on the light as Eddie and I stepped in. 

“They’re not here,” I said softly. “No sign of them.” 

“They probably left a note,” Eddie replied. “Maybe they had to go out with 
people from the meeting. Or maybe they’re down in the restaurant, waiting for 

Our room was actually a suite. A front room and two bedrooms. 

Turning on lights as I went, I made my way to the desk in the corner. A 
writing pad and pen rested in the center of the desk. But the pad was blank. No 
message. 

No message from Mom or Dad on the bedtable, either. 

“That’s weird,” Eddie muttered. 

I crossed the room and stepped into their bedroom. I clicked on the ceiling 
light and glanced around. 

The room had been made up. The bed was smooth and unwrinkled. There 
was no message for us anywhere. The dressertop lay bare. No clothes tossed 
over a chair. No shoes on the floor. No briefcases or notepads from their 
meeting. 

No sign that anyone had even been in the room. 

I turned and saw that Eddie had moved to the closet. He pushed the sliding 
door open all the way. 

“Sue, look!” he shouted. “No clothes! Mom’s and Dad’s clothes—our 
clothes—they’re all gone!” 

A heavy feeling of dread started in my stomach and weighted down my 
entire body. “What is going on here?” I cried. 

14 

“They wouldn’t just leave!” I exclaimed. I walked over to the closet and checked 
it out for myself. I don’t know what I expected to see. It was clear from across 
the room that the closet was completely empty. 

“Are you sure we’re in the right room?” Eddie asked. He pulled open the 
top dresser drawer. Empty. 

“Of course this is the right room,” I replied impatiently. 

Eddie pulled out the rest of the dresser drawers. They were all empty. 

We searched every inch of the room. No sign of Mom or Dad. 

“We’d better go down to the desk,” I suggested, thinking hard. “We’ll find 
out what room the meeting is being held in. Then we’ll go there and talk to Mom 
and Dad.” 

“I can’t believe they’re still at the meeting,” Eddie murmured, shaking his 
head. “And why would they pack up and take all our clothes to the meeting with 
them?” 

“I’m sure there’s a good answer,” I said. “Come on. Let’s go downstairs.” 

We made our way back down the long hall and took the elevator to the 
lobby. 

We found a crowd around the front desk. A large woman, dressed in a green 
pantsuit, was arguing angrily about her room. “I was promised a view of the 
river,” she screamed at the red-faced man behind the desk. “And I want a view 
of the river!” 

“But, madam,” he replied softly, “the hotel is not located near the river. We 
do not have any river views from this hotel.” 

“I must have a river view!” the woman insisted. “I have it right here in 
writing!” She flashed a sheet of paper in front of the man’s face. 

The argument continued for a few minutes more. I quickly lost interest in it. 
I thought about Mom and Dad. I wondered where they were. I wondered why 
they hadn’t left us a note or a message. 

Eddie and I finally got up to the desk about ten minutes later. The clerk 
tucked some papers into a file, then turned to us with an automatic smile. “Can I 
help you?” 

“We’re trying to find our parents,” I said, leaning my elbows on the desk. 

“They’re in the meeting, I think. Can you tell us where the meeting is?” 

He stared at me for a long moment, his face blank, as if he didn’t 
understand. “What meeting is that?” he asked finally. 

I thought hard. I couldn’t remember what the meeting was called. Or what it 
was about. 

“It’s the big meeting,” I replied uncertainly. “The one people came from all 
over the world for.” 

He twisted his mouth into a thoughtful pout. “Hmmm...” 

“Avery big meeting,” Eddie chimed in. 

“We have a problem,” the clerk said, frowning. He scratched his right ear. 
“There aren’t any meetings in the hotel this week.” 

I stared back at him. My mouth dropped open. I started to say something, 
but the words just didn’t come out. 

“No meetings?” Eddie asked weakly. 

The clerk shook his head. “No meetings.” 

A young woman called to him from the office. He signaled to me that he’d 
be right back. Then he hurried over to see what she wanted. 

“Are we in the right hotel?” Eddie whispered to me. I could see the worry 
tighten his features. 

“Of course,” I said sharply. “Why do you keep asking me these dumb 
questions? I’m not an idiot, you know. Why do you keep asking, is this the right 
room? Is this the right hotel?” 

“Because nothing makes sense,” he muttered. 

I started to reply, but the clerk returned to the desk. “May I ask your room 
number?” he demanded, scratching his ear again. 

“Six twenty-six,” I told him. 

He punched several keys on his computer keyboard, then squinted at the 
green monitor. “I’m sorry. That room is vacant,” he said. 

“What?” I cried. 

The clerk studied me, narrowing his eyes. “There is no one in room 626 at 
the present,” he repeated. 

“But we are!” Eddie cried. 

The clerk forced a smile to his face. He raised both hands, as if to say, 
“Let’s all remain calm.” 

“We will find your parents,” he told us, leaving the smile frozen on his face. 
He punched a few computer keys. “Now, what is your last name?” 

I opened my mouth to answer. But no answer came to my mind. 

I glanced at Eddie. His face was knitted in concentration. 

“What is your last name, kids?” the clerk repeated. “If your parents are in 
the hotel, I’m sure we can track them down for you. But I need to know your last 
name.” 

I stared blankly at him. 

I had a strange, tingly feeling that started at the back of my neck and ran all 
the way down my body. I suddenly felt as if I couldn’t breathe, as if my heart 
had stopped. 

My last name. My last name... 

Why couldn’t I remember my last name? 

I could feel my body start to shake. Tears brimmed in my eyes. 

This was so upsetting! 

My name is Sue, I told myself. Sue... Sue... what? 

Shaking, tears running down my cheeks, I grabbed Eddie by the shoulders. 
“Eddie,” I demanded, “what’s our last name?” 

“I—I don’t know!” he sobbed. 

“Oh, Eddie!” I pulled my brother close and hugged him. “What’s wrong 
with us? What’s wrong with us?” 

15 

“We have to stay calm,” I told my brother. “If we take a deep breath and just 
relax, I’m sure we’ll be able to remember.” 

“I guess you’re right,” Eddie replied uncertainly. He stared straight ahead. 
He was gritting his teeth, trying hard not to cry. 

It was a few minutes later. The desk clerk had suggested that we go to the 
hotel restaurant. He promised he’d try to find our parents while we ate. 

That suggestion was fine with Eddie and me. We were both starving! 

We sat at a small table in the back of the restaurant. I gazed around the big, 
elegant room. Crystal chandeliers cast sparkling light over the well-dressed 
diners. On a small balcony overlooking the room, a string quartet played 
classical music. 

Eddie tapped his hands nervously on the white tablecloth. I kept picking up 
the heavy silverware and twirling it in my hand. 

The tables all around us were filled with laughing, happy people. Three 
children at the next table, very dressed up, were singing a song in French to their 
smiling parents. 

Eddie leaned over the table and whispered to me. “How are we going to pay 
for the food? Our money isn’t any good.” 

“We can charge it to the room,” I replied. “When we figure out what room 
we’re in.” Eddie nodded and slouched back in his high-backed chair. 

A waiter in a black tuxedo appeared beside the table. He smiled at Eddie 
and me. “Welcome to the Barclay,” he said. “And what may I bring you this 
evening?” 

“Could we see a menu?” I asked. 

“There is no menu right now,” the waiter replied, without changing his 
smile. “We are still serving tea.” 

“Only tea?” Eddie cried. “No food?” 

The waiter chuckled. “Our high tea includes sandwiches, scones, croissants, 
and an assortment of pastries.” 

“Yes. We’ll have that,” I told him. 

He gave a quick bow of his head, turned, and headed toward the kitchen. 

“At least we’ll get something to eat,” I murmured. 

Eddie didn’t seem to hear me. He kept glancing at the doorway at the front 
of the restaurant. I knew he was looking for Mom and Dad. 

“Why can’t we remember our last name?” he asked glumly. 

“I don’t know,” I confessed. “I’m very confused.” 

Every time I started to think about it, I felt dizzy. I kept telling myself I was 
just hungry. You’ll remember after you’ve had something to eat, I kept repeating. 

The waiter brought a tray of tiny sandwiches, cut into triangles. I 
recognized egg salad and tunafish. I didn’t know what the others were. 

But Eddie and I didn’t care. We started devouring the sandwiches as soon as 
the waiter set them down. 

We drank two cups of tea. Then our next tray arrived with scones and 
croissants. We loaded them up with butter and strawberry jam, and gobbled them 
down hungrily. 

“Maybe if we tell the man at the front desk what Mom and Dad look like, 
he can help us find them,” Eddie suggested. He grabbed the last croissant before 
I could get it. 

“Good idea,” I said. 

Then I let out a silent gasp. I had the dizzy feeling again. 

“Eddie,” I said, “I can’t remember what Mom and Dad look like!” 

He let the croissant fall from his hand. “I can’t either,” he murmured, 
lowering his head. “This is crazy, Sue! ” 

I shut my eyes. “Shhh. Just try to picture them,” I urged. “Force away all 
other thoughts. Concentrate. Try to picture then.” 

“I—I can’t!” Eddie stammered. I could hear the panic in his high-pitched 
voice. “Something is wrong, Sue. Something is very wrong with us.” 

I swallowed hard. I opened my eyes. I couldn’t conjure up any kind of 
picture of my parents. 

I tried thinking about Mom. Was she blond? Red-haired? Black-haired? 
Was she tall? Short? Thin? Fat? 

I couldn’t remember. 

“Where do we live?” Eddie wailed. “Do we live in a house? I can’t picture 
it, Sue. I can’t picture it at all.” 

His voice cracked. I could see he was having trouble holding back the tears. 

Panic choked my throat. I suddenly felt as if I couldn’t breathe. I stared at 
Eddie and couldn’t say a word. 

What could I say? 

My brain spun like a tornado. “We’ve lost our memory,” I finally uttered. 
“At least, part of our memory.” 

“How?” Eddie demanded in a trembling voice. “How could that happen to 
both of us?” 

I clasped my hands tightly in my lap. My hands were as cold as ice. “At 
least we still remember some things,” I said, trying not to despair completely. 

“We still remember our first names,” Eddie replied. “But not our last. And 
what else do we remember?” 

“We remember our room number,” I said. “Six twenty-six.” 

“But the desk clerk said we don’t belong in that room!” Eddie cried. 

“And we remember why we came to London,” I continued. “Because Mom 
and Dad had these important meetings.” 

“But there are no meetings at the hotel!” Eddie exclaimed. “Our memories 
are wrong, Sue. They’re all wrong!” 

I insisted on figuring out what we did remember. I had the feeling if I could 
list what we did remember, we wouldn’t feel so upset about what we had 
forgotten. 

I knew it was a crazy idea. But I didn’t know what else to do. 

“I remember the tour we took today,” I said. “I remember everywhere we 
went in London. I remember Mr. Starkes. I remember—” 

“What about yesterday?” Eddie interrupted. “What did we do yesterday, 
Sue?” 

I started to reply, but my breath caught in my throat. 

I couldn’t remember yesterday! 

Or the day before. Or the day before that. 

“Oh, Eddie,” I moaned, raising my hands to my cheeks, “something is 
terribly wrong.” 

Eddie didn’t seem to hear me. His eyes were locked on the front of the 
restaurant. 

I followed his gaze—and saw the slender, blond-haired man step into the 
room. 

The taxi driver. 

We had forgotten all about him! 

16 

I jumped up. The napkin fell off my lap, onto my shoe. I kicked it away and 
reached down to tug Eddie’s arm. “Come on—let’s get out of here.” 

Eddie gazed up at me uncertainly, then back at the taxi driver. The taxi 
driver had stopped just past the entrance. His eyes were searching each table. 

“Hurry,” I whispered. “He hasn’t seen us yet.” 

“But maybe we should just explain to him—” Eddie said. 

“Huh? Explain what?” I shot back. “That we can’t pay him because we lost 
our memory and don’t know our name? I really don’t think he’ll buy that—do 
you?” 

Eddie twisted his face in a frown. “Okay. How do we get out of here?” he 
demanded. 

The front door was blocked by the taxi driver. But I spotted a glass door on 
the back wall near our table. 

The door had a filmy, white curtain over it and a small sign that read: NO 
EXIT. 

But I didn’t care. Eddie and I had no choice. We had to leave—fast! 

I grabbed the knob and pulled the door open. Eddie and I slipped through, 
then tugged the door shut behind us. 

“I don’t think he saw us,” I whispered. “I think we’re okay.” 

We turned away from the door and found ourselves in a long, dark hallway. 
This must be an area used by the hotel workers, I thought. The floor had no 
carpet. The walls were dirty, stained, and unpainted. 

We turned a corner. I held out a hand to stop Eddie. 

We listened hard for footsteps. Had the taxi driver seen us duck out? Was he 
coming after us? 

I couldn’t hear a thing over the pounding of my heart. “What a horrible 
day!” I wailed. 

And then the day turned even more horrible. 

The man in the black cape stepped out from around the corner. “Did you 
really think I wouldn’t follow you?” he asked. “Did you really think you could 
escape from me?” 

17 

He moved forward quickly, his face hidden in the shadows. 

Eddie and I were trapped, our backs pressed against the curtained, glass 

door. 

As the caped man drew near, his features came into view. His eyes were 
dark and cold. His mouth was locked in a menacing snarl. 

He raised his palm to Eddie. “Give them back,” he demanded. 

Eddie’s eyes bulged in surprise. “Huh? Give what back?” he cried. 

The caped man kept his palm in front of Eddie’s face. “Give them back— 
now!” he bellowed. “Do not play games with me.” 

Eddie’s expression slowly changed. He glanced at me, then turned back to 
the caped man. “If I give them back, will you let us go?” 

I was totally confused. Give what back? What was Eddie talking about? 

The caped man uttered a short, dry laugh. It sounded more like a cough. 
“Do you dare to bargain with me?” he asked my brother. 

“Eddie—what is he talking about?” I cried. 

But Eddie didn’t reply. He kept his eyes locked on the shadowy face of the 
caped man. “If I give them back, will you let us go?” 

“Hand them back—now,” the big man replied sharply, leaning menacingly 
over Eddie. 

Eddie sighed. He reached into his pants pocket. And to my shock, he pulled 
out the three smooth, white stones. 

My brother the pickpocket had struck again. “Eddie—when did you take 
those?” I demanded. 

“In the sewer,” Eddie replied. “When he grabbed me.” 

“But, why?” I asked. 

Eddie shrugged. “I don’t know. They seemed important to him. So I thought 

“They are important!” the caped man bellowed. He grabbed the stones from 
Eddie’s hand. 

“Now will you let us go?” Eddie cried. 

“Yes. We will go now,” the man replied, concentrating on the stones. 

“That’s not what I said!” Eddie exclaimed. “Will you let us go?” 

The man ignored him. He piled the stones one on top of the other in his 
palm. Then he chanted some words, words in a foreign language that I didn’t 
recognize. 

As soon as he chanted the words, the hallway began to shimmer. The doors 
began to wiggle and bend, as if made of rubber. The floor buckled and swayed. 

The caped man began to shimmer and bend, too. 

The hallway throbbed with a blinding, white light. 

I felt a sharp stab of pain—as if I had been hit hard in the stomach. 

I couldn’t breathe. 

Everything went black. 

18 

Flickering orange light broke the darkness. 

I opened my eyes. Blinked several times. Took a deep breath. 

The caped man was gone. 

“Eddie—are you okay?” I asked in a quivering voice. 

“I—I think so,” he stammered. 

I gazed down the long hall, startled to find it lit by flickering candles. A 
candle was perched in a holder beside each door. 

“Sue, how did we get in this hallway?” Eddie asked softly. “Where is the 
caped man?” 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “I’m as confused as you are.” 

We stepped into the flickering light. “This has to be the old section of the 
hotel,” I guessed. “They must want it to look old-fashioned.” 

We walked past door after door. The long, narrow hallway was silent except 
for the thud of our shoes on the hardwood floor. The doors were all closed. No 
other people in sight. 

The flickering candlelight, the dark doorways, the eerie silence—all gave 
me a cold, tingly feeling. My entire body trembled. 

We kept walking through the dim, orangey light. 

“I—I want to go back to the room,” Eddie stammered as we turned another 
corner. “Maybe Mom and Dad have come back. Maybe they’re waiting for us up 
there.” 

“Maybe,” I replied doubtfully. 

We entered another silent hallway, glowing eerily in darting, dancing 
candlelight. “There’s got to be an elevator down here somewhere,” I muttered. 

But we passed only dark, closed doors. 

Turning another corner, we nearly bumped into a group of people. 

“Ohh!” I cried out, so startled to find others in these long, empty hallways. 

I stared at them as they passed. They wore long robes, and their faces were 
hidden under dark hoods. I couldn’t tell if they were men or women. 

They moved silently, making no sound at all. They paid no attention to 
Eddie or me. 

“Uh... can you tell us where the elevator is?” Eddie called after them. 

They didn’t turn back, didn’t reply. 

“Sirs?” Eddie called, chasing after them. “Please! Have you seen the 
elevator?” 

One of them turned back toward Eddie. The others continued moving 
silently down the hallway, their long robes swishing softly. 

I stepped up beside my brother and the robed figure. I could see the face 
under the hood. An old man with bushy white eyebrows. 

He peered out at Eddie, then at me. His eyes were dark and wet. His 
expression was sorrowful. 

“I smell evil around you,” he croaked in a dry whisper. 

“What?” I cried. “My brother and I—” 

“Do not leave the abbey,” the old man instructed. “I smell evil around you. 
Your time is near. So near. So very near...” 

19 

“What abbey?” I demanded. “Why are you saying that?” 

The old man didn’t reply. The candlelight glowed in his watery eyes. He 
nodded his head solemnly under the heavy hood. Then he turned away from us 
and glided silently after the others, the hem of his robe sweeping along the bare 
floor. 

“What did he mean?” Eddie demanded when the hooded man had vanished 
around a corner. “Why did he try to frighten us?” 

I shook my head. “It had to be some kind of a joke,” I replied. “They’re 
probably on their way to a party or something.” 

Eddie frowned thoughtfully. “They were creepy, Sue. They didn’t look like 
they were in a party mood to me.” 

I sighed. “Let’s find the elevator and get up to the room. I don’t like this old 
part of the hotel. It’s just too dark and scary.” 

“Hey, I’m the one who gets scared,” Eddie said, following me down the 
hall. “You’re supposed to be the brave one—remember?” 

We wandered down one long, candlelit hallway after another, feeling more 
and more lost. We couldn’t find an elevator or stairs or any kind of exit. 

“Are we going to walk forever?” Eddie whined. “There has to be a way out 
of here—doesn’t there?” 

“Let’s go back,” I suggested. “The taxi driver is probably gone by now. 
Let’s go back the way we came, and go out through the restaurant.” 

Eddie pushed his dark hair back off his forehead. “Good idea,” he muttered. 

We turned and started the long walk back. It was easy to keep in the right 
direction. We followed the hallways and made left turns instead of rights. 

We walked quickly without speaking. 

As we walked, I tried to remember our last name. Tried to remember Mom 
and Dad. Tried to picture their faces. 

Tried to remember something about them. 

Losing your memory is so terrifying. Much more frightening than being 
chased by someone. 

That’s because the problem is inside you. Inside your own mind. 

You can’t run away from it. You can’t hide from it. And you can’t solve it. 

You just feel so helpless. 

My only hope was that Mom and Dad would be waiting in the room. And 
that they could explain to Eddie and me what had happened to our memories. 
“Oh, no!” Eddie cried, startling me from my thoughts. 

We had reached the end of the final hallway. The hotel restaurant should be 
on the other side of the curtained glass door. 

But there was no door. 

No door back to the restaurant. No door at all. 

Eddie and I were staring at a solid wall. 

20 

“No!” Eddie wailed. “Let us out! Let us out of here!” He pounded furiously on 
the wall with his fist. 

I tugged him away. “This must be the wrong hallway,” I told him. “We 
made a wrong turn.” 

“No!” he protested. “It’s the right hallway! I know it is!” 

“Then where is the restaurant?” I replied. “They didn’t seal it up while we 
were walking the halls just now.” 

He stared up at me, his chin trembling, his dark eyes frightened. “Can’t we 
go outside and walk around to the front?” he asked wearily. 

“We could,” I replied thoughtfully. “If we could find a door that led to the 
outside. But so far—” 

I stopped when I heard voices. 

I turned and saw a narrow hallway leading off to our right. The voices 
seemed to be floating through this hall I hadn’t noticed before. Voices and 
laughter. 

“That must be the restaurant down there,” I told Eddie. “See? We just had 
one more turn to make. We’ll be out of here in a few seconds.” 

His face brightened a little. 

The voices and laughter grew louder as we made our way down the narrow 
corridor. Bright yellow light shone out from an open doorway at the end. 

As we stepped into the doorway, we both cried out in surprise. 

This was not the hotel restaurant we had our tea in. 

I grabbed Eddie’s arm as I stared in shock around the enormous room. Two 
blazing fireplaces provided the only light. People in strange costumes sat on low 
benches around long, wooden tables. 

A whole deer or an elk was turning on a spit, roasting over a fire in the 
center of the floor. 

The tables were piled high with food—meats, whole cabbages, green 
vegetables, fruits, whole potatoes, and foods I didn’t recognize. 

I didn’t see any plates or serving platters. The food was just strewn over the 
long tables. People reached in and pulled out what they wanted. 

They ate noisily, talking loudly, laughing and singing, taking long drinks 

from metal wine cups, slapping the cups on the tabletop and toasting each other 
merrily. 

“They’re all eating with their hands]” Eddie exclaimed. 

He was right. I didn’t see any silverware at the tables. 

Two chickens, squawking loudly, fluttered across the floor, chased by a 
large brown dog. A woman had two babies in her lap. She ignored them while 
she chewed on a large hunk of meat. 

“It’s a costume party,” I whispered to Eddie. We hadn’t the nerve to move 
from the doorway. “This must be where those guys in the hoods were going.” 

I gazed in amazement at the colorful costumes in the room. Long robes, 
loose-fitting pajama-type outfits of blue and green, leather vests worn over black 
tights. A lot of men and women wore animal furs around their shoulders— 
despite the blazing heat from the fireplaces. 

In one corner, a man appeared to be wearing an entire bearskin. He stood 
beside a giant wooden barrel, working a spigot, filling metal cups with a thick, 
brown liquid that oozed from the barrel. 

Two children in rags played tag under one of the long tables. Another child, 
dressed in green tights, chased after one of the squawking chickens. 

“What a party!” Eddie whispered. “Who are these people?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know. I can’t understand what they’re saying too well. 
Can you?” 

Eddie shook his head. “Their accents are too weird.” 

“But maybe someone in here can tell us how to get outside,” I suggested. 

“Let’s try,” Eddie pleaded. 

I led the way into the room. Even though I was walking slowly, timidly, I 
nearly tripped over a sleeping hound dog. 

Eddie followed close behind as I made my way up to one of the men 
turning the roasting deer on the spit. He wore only knee breeches of some rough 
brown cloth. His forehead and the top of his body glistened with sweat. 

“Excuse me, sir,” I said. 

He glanced up at me and his eyes bulged wide in surprise. 

“Excuse me,” I repeated. “Can you tell us how to get out of the hotel?” 

He stared at me without replying, stared as if he had never seen a twelve- 
year-old girl in jeans and a T-shirt before. 

Two little girls, wearing gray dresses down to the floor, walked up to Eddie 
and me, staring up at us with the same shocked expression as the man. Their 

streaky blond hair fell wild and tangled behind their backs. It looked as if it had 
never been brushed in their lives! 

They pointed at us and giggled. 

And I suddenly realized that the entire room had grown silent. 

As if someone had turned a knob and clicked off the sound. 

My heart started to pound. The strong smell of the roasting deer choked my 
nostrils. 

I turned to find everyone in the room gaping in open-mouthed wonder. 
Staring in silence at Eddie and me. 

“I—I’m sorry to interrupt the party,” I stammered in a tiny, frightened 
voice. 

I let out a cry of surprise as they all climbed noisily to their feet. Food 
toppled off the table. One of the long benches clattered to the floor. 

More children pointed and giggled. 

Even the chickens seemed to stop clucking and strutting. 

And then an enormous red-faced man in a long white gown raised his hand 
and pointed at Eddie and me. “It’s THEM!” he bellowed. “It’s THEM!” 

21 

“Do they know us?” Eddie whispered to me. 

We stared back at them. Everyone seemed to freeze in place. The man 
stopped turning the deer on the spit. The only sound in the huge dining hall was 
the crackle of the fires in the twin fireplaces. 

The man in the white gown slowly lowered his hand. His face darkened to a 
bright scarlet as he gaped at us in amazement. 

“We just want to find the way out,” I said. My voice sounded tiny and 
shrill. 

No one moved. No one replied. 

I took a deep breath and tried one more time. “Can anyone help us?” 

Silence. 

Who are these strange people? I wondered. Why are they staring at us like 
that? Why won’t they answer us ? 

Eddie and I took a step back as they began to move toward us. Some of 
them were whispering excitedly, muttering to each other, gesturing with their 
hands. 

“Eddie—we’d better get out of here!” I whispered. 

I couldn’t hear what they were saying. But I didn’t like the excited 
expressions on their faces. 

And I didn’t like the way they were moving along the wall, moving to get 
behind us, to surround us. 

“Eddie—run!” I screamed. 

Angry cries rang out as we both spun around and hurtled toward the open 
doorway. Dogs barked. Children started to cry. 

We darted back into the dark hallway and kept running. 

I could still feel the heat of the fire on my face as we ran, still smell the 
tangy aroma of the roasting deer. 

Their excited, angry cries followed us through the long hall. Gasping for 
breath, I glanced back, expecting to see them chasing after us. 

But the hall was empty. 

We turned a corner and kept going. Candles flickered on both sides of us. 
The floorboards groaned under our shoes. 

The eerie, dim light. The voices far behind us. The endless tunnel of a 
hallway. All made me feel as if I were running through a dream. 

We turned another corner and kept running. 

The misty candlelight blurred as I ran. I’m floating through a dark orange 
cloud, I thought. 

Do these empty, candlelit halls ever end? 

Eddie and I both cried out happily as a door appeared in front of us. 

A door we had never seen before. 

It has to lead to the outside! I told myself. 

We raced to the door. We didn’t slow down as we reached it. 

I stuck out both hands. Pushed hard. 

The door flew open. 

And we stepped out into bright sunlight. 

Outside! We had escaped from the dark maze of the hotel corridors! 

It took a few seconds for the harsh white glare to fade from my eyes. 

I blinked several times. Then I gazed up and down the street. 

“Oh, no!” I wailed, grabbing my brother’s arm. “No! Eddie—what has 
happened ?” 

22 

“It—it’s daytime!” Eddie stammered. 

But the bright sunlight wasn’t the only shock. 

Everything had changed. 

I felt as if I were watching a movie, and the scene had changed. And 
suddenly it was the next day—or the next week—and I was seeing an entirely 
different place. 

I knew that only a few seconds had passed since Eddie and I had burst out 
of the hotel. But in that time, everything had changed. 

We huddled close together and stared in one direction and then the next. We 
saw no cars. No buses. The street had vanished, replaced by a lumpy dirt road. 

The tall buildings had disappeared, too. The road was dotted with small, 
white cottages with flat roofs and low, wooden shacks built without doors or 
windows. 

A tall mound of straw stood beside the nearest cottage. Chickens clucked 
and strutted across the road or stood in front of cottages pecking in the dirt. A 
brown cow poked its head out from behind the mound of straw. 

“What’s going on?” Eddie asked. “Where are we?” 

“It’s like we stepped back in time,” I said in a hushed voice. “Eddie—look 
at the people.” 

Two men walked by carrying lines of slender, silvery fish. The men had 
thick beards and wild, unbrushed hair. They wore loose-fitting gray smocks that 
dragged along the ground. 

Two women in long, brown dresses were on their knees, pulling up root- 
type vegetables with their hands. A man leading a scrawny horse, its bones 
sticking out at its rib cage, stopped to say something to the two women. 

“They look a lot like the people in the hotel,” I told Eddie. 

Thinking about the hotel made me turn around. “Oh, no!” I grabbed Eddie 
and made him turn around. 

The hotel was gone. 

In its place stood a long, low building built of brown stone. It appeared to 
be some sort of inn or meeting hall. 

“I don’t understand this,” Eddie moaned. In the bright sunlight, he looked 

very pale. He scratched his dark brown hair. “Sue, we’ve got to get back to the 
hotel. I—I’m very mixed up.” 

“Me, too,” I confessed. 

I took a few steps along the dirt road. It must have rained recently. The road 
was soft and muddy. 

I could hear cows mooing nearby. 

This is downtown London! I told myself. How can I hear cows in 
downtown London? Where are all the tall buildings? The cars and taxis and 
double-decker buses? 

I heard someone whistling. A blond-haired boy, dressed in an outfit made of 
black and brown rags, appeared from behind the long building. He carried a 
bundle of sticks in his arms. 

He seemed about my age. My shoes sank into the mud as I hurried across 
the road to him. “Hey—!” I called. “Hi!” 

He peered over the bundle of sticks at me. His blue eyes widened in 
surprise. His hair was long and unbrushed. It fluttered over his shoulders in the 
breeze. “Good day to you, miss,” he said. His accent was so strange, I could 
barely understand him. 

“Good day,” I replied uncertainly. 

“Are ye a traveler?” the boy asked, shifting the bundle onto his shoulder. 

“Yes,” I replied. “But my brother and I are lost. We can’t find our hotel.” 

He narrowed his blue eyes at me. He appeared to be thinking hard. 

“Our hotel,” I repeated. “Can you tell us where it is? The Barclay?” 

“Barclay?” he repeated the word. “Hotel?” 

“Yes,” I said. I waited for him to reply. But he just stared back at me, 
squinting his blue eyes and frowning. 

“I do not know those foreign words,” he said finally. 

“Hotel?” I cried impatiently. “You know. A place where travelers stay?” 

“Many stay at the abbey,” he replied. He pointed to the long, low building 
behind us. 

“No. I mean—” I started. I could see that he didn’t understand me at all. 

“I must be getting the wood along home,” the boy said. He nodded good¬ 
bye, lowered the bundle from his shoulder, and headed down the road. 

“Eddie, that boy—” I said. “He doesn’t know what a hotel is! Do you 
believe—?” 

I turned back. “Eddie?” 

Eddie was gone. 

23 

“Eddie? Eddie?” 

My voice grew higher and more frightened as I called his name. 

Where did he go? 

“Hey—Eddie!” I shouted. 

The two women glanced up from their vegetable picking. 

“Did you see where my brother went?” I called to them. 

They shook their heads and returned to their work. 

“Oh!” I had to jump out of the road as a cart, pulled by a groaning, grunting 
ox, came barreling past. The driver, a fat, bare-chested man, his pouchy skin 
darkened by the sun, slapped the ropes that served as reins. He bellowed at the 
ox to move faster. 

As the wagon rolled past, its wooden wheels sank into the mud, leaving 
deep ridges in the road. 

Chickens clucked and scurried out of the way. The two women didn’t even 
glance up. 

I made my way to the entrance of the abbey. “Eddie? Are you back here?” 

I pulled open the door and peered inside. The long candlelit hall stretched 
before me. I could see men in hooded robes gathered at a doorway. 

We just came from there, I told myself as I closed the door. Eddie wouldn’t 
go back inside. 

So where was he? 

How could he run off and leave me here? How could he just disappear like 

that? 

I called his name a few more times. Then my throat tightened up. My 
mouth felt dry as cotton. “Eddie?” I called weakly. 

My legs began to tremble as I walked to the side of the first cottage. Don’t 
panic, Sue, I told myself. You’ll find him. Just don’t panic. 

Too late. 

I was really scared. 

Eddie wouldn’t suddenly wander off and go exploring without me. He was 
too scared. 

So where was he? 

I peered into the open doorway of the cottage. A sour smell floated out from 
inside. I could see a crude wooden table and a couple of wooden stools. No one 
in there. 

I made my way behind the cottage. A grassy pasture stretched up a gently 
sloping hill. Four or five cows stood halfway up the hill, their heads lowered as 
they chewed the grass. 

I cupped my hands around my mouth and called to my brother. 

My only reply was the soft mooing of a cow. 

With a worried sigh, I turned around and made my way back to the road. I 
guess I’ll have to search every cottage, I decided. Eddie couldn’t have gone very 
far. 

I had only taken a few steps toward the next cottage when a shadow slid 
over the road. 

Startled, I raised my eyes—and stared at the dark figure blocking my path. 

His black cape fluttered behind him in the wind. He wore a new black hat, 
and his pale, pale face poked out from its dark brim. 

24 

I stepped back, out of his shadow. I raised my hands to my cheeks and stared at 
him in horrified silence. 

“I said it was time for us to go,” he said softly, moving closer. 

“Wh-where is Eddie?” I managed to choke out. “Do you know where Eddie 

is?” 

A thin-lipped smile crossed his pale face. “Eddie?” He snickered. For some 
reason, my question seemed to amuse him. “Do not worry about Eddie,” he 
replied with a sneer. 

He took another step forward. His shadow fell over me again. 

It made me shiver. 

Glancing around, I saw that the two women picking vegetables had 
disappeared into their cottages. Everyone had disappeared. The road stood empty 
except for some chickens and a hound dog, asleep on its side in front of the 
straw pile. 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. “Who are you? Why are you chasing 
us? Where are we?” 

My frantic questions only made him chuckle. “You know me,” he replied 
softly. 

“No!” I protested. “I don’t know you! What is happening?” 

“Your questions cannot delay your fate,” he replied. 

I stared hard at him, trying to study his face, searching for answers. But he 
lowered the brim of the black hat, hiding his eyes from view. 

“You’ve made a mistake!” I cried. “You’ve got the wrong girl! I don’t know 
you! I don’t know anything!” 

His smile faded. He shook his head. “Come with me now,” he said firmly. 

“No!” I shrieked. “Not until you tell me who you are! Not until you tell me 
where my brother is.” 

Brushing his heavy cape back, he took another step toward me. His boots 
sank heavily into the mud as he strode forward. 

“I won’t come with you!” I screamed. My hands were still pressed hard 
against my cheeks. My legs were shaking so much, I nearly sank to the ground. 

I glanced around, getting ready to run. 

Would my trembling legs carry me? 

“Do not think of running away,” he said, as if reading my mind. 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“You will come with me now. It is time,” he said. 

He strode forward quickly, raised his gloved hands, and grabbed me by both 
shoulders. 

I had no time to struggle. No time to try to break free. 

The ground started to rumble. 

I heard a groaning sound. A heavy slapping sound. 

Another oxcart bounced around the corner. I saw the driver slap the ox with 
a long rope. 

The cart moved so fast. A blur of groaning animal and grinding wheels. 

The black-caped man released his grasp and leaped back as the cart rolled 
at us. 

I saw his black hat fly off. Saw him stumble in the deep rut in the mud at 
the side of the road. Saw him stagger back off-balance. 

It was all the time I needed. I wheeled around and started to run. I bent low 
as I ran, hiding beside the grunting, straining ox. Then I turned sharply and dived 
between two small cottages. 

I caught a glimpse of the black-caped man as I darted past the cottages. He 
was bending to pick up his hat. His bald head shone like an egg in the sunlight. 
He had no hair at all. 

I was panting rapidly. My chest ached, and the blood throbbed at my 
temples. 

Keeping low, I ran along the backs of the cottages. The green pasture 
stretched to my left. Nowhere to hide there. 

The cottages grew closer together. I heard crying children. A woman was 
roasting some kind of blood-red sausage over a fire. She called out to me as I ran 
past. But I didn’t slow down to reply. 

Two scrawny black hounds came yapping after me, snapping at my legs. 
“Shoo!” I cried. “Shoo! Go home!” 

Glancing back, I could see the tall, dark figure gliding easily over the grass, 
his cape sweeping up behind him. 

He’s catching up, I realized. 

I have to find a hiding place, I told myself. Now! 

I ducked between two small shacks—and nearly ran into a large, red-haired 

woman carrying a baby. The baby was swaddled in a heavy, gray blanket. 
Startled, the woman squeezed the baby to her chest. 

“You’ve got to hide me!” I cried breathlessly. 

“Go away from here!” the woman replied. She seemed more frightened 
than unfriendly. 

“Please!” I begged. “He’s chasing me!” I pointed through the space 
between the cottages. 

We could both see the black-caped man running closer. 

“Please! Don’t let him catch me!” I pleaded. “Hide me! Hide me!” 

The woman had her eyes on the black-caped man. She turned to me and 
shrugged her broad shoulders. “I cannot,” she said. 

25 

I let out a long sigh, a sigh of defeat. I knew I couldn’t run any further. 

I knew the caped man would capture me easily. 

The woman pressed the baby against the front of her black dress and turned 
to watch the man run toward us. 

“I—I’ll pay you!” I blurted out. 

I suddenly remembered the coins in my pocket. The coins the taxi driver 
refused to take. 

Would the woman take them now? 

I shoved my hand into my pocket and pulled out the coins. “Here!” I cried. 
“Take them! Take them all! Just hide me—please!” 

I jammed the coins into the woman’s free hand. 

As she raised her hand to examine them, her eyes bulged and her mouth 
dropped open. 

She isn’t going to take them, either, I thought. She’s going to throw them 
back at me as the taxi driver did. 

But I was wrong. 

“Gold sovereigns!” she exclaimed in a hushed voice. “Gold sovereigns. I 
saw one once when I was a little lass.” 

“Will you take them? Will you hide me?” I pleaded. 

She dropped the coins into her dress. Then she shoved me through the open 
doorway of her little cottage. 

It smelled of fish inside. I saw three cots on the floor beside a bare hearth. 

“Quick—into the kindling basket,” the woman instructed. “It’s empty.” She 
pushed me again, toward a large straw box with a lid. 

My heart pounding, I pushed up the lid and scrambled inside. The lid 
dropped back down, covering me in darkness. 

On my hands and knees, I crouched on the rough straw bottom of the box. I 
struggled to stop panting, to stop my heart from thudding in my chest. 

The woman had taken the coins gladly, I realized. She didn’t think they 
were play money, as the taxi driver had said. 

The coins are very old, I decided. 

And then a chill ran down my trembling body. I suddenly knew why 
everything looked so different—so old. We really have gone back in time, I told 
myself. 

We are back in London hundreds of years ago. 

The caped man brought us back here with those white stones. He thinks I 
am someone else. He has been chasing me because he has mistaken me for 
someone else. 

How do I make him see the truth? I wondered. 

And how do I get out of the past, back to my real time? 

I forced the questions from my mind—and listened. 

I could hear voices outside the cottage. The woman’s voice. And then the 
booming, deep voice of the black-caped man. 

I held my breath so I could hear their words over the loud beating of my 
heart. 

“She is right in here, sire,” the woman said. I heard footsteps. And then 
their voices became louder. Closer. They were standing beside my basket. 

“Where is she?” the caped man demanded. 

“I put her in this box for you, sire,” the woman replied. “She’s all wrapped 
up for you. Ready for you to take her away.” 

26 

My heart jumped to my throat. In the blackness of the box, I suddenly saw red. 

That woman took my money, I thought angrily. And then she gave away my 
hiding place. 

How could she do that to me? 

I was still crouched on my hands and knees. So angry. So terrified. My 
entire body went numb, and I felt as if I would crumple to the basket floor in a 
heap. 

Taking a deep breath, I twisted around and tried to push open the straw lid. 

I let out a disappointed groan when it didn’t budge. 

Was it clasped shut? Or was the caped man holding it down? 

It didn’t matter. I was helpless. Trapped. I was his prisoner now. 

The basket suddenly moved, knocking me against its side. I could feel it 
sliding over the floor of the cottage. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. But my voice was muffled in the tiny box. I lowered 
myself to the rough straw floor, my heart pounding. “Let me out!” 

The basket bounced again. Then I felt it slide some more. 

“Lass! You—lass!” I lifted my head as I heard the woman whispering in to 
me. 

“I am so sorry,” she said. “I hope you will find it in your heart to forgive 
me. But I dare not go against the Lord High Executioner.” 

“What?” I cried. “What did you say?” 

The basket slid faster. Bumped hard. Bumped again. 

“What did you say?” I repeated frantically. 

Silence now. 

I did not hear her voice again. 

A moment later, I heard the whinny of horses. I was tossed against one side, 
then the other, as the basket was lifted up. 

Soon after, the basket began to bounce and shake. And I heard the steady 
clip-clop of horses’ hooves. 

A helpless prisoner inside the straw basket, I knew I was on some kind of 
carriage or horse cart. 

The Lord High Executioner? 

Is that what the woman had said? 

The shadowy man in the black cape and black hat—he is the Lord High 
Executioner? 

Inside my tiny, dark prison, I began to shudder. I could not stop the chills 
that rolled down my back until my entire body felt cold and numb and tingly. 

The Lord High Executioner. 

The words kept repeating and repeating in my mind. Like a terrifying chant. 
The Lord High Executioner. 

And then I asked myself: What does he want with me? 

27 

The wagon stopped with a jolt. Then, a minute or so later, started up again. 

Bouncing around inside the basket, I lost all track of time. 

Where is he taking me? I wondered. What does he plan to do? 

And: Why me? 

My head hit the front of the basket as we jolted to another stop. I shivered. 
My body was drenched in a cold sweat. 

The air in the box had become sour. I began gasping for fresh air. 

I let out a cry as the lid suddenly flew open. The harsh sunlight made me 
shield my eyes. 

“Remove her!” I heard the booming voice of the Executioner. 

Strong arms grabbed me roughly and tugged me from the straw box. As my 
eyes adjusted to the light, I saw that I was being lifted by two gray-uniformed 
soldiers. 

They set me on my feet. But my legs gave way, and I crumpled to the dirt. 

“Stand her up,” the Executioner ordered. I gazed up into the sun at him. His 
face was hidden once again in the shadow of his dark hat. 

The soldiers bent to pick me up. Both of my legs had fallen asleep. My 
back ached from being tossed and tumbled in the cramped box. 

“Let me go!” I managed to cry. “Why are you doing this?” 

The Executioner didn’t reply. 

The soldiers held on to me until I could stand on my own. 

“You’ve made a terrible mistake!” I told him, my voice trembling with 
anger, with fear. “I don’t know why I am here or how I got here! But I am the 
wrong girl! I am not who you think I am!” 

Again, he did not reply. He gave a signal with one hand, and the guards 
took my arms and turned me around. 

And as I turned away from the Executioner, away from the sun, the dark 
castle rose in front of me. I saw the wall, the courtyard, the dark, slender towers 
looming up over the stone castle. 

The Terror Tower! 

He had brought me to the Terror Tower. 

This is where Eddie and I had seen him for the first time. This is where the 
Executioner had first chased after us. 

In the twentieth century. In my time. In the time where I belonged. 
Hundreds of years in the future. 

Somehow Eddie and I had been dragged back into the past, to a time where 
we didn’t belong. And now Eddie was lost. And I was being led to the Terror 
Tower. 

The Executioner led the way. The soldiers gripped my arms firmly, pulling 
me through the courtyard toward the castle entrance. 

The courtyard was jammed with silent, grim-looking people. Dressed in 
rags and tattered, stained gowns, they stared at me as I was dragged past. 

Some of them stood hunched like scarecrows, their eyes vacant, their faces 
blank, as if their minds were somewhere else. Some sat and wept, or stared at the 
sky. 

A bare-chested old man sat under a tree frantically scratching his greasy 
tangles of white hair with both hands. A young man pressed a filthy rag against a 
deep cut in his dirt-caked foot. 

Babies cried and wailed. Men and women sat in the dirt, moaning and 
muttering to themselves. 

These sad, filthy people were all prisoners, I realized. I remembered our 
tour guide, Mr. Starkes, telling us that the castle had first been a fort, then a 
prison. 

I shook my head sadly, wishing I were back on the tour. In the future, in the 
time where I belonged. 

I didn’t have long to think about the prisoners. I was shoved into the 
darkness of the castle. Dragged up the twisting stone steps. 

The air felt wet and cold as I climbed. A heavy chill seemed to rise up the 
stairs with me. 

“Let me go!” I screamed. “Please—let me go!” 

The soldiers shoved me against the stone wall when I tried to pull free. 

I cried out helplessly and tried again to tug myself loose. But they were too 
big, too strong. 

The stone stairs curved round and around. We passed the cell on the narrow 
landing. Glancing toward it, I saw that it was jammed with prisoners. They stood 
in silence against the bars, their faces yellow and expressionless. Many of them 
didn’t even look up as I passed. 

Up the steep, slippery stairs. 

Up to the dark door at the top of the tower. 

“No—please!” I begged. “This is all wrong! All wrong!” 

But they slid the heavy metal bolt on the door and pulled the door open. 

A hard shove from behind sent me sprawling into the tiny tower room. I 
stumbled to the floor, landing on my elbows and knees. 

I heard the heavy door slam behind me. Then I heard the bolt sliding back 
into place. 

Locked in. 

I was locked in the tiny cell at the top of the Terror Tower. 

“Sue!” A familiar voice called my name. 

I raised myself to my knees. Glanced up. “Eddie!” I cried happily. “Eddie— 
how did you get here?” 

My little brother had been sitting on the floor against the wall. Now he 
scrambled over to me and helped me to my feet. “Are you okay?” he asked. 

I nodded. “Are you okay?” 

“I guess,” he replied. He had a long dirt smear down one side of his face. 
His dark hair was matted wetly against his forehead. His eyes were red-rimmed 
and frightened. 

“The caped man grabbed me,” Eddie said. “Back in the town. In the street. 
You know. When that oxcart came by.” 

I nodded. “I turned around, and you were gone.” 

“I tried to call to you,” Eddie replied. “But the caped man covered my 
mouth. He handed me to his soldiers. And they pulled me behind one of the 
cottages.” 

“This is so awful!” I cried, struggling to hold my tears back. 

“One of the soldiers lifted me onto his horse,” Eddie said. “I tried to squirm 
away. But I couldn’t. He brought me to the castle and dragged me up to the 
Tower.” 

“The caped man—he’s the Lord High Executioner,” I told my brother. 
“That’s what I heard a woman call him.” 

The words made my brother gasp. His dark eyes locked onto mine. 
“Executioner?” 

I nodded grimly. 

“But why does he want us?” Eddie demanded. “Why has he been chasing 
us? Why are we locked up in this horrible tower?” 

A sob escaped my throat. “I—I don’t know,” I stammered. 

I started to say something else—but stopped when I heard noises outside 
the door. 

Eddie and I huddled together in the center of the room. 

I heard the bolt slide open. 

The door slowly began to open. 

Someone was coming for us. 

28 

A white-haired man stepped into the room. His hair was wild and long, and fell 
in thick tangles behind his shoulders. He had a short white beard that ended in a 
sharp point. 

He wore a purple robe that flowed down to the floor. His eyes were as 
purple as his robe. They squinted first at Eddie, then lingered on me. 

“You have returned,” he said solemnly. His voice was smooth and low. His 
purple eyes suddenly revealed sadness. 

“Who are you?” I cried. “Why have you locked us in this tower?” 

“Let us out!” Eddie demanded shrilly. “Let us out of here—right now!” 

The long purple robe swept over the floor as the white-haired man moved 
toward us. He shook his head sadly, but didn’t reply. 

The cries and moans of prisoners down below floated into the tower room 
through the tiny window above our heads. Gray evening light spilled over us. 

“You do not remember me,” the man said softly. 

“Of course not!” Eddie cried. “We don’t belong here!” 

“You’ve made a bad mistake,” I told him. 

“You do not remember me,” he repeated, rubbing his pointed beard with 
one hand. “But you will.” 

He seemed gentle. Kind. Not at all like the Executioner. 

But as his strange purple eyes locked on mine, I felt a shiver of fear. This 
man was powerful, I realized. This man was dangerous. 

“Just let us go!” Eddie pleaded again. 

The man sighed. “I wish it were in my power to release you, Edward,” he 
said softly. “I wish it were in my power to release you, too, Susannah.” 

“Wait a minute.” I held up a hand to signal stop. “Just wait a minute. My 
name is Sue. Not Susannah.” 

The old man’s hands disappeared into the deep pockets of his robe. 
“Perhaps I should introduce myself,” he said. “My name is Morgred. I am the 
king’s sorcerer.” 

“You do magic tricks?” Eddie blurted out. 

“Tricks?” The old man seemed confused by Eddie’s question. 

“Did you order us locked up in here?” I asked him. “Did you have us 

brought back in time? Why? Why have you done this?” 

“It isn’t an easy story to tell, Susannah,” Morgred replied. “You and Edward 
have to believe—” 

“Stop calling me Susannah!” I shouted. 

“I’m not Edward!” my brother insisted. “I’m Eddie. Everyone calls me 
Eddie.” 

The old man removed his hands from his robe pockets. He placed one hand 
on Eddie’s shoulder, and one on mine. 

“I had better start with the biggest surprise of all,” he told us. “You are not 
Eddie and Sue. And you do not live in the twentieth century.” 

“Huh? What are you saying ?” I cried. 

“You really are Edward and Susannah,” Morgred replied. “You are the 
Prince and Princess of York. And you have been ordered to the Tower by your 
uncle, the king.” 

29 

“You’re wrong!” Eddie cried. “We know who we are. You’ve made a big 
mistake!” 

I suddenly felt cold all over. Morgred’s words echoed in my ears. “You are 
not Eddie and Sue. You really are Edward and Susannah.” 

I took a step back, out from under his hand. I studied his face. Was he 
joking? Was he crazy? 

His eyes revealed only sadness. His expression remained solemn, too 
solemn to be joking. 

“I do not expect you to believe me,” Morgred said, returning his hands to 
his robe pockets. “But my words are true. I cast a spell upon you. I tried to help 
you escape.” 

“Escape?” I cried. “You mean—escape from this tower?” 

Morgred nodded. “I tried to help you escape your fate.” 

And as he said this, the voice of Mr. Starkes, the tour guide, returned to my 
ears. And I remembered the story he had told. I remembered the fate of Prince 
Edward and Princess Susannah. 

The king’s orders were to smother them. 

Smothered with pillows. 

“But we’re not them!” I wailed. “You’re just confused. Maybe Eddie and I 
look like them. Maybe we look a lot like them. But we’re not the prince and 
princess. We’re two kids from the twentieth century.” 

Morgred shook his head solemnly. “I cast a spell,” he explained. “I erased 
your memories. You were locked in this tower. I wanted you to escape. First I 
whisked you away to the safety of the abbey, then I sent you as far into the future 
as I could.” 

“It’s not true!” Eddie insisted, shrieking the words. “It’s not true! Not true! 
I’m Eddie—not Edward. My name is Eddie!” 

Morgred sighed again. “Just Eddie?” he asked, keeping his voice low and 
soft. “What is your full name, Eddie?” 

“I—uh—well...” my brother stammered. 

Eddie and I don’t know our last name, I realized. And we don’t know where 
we live. 

“When I sent you far into the future, I gave you new memories,” Morgred 
said. “I gave you new memories so you could survive in a new and distant time. 
But the memories were not complete.” 

“That’s why we couldn’t remember our parents!” I exclaimed to Eddie. 

“But our parents—?” I started. 

“Your parents, the rightful king and queen, are dead,” Morgred told us. 
“Your uncle has named himself king. And he has ordered you to the Tower to get 
you out of the way.” 

“He—he’s going to have us murdered !” I stammered. 

Morgred nodded, shutting his eyes. “Yes. I am afraid he is. His men will be 
here soon. There is no way I can stop him now.” 

30 

“I don’t believe this,” Eddie murmured. “I really don’t.” 

But I could see the sadness in Morgred’s purple eyes and hear it in his low, 
soft voice. The sorcerer was telling the truth. 

The horror of the truth was sinking in. My brother and I weren’t Eddie and 
Sue from the twentieth century. We lived in this dark and dangerous time. We 
were Edward and Susannah of York. 

“I tried to send you as far from this Tower as possible,” Morgred tried to 
explain again. “I sent you far into the future to start new lives. I wanted you to 
live there and never return. Never return to face doom in this castle.” 

“But what happened?” I demanded. “Why, then, are we back here, 
Morgred?” 

“The Lord High Executioner was spying on me,” Morgred explained, 
lowering his voice to a whisper. “He must have known that I wanted to help you 
escape. And, so—” 

He stopped and tilted his head toward the door. 

Was that a footstep? Was someone out there? 

All three of us listened. 

Silence now. 

Morgred continued his story in a whisper. “When I cast the spell that sent 
you into the future, the Executioner must have hidden nearby. I used three white 
stones to cast the spell. Later, he stole the stones and performed the spell 
himself. He sent himself to the future to bring you back. And as you both know, 
he caught you and dragged you back here.” 

Morgred took a step forward. He raised his hand and placed it on my 
forehead. 

The hand felt cold at first. Then it grew warmer and warmer, until I pulled 
away from the blazing heat. 

As I pulled back, my memory returned. 

Once again, I became Princess Susannah of York. My true identity. I 
remembered my parents, the king and queen. And all my memories of growing 
up in the royal castle returned. 

My brother glared angrily at Morgred. “What did you do to my sister?” he 

cried, backing up until he bumped into the stone wall. 

Morgred placed his hand on my brother’s forehead. And I watched my 
brother’s expression change as his memory returned and he realized he really 
was the prince. 

“How did you do it, Morgred?” Edward asked, pushing his dark brown hair 
off his forehead. “How did you send Susannah and me to the future? Can you 
perform the spell again?” 

“Yes!” I cried. “Can you perform it once more? Can you send us to the 
future now—before the king’s men come?” 

Morgred shook his head sadly. “Alas, I cannot,” he murmured. “I do not 
have the three stones. As I told you, they were stolen by the Lord High 
Executioner.” 

A smile slowly spread over my brother’s face. He reached into his pocket. 
“Here they are!” Eddie announced. He winked at me. “I stole them back again 
when the Executioner captured me in town.” 

Edward handed the stones to Morgred. “Fastest hands in all of Britannia!” 
he declared. 

Morgred did not smile. “It is a simple spell, actually,” the wizard said. He 
raised the three stones into the air, and they began to glow. 

“I pile the stones up one on top of the other,” Morgred explained. “I wait 
for them to glow with a bright white heat. Then I pronounce the words 
‘Movarum, Lovaris, Movarus. ’ I then call out the year to which the traveler is to 
be sent.” 

“That’s the whole spell?” Edward asked, staring at the smooth, glowing 
stones in Morgred’s hand. 

Morgred nodded. “That is the spell, Prince Edward.” 

“Well, do it again! Please hurry!” I begged him. 

His expression grew even sadder. “I cannot,” he said, his voice breaking 
with emotion. 

He returned the three stones to the pocket of his robe. Then he uttered a 
long, unhappy sigh. “It is my fondest wish to help you children,” he whispered. 
“But if I help you to escape again, the king will torture me and put me to a 
painful death. And then I will not be able to use my magic to help all the people 
of Britain.” 

Tears brimmed in his purple eyes and ran down his wrinkled cheeks. He 
gazed unhappily at my brother and me. “I—I only hope that you enjoyed your 

brief time in the future,” he said in a whisper. 

I shuddered. “You—you really cannot help us?” I pleaded. 

“I cannot,” he replied, lowering his eyes to the floor. 

“Even if we ordered you?” Edward asked. 

“Even if you ordered me,” Morgred repeated. With an emotional cry, he 
wrapped Edward in a hug. Then he turned and hugged me, too. “I am helpless,” 
he whispered. “I beg your forgiveness. But I am helpless.” 

“How long do we have to live?” I asked in a tiny, trembling voice. 

“Perhaps a few hours,” Morgred replied, avoiding my eyes. He turned 
away. He could not bear to face us. 

A heavy silence fell over the tiny room. The gray light filtered down from 
the window above our heads. The air suddenly felt cold and damp. 

I couldn’t stop shivering. 

Edward startled me by leaning close and whispering in my ear. “Susannah, 
look!” he whispered excitedly. “The door. Morgred left the door open when he 
entered.” 

I turned to the door. Edward was right. The heavy wooden door stood 
nearly half open. 

We still have a chance, I thought, my heart beginning to race. We still have 
a tiny chance. 

“Edward—run!” I screamed. 

31 

I took a running step. 

And froze in midair. 

I turned to see Edward freeze, too, his arms outstretched, his legs bent in a 
running position. 

I struggled to move. But I couldn’t. I felt as if my body had turned to stone. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that Morgred had cast a spell on us. 
Frozen stiffly in the center of the tiny room, I watched the sorcerer make his way 
to the door. 

Halfway out, he turned back to us. “I’m so sorry,” he said in a trembling 
voice. “But I cannot allow you to escape. Please understand. I did my best. I 
really did. But now I am helpless. Truly helpless.” 

Tears rolled down his cheeks, into his white beard. He gave us one last sad 
glance. Then the door slammed hard behind him. 

As soon as the door was bolted from the outside, the spell wore off. Edward 
and I could move again. 

I sank to the floor. I suddenly felt weak. Weary. 

Edward stood tensely beside me, his eyes on the door. 

“What are we going to do?” I asked my brother. “Poor Morgred. He tried to 
help us. He wanted to help us again. But he couldn’t. If only—” 

I stopped talking when I heard the heavy footsteps outside the door. 

At first, I thought it was Morgred returning. 

But then I heard hushed voices. The sounds of more than one man. 

Right outside the door now. 

And I recognized the booming voice of one of them. The Lord High 
Executioner. 

I climbed tensely to my feet and turned to Edward. “They’ve come for us,” 
I whispered. 

32 

To my surprise, Edward’s face remained calm. 

He raised his hand. He had something hidden in his closed fist. 

As he opened his fist, I recognized the three stones. Morgred’s smooth, 
white stones. 

They immediately began to glow. 

“Edward—again?” I cried. 

A smile crossed his lips. His dark eyes lit up excitedly. “I lifted them from 
Morgred’s robe when he hugged me.” 

“Do you remember the spell?” I demanded. 

Edward’s smile faded. “I—I think so.” 

I could hear the Executioner outside the door. The heavy treading of boots 
on the stone stairs. 

“Edward—please hurry!” I urged. 

I heard the bolt slide outside the door. 

I heard the heavy wooden door begin to slide open. 

Edward struggled to stack the glowing stones one on top of the other. The 
one on top kept slipping off. 

Finally, he held all three in a small tower in his palm. 

The door slid open a few inches more. 

Edward held the glowing stones high. And called out the words, 
“Movarum, Lovaris, Movaris!” 

The glowing stones exploded in a flash of white light. 

The light faded quickly. 

I glanced around. 

“Oh, Edward!” I wailed in disappointment. “It didn’t work! We’re still in 
the Tower!” 

Before my stunned brother could reply, the door swung all the way open. 

33 

And there they stood. A tour group. 

I didn’t recognize the tour leader. She was a young woman, dressed in 
layers of red and yellow T-shirts, and a short skirt over black tights. 

I grinned at Edward. I felt so happy, I didn’t think I would ever stop 
grinning! 

“You did it, Edward!” I cried. “You did it! Your spell did work!” 

“Call me Eddie,” he replied, laughing gleefully. “Call me Eddie, okay, 
Sue?” 

The spell had worked perfectly. We were back in the twentieth century. 
Back in the Tower—as tourists! 

“This tiny Tower room is where Prince Edward and Princess Susannah of 
York were held as prisoners,” the tour guide announced. “They were held here 
and sentenced to death. But they were never executed.” 

“They didn’t die up here?” I asked the tour guide. “What happened?” 

The tour guide shrugged. She chewed her gum harder. “No one knows. On 
the night they were to be murdered, the prince and princess vanished. 
Disappeared into thin air. It is a mystery that will never be solved.” 

Members of the tour group mumbled to each other, gazing around the small 
room. 

“Look at the thick, stone walls,” the tour guide continued, chewing her gum 
as she talked. “Look at the barred window so high above. How did they escape? 
We will never know.” 

“I guess we know the answer to the mystery,” someone whispered behind 
me. 

Eddie and I turned to see Morgred grinning at us. He winked. I saw that he 
was wearing a purple sports jacket and dark gray trousers. 

“Thanks for bringing me along,” he said happily. 

“We had to bring you, Morgred,” Eddie replied. “We need a parent.” 

Morgred raised a finger to his mouth. “Hush! Don’t call me Morgred. I’m 
Mr. Morgan now. Okay?” 

“Okay,” I said. “And I guess I’m Sue Morgan. And this is Eddie Morgan.” I 
slapped my brother on the back. 

The tour group started out of the Tower room, and we followed. Eddie 
pulled the three white stones from his jeans pocket and began juggling them. 

“If I hadn’t borrowed these from your robe,” he told Mr. Morgan, “that tour 
guide would be telling a very different story—wouldn’t she!” 

“Yes, she would,” the sorcerer replied thoughtfully. “Avery different story.” 

“Let’s get out of here!” I cried. “I never want to see this tower again.” 

“I’m starving!” Eddie exclaimed. 

I suddenly realized I was starving, too. 

“Shall I perform a food spell?” Mr. Morgan suggested. 

Eddie and I each let out a loud groan. “I think I’ve had enough spells to last 
a lifetime,” I said. “How about we go to Burger Palace for some good old 
twentieth-century hamburgers and fries!” 


THE CUCKOO 
CLOCK OF DOOM 

1 

“Michael, your shoe’s untied.” 

My sister, Tara, sat on the front steps, grinning at me. Another one of 
her dumb jokes. 

I’m not an idiot. I knew better than to look down at my shoe. If I did, 
she’d slap me under the chin or something. 

“I’m not falling for that old trick,” I told her. 

Mom had just called me and the brat inside for dinner. An hour before 
she had made us go outside because she couldn’t stand our fighting 
anymore. 

It was impossible not to fight with Tara. 

When it comes to stupid tricks, Tara never knows when to quit. “I’m 
not kidding,” she insisted. “Your shoe’s untied. You’re going to trip.” 

“Knock it off, Tara,” I said. I started up the front steps. 

My left shoe seemed to cling to the cement. I pulled it up with a jerk. 

“Yuck!” I’d stepped on something sticky. 

I glanced at Tara. She’s a skinny little squirt, with a wide red mouth 
like a clown’s and stringy brown hair that she wears in two pigtails. 

Everyone says she looks exactly like me. I hate it when they say that. 
My brown hair is not stringy, for one thing. It’s short and thick. And my 
mouth is normal-sized. No one has ever said I look like a clown. 

I’m a little short for my age, but not skinny. 

I do not look like Tara. 

She was watching me, giggling. “You’d better look down,” she taunted 
in her singsong voice. 

I glanced down at my shoe. It wasn’t untied, of course. But I’d just 
stepped on a huge wad of gum. If I had looked down to check my 
shoelaces, I would have seen it. 

But Tara knew I wouldn’t look down. Not if she told me to. 

Tricked by Tara the Terror again. 

“You’re going to get it, Tara,” I grumbled. I tried to grab her, but she 
dodged out of reach and ran into the house. 

I chased her into the kitchen. She screamed and hid behind my mother. 

“Mom! Hide me! Michael’s going to get me!” she shrieked. 

As if she were afraid of me. Fat chance. 

“Michael Webster!” Mom scolded. “Stop chasing your little sister.” 

She glanced at my feet and added, “Is that gum on your shoe? Oh, 
Michael, you’re tracking it all over the floor!” 

“Tara made me step on it!” I whined. 

Mom frowned. “Do you expect me to believe that? Michael, you’re 
fibbing again.” 

“I am not!” I cried. 

Mom shook her head in disgust. “If you’re going to tell a lie, Michael, 
at least make it a good one.” 

Tara peeked out from behind Mom and taunted me. “Yeah, Michael .” 

Then she laughed. She loved this. 

She’s always getting me into trouble. My parents always blame me for 
stuff that’s her fault. But does Tara ever do anything wrong? Oh, no, never. 
She’s a perfect angel. Not a bad bone in her body. 

I’m twelve. Tara’s seven. She’s made the last seven years of my life 
miserable. 

Too bad I don’t remember the first five very well. The pre-Tara years. 
They must have been awesome! Quiet and peaceful—and fun! 

I went out to the back porch and scraped the sticky gum off my shoe. I 
heard the doorbell ring and Dad calling, “It’s here! I’ll get it.” 

Inside, everybody gathered around the front door. Two men were 
struggling to carry something heavy into the house. Something long and 
narrow and wrapped with padded gray cloth. 

“Careful,” Dad warned them. “It’s very old. Bring it in here.” 

Dad led the delivery guys into the den. They set the thing down on one 
end and began to unwrap it. It was about as wide as me and maybe a foot 
taller. 

“What is it?” Tara asked. 

Dad didn’t answer right away. He mbbed his hands together in 
anticipation. Our cat, Bubba, slinked into the room and rubbed against 
Dad’s legs. 

The gray cloth fell away, and I saw a very fancy old clock. It was 
mostly black but painted with lots of silver, gold, and blue designs, and 

decorated with scrolls, carvings, knobs, and buttons. 

The clock itself had a white face with gold hands and gold Roman 
numerals. I saw little secret doors hidden under the paint designs, and a big 
door in the middle of the clock. 

The delivery guys gathered up the gray padding. Dad gave them some 
money, and they left. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed. “It’s an antique cuckoo clock. It was a 
bargain. You know that store across from my office, Anthony’s Antiques 
and Stuff?” 

We all nodded. 

“It’s been in the shop for fifteen years,” Dad told us, patting the clock. 
“Every time I pass Anthony’s, I stop and stare at it. I’ve always loved it. 
Anthony finally put it on sale.” 

“Cool,” Tara said. 

“But you’ve been bargaining with Anthony for years, and he always 
refused to lower the price,” Mom said. “Why now?” 

Dad’s face lit up. “Well, today I went into the shop at lunchtime, and 
Anthony told me he’d discovered a tiny flaw on the clock. Something 
wrong with it.” 

I scanned the clock. “Where?” 

“He wouldn’t say. Do you see anything, kids?” 

Tara and I began to search the clock for flaws. All the numbers on the 
face were correct, and both the hands were in place. I didn’t see any chips 
or scratches. 

“I don’t see anything wrong with it,” Tara said. 

“Me, either,” I added. 

“Neither do I,” Dad agreed. “I don’t know what Anthony’s talking 
about. I told him I wanted to buy the clock anyway. He tried to talk me out 
of it, but I insisted. If the flaw is so tiny we don’t even notice it, what 
difference does it make? Anyway, I really do love this thing.” 

Mom cleared her throat. “I don’t know, dear. Do you think it really 
belongs in the den?” I could tell by her face that she didn’t like the clock as 
much as Dad did. 

“Where else could we put it?” Dad asked. 

“Well—maybe the garage?” 

Dad laughed. “I get it—you’re joking!” 

Mom shook her head. She wasn’t joking. But she didn’t say anything 
more. 

“I think this clock is just what the den needs, honey,” Dad added. 

On the right side of the clock I saw a little dial. It had a gold face and 
looked like a miniature clock. But it had only one hand. 

Tiny numbers were painted in black along the outside of the dial, 
starting at 1800 and ending at 3000. The thin gold hand pointed to one of 
the numbers: 2003. 

The hand didn’t move. Beneath the dial, a little gold button had been 
set into the wood. 

“Don’t touch that button, Michael,” Dad warned. “This dial tells the 
current year. The button moves the hand to change the year.” 

“That’s kind of silly,” Mom said. “Who ever forgets what year it is?” 

Dad ignored her. “See, the clock was built in 1800, where the dial 
starts. Every year the pointer moves one notch to show the date.” 

“So why does it stop at three thousand?” Tara asked. 

Dad shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess the clock-maker couldn’t 
imagine the year three thousand would ever come. Or maybe he figured the 
clock wouldn’t last that long.” 

“Maybe he thought the world would blow up in 2999,” I suggested. 

“Could be,” Dad said. “Anyway, please don’t touch the dial. In fact, I 
don’t want anyone touching the clock at all. It’s very old and very, very 
delicate. Okay?” 

“Okay, Dad,” Tara said. 

“I won’t touch it,” I promised. 

“Look,” Mom said, pointing at the clock. “It’s six o’clock. Dinner’s 
almost—” 

Mom was interrupted by a loud gong. A little door just over the clock 
face slid open—and a bird flew out. It had the meanest bird face I ever saw 
—and it dove for my head. 

I screamed. “It’s alive!” 

2 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The bird flapped its yellow feathers. Its eerie, bright blue eyes glared 
at me. It squawked six times. Then it jumped back inside the clock. The 
little door slid shut. 

“It’s not alive, Michael,” Dad said, laughing. “It sure is real-looking, 
though, isn’t it? Wow!” 

“You birdbrain!” Tara teased. “You were scared! Scared of a cuckoo 
clock!” She reached out and pinched me. 

“Get off me,” I growled. I shoved her away. 

“Michael, don’t push your sister,” Mom said. “You don’t realize how 
strong you are. You could hurt her.” 

“Yeah, Michael,” Tara said. 

Dad kept admiring the clock. He could hardly take his eyes off it. “I’m 
not surprised the cuckoo startled you,” he said. “There’s something special 
about this clock. It comes from the Black Forest of Germany. It’s supposed 
to be enchanted.” 

“Enchanted?” I echoed. “You mean, magic? How?” 

“Legend has it that the man who built this clock had magical powers. 
He put a spell on the clock. They say if you know the secret, you can use 
the clock to go back in time.” 

Mom scoffed. “Did Anthony tell you that? What a great way to sell an 
old clock. Claim it has magic powers!” 

Dad wouldn’t let her spoil his fun. “You never know,” he said. “It 
could be true. Why not?” 

“I think it’s true,” Tara said. 

“Herman, I wish you wouldn’t tell the kids these wild stories,” Mom 
chided. “It’s not good for them. And it only encourages Michael. He’s 
always making things up, telling fibs and impossible stories. I think he gets 
it from you.” 

I protested. “I don’t make things up! I always tell the truth!” 

How could Mom say that about me? 

“I don’t think it hurts the kids to use their imaginations once in a 

while,” Dad said. 

“Imagination is one thing,” Mom said. “Lies and fibs are something 
else.” 

I fumed. Mom was so unfair to me. The worst part was the expression 
of victory on Tara’s face. 

Making me look bad was her mission in life. I wanted to wipe that 
smirk off her face forever. 

“Dinner’s almost ready,” Mom announced, leaving the den. The cat 
followed her. “Michael, Tara—go wash up.” 

“And remember,” Dad warned. “No one touches the clock.” 

“Okay, Dad,” I said. 

Dinner smelled good. I started for the bathroom to wash up. As I 
passed Tara, she stomped hard on my foot. 

“Ow!” I yelled. 

“Michael!” Dad barked. “Stop making so much noise.” 

“But, Dad, Tara stomped on my foot.” 

“It couldn’t have hurt that much, Michael. She’s a lot smaller than you 

are.” 

My foot throbbed. I limped to the bathroom. Tara followed me. 

“You’re such a baby,” she taunted. 

“Be quiet, Tara,” I said. How did I get the worst sister in the world? 

We had pasta with broccoli and tomato sauce for dinner. Mom was on 
a big no-meat, low-fat kick. I didn’t mind. Pasta was better than what we’d 
had the night before—lentil soup. 

“You know, honey,” Dad complained to Mom, “a hamburger now and 
then never hurt anybody.” 

“I disagree,” Mom said. She didn’t have to say more. We’d all heard 
her lectures about meat and fat and chemicals before. 

Dad covered his pasta with a thick layer of Parmesan cheese. 

“Maybe the den should be off-limits for a while,” Dad suggested. “I 
hate to think of you two playing in there and breaking the clock.” 

“But, Dad, I have to do my homework in the den tonight,” I said. “I’m 
doing a report on Transportation in Many Lands.’ And I need to use the 
encyclopedia.” 

“Can’t you take it up to your room?” Dad asked. 

“The whole encyclopedia?” 

Dad sighed. “No, I guess you can’t. Well, all right. You can use the den 
tonight.” 

“I need to use the encyclopedia, too,” Tara announced. 

“You do not,” I snapped. She wanted to hang around the den and bug 
me, that was all. 

“I do, too. I’m supposed to read about the gold rush.” 

“You’re making that up. You don’t study the gold rush in the second 
grade. That’s not until fourth.” 

“What do you know about it? Mrs. Dolin is teaching us the gold rush 
now. Maybe I’m in a smarter class than you were.” 

Mom said, “Michael, really. If Tara says she needs to use the 
encyclopedia, why start a fight about it?” 

I sighed and stuffed a forkful of pasta in my mouth. Tara stuck her 
tongue out at me. 

There’s no point in talking, I thought. All it does is get me into trouble. 

I lugged my backpack into the den after dinner. No sign of Tara—yet. 
Maybe I’d be able to get some homework done before she came in and 
started pestering me. 

I dumped my books on Dad’s desk. The clock caught my eye. It wasn’t 
pretty—kind of ugly, really. But I liked looking at all those scrolls and 
buttons and knobs. It really did seem as if the clock could be magic. 

I thought about the flaw Dad had mentioned. I wondered what it was. 
Some kind of bump? A missing notch on one of the gears? Maybe a piece 
of chipped paint? 

I glanced back at the door to the den. Bubba wandered through it, 
purring. I petted him. 

Mom and Dad were still in the kitchen, cleaning up after dinner. I 
didn’t think it would matter if I just looked at the clock a little. 

Careful not to touch any buttons, I stared at the dial that showed the 
year. I ran my fingers along a curve of silver at the edge of the clock. I 
glanced at the little door over the face of the clock. I knew the cuckoo sat 
behind that door, waiting to leap out at the right time. 

I didn’t want to be surprised by the bird again. I checked the time. Five 
minutes to eight. 

Under the face of the clock I saw another door. A big door. I touched 

its gold knob. 

What’s behind this door? I wondered. Maybe the gears of the clock, or 
a pendulum. 

I glanced over my shoulder again. No one was looking. No problem if 
I just peeked behind that big clock door. 

I tugged on the gold knob. The door stuck. I pulled harder. 

The door flew open. 

I let out a scream as an ugly green monster burst out of the clock. It 
grabbed me and knocked me to the floor. 

3 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” I shrieked. 

The monster raised its long claws over me. I covered my face, waiting 
to be slashed. 

“Goochy goochy goo!” The monster giggled and tickled me with its 
claws. 

I opened my eyes. Tara! Tara in her old Halloween costume! 

She rolled on the floor, giggling. “You’re so easy to scare!” she 
shouted. “You should have seen your face when I jumped out of the clock!” 

“It’s not funny!” I cried. “It’s—” 

Gong. 

Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo! 

The bird popped out of the clock and started cuckooing. Okay, I admit 
it scared me again. But did Tara have to clutch her sides, laughing at me 
that way? 

“What’s going on in here?” Dad stood in the doorway, glaring down at 
us. 

He pointed at the clock. “What’s that door doing open? Michael, I told 
you to stay away from the clock!” 

“ME?” I cried. 

“He was trying to catch the cuckoo,” Tara lied. 

“I thought so,” Dad said. 

“Dad, that’s not true! Tara’s the one who—” 

“Enough of that, Michael. I’m sick of hearing you blame Tara every 
time you do something wrong. Maybe your mother is right. Maybe I have 
been encouraging your imagination a little too much.” 

“That’s not fair!” I yelled. “I don’t have any imagination! I never make 
anything up!” 

“Dad, he’s lying,” Tara said. “I came in here and saw him playing with 
the clock. I tried to stop him.” 

Dad nodded, swallowing every word his precious Tara said. 

There was nothing I could do. I stormed off to my room and slammed 
the door. 

Tara was the biggest pain in the world, and she never got blamed for 
anything. She even mined my birthday. 

I turned twelve three days ago. Usually, people like their birthday. It’s 
supposed to be fun, right? 

Not for me. Tara made sure my birthday was the worst day of my life. 
Or at least one of the worst. 

First, she ruined my present. 

I could tell my parents were very excited about this present. My 
mother kept hopping around like a chicken, saying, “Don’t go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” 

I knew she’d hidden my present in there. But just to torture her, I 
asked, “Why not? Why can’t I go in the garage? The lock on my bedroom 
door is broken, and I need to borrow one of Dad’s tools....” 

“No, no!” Mom exclaimed. “Tell your father to fix the lock. He’ll get 
the tools. You can’t go in there, because... well... there’s a huge mound of 
trash in there. It really stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

Sad, isn’t it? And she thinks I get my “imagination” from Dad! 

“All right, Mom,” I promised. “I won’t go in the garage.” 

And I didn’t—even though the lock on my door really was broken. I 
didn’t want to spoil whatever surprise they had cooked up. 

They were throwing me a big birthday party that afternoon. A bunch of 
kids from school were coming over. Mom baked a cake and made snacks 
for the party. Dad ran around the house, setting up chairs and hanging crepe 
paper. 

“Dad, would you mind fixing the lock on my door?” I asked. 

I like my privacy—and I need that lock. Tara had broken it a week 
earlier. She’d been trying to kickbox the door down. 

“Sure, Michael,” Dad agreed. “Anything you say. After all, you’re the 
birthday boy.” 

“Thanks.” 

Dad took the toolbox upstairs and worked on the lock. Tara lounged 
around the dining room making trouble. As soon as Dad was gone, she 
pulled down a crepe paper streamer and left it lying on the floor. 

Dad fixed the lock and returned the tools to the garage. As he passed 
through the dining room, he noticed the torn-down streamer. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he mumbled. He taped it back 
up. A few minutes later, Tara tore it down again. 

“I know what you’re doing, Tara,” I told her. “Stop trying to wreck my 
birthday.” 

“I don’t have to wreck it,” she said. “It’s bad all by itself—just because 
it’s the day you were born.” She pretended to shudder in horror. 

I ignored her. It was my birthday. Nothing could keep me from having 
fun, not even Tara. 

That’s what I thought 

About half an hour before the party, Mom and Dad called me into the 
garage. 

I pretended to go along with Mom’s silly story. “What about the 
horrible trash?” 

“Oh, that,” Mom clucked. “I made it up.” 

“Really?” I said. “Wow. It was so believable.” 

“If you believed that, you must be a moron,” Tara said. 

Dad threw open the garage door. I stepped inside. 

There stood a brand-new 21-speed bike. The bike I’d wanted for a 
long time. 

The coolest bike I’d ever seen! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“I love it!” I cried. “It’s awesome! Thanks!” 

“Cool bike, Mike,” Tara said. “Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Before I could stop her, she climbed up on the seat of my new bike. 

“Tara, get off!” I yelled. 

She didn’t listen. She tried to reach her feet to the pedals, but her legs 
were too short. The bike fell over. 

“Tara!” Mom cried, running to the little brat’s side. “Are you hurt?” 

Tara stood up and brushed herself off. “I’m okay. I scraped my knee a 
little, though.” 

I picked up my bike and inspected it. It was no longer perfectly shiny 
and black. There was a huge white scratch across the middle bar. 

It was practically ruined. 

“Tara, you wrecked my bike! ” 

“Let’s not get overexcited, Michael,” Dad said. “It’s only a scratch.” 

“Don’t you even care about your sister?” Mom asked. “She could’ve 
been hurt!” 

“It’s her own fault! She shouldn’t have touched my bike in the first 
place!” 

“Michael, you have a lot to learn about being a good brother,” Dad 

said. 

They make me so mad sometimes! 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “Your friends will be here soon.” 

The party. I thought the party would make me feel better. After all, 
there would be cake, presents, and my best friends. What could go wrong? 

It started out okay. One by one my friends arrived, and they all brought 
me presents. I’d invited five guys: David, Josh, Michael B., Henry, and 
Lars; and three girls: Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona. 

I wasn’t so crazy about Ceecee and Rosie, but I really liked Mona. She 
has long, shiny brown hair and a turned-up nose that’s kind of cute. She’s 
tall, and good at basketball. There’s something sort of cool about her. 

Ceecee and Rosie are Mona’s best friends. I had to invite them if I was 
going to invite Mona. They always go everywhere together. 

Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona arrived all at once. They took off their 
jackets. Mona was wearing pink overalls over a white turtleneck. She 
looked great. I didn’t care what the other girls were wearing. 

“Happy birthday, Michael!” they all called out at the door. 

“Thanks,” I said. 

They each handed me a gift. Mona’s was small and flat and wrapped in 
silver paper. Probably a CD, I figured. But which one? What kind of CD 
would a girl like Mona think a guy like me would like? 

I set the presents on top of the pile in the living room. 

“Hey, Michael—what did your parents give you?” David asked. 

“Just a bike,” I said, trying to be cool about it. “A twenty-one speed.” 

I put on a CD. Mom and Tara brought in plates of sandwiches. Mom 
went back to the kitchen, but Tara stayed. 

“Your little sister is so cute,” Mona said. 

“Not once you get to know her,” I muttered. 

“Michael! That’s not very nice,” Mona said. 

“He’s a terrible big brother,” Tara told her. “He yells at me all the 

time.” 

“I do not! Get lost, Tara.” 

“I don’t have to.” She stuck her tongue out at me. 

“Let her stay, Michael,” Mona said. “She’s not bothering anybody.” 

“Hey, Mona,” Tara chirped. “You know, Michael really likes you.” 

Mona’s eyes widened. “He does?” 

My face got red-hot. I glared at Tara. I wanted to strangle her right 
then and there. But I couldn’t—too many witnesses. 

Mona started laughing. Ceecee and Rosie laughed, too. Luckily, the 
guys didn’t hear this. They were around the CD player, skipping from cut to 
cut. 

What could I say? I did like Mona. I couldn’t deny it—it would hurt 
her feelings. But I couldn’t admit it, either. 

I wanted to die. I wanted to sink through the floor and die. 

“Michael, your face is all red!” Mona cried. 

Lars heard this and called out, “What did Webster do now?” 

Some of the guys call me by my last name. 

I grabbed Tara and dragged her into the kitchen, Mona’s laughter 
ringing in my ears. 

“Thanks a lot, Tara,” I whispered. “Why did you have to tell Mona I 
like her?” 

“It’s true, isn’t it?” the brat said. “I always tell the truth.” 

“Yeah, right!” 

“Michael—” Mom interrupted. “Are you being mean to Tara again?” 

I stormed out of the kitchen without answering her. 

“Hey, Webster,” Josh called when I returned to the living room. “Let’s 
see your new bike.” 

Good, I thought. A way to get away from the girls. 

I led them to the garage. They all stared at the bike and nodded at each 
other. They seemed really impressed. Then Henry grabbed the handlebars. 

“Hey, what’s this big scratch?” he said. 

“I know,” I explained. “My sister...” 

I stopped and shook my head. What was the use? 

“Let’s go back and open my presents,” I suggested. 

We trooped back into the living room. 

At least I’ve got more presents coming, I thought. Tara can’t ruin 
those. 

But Tara always finds a way. 

When I entered the living room, I found Tara sitting in the middle of a 
pile of torn-up wrapping paper. Rosie, Mona, and Ceecee sat around her, 
watching. 

Tara had opened all my presents for me. 

Thanks so much, Tara. 

She was ripping open the last present—Mona’s. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

It was a CD. 

“I’ve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara teased. 

Everybody laughed. They all thought Tara was a riot. 

Later, we all sat down in the dining room for cake and ice cream. I carried 
the cake myself. Mom followed me, holding plates, candles, and matches. 

It was my favorite kind of cake, chocolate-chocolate. 

Balancing the cake in my hands, I stepped through the kitchen door 
and into the dining room. 

I didn’t see Tara pressed against the wall. I didn’t see her stick her 
bratty little foot in the doorway. 

I tripped. The cake flew out of my hands. 

I landed on top of the cake. Facedown. Of course. 

Some kids gasped. Some tried to muffle their laughter. 

I sat up and wiped the brown frosting from my eyes. 

The first face I saw was Mona’s. She was shaking with laughter. 

Mom leaned over and scolded me. “What a mess! Michael, why don’t 
you look where you’re going?” 

I listened to the laughter and stared at my ruined cake. I had no candles 
to blow out now. But it didn’t matter. I decided to make a wish, anyway. 

I wish I could start this birthday all over again. 

I stood up, covered in gooey brown cake. My friends howled. 

“You look like the Hulk!” Rosie cried. 

Everybody laughed harder than ever. 

They all had a great time at my party. Everyone did. 

Except for me. 

My birthday was bad—very bad. But ruining it wasn’t the worst thing 
Tara did to me. 

Nobody would believe the worst thing. 

4 

It happened the week before my birthday. Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie were 
coming over. We all had parts in the school play, and planned to rehearse 
together at my house. 

The play was a new version of The Frog Prince. Mona played the 
princess, and Ceecee and Rosie were her two silly sisters. Perfect casting, I 
thought. 

I played the frog, before the princess kisses him and turns him into a 
prince. For some reason, our drama teacher didn’t want me to play the 
prince. Josh got that part. 

Anyway, I decided that the frog is a better part. Because Mona, the 
princess, kisses the frog, not the prince. 

The girls would arrive any minute. 

Tara sat on the rug in the den, torturing our cat, Bubba. Bubba hated 
Tara almost as much as I did. 

Tara lifted Bubba by the hind legs, trying to make him do a handstand. 
Bubba yowled and squirmed and wriggled away. But Tara caught him and 
made him do a handstand again. 

“Stop that, Tara,” I ordered. 

“Why?” Tara said. “It’s fun.” 

“You’re hurting Bubba.” 

“No, I’m not. He likes it. See? He’s smiling.” She let go of his hind 
legs and grabbed him with one hand under his front legs. With the other 
hand she lifted the corners of his mouth and stretched them into a pained 
smile. 

Bubba tried to bite her. He missed. 

“Tara,” I said, “let him go. And get out of here. My friends are coming 
over.” 

“No.” Now Tara tried to make Bubba walk on his front paws. He fell 
and bumped his nose. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. As I tried to take Bubba away from her, she let 
the cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom stood in the 
doorway. Bubba slipped past her into the hall. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. She left, 
calling over her shoulder, “I’m going upstairs to lie down for a while. I have 
a headache.” 

The doorbell rang. “We’ll get it, Mom!” I called. 

I knew it must be the girls at the door. I wanted to surprise them in my 
frog costume, but I wasn’t ready yet. 

“Answer the door, Tara,” I told the brat. “Tell Mona and the others to 
wait for me in the den. I’ll be right back.” 

“Okay,” Tara said. She trotted off to the front door. I hurried upstairs to 
change into my costume. 

I pulled the costume out of my closet. I took off my pants and shirt. I 
picked up the frog suit, trying to open the zipper. It was stuck. 

I stood there in my underwear, tugging at the zipper. Then my 
bedroom door clicked open. 

“Here he is, girls,” I heard Tara say. “He told me to bring you 
upstairs.” 

No! I thought. Please don’t let it be true! 

I was afraid to look up. I knew what I’d see. 

The door wide open. Mona, Ceecee, Rosie, and Tara, staring at me in 
my underwear! 

I forced myself to look. It was worse than I’d thought. 

There they all stood—staring and laughing! 

Tara laughed hardest of all. She laughed like a rotten little hyena. 

You think that’s bad? Wait. There’s more. 

* * * 

Two days before the underwear disaster, I was hanging around after school, 
playing basketball in the gym with Josh, Henry, and some other guys, 
including Kevin Flowers. 

Kevin is a good player, big and tough. He is twice as tall as me! He 
loves basketball. The Duke Blue Devils are his favorite college team. He 
wears a Blue Devils cap to school every day. 

While we were shooting baskets, I spied Tara hanging around the 
sidelines, where we’d all tossed our jackets and backpacks against the wall. 

I got a bad feeling. I always do when Tara’s around. 

What’s she doing there? I wondered. 

Maybe her teacher kept her after school, and she’s waiting for me to 
walk her home. 

She’s just trying to distract me, I told myself. Don’t let her. Don’t think 
about her. Just concentrate on the game. 

I felt good. I actually sank a few baskets before the game ended. My 
side won. We had Kevin Flowers on our team, that’s why. 

We all jogged to the wall to get our packs. Tara was gone. 

Funny, I thought. I guess she went home without me. 

I hoisted my pack over my shoulder and said, “See you tomorrow, 
guys.” 

But Kevin’s voice boomed through the gym. “Nobody move!” 

We all froze. 

“Where’s my cap?” he demanded. “My Blue Devils cap is missing!” 

I shrugged. I didn’t know where his stupid cap was. 

“Somebody took my cap,” Kevin insisted. “Nobody leaves until we 
find it.” 

He grabbed Henry’s backpack and started pawing through it. Everyone 
knows how much Kevin loves that cap. 

But Josh pointed at me. “Hey—what’s that hanging out of Webster’s 
pack?” he asked. 

“My pack?” I cried. I glanced over my shoulder. 

I saw a patch of blue sticking out of the zippered pocket. 

My stomach lurched. 

Kevin strode over to me and ripped the cap out of my pack. 

“I don’t know how it got there, Kevin,” I insisted. “I swear—” 

Kevin didn’t wait to hear my excuses. He never was much of a listener. 

Til spare you the blood and gore. Let’s just say my clothes didn’t fit 
too well when Kevin got through taking me apart! 

Josh and Henry helped me home. My mom didn’t recognize me. My 
eyes and nose had traded places with my chin. 

While I was in the bathroom cleaning myself up, I caught a glimpse of 
Tara in the mirror. The bratty grin on her face told me all I needed to know. 

“You!” I cried. “You put Kevin’s cap in my pack! Didn’t you!” 

Tara just grinned. Yeah. She did it, all right. 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why did you do it, Tara?” 

Tara shrugged and tried to look innocent. “Was that Kevin’s cap?” she 
said. “I thought it was yours.” 

“What a lie!” I cried. “I never wore a Duke cap, and you know it! You 
did that on purpose!” 

I was so furious, I couldn’t stand to look at her. I slammed the 
bathroom door in her face. 

And of course I got in trouble for slamming the door. 

Now you understand what I had to live with. 

Now you know why I did the terrible thing that I did. 

Anyone in my place would have done the same. 

5 

I stayed in my room that night, thinking hard. Plotting a way to get Tara in 
trouble. 

But nothing came to me. At least, nothing good enough. 

Then the clock arrived. A few days later, Tara did something that gave 
me an idea. 

Tara couldn’t stay away from the cuckoo clock. One afternoon, Dad 
caught Tara playing with the clock hands. She didn’t get into any real 
trouble, of course—not sweet little Tara. But Dad did say, “I’ve got my eye 
on you, young lady. No more playing with the clock.” 

At last! I thought. At last Dad realizes that Tara’s not a perfect angel. 
And at last I’ve found a way to get her into big trouble. 

If something went wrong with the clock, I knew Tara would be blamed 
for it. 

So I decided to make sure something did go wrong. 

Tara deserved to get into trouble for the hundreds of terrible things she 
did to me. 

So what if just once she gets blamed for something she didn’t do? I 
thought. It’s only evening the score a little. 

That night, after everybody was asleep, I sneaked downstairs to the 

den. 

It was almost midnight. I crept up to the clock and waited. 

One minute to go. 

Thirty seconds. 

Ten seconds. 

Six, five, four, three, two, one... 

The gong sounded. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The yellow bird popped out. I grabbed it in mid-cuckoo. It made short, 
strangling noises. 

I twisted its head around, so it faced backwards. It looked really funny 
that way. 

It finished out its twelve cuckoos, facing the wrong way. 

I laughed to myself. When Dad saw it, he’d go ballistic ! 

The cuckoo slid back into its little window, still facing backwards. 

This is going to drive Dad insane! I thought wickedly. 

He’ll be furious at Tara. He’ll explode like a volcano! 

Finally, Tara will know what it feels like to be blamed for something 
you didn’t do. 

I crept back upstairs. Not a sound. No one saw me. 

I fell asleep that night a happy guy. There’s nothing like revenge. 

I slept late the next morning. I couldn’t wait to see Dad blow up at Tara. I 
just hoped I hadn’t missed it already. 

I hurried downstairs. I checked the den. 

The door stood open. 

No one there. No sign of trouble yet. 

Good, I thought. I haven’t missed it. 

I made my way into the kitchen, hungry. Mom, Dad, and Tara sat 
around the table, piled with empty breakfast dishes. 

As soon as they saw me, their faces lit up. 

“Happy Birthday!” they cried all at once. 

“Very funny,” I snapped. I opened a cabinet. “Is there any more cereal 
left?” 

“Cereal!” Mom said. “Don’t you want something special, like 
pancakes?” 

I scratched my head. “Well, sure. Pancakes would be great.” 

This was a little strange. Usually if I woke up late, Mom said I had to 
fix my own breakfast. And why should I want something special, anyway? 

Mom mixed a fresh batch of pancake batter. “Don’t go in the garage, 
Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” She hopped up and 
down, all excited. Just as if it were my birthday again. 

Weird. 

“.. .there’s a huge mound of trash in there,” Mom was saying. “It really 
stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

“Mom, what’s with the trash story?” I asked. “I didn’t believe it the 
first time.” 

“Just don’t go into the garage,” she repeated. 

Why was she saying this to me? Why was she acting so weird? 

Dad excused himself, saying, “I’ve got a few important chores to do,” 
in a strange, jolly way. 

I shrugged and tried to eat my breakfast in peace. But after breakfast I 
passed through the dining room. Somebody had decorated it with crepe 
paper. One strand had been torn down. 

Weird. Totally weird. 

Dad came into the room, toolbox in hand. He picked up the torn piece 
of crepe paper and started to tape it back up again. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he asked. 

“Dad,” I said. “Why are you covering the dining room with crepe 
paper?” 

Dad smiled. “Because it’s your birthday, of course! Every birthday 
party needs crepe paper. Now, I bet you can’t wait to see your present, 
right?” 

I stared at him. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

6 

Mom and Dad led me to the garage. Tara followed. They all acted as if they 
were really going to give me a birthday present. 

Dad opened the garage door. 

There it was. The bike. 

It was perfectly shiny and new-looking. No scratches anywhere. 

That must be the surprise, I thought. They figured out a way to get rid 
of the scratch somehow. Or maybe they got me another new bike! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“It’s awesome!” I replied. 

Tara said, “Cool bike, Mike. Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Then she jumped up on the seat. The bike fell over on her. When we 
pulled it up, it had a big scratch on it. 

Mom cried, “Tara! Are you hurt?” 

I couldn’t believe it. What a nightmare! 

It was happening all over again. Exactly as it had happened on my 
birthday. 

What’s going on? 

“What’s wrong, Michael?” Dad asked. “Don’t you like the bike?” 

What could I say? I felt sick. I felt so confused. 

Then it dawned on me. 

It must have been my wish, I thought. 

My birthday wish. 

After Tara tripped me and I fell on my cake, I wished I could go back 
in time and start my birthday all over again. 

Somehow my wish came tme. 

Wow! I thought. This is kind of cool. 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “The party guests will be here soon.” 

The party? 

Oh, no. 

Please, no! 

Do I have to live through that horrible party again? 

7 

Yes. 

Yes, I had to live through the whole horrible nightmare again. 

My friends all showed up, just like the first time. 

I heard Tara say the awful words, “Hey, Mona. You know, Michael 
really likes you.” 

Mona said, “He does?” 

You already knew that, Mona, I thought. Tara told you four days ago. 

You were standing in that very same spot. Wearing those same pink 
overalls. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie cracked up. 

I panicked. This can’t go on, I thought. 

My mother came in, carrying a tray of soda. I grabbed her. 

“Mom,” I begged. “Please take Tara away. Shut her up in her room or 
something!” 

“Michael, why? Your sister wants to have fun, too.” 

“Mom— please !” 

“Oh, Michael, you’re being silly. Be nice to Tara. She won’t bother 
you. She’s just a little girl.” 

Mom left the room, stranding me with Tara and my friends. 

She couldn’t save me. 

No one could. 

I showed the guys my new bike. Henry said, “Hey, what’s this big 
scratch?” 

When we got back to the living room, there were all my presents, 
opened by Tara. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

I know, I know, I thought. A CD. With great love songs on it. 

“I’ve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara repeated. 

Everybody laughed. 

It was just as bad as before. 

No. Worse. Because I could see it all coming. And I couldn’t stop it. 

Could I? 

“Michael,” Mom called. “Come into the kitchen, please. It’s time for 
the birthday cake!” 

Here’s the test, I thought, dragging myself into the kitchen. 

I’ll carry in the cake—but this time I won’t trip. 

I know Tara is going to try and trip me. I won’t let her. 

I won’t make a fool of myself this time. 

I don’t have to. I don’t have to repeat everything the same way. 

Do I? 

8 

I stood in the kitchen, staring at the cake. I could hear my friends laughing 
and talking in the dining room. Tara was in there, too. 

I knew she was standing just beyond the dining room door, waiting. 
Waiting to stick out her foot and trip me. Waiting to make me fall on my 
face and embarrass myself all over again. 

Not this time. 

I carefully picked up the cake in both hands. I started toward the 
dining room. 

Mom followed, just as before. 

I stopped in front of the entrance to the dining room. I glanced down. 
No sign of Tara’s foot. 

Carefully, watching closely, I stepped through the door. One step. 

So far, so good. 

Another step. I stood inside the dining room now. 

I’d made it! All I had to do was get to the table, about five steps away, 
and I’d be safe. 

I took another step forward. Another. 

Then I felt a tug on my foot. 

Tara reached out from under the table. 

So that was where she’d been hiding. I knew it now. But it was too 

late. 

Everything seemed to move in slow motion. Like in a dream. 

I heard an evil giggle. 

She grabbed my foot. 

Oh, no, I thought. It’s happened. 

I lost my balance. 

As I fell, I turned my head and glanced back. 

Tara sat under that table, smirking at me. 

I wanted to kill her. 

But first I had to fall on my face on a cake. 

The cake flew out of my arms. I turned my head again. 

Splat! 

Everybody gasped with laughter. I sat up and wiped the frosting from 
my eyes. 

Mona leaned over the table, laughing harder than anybody. 

The second time was more embarrassing than the first. 

I sat on the floor, my face covered with cake, thinking, how could I 
have been so stupid? 

Why did I have to make that wish? 

I’ll never wish for anything ever again. 

I cleaned myself up and managed to survive the rest of the party. When 
I went to bed that night, I thought, at least it’s over. 

I switched off the light and pulled the covers up high. 

It’s over, I repeated. I’ll go to sleep, and everything will be back to 
normal in the morning. 

I shut my eyes and fell asleep. But in my dreams, all night long, I saw 
scenes from my horrible birthday party. The nightmare party became a real 
nightmare. 

There was Tara, telling Mona that I liked her. Mona’s face loomed up 
large in my dreams, laughing, laughing. Ceecee and Rosie and the guys, all 
laughing right in my face. 

I tripped and fell on top of the cake, over and over again. 

I tossed and turned. Each dream was scarier than the last. Soon my 
friends looked like horrible monsters. And Tara was the most horrible of all. 
Her features melted into a blur as she laughed and laughed at me. 

Wake up, I told myself. Wake up! 

I dragged myself out of the nightmare world. I sat up in bed, in a cold 
sweat. 

The room was still dark. I glanced at the clock. 

Three o’clock in the morning. 

I can’t sleep, I thought miserably. I can’t calm down. 

I’ve got to tell Mom and Dad what happened. Maybe they can help. 

Maybe they can make me feel better. 

I climbed out of bed and hurried down the dark hall to their room. 
Their door was open a crack. 

I pushed it open. 

“Mom? Dad? Are you awake?” 

Dad rolled over and grunted, “Huh?” 

I shook Mom’s shoulder. “Mom?” 

Mom stirred. “What is it, Michael?” she whispered. She sat up and 
grabbed the clock radio. In the clock’s dim blue glow I saw her squint, 
trying to read the time. 

“It’s three o’clock!” she cried. 

Dad snorted and sat up suddenly. “Huh? What?” 

“Mom, you’ve got to listen to me!” I whispered. “Something creepy 
happened today. Didn’t you notice it?” 

“Michael, what is this—” 

“My birthday,” I explained. “Tara ruined my birthday, and I wished I 
could have it all over again. I wanted to make it better. But I never thought 
the wish would come true! Then, today, it was my birthday again! And 
everything happened exactly the same. It was horrible!” 

Dad rubbed his eyes. “That you, Michael?” 

Mom patted him. “Go back to sleep, dear. Michael’s just had a bad 
dream.” 

“No, Mom,” I cried. “It wasn’t a dream. It was real! My birthday 
happened twice! You were there, both times. Don’t you understand?” 

“Listen, Michael,” Mom began. I heard impatience in her voice. “I 
know you’re excited about your birthday, but it’s two days away. Only two 
days to go—then it will be your birthday at last! Okay? So go back to bed 
now and get some sleep.” 

She kissed me good night. “Only two days till your birthday. Sweet 
dreams.” 

9 

I staggered back to bed, my head spinning. 

Two days until my birthday? 

Hadn’t I just lived through my birthday—twice? 

I switched on the reading lamp and stared at the date on my watch. 
February third, it said. 

My birthday is February fifth. My birthday was two days away. 

Could it be true? Was time going backwards? 

No, I thought. I must be going nuts. 

I shook my head hard. I slapped myself a few times. Going back in 
time. I laughed at the idea. 

It’s impossible, I thought. Get a hold of yourself, Michael. 

All I did was wish to celebrate my birthday over again— once. 

I didn’t wish to repeat my twelfth birthday for the rest of my life! 

But if that’s what’s happening, why is it now two days before my 
birthday? Why isn’t it just the night before? 

Maybe time really is going backwards, I thought. Maybe this has 
nothing to do with my wish. 

But, then—why is this happening to me? 

I racked my brains. 

The clock. Dad’s cuckoo clock. 

I twisted the cuckoo’s head backwards... went to bed... and when I 
woke up, time had gone backwards. 

Could that be it? Did / do this? 

Is Dad’s clock really magic? 

Maybe I shouldn’t have turned that stupid bird backwards, I decided. It 
figures—I try to get Tara in trouble, and end up getting myself into a 
horrible mess. 

Well, if that is what happened, it’s easy enough to fix. 

I’ll just go downstairs and turn the cuckoo’s head back around. 

I tiptoed out of my room and down the stairs. My parents had probably 
fallen back to sleep already, but I didn’t want to take any chances. 

I definitely didn’t want Dad to catch me fooling around with his 
precious clock. 

My feet hit the cold, bare floor of the foyer. I crept into the den. I 
switched on a lamp. I glanced around the room. The cuckoo clock was 
gone! 

10 

“No!” I cried. 

Had the clock been stolen? 

Without the clock, how could I fix everything? How could I turn the 
bird’s head around and make my life go forward again? 

I raced upstairs. I didn’t care who I woke up now. 

“Mom! Dad!” I yelled. I burst into their room and shook Mom awake 
again. 

“Michael, what is it?” She sounded furious. “It’s the middle of the 
night. We’re trying to get some sleep!” 

Let them be angry, I thought. This was way more important. 

“The cuckoo clock! It’s gone!” 

Dad rolled over. “What? Huh?” 

“Michael, you’ve had another nightmare,” Mom assured me. 

“It’s not a nightmare, Mom—it’s true! Go downstairs and see for 
yourself! There’s no cuckoo clock in the den!” 

“Michael—listen to me. It was a dream.” Mom’s voice was firm. “We 
don’t own a cuckoo clock. We never did.” 

I staggered backwards. 

“It’s just a dream. A bad dream,” she said. 

“But Dad bought it....” 

I stopped. 

I understood now. 

The date was February third. Two days before my birthday. 

And five days before Dad bought the cuckoo clock. 

We were traveling back in time. Dad hadn’t bought the clock yet. 

I felt sick. 

Mom said, “Michael, are you all right?” She climbed out of bed and 
pressed the back of her hand against my forehead. 

“You feel a little warm,” she said, nicer now that she thought I might 
be sick. “Come on, let’s get you to bed. I’ll bet you have a fever—and that’s 
why you’re having all these nightmares.” 

Dad grunted again. “What? Sick?” 

“I’ll take care of it, Herman,” Mom whispered. “Go back to sleep.” 

She guided me back to bed. She thought I was sick. 

But I knew the truth. 

I had made time move backwards. And the clock was gone. How 
would I fix things now? 

By the time I got to the kitchen the next morning, Mom, Dad, and Tara had 
already eaten. 

“Hurry up, Michael,” Dad said. “You’ll be late.” 

Being late for school didn’t seem to matter much at the moment. 

“Dad, please sit down for a second,” I pleaded. “Just for a minute. It’s 
important.” 

Dad sat, impatiently, on the edge of a kitchen chair. “Michael, what is 

it?” 

“Mom, are you listening?” I asked. 

“Sure, honey,” Mom said. She put the milk in the refrigerator and 
busily wiped off the counter. 

“This is going to sound weird,” I began. “But I’m not kidding.” 

I paused. Dad waited. I could tell by the tension in his face he expected 
me to say something totally dopey. 

I didn’t disappoint him. 

“Dad, time is going backwards. Every day I wake up—and it’s an 
earlier day than the last!” 

Dad’s face drooped. “Michael, you have a wonderful imagination, but 
I’m really running late. Can we talk about it when I get home from work 
tonight? Or why don’t you write it down? You know I love reading science 
fiction stories.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Mom said, “Did somebody remember to feed the cat?” 

“I did it,” Tara said. “Even though it’s supposed to be Michael’s job.” 
“Thanks, Tara,” Mom said. “Let’s hit the road, everybody.” 

I grabbed a muffin as Mom hustled us out the door. 

They’re too busy to understand right now, I reasoned as I hurried to 
school. Tonight, at dinner, when I have more time to explain... 

I had lots of time to think about my problem during school. I’d lived 

through this day before, too. I’d already done all the work, heard all the 
lessons, eaten the lousy lunch. 

When my math teacher, Mr. Parker, turned his back to the class, I 
knew what would happen next. I predicted it to the second. Kevin Flowers 
threw an eraser at him and hit him smack on the back of his black pants. 

Now Mr. Parker is going to turn around... I thought, watching Mr. 
Parker. 

He turned around. 

.. .now he’ll yell at Kevin... 

Mr. Parker shouted, “Kevin Flowers—to the principal’s office, now!” 

.. .now Kevin will start yelling his head off. 

“How do you know it was me!” Kevin yelled. “You didn’t see me do 
anything!” 

The rest of the scene happened as I remembered it. Mr. Parker cowered 
a bit—Kevin is pretty big—but told Kevin to go to the principal’s office 
again. Kevin kicked over an empty chair and threw his books across the 
room. 

It was all so boring. 

After school, I found Tara in the den, teasing Bubba. She lifted his 
hind legs and made him walk on his front paws. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. I tried to take Bubba away from her. She let the 
cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

It felt very familiar. And painful. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom demanded. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. 

The doorbell rang. 

Oh, no. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie. The Frog Prince. 

The underwear. 

I can’t let it happen. 

But my feet started taking me upstairs. I was walking like a robot to 
my room. 

Why am I doing this? I asked myself. 

I’ll get out my frog costume. The zipper will be stuck. 

Tara will open the door, and I’ll be standing there in my underpants. 
Mona will laugh her head off. I’ll want to sink through the floor. 

I know all this will happen. 

So why am I doing it? 

Can’t I stop myself? 

11 

Don’t go upstairs, I begged myself. Don’t go to your room. 

You don’t have to do this. 

There must be a way to stop it, to control it. 

I forced myself to turn around. I walked back down the steps. I sat 
down on the third step. 

Tara answered the door, and soon the girls stood before me in the 
foyer. 

Okay, I thought. I’m controlling it. Already things are happening 
differently from before. 

“Michael, where’s your costume?” Mona asked. “I really want to see 
what your costume looks like.” 

“Uh, no you don’t,” I said, shrinking a little. “It’s really ugly, and I 
don’t want to scare you girls—” 

“Don’t be a jerk, Michael,” Ceecee said. “Why would we be scared by 
a stupid frog costume?” 

“And, anyway, I want to rehearse with it,” Mona added. “I don’t want 
to see the costume for the first time onstage. I’ll need to be prepared for it. I 
need to practice with the costume—and you in it.” 

“Come on, Michael,” Tara put in. “Show them the costume. I want to 
see it, too.” 

I flashed her a dirty look. I knew what she had in mind. 

“No,” I insisted. “I can’t do that.” 

“Why not?” Mona demanded. 

“I just can’t.” 

“He’s shy!” Rosie exclaimed. 

“He’s embarrassed,” Tara added. 

“No, it’s not that,” I said. “It’s just that... it’s awfully hot in that 
costume, and—” 

Mona leaned close to me. I smelled something sweet, like 
strawberries. It must’ve been the shampoo she used. “Come on, Michael,” 
she said. “For me?” 

“No.” 

She stamped her foot. “I won’t rehearse our scenes unless you put on 
that costume!” 

I sighed. I didn’t see any way out of it. 

Mona wouldn’t leave me alone until I put on that frog costume. 

I gave in. “Okay.” 

“Hurray!” Tara cried. I gave her another dirty look. 

All right, I thought. I may have to put on the costume. But that doesn’t 
mean the girls have to see me in my underwear. 

I can still keep that from happening. 

I trudged up to my room. But this time, I locked the door. 

Now try to embarrass me, Tara, I thought. You can’t outsmart Michael 
Webster. No way. 

The door was locked. I felt sure I was safe. 

I took off my jeans and my shirt. I dragged the frog costume out of the 
closet. 

I tugged on the zipper. It was stuck. 

Just like the last time. 

But this time it’s okay, I told myself. The door is locked. I have 
privacy. 

Then the door flew open. 

I stood helplessly in my underwear. Mona, Rosie, and Ceecee stared at 
me. Then they screamed and started laughing. 

“Tara!” I yelled. “The door was locked!” 

“No, it wasn’t,” Tara replied. “The lock’s broken, remember?” 

“No!” I cried. “Dad fixed it... he fixed it...” 

I tried to remember when Dad had fixed the lock on my bedroom door. 
Oh, right. 

It was after the underwear nightmare. On my birthday. 

So it hadn’t happened yet. 

How was I supposed to keep all this straight? 

Oh, no, I thought. I’m doomed. 

Time is all messed up. And I have no way of stopping it. 

I began to shake. This was too frightening. 

Where would it end? I had no idea. It was getting scarier by the 
minute. 

I could hardly eat dinner that night. I’d eaten it before, of course, and hadn’t 
liked it the first time. Peas, carrots, and mushrooms. Over brown rice. 

I picked at the rice and the carrots. I never eat peas. I slipped them into 
my napkin when Mom and Dad weren’t looking. 

I watched Mom, Dad, and Tara eat dinner as if nothing were wrong. 
They sat calmly around the table, saying the same things they’d said last 
time. 

Mom and Dad must notice that something is weird, I thought. They 
must. 

So why don’t they say anything about it? 

I waited for Dad to finish telling us about his day at work. Then I 
brought up the subject again. I decided to take it slowly. 

“Mom? Dad? Doesn’t this dinner seem a little bit familiar?” 

“I’ll say,” Dad replied. “It reminds me of the lunch we ate at that 
vegetarian restaurant last month. Ugh.” 

Mom glared at him, then at me. “What are you trying to tell us, 
Michael?” she said frostily. “Are you tired of eating healthy food?” 

“I am,” Dad said. 

“Me, too,” Tara chimed in. 

“No. No way,” I insisted. “You don’t understand. I don’t mean that 
we’ve eaten food like this before. I mean that we have eaten this very meal 
before. We’re eating it twice.” 

Dad frowned. “No weird theories at the dinner table, please, Michael.” 

They weren’t getting it. I plowed ahead. “It’s not just this dinner. It’s 
this whole day. Haven’t you noticed? We’re doing everything over! Time is 
going backwards!” 

“Shut up, Michael,” Tara said. “This is so boring. Can’t we talk about 
something else?” 

“Tara,” Mom scolded, “don’t say ‘shut up’.” She turned to me. “Have 
you been reading those comic books again?” 

I grew very frustrated. “You’re not listening to me!” I cried. 
“Tomorrow is going to be yesterday, and the day after that will be the day 
before! Everything is going backwards!” 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. They seemed to be sharing a secret. 

They do know something, I thought with excitement. They know 
something, but they’re afraid to tell me. 

Mom gazed at me very seriously. “All right, Michael. We might as 
well tell you,” she said. “We’re all caught in a time warp, and there’s 
nothing we can do about it.” 

12 

Mom pushed back her chair. She walked backwards to the stove. She 
started dishing rice from her plate into the pot on the stove. 

“Yenoh, ecir erom?” she asked Dad. 

Huh? 

“Esaelp, sey,” Dad replied. 

“Oot, em,” Tara said. She spit some rice out on her fork and dumped it 
back on her plate. She was eating backwards! 

Dad stood up and walked backwards to Mom. Then Tara skipped 
backwards around the kitchen table. 

They were all talking and moving backwards. We really were in a time 
warp! 

“Hey!” I cried. “It’s true!” 

Why wasn’t I talking backwards, too? 

“Norom,” Tara said. 

She cracked up first. Then Dad started laughing. Then Mom. 

I finally caught on. It was a joke. “You—you’re all horrible !” I cried. 

That made them laugh even more. 

“I was wondering when you’d figure it out,” Tara sneered. 

They all sat down at the table again. Mom couldn’t help grinning. 
“We’re sorry, Michael. We didn’t mean to make fun of you.” 

“Yes we did!” Tara exclaimed. 

I stared at them in horror. 

This was the most terrible thing that had ever happened to me. And my 
parents thought it was a big joke. 

Then Dad said, “Michael, did you ever hear of dejr vu?” 

I shook my head. 

“It’s when something happens to you and you have the feeling it’s 
happened before,” he explained. “Everyone feels that way once in a while. 
It’s nothing to be afraid of.” 

“Maybe you’re nervous about something,” Mom added. “Like your 
birthday coming up. I’ll bet you’re a little nervous about turning twelve, 

right? And planning your party and everything?” 

“Not really,” I protested. “I know that feeling. But this isn’t the same 
thing! This is—” 

“Say, Mike,” Dad interrupted. “Wait till you see what I got you for 
your birthday. You’re going to flip! It’s a big surprise.” 

No, it isn’t, I thought unhappily. 

It’s not a surprise at all. You’ve given me that birthday present twice 
already. How many times are you going to give me that stupid bike? 

“Mom, Michael is hiding peas in his napkin again,” Tara ratted. 

I smushed the peas up in my napkin and threw it in her face. 

When I went to school the next morning, I wasn’t sure what day it was. It 
was getting hard to keep track. My classes, my lunch, the stuff my friends 
said all seemed familiar. But nothing unusual happened. It could have been 
any day of the school year. 

I played basketball after school that day, as usual. While I was playing, 
a funny feeling crept over me. 

A bad feeling. 

I’ve already played this game, I realized. And it didn’t end well. 

But I kept on playing, waiting to see what would happen. 

My team won. We collected our packs. 

Then Kevin Flowers yelled, “Where’s my Blue Devils cap?” 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. 

This was that basketball game. How could I forget? 

Good old Tara. She’s done it again! “Nobody leaves until we find that 
cap!” I shut my eyes and handed over my pack. I knew what was coming. 
Might as well get it over with. 

Getting pounded to a pulp by Kevin Flowers hurt a lot. But at least the pain 
didn’t last long. 

The next morning when I woke up, it was all gone. The pain, the 
scabs, the bruises, everything. 

What day is it today? I wondered. It must be a few days before Kevin 
beat me up. 

I hope I won’t have to live through that a third time. 

But what will happen today? 

As I walked to school, I searched for clues. I tried to remember what 
had happened a day or two before Kevin beat me up. 

A math test? Maybe. I hoped not. But at least it would be easier this 
time around. I could even try to remember what the problems were and look 
up all the answers before the test! 

I was a little late today. Did that mean something? I wondered. Would 
I get into trouble? 

My homeroom teacher, Ms. Jacobson, had closed the classroom door. I 
opened it. The classroom was already full. 

Ms. Jacobson didn’t look up when I walked in. 

I must not be that late, I thought. Guess I won’t get in trouble after all. 

I started for the back of the room, where I usually sit. As I passed 
through the rows of desks, I glanced at the other kids. 

Who’s that guy? I wondered, staring at a chubby, blond kid I’d never 
seen before. 

Then I noticed a pretty girl with cornrows and three earrings in one 
ear. I’d never seen her before, either. 

I stared at all the faces in the classroom. None of the kids looked 
familiar. 

What’s going on? I wondered, feeling panic choke my throat. 

I don’t know any of these kids! 

Where’s my class? 

13 

Ms. Jacobson finally turned around. She stared at me. 

“Hey,” the blond kid shouted. “What’s a third-grader doing in here?” 

Everybody laughed. I couldn’t understand why. 

A third-grader? Who was he talking about? 

I didn’t see any third-graders. 

“You’re in the wrong classroom, young man,” Ms. Jacobson said to 
me. She opened the door, showing me the way out. 

“I think your room is downstairs on the second floor,” she added. 

“Thanks,” I said. I didn’t know what she was talking about. But I 
decided to go along with her. 

She shut the door behind her. I could hear the kids laughing behind the 
door. I hurried down the hall to the boy’s bathroom. I needed to splash some 
cold water on my face. Maybe that would help. 

I turned on the cold water tap. Then I glanced in the mirror, very 
quickly. 

The mirror seems a little higher than usual, I thought. 

I washed my hands in the cold water and splashed some on my face. 

The sink seems higher, too, I noticed. Strange. 

Am I in the right school? 

I glanced in the mirror again—and got the shock of my life. 

Was that me? 

I looked so young. 

I ran my hand through my short, brushlike brown hair. That dopey 
crew cut I’d had ah through the third grade. 

I don’t believe it, I thought, shaking my head. I’m a third-grader again! 

I’ve got my third-grade hair. My third-grade clothes. My third-grade 
body. 

But my seventh-grade brain. I think. 

Third grade. 

That means I’ve slipped back four years—in one night. 

My whole body started to tremble. I grabbed on to the sink to steady 

myself. 

I was suddenly paralyzed with fear. 

Things were speeding up. Now I lost whole years in one night! How 
old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I asked myself. 

Time was going backward faster and faster—and I still hadn’t found a 
way to stop it! 

I shut off the water and dried my face with a paper towel. I didn’t 
know what to do. I was so frightened, I couldn’t think straight. 

I walked back to my third-grade classroom. 

First I glanced through the window of the classroom door. There she 
was, Mrs. Harris, my old third-grade teacher. I’d know that helmet of silver 
hair anywhere. 

And I knew, as soon as I saw her, that I really had gone back in time 
four years. 

Because old Mrs. Harris shouldn’t have been in school that day. She’d 
retired two years earlier. When I was in fifth grade. 

I opened the door and stepped into the classroom. 

Mrs. Harris didn’t bat an eye. “Take a seat, Michael,” she commanded. 
She never mentioned the fact that I was late. 

Mrs. Harris always liked me. 

I checked out the other kids in the class. I saw Henry, Josh, Ceecee, 
and Mona, all little third-graders now. 

Mona wore her shiny brown hair in two braids. Ceecee wore hers in 
one of those stupid side ponytails. 

Josh didn’t have pimples on his forehead, I noticed. Henry had a 
sticker on the back of his hand—Donatello, from the Teenage Mutant Ninja 
Turtles. 

It was my class all right. 

I sat down at an empty desk in the back. My old desk. Right next to 
Henry. 

I glanced at him. He was picking his nose. 

Gross. I’d forgotten about that part of being a third-grader. 

“Michael, we’re on page 33 in your spelling book,” Mrs. Harris 
informed me. 

I reached inside the desk and found my spelling book. I opened it to 
page 33. 

“These are the words you’ll need to know for tomorrow’s spelling 
test,” Mrs. Harris announced. She wrote the words on the board, even 
though we could read them right there in the spelling book: Taste, sense, 
grandmother, easy, happiness. 

“Man,” Henry whispered to me. “These words are tough. Look how 
many letters there are in grandmother !” 

I didn’t know what to say to him. On my last spelling test (when I was 
still in the seventh grade), I’d had to spell psychology. Grandmother wasn’t 
a big challenge for me anymore. 

I zoned out for most of the day. I’d always wished school were easier, 
but not this easy. It was so babyish and boring. 

Lunch and recess were even worse. Josh chewed up a banana and 
stuck his tongue out at me. Henry painted his face with chocolate pudding. 

Finally the school day ended. I dragged my little third-grade body 
home. 

When I opened the front door, I heard a horrible screech. Bubba, just a 
kitten now, raced past me and out the door. Tara toddled after him. 

“Don’t tease the cat,” I scolded her. 

“You’re dumb,” she replied. 

I stared at Tara. She was three years old. 

I tried to remember: Had I liked her better when she was three? 

“Give me a piggyback!” she cried, tugging on my backpack. 

“Get off me,” I said. 

My pack dropped to the floor. I stooped to pick it up. She grabbed a 
hunk of my hair and yanked it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

She laughed and laughed. 

“That hurt!” I yelled, and shoved her—just as Mom stepped into the 
foyer. 

She rushed to Tara’s side. “Michael, don’t shove your sister. She’s only 
a little girl!” 

I stormed off to my room to think. 

No, I hadn ’t liked Tara better when she was three. She was as much of 
a brat as ever. 

She was born a brat, and she’d never grow out of it, I knew. She’d be a 
brat for the rest of her life, driving me crazy even when we’re old. 

If we ever get to be old, I thought with a shudder. We’ll never grow up 
at this rate. 

What am I going to do? I worried. I’ve slipped back in time four years! 
If I don’t do something fast, I’ll be a baby again. 

And then what? 

A cold shiver ran down my back. 

And then what? I asked myself. 

Will I disappear completely ? 

14 

I woke up in a panic every morning. 

What day was it? What year was it? 

I had no idea. 

I climbed out of bed—it seemed farther away from the floor than it 
used to—and padded across the hall to the bathroom. 

I stared in the mirror. How old was I? Younger than I’d been the day 
before, I knew that much. 

I went back to my room and began to get dressed. Mom had left my 
clothes for the day folded on a chair in my room. 

I examined the jeans I was supposed to wear. They had a picture of a 
cowboy on the back pocket. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. These jeans. The cowboy jeans. 

Second grade. 

That means I must be seven years old now. 

I stepped into the pants, thinking, I can’t believe I have to wear these 
stupid jeans again. 

Then I unfolded the shirt Mom had picked out for me. 

My heart sank when I saw it: A cowboy shirt—with fringe and 
everything. 

This is so embarrassing, I thought. How could I have ever let Mom do 
this to me? 

Deep down I knew that I used to like these clothes. I probably picked 
them out myself. 

But I couldn’t stand to admit that I’d ever been so stupid. 

Downstairs, Tara was still in her pajamas, watching cartoons. She was 
now two. 

When she saw me pass through the living room, she held out her arms 
to me. “Kiss! Kiss!” she called. 

She wanted me to kiss her? That didn’t seem like Tara. 

But maybe the two-year-old Tara was still sweet and innocent. Maybe, 
at two, Tara was actually likable. 

“Kiss! Kiss!” she begged. 

“Give poor Tara a kiss,” Mom called from the kitchen. “You’re her big 
brother, Michael. She looks up to you.” 

I sighed. “Okay.” 

I leaned down to give Tara a kiss on the cheek. With one chubby index 
finger, she poked me in the eye. 

“Ow!” I shrieked. 

Tara laughed. 

Same old terrible Tara, I thought as I stumbled into the kitchen, one 
hand over my sore eye. 

She was born bad! 

This time, at school, I knew which classroom to go to. 

There sat all my old friends, Mona and everybody, younger than ever. 
I’d forgotten how dopey everybody used to look when we were little. 

I sat through another dull day of learning stuff I already knew. 
Subtraction. How to read books with really big print. Perfecting my capital 
L. 

At least it gave me lots of time to think. 

Every day I tried to figure out what to do. But I never came up with an 
answer. 

Then I remembered Dad telling us he’d been wanting the cuckoo clock 
for fifteen years. 

Fifteen years! That’s it! The clock must be at that antique store! 

I’ll go find the clock, I decided. I couldn’t wait for school to end that 

day. 

I figured if I could turn the cuckoo around, time would go forward 
again. I knew the dial that showed the year must be going backwards, too. 
All I had to do was reset the date on the clock to the right year, and I’d be 
twelve again. 

I missed being twelve. Seven-year-olds don’t get away with much. 
Someone’s always watching you. 

When the school day ended, I started down the block toward my 
house. I knew the crossing guard was watching me, making sure I’d get 
home safely. 

But at the second block I dashed around the corner to the bus stop. I 
hoped the crossing guard hadn’t seen me. 

I stood behind a tree, trying not to be seen. 

A few minutes later, a bus pulled over. The doors opened with a hiss. I 
stepped aboard. 

The bus driver eyed me strangely. “Aren’t you a little young to be 
riding the bus by yourself?” he asked me. 

“Mind your own business,” I replied. 

He looked startled, so I added, “I’m meeting Daddy at his office. 
Mommy said it was okay.” 

He nodded and let the doors slide shut. 

I started to put three quarters in the coin slot, but the driver stopped me 
after two. 

“Whoa, there, buddy,” he said, pressing the third quarter into my palm. 
“Fare’s only fifty cents. Keep this quarter for a phone call.” 

“Oh, yeah. Right.” I’d forgotten. They raised the bus fare to 75 cents 
when I was eleven. But now I was only seven. I put the quarter in my 
pocket. 

The bus pulled away from the curb and chugged downtown. 

I remembered hearing Dad say that Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff was 
across the street from his office. I got off the bus at Dad’s block. 

I hoped Dad wouldn’t see me. I knew I’d be in big trouble if he did. 

I wasn’t allowed to ride the bus by myself when I was seven. 

I hurried past Dad’s building and crossed the street. On the corner 
stood a construction site; just a pile of bricks and rubble, really. Further 
down the block I saw a black sign with Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff 
painted on it in gold letters. 

My heart began to pound. 

I’m almost there, I thought. Soon everything will be all right. 

I’ll just walk into the store and find the clock. Then, when no one’s 
looking, I’ll turn the cuckoo around and fix the year. 

I won’t have to worry about waking up tomorrow morning as a three- 
year-old or something. My life will go back to normal. 

Life will seem so easy, I told myself, when time is moving forward the 
way it’s supposed to. Even with Tara around! 

I gazed through the big plate-glass window of the shop. There it stood, 
right in the window. The clock. 

My palms began to sweat, I felt so excited. 

I hurried to the shop door and turned the handle. 

It wouldn’t move. I jiggled it harder. 

The door was locked. 

Then I noticed a sign, tucked in the bottom corner of the door. 
It said, CLOSED FOR VACATION. 

15 

I let out a howl of frustration. “NOOO!” I cried. Tears sprang to my eyes. 
“No! Not after all this.” 

I banged my head against the door. I couldn’t stand it. 

Closed for vacation. 

How could I have such terrible luck? 

How long was Anthony planning to be on vacation? I wondered. How 
long will the shop be closed? 

By the time it reopens, I could be a baby! 

I gritted my teeth and thought, there’s no way I’m letting that happen. 
No way! 

I’ve got to do something. Anything. 

I pressed my nose against the shop window. The cuckoo clock was 
standing there, two feet in front of me. 

And I couldn’t get to it. 

The window stood between me and that clock. 

The window... 

Normally, I would never think of doing what I decided to do at that 
moment. 

But I was desperate. I had to reach that clock. 

It really was a matter of life and death! 

I strolled down the block to the construction site, trying to look casual. 
Trying not to look like a kid who was planning to break a shop window. 

I stuffed my hands in the pockets of my cowboy jeans and whistled. I 
was sort of grateful to be wearing this stupid cowboy outfit after all. It 
made me look innocent. 

Who would suspect a seven-year-old in a cowboy suit of trying to 
break into an antique shop? 

I kicked around a little dirt at the construction site. Kicked a few rocks. 
Nobody seemed to be working there. 

Slowly I made my way over to a pile of bricks. I glanced around to see 
if anybody saw me. 

The coast was clear. 

I picked up a brick and hefted it in my hand. It was very heavy. It 
wouldn’t be easy for me, in my little second-grade body, to throw it far. 

But I didn’t have to throw it far. Just through the window. 

I tried stuffing the brick in my pants pocket, but it was too big. So I 
carried it in both hands back to the shop. 

I tried to look as if it were perfectly normal for a boy to be carrying a 
brick down the street. 

A few adults quickly passed by. No one gave me a second glance. 

I stood in front of the shiny plate-glass window, weighing the brick in 
my hand. I wondered if a burglar alarm would go off when I broke the 
window. 

Would I be arrested? 

Maybe it wouldn’t matter. If I made time go to the present, I’d escape 
the police. 

Be brave, I told myself. Go for it! 

With both hands, I raised the brick over my head... 

.. .and someone grabbed me from behind. 

16 

“Help!” I shouted. I spun around. “Dad!” 

“Michael, what are you doing here?” Dad demanded. “Are you by 
yourself?” 

I let the brick fall to the sidewalk. He didn’t seem to see it. 

“I—I wanted to surprise you,” I lied. “I wanted to come visit you after 
school.” 

He stared at me as if he didn’t quite understand. So I added, for good 
measure, “I missed you, Daddy.” 

He smiled. “You missed me?” He was touched. I could tell. 

“How did you get here?” he asked. “On the bus?” 

I nodded. 

“You know you’re not allowed to ride the bus by yourself,” he said. 
But he didn’t sound angry. I knew that line about missing him would soften 
him up. 

Meanwhile, I still had the same major problem—getting my hands on 
the cuckoo clock. 

Could Dad help me? Would he? I was willing to try anything. “Dad,” I 
said, “that clock—” 

Dad put his arm around me. “Isn’t it a beauty? I’ve been admiring it 
for years.” 

“Dad, I’ve got to get to the clock,” I insisted. “It’s very, very 
important! Do you know when the store will open again? We’ve got to get 
that clock somehow!” 

Dad misunderstood me. He patted me on the head and said, “I know 
how you feel, Michael. I wish I could have the clock right now. But I can’t 
afford it. Maybe some day...” 

He pulled me away from the shop. “Come on—let’s go home. I 
wonder what’s for supper tonight?” 

I didn’t say another word all the way home in the car. All I could think 
about was the clock—and what would happen to me next. 

How old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I wondered. 

Or how young? 

17 

When I opened my eyes the next morning, everything had changed. 

The walls were painted baby blue. The bedspread and the curtains 
matched. The material was printed with bouncing kangaroos. On one wall 
hung a needlepoint picture of a cow. 

It wasn’t my room, but it looked familiar. 

Then I felt a lump in the bed. I reached under the kangaroo covers and 
pulled out Harold, my old teddy bear. 

I slowly understood. I was back in my old bedroom. 

How had I ended up there? It was Tara’s room now. 

I jumped out of bed. I was wearing Smurf pajamas. 

I swear I don’t remember ever liking Smurfs that much. 

I ran to the bathroom to look in the mirror. 

How old was I now? 

I couldn’t tell. I had to stand on the toilet seat to see my face. 

A bad sign. 

Yikes. I looked about five years old! 

I hopped off the toilet seat and hurried downstairs. 

“Hello, Mikey,” Mom said, squeezing me and giving me a big kiss. 

“Hi, Mommy,” I said. I couldn’t believe how babyish my voice 
sounded. 

Dad sat at the kitchen table, drinking coffee. He put down his mug and 
held out his arms. “Come give Daddy a good morning kiss,” he said. 

I sighed and forced myself to run into his arms and kiss him on the 
cheek. I’d forgotten how many stupid things little kids have to put up with. 

I ran out of the kitchen on my little five-year-old legs, through the 
living room, into the den, and back to the kitchen. Something was missing. 

No, someone was missing. 

Tara. 

“Sit still for a minute, sweetie,” Mom said, scooping me up and 
plopping me into a chair. “Want some cereal?” 

“Where’s Tara?” I demanded. 

“Who?” Mom replied. 

“Tara,” I repeated. 

Mom glanced at Dad. Dad shrugged. 

“You know,” I persisted. “My little sister.” 

Mom smiled. “Oh, Tara,” she said, seeming to understand at last. 

She glanced at Dad and mouthed, “Invisible friend.” 

“Huh?” Dad said out loud. “He has an invisible friend?” 

Mom frowned at him and gave me a bowl of cereal. “What does your 
friend Tara look like, Mikey?” 

I didn’t answer her. I was too shocked to speak. 

They don’t know who I’m talking about! I realized. 

Tara doesn’t exist. She hasn’t been born yet! 

For a brief moment, I felt a thrill. No Tara! I could go through this 
whole day without ever seeing, hearing, or smelling Tara the Terrible! How 
totally awesome! 

But then the real meaning of this sank in. 

One Webster kid had disappeared. 

I was next. 

After I’d finished my cereal, Mom took me upstairs to get dressed. She put 
on my shirt and pants and socks and shoes. She didn’t tie the shoes, though. 

“Okay, Mikey,” she said. “Let’s practice tying your shoes. Remember 
how we did it yesterday?” 

She took my shoelaces in her fingers and, as she tied them, chanted, 
“The bunny hops around the tree and ducks under the bush. Remember?” 

She sat back to watch me try to tie my other shoe. I could tell by the 
look on her face she didn’t expect me to get very far. 

I bent over and easily tied the shoe. I didn’t have time to fool around 
with this stuff. 

Mom stared at me in amazement. 

“Come on, Mom, let’s get going,” I said, straightening up. 

“Mikey!” Mom cried. “You did it! You tied your shoe for the first 
time!” She grabbed me and hugged me hard. “Wait till I tell Daddy!” 

I followed her downstairs, rolling my eyes. 

So I tied my shoe. Big deal! 

“Honey!” Mom called. “Mikey tied his shoe—all by himself!” 

“Hey!” Dad cried happily. He held up one hand so I could slap him 
five. “That’s my big boy!” 

This time I saw him mouth to Mom: “Took him long enough!” 

I was too worried to be insulted. 

Mom walked me to kindergarten. She told my teacher that I’d learned 
to tie my shoe. Big excitement all around. 

I had to sit around that stupid kindergarten all morning, finger¬ 
painting, and singing the ABC song. 

I knew I had to get back to that antique store. It was all I could think 
about. 

I’ve got to change that cuckoo clock, I thought desperately. Who 
knows? Tomorrow I might not know how to walk. 

But how would I get there? It had been hard enough to get downtown 
as a second-grader. As a kindergartner, it would be nearly impossible. 

And, besides, even if I could get on the bus without anybody asking 
questions, I didn’t have any money with me. 

I glanced at the teacher’s purse. Maybe I could steal a couple of 
quarters from her. She’d probably never know. 

But if she caught me, I’d be in really big trouble. And I had enough 
trouble now. 

I decided to sneak on to the bus somehow. I knew I could find a way. 

When the kindergarten torture was finally over for the day, I raced out 
of the building to catch the bus— 

—and bumped smack into Mom. 

“Hi, Mikey,” she said. “Did you have a nice day?” 

I forgot that she picked me up every day from kindergarten. 

She took my hand in her iron grip. There was no escape. 

18 

At least I’m here, I thought when I woke up the next morning. At least I’m 
still alive. 

But I’m four years old. 

Time is running out. 

Mom waltzed into my room, singing, “Good morning to you, good 
morning to you, good morning dear Mikey, good morning to you! Ready 
for nursery school?” 

Yuck. Nursery school. 

Things kept getting worse and worse. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. Mom dropped me off at nursery school 
with a kiss and her usual, “Have a nice day, Mikey!” 

I stalked to the nearest corner and sat. I watched the other little kids 
play. I refused to do anything. No singing. No painting. No sandbox. No 
games for me. 

“Michael, what’s the matter with you today?” the teacher, Ms. Sarton, 
asked. “Don’t you feel well?” 

“I feel okay,” I told her. 

“Well, then, why aren’t you playing?” She studied me for a minute, 
then added, “I think you need to play.” 

Without asking my permission or anything, she picked me up, carried 
me outside, and dumped me in the sandbox. 

“Mona will play with you,” she said brightly. 

Mona was very cute when she was four. Why didn’t I remember that? 

Mona didn’t say anything to me. She concentrated on the sand igloo 
she was building—at least I think it was supposed to be an igloo. It was 
round, anyway. I started to say hi to her, but suddenly felt shy. 

Then I caught myself. Why should I feel bashful with a four-year-old 

girl? 

Anyway, I reasoned, she hasn’t seen me in my underwear yet. That 
won’t happen for another eight years. 

“Hi, Mona,” I said. I cringed when I heard the babyish nursery school 
voice that came out of my mouth. But everyone else seemed to be used to 

it. 
Mona turned up her nose. “Eeew,” she sniffed. “A boy. I hate boys.” 

“Well,” I squeaked in my little boy voice, “if that’s the way you feel, 
forget I said anything.” 

Mona stared at me now, as if she didn’t quite understand what I had 

said. 

“You’re stupid,” she said. 

I shrugged and began to draw swirls in the sand with my chubby little 
finger. Mona dug a moat around her sand igloo. Then she stood up. “Don’t 
let anybody smash my sand castle,” she ordered. 

So it wasn’t an igloo. Guess I was wrong. 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

She toddled away. A few minutes later she returned, carrying a bucket. 

She carefully poured a little water into her sand castle moat. She 
dumped the rest on my head. 

“Stupid boy!” she squealed, running away. 

I rose and shook my wet head like a dog. I felt a strange urge to burst 
into tears and run to the teacher for help, but I fought it. 

Mona stood a few yards away from me, ready to run. “Nyah nyah!” 
she taunted. “Come and get me, Mikey!” 

I pushed my wet hair out of my face and stared at Mona. 

“You can’t catch me!” she called. 

What could I do? I had to chase after her. 

I began to run. Mona screamed and raced to a tree by the playground 
fence. Another girl stood there. Was that Ceecee? 

She wore thick glasses with pink rims, and underneath, a pink 
eyepatch. 

I’d forgotten about that eyepatch. She’d had to wear it until halfway 
through first grade. 

Mona screamed again and clutched at Ceecee. Ceecee clutched her 
back and screamed, too. 

I stopped in front of the tree. “Don’t worry. I won’t hurt you,” I 
assured them. 

“Yes you will!” Mona squealed. “Help!” 

I sat down on the grass to prove I didn’t want to hurt them. 

“He’s hurting us! He’s hurting us!” the girls shouted. They unclutched 

their hands and jumped on top of me. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Hold his arms!” Mona ordered. Ceecee obeyed. Mona started tickling 
me under the arms. 

“Stop it!” I begged. It was torture. “Stop it!” 

“No!” Mona cried. “That’s what you get for trying to catch us!” 

“I... didn’t...” I had trouble getting the words out while she tickled 
me. “I didn’t... try to...” 

“Yes you did!” Mona insisted. 

I’d forgotten that Mona used to be so bossy. It made me think twice. If 
I ever make it back to my real age, I thought, maybe I won’t like Mona so 
much anymore. 

“Please stop,” I begged again. 

“I’ll stop,” Mona said. “But only if you promise something.” 

“What?” 

“You have to climb that tree.” She pointed to the tree by the fence. 
“Okay?” 

I stared at the tree. Climbing it wouldn’t be such a big deal. “Okay,” I 
agreed. “Just get off me!” 

Mona stood up. Ceecee let go of my arms. 

I climbed to my feet and brushed the grass off my pants. 

“You’re scared,” Mona taunted. 

“I am not!” I replied. What a brat! She was almost as bad as Tara! 

Now Mona and Ceecee chanted, “Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

I ignored them. I grabbed the lowest branch of the tree and hauled 
myself up. It was harder than I thought it would be. My four-year-old body 
wasn’t very athletic. 

“Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

“Shut up!” I yelled down at them. “Can’t you see that I’m climbing the 
stupid tree? It doesn’t make sense to tease me about being scared.” 

They both gave me that blank look Mona had given me before. As if 
they didn’t understand what I was saying. 

“Mikey is scared,” they chanted again. 

I sighed and kept climbing. My hands were so small, it was hard to 
grip the branches. One of my feet slipped. 

Then a terrible thought popped into my head. 

Wait a minute. 

I shouldn’t be doing this. 

Isn’t nursery school the year I broke my arm? 
YEEEEOOOOOOWWWWW! 

19 

Morning again. 

I yawned and opened my eyes. I shook my left arm, the one I broke 
climbing that stupid tree the day before. 

The arm felt fine. Perfectly normal. Completely healed. 

I must have gone back in time again, I thought. That’s the good part 
about this messed-up time thing: I didn’t have to wait for my arm to heal. 

I wondered how far back I went. 

The sun poured in through the window of Tara’s—or my—room. It 
cast a weird shadow across my face: a striped shadow. 

I tried to roll out of bed. My body slammed against something. 

What was that? I rolled back to look. 

Bars! 

I was surrounded by bars! Was I in jail? 

I tried to sit up so I could see better. It wasn’t as easy as usual. My 
stomach muscles seemed to have grown weak. 

At last I managed to sit up and look around. 

I wasn’t in jail. I was in a crib! 

Crumpled up beside me was my old yellow blankie with the 
embroidered duck on it. I sat beside a small pile of stuffed animals. I was 
wearing a tiny white undershirt, and— 

Oh, no. 

I shut my eyes in horror. 

It can’t be. Please don’t let it be true! I prayed. 

I opened my eyes and checked to see if my prayer had come true. 

It hadn’t. 

I was wearing diapers. 

Diapers! 

How young am I now? How far back in time did I go? I wondered. 

“Are you awake, Mikey?” 

Mom came into the room. She looked pretty young. I didn’t remember 
ever seeing her this young before. 

“Did you get lots of sleep, sweetie pie?” Mom asked. She clearly 
expected no answer from me. Instead, she shoved a bottle of juice into my 
mouth. 

Yuck! A bottle! 

I pulled it out of my mouth and clumsily threw it down. 

Mom picked it up. “No, no,” she said patiently. “Bad little Mikey. 
Drink your bottle now. Come on.” 

She slid it back into my mouth. I was thirsty, so I drank the juice. 
Drinking from a bottle wasn’t that bad, once you got used to it. 

Mom left the room. I let the bottle drop. 

I had to know how old I was. I had to find out how much time I had 

left. 

I grabbed the bars of the crib and pulled myself to my feet. 

Okay, I thought. I can stand. 

I took a step. I couldn’t control my leg muscles very well. I toddled 
around the crib. 

I can walk, I realized. Unsteadily, but at least I can walk. 

I must be about one year old! 

I fell just then and banged my head against the side of the crib. Tears 
welled in my eyes. I started wailing, bawling. 

Mom ran into the room. “What’s the matter, Mikey? What happened?” 
She picked me up and started patting me on the back. 

I couldn’t stop crying. It was really embarrassing. 

What am I going to do? I thought desperately. In one night, I went 
back in time three years! 

I’m only one year old now. How old will I be tomorrow? 

A little shiver ran down my tiny spine. 

I’ve got to find a way to make time go forward again—today! I told 
myself. 

But what can I do? 

I’m not even in nursery school anymore. 

I’m a baby! 

20 

Mom said we were going out. She wanted to dress me. Then she uttered the 
dreaded words. 

“I bet I know what’s bothering you, Mikey. You probably need your 
diaper changed.” 

“No!” I cried. “No!” 

“Oh, yes you do, Mikey. Come on...” 

I don’t like to think about what happened after that. I’d rather block it 
out of my memory. 

I’m sure you understand. 

When the worst was over, Mom plopped me down in a playpen—more 
bars—while she bustled around the house. 

I shook a rattle. I batted at a mobile hanging over my head. I watched 
it spin around. 

I pressed buttons on a plastic toy. Different noises came out when I 
pressed different buttons. A squeak. A honk. A moo. 

I was bored out of my mind. 

Then Mom picked me up again. She bundled me into a warm sweater 
and a dopey little knit cap. Baby blue. 

“Want to see Daddy?” she cooed at me. “Want to see Daddy and go 
shopping?” 

“Da-da,” I replied. 

I’d planned to say, “If you don’t take me to Anthony’s Antiques, I’ll 
throw myself out of my crib and crack my head open.” 

But I couldn’t talk. It was so frustrating! 

Mom carried me out to the car. She strapped me into a baby seat in the 
back. I tried to say, “Not so tight, Mom!” It came out, “No no no no no!” 

“Don’t give me a hard time now, Mikey,” Mom said sharply. “I know 
you don’t like your car seat, but it’s the law.” She gave the strap an extra 
tug. 

Then she drove into town. 

At least there’s a chance, I thought. If we’re going to meet Dad, we’ll 
be near the antique store. Maybe, just maybe. 

Mom parked the car outside Dad’s office building. She unstrapped me 
from the car seat. 

I could move again. But not for long. She pulled a stroller out of the 
trunk, unfolded it, and strapped me in. 

Being a baby really is like being a prisoner, I thought as she wheeled 
me across the sidewalk. I never realized how awful it is! 

It was lunchtime. A stream of workers flowed out of the office 
building. Dad appeared and gave Mom a kiss. 

He squatted down to tickle me under the chin. “There’s my little boy!” 
he said. 

“Can you say hi to your daddy?” Mom prompted me. 

“Hi, Da-da,” I gurgled. 

“Hi, Mikey,” Dad said fondly. But when he stood up, he spoke quietly 
to Mom, as if I couldn’t hear. “Shouldn’t he being saying more words by 
now, honey? Ted Jackson’s kid is Mikey’s age, and he can say whole 
sentences. He can say ‘lightbulb’, and ‘kitchen’, and ‘I want my teddy 
bear.’” 

“Don’t start that again,” Mom whispered angrily. “Mikey is not slow.” 

I squirmed in my stroller, fuming. Slow! Who said I was slow? 

“I didn’t say he was slow, honey,” Dad went on. “I only said—” 

“Yes you did,” Mom insisted. “Yes you did! The other night, when he 
stuffed those peas up his nose, you said you thought we should have him 
tested!” 

I stuffed peas up my nose? I shuddered. 

Sure, stuffing peas up your nose is stupid. But I was only a baby. 
Wasn’t Dad getting carried away? 

I thought so. 

I wished I could tell them I would turn out all right—at least up to the 
age of twelve. I mean, I’m no genius, but I get mostly A’s and B’s. 

“Can we discuss this later?” Dad said. “I’ve only got an hour for 
lunch. If we’re going to find a dining room table, we’d better get moving.” 

“You brought it up,” Mom sniffed. She wheeled the stroller smartly 
around and began to cross the street. Dad followed us. 

I let my eyes rove along the storefronts across the street. An apartment 
building. A pawnshop. A coffee shop. 

Then I found what I was looking for: Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff. 

My heart leaped. The store still existed! I kept my eyes glued to that 

sign. 

Please take me in there, Mom, I silently prayed. Please please please! 
Mom steered me down the street. Past the apartment building. Past the 
pawnshop. Past the coffee shop. 

We stopped in front of Anthony’s. Dad stood in front of the window, 
hands in his pockets, gazing through the glass. Mom and I pulled up beside 
him. 

I couldn’t believe it. Finally, after all this time—some good luck! 

I stared through the window, searching for it. 

The clock. 

The window display was set up like an old-fashioned living room. My 
eyes roamed over the furniture: a wooden bookcase, a fringed table lamp, a 
Persian rug, an overstuffed armchair, and a clock... a table clock. Not the 
cuckoo clock. 

Not the right clock. 

My heart sank back to its normal low spot in my chest. 

It figures, I thought. Here I am, at the antique store, at last. 

And the clock isn’t here. 

21 

I felt like crying. 

I could have cried, too. Easily. 

After all, I was a baby. People expected me to cry. 

But I didn’t. Even though I looked like a baby, I was a twelve-year-old 
inside. I still had my pride. 

Dad stepped to the door and held it open for Mom and me. Mom 
pushed me inside. I sat strapped into the stroller. 

The shop was jammed with old furniture. A chubby man in his forties 
strolled down the aisle toward us. 

Behind him, down at the end of the aisle, in a corner at the back of the 
shop, I saw it. The clock. The clock. 

A squeal of excitement popped out of me. I began to rock in my 
stroller. I was so close! 

“May I help you?” the man asked Mom and Dad. 

“We’re looking for a dining room table,” Mom told him. 

I had to get out of that stroller. I had to get to that clock. 

I rocked harder, but it was no good. I was strapped in. “Let me out of 
this thing!” I shouted. 

Mom and Dad turned to look at me. “What’s he saying?” Dad asked. 

“It sounded like 'La ma la ma’,” the shopkeeper suggested. 

I rocked harder than ever and screamed. 

“He hates his stroller,” Mom explained. She leaned down and 
unbuckled the straps. “I’ll hold him for a few minutes. Then he’ll quiet 
down.” 

I waited until she held me in her arms. Then I screamed again and 
wriggled as hard as I could. 

Dad’s face reddened. “Michael, what is wrong with you?” 

“Down! Down!” I yelled. 

“All right,” Mom muttered, setting me down on the floor. “Now please 
stop screaming.” 

I quieted down immediately. I tested my wobbly, chubby little legs. 

They wouldn’t get me far, but they were all I had to work with. 

“Keep an eye on him,” the shopkeeper warned. “A lot of this stuff is 
breakable.” 

Mom grabbed my hand. “Come on, Mikey. Let’s go look at some 
tables.” 

She tried to lead me to a corner of the shop where several wooden 
tables stood. I whined and squirmed, hoping to get away. Her grip was too 
tight. 

“Mikey, shhh,” she said. 

I let her drag me to the tables. I glanced up at the cuckoo clock. It was 
almost noon. 

At noon, I knew, the cuckoo would pop out. It was my only chance to 
grab the bird and turn it around. 

I tugged on Mom’s hand. She tightened her grip. 

“What do you think of this one, honey?” Dad asked her, rubbing his 
hand along a dark wood table. 

“I think that wood’s too dark for our chairs, Herman,” Mom said. 
Another table caught her eye. As she moved toward it, I tried to slip my 
hand out of hers. No go. 

I toddled after her to the second table. I shot another glance at the 
clock. The minute hand moved. 

Two minutes to twelve. 

“We can’t be too picky, honey,” Dad said. “The Bergers are coming 
over Saturday night—two days from now—for a dinner party. We can’t 
have a dinner party without a dining room table!” 

“I know that, dear. But there’s no point in buying a table we don’t 
like.” 

Dad’s voice began to rise. Mom’s mouth got that hard, set look to it. 

Aha. A fight. This was my chance. 

Dad was shouting. “Why don’t we just spread a blanket out on the 
floor and make them eat there? We’ll call it a picnic!” 

Mom finally relaxed her grip on my hand. 

I slipped away and toddled as fast as I could toward the clock. 

The clock’s minute hand moved again. 

I toddled faster. 

I heard my parents shouting at each other. “I won’t buy an ugly table, 

and that’s that!” Mom cried. 

Please don’t let them notice me, I prayed. Not yet. 

I reached the cuckoo clock at last. I stood in front of it and stared up at 
the clock. 

The cuckoo’s window was far above me, out of reach. 

The minute hand clicked again. The clock’s gong sounded. 

The cuckoo’s window slid open. The cuckoo popped out. 

It cuckooed once. 

It cuckooed twice. 

I stared up at it, helpless. 

A twelve-year-old boy trapped in a baby’s body. 

I stared grimly up at the clock. 

Somehow, I had to reach that cuckoo. 

Somehow, I had to turn it around. 

22 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

Three, four. 

I knew that once it reached twelve, I was doomed. 

The cuckoo bird would disappear. 

And so would my last chance to save myself. 

In a day or so, I would disappear. Disappear forever. 

Frantic, I glanced around for a ladder, a stool, anything. 

The closest thing was a chair. 

I toddled over to the chair and pushed it toward the clock. It moved 
about an inch. 

I leaned, putting all my weight into it. I figured I weighed about 
twenty pounds. 

But it was enough. The chair began to slide across the floor. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Five, six. 

I shoved the chair up against the clock. The seat of the chair came up 
to my chin. 

I tried to pull myself up onto the seat. My arms were too weak. 

I planted a baby sneaker against the chair leg. I boosted myself up. I 
grabbed a spindle at the back of the chair and heaved my body onto the 
seat. 

I made it! 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Seven, eight. 

I got to my knees. I got to my feet. 

I reached up to grab the cuckoo. I stretched as tall as I could. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Nine, ten. 

Reaching, reaching. 

Then I heard the shopkeeper shout, “Somebody grab that baby!” 

23 

I heard pounding footsteps. 

They were running to get me. 

I strained to reach the cuckoo. Just another inch... 

Cuckoo! 

Eleven. 

Mom grabbed me. She lifted me up. 

For one second, the cuckoo flashed within my reach. 

I grasped it and turned the head around. 

Cuckoo! 

Twelve. 

The cuckoo slid back into the clock, facing the right way. 

Forward. 

I wriggled out of Mom’s arms, landing on the chair. 

“Mikey, what’s gotten into you?” she cried. She tried to grab me again. 
I dodged her. I reached around to the side of the clock. 

I saw the little dial that told the year. I felt for the button that 
controlled it. I could just reach it, standing on the chair. 

I slammed my hand on the button, carefully watching the years whiz 

by. 

I heard the shopkeeper yelling, “Get that baby away from my clock!” 
Mom grabbed me again, but I screamed. I screamed so loudly, it 
startled her. She let her hands drop. 

“Mikey, let go of that!” Dad ordered. 

I took my hand off the button. The dial showed the right year. The 
present year. The year I turned twelve. 

Mom made another grab for me. This time I let her pick me up. 

It doesn’t matter what happens now, I thought. Either the clock will 
work, and I’ll go back to being twelve again... 

.. .or else it won’t work. And then what? 

Then I’ll disappear. Vanish in time. Forever. 

I waited. 

“I’m so sorry,” Dad said to the shopkeeper. “I hope the baby didn’t 
damage the clock.” 

The muscles in my neck tensed. 

Nothing was happening. Nothing. 

I waited another minute. 

The shopkeeper inspected the clock. “Everything seems okay,” he told 
Dad. “But he changed the year. I’ll have to change it back.” 

“NO!” I wailed. “No! Don’t!” 

“That boy could use a little discipline, if you ask me,” the shopkeeper 

said. 

He reached his hand around the side of the clock and started to set 
back the year. 

24 

“Nooo!” I wailed. “Nooo!” 

That’s it, I realized. I’m doomed. I’m a goner. 

But the shopkeeper never touched the button. 

A bright white light flashed. I felt dizzy, stunned. I blinked. And 
blinked again. 

Several seconds passed before I could see anything. 

I felt cool, damp air. I smelled a musty odor. A garage smell. 

“Michael? Do you like it?” Dad’s voice. 

I blinked. My eyes adjusted. I saw Dad and Mom. Looking older. 
Looking normal. 

We were standing in the garage. Dad was holding a shiny new 21- 
speed bike. 

Mom frowned. “Michael, are you feeling all right?” 

They were giving me the bike. It was my birthday! 

The clock worked! I’d brought myself back to the present! 

Almost to the present. Up to my twelfth birthday. 

Close enough. 

I felt so happy, I thought I’d explode. 

I threw myself at Mom and hugged her hard. Then I hugged Dad. 

“Wow,” Dad gushed. “I guess you really do like the bike!” 

I grinned. “I love it!” I exclaimed. “I love everything! I love the whole 
world!” 

Mainly, I loved being twelve again. I could walk! I could talk! I could 
ride the bus by myself! 

Whoa! Wait a minute, I thought. It’s my birthday. 

Don’t tell me I have to live through it again. 

I tensed my shoulders and steeled myself for the horrible day to come. 

It’s worth it, I told myself. It’s worth it if it means time will go forward 
again, the way it’s supposed to. 

I knew too well what would happen next. 

Tara. 

She’d try to get on my bike. The bike would fall over and get 
scratched. 

Okay, Tara, I thought. I’m ready. Come and do your worst. 

I waited. 

Tara didn’t come. 

In fact, she didn’t seem to be around at all. 

She wasn’t in the garage. No sign of her. 

Mom and Dad oohed and ahhed over the bike. They didn’t act as if 
anything was wrong. Or anyone was missing. 

“Where’s Tara?” I asked them. 

They looked up. 

“Who?” They stared at me. 

“Did you invite her to your party?” Mom asked. “I don’t remember 
sending an invitation to a Tara.” 

Dad grinned at me. “Tara? Is that some girl you have a crush on, 
Michael?” 

“No,” I answered, turning red. 

It was as if they’d never heard of Tara. Never heard of their own 
daughter. 

“You’d better go upstairs and get ready for your party, Michael,” Mom 
suggested. “The kids will be here soon.” 

“Okay.” I stumbled into the house, dazed. 

“Tara?” I called. 

Silence. 

Could she be hiding somewhere? 

I searched through the house. Then I checked her room. I threw open 
the door. I expected to see a messy, all-pink girl’s room with a white canopy 
bed. 

Instead, I saw two twin beds, neatly made with plaid covers. A chair. 
An empty closet. No personal stuff. 

Not Tara’s room. 

A guest room. 

Wow. I was amazed. 

No Tara. Tara doesn’t exist. 

How did that happen? 

I wandered into the den, looking for the cuckoo clock. 

It wasn’t there. 

For a second, I felt a shock of fear. Then I calmed down. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. We don’t have the clock yet. Not on my 
birthday. Dad bought it a couple of days later. 

But I still didn’t understand. What had happened to my little sister? 
Where was Tara? 

My friends arrived for the party. We played CDs and ate tortilla chips. 
Ceecee pulled me into a corner and whispered that Mona had a crush on 
me. 

Wow. I glanced at Mona. She turned a little pink and glanced away, 
shyly. 

Tara wasn’t there to embarrass me. It made a big difference. 

My friends all brought presents. I actually opened them myself. No 
Tara to open my presents before I get to them. 

At cake time, I carried the cake into the dining room and set it in the 
middle of the table. No problem. I didn’t fall and make a fool out of myself. 
Because Tara wasn’t there to trip me. 

It was the greatest birthday party I’d ever had. It was probably the 
greatest day I’d ever lived—because Tara wasn’t there to ruin it. 

I could get used to this, I thought. 

A few days later, the cuckoo clock was delivered to our house. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed, as he had the first time. “Anthony sold 
me the clock cheap. He said he’d discovered a tiny flaw on it.” 

The flaw. I’d almost forgotten about it. 

We still didn’t know what it was. But I couldn’t help wondering if it 
had something to do with Tara’s disappearance. 

Maybe the clock didn’t work perfectly in some way? Maybe it 
somehow left Tara behind? 

I hardly dared to touch the clock. I didn’t want to set off any more 
weird time trips. 

But I had to know what had happened. 

I carefully studied the face of the clock again, and all the decorations. 
Then I stared at the dial that showed the year. 

It was properly set at the current year. 

Without really thinking about it, I scanned twelve places down the dial 

to find the year I was born. 

There it was. 

Then I scanned my eyes back up to the dial. 
1992.1993.1994.1995.1997... 

Wait a second. 

Didn’t I just skip a year? 

I checked the dates again. 

Nineteen ninety-six was missing. There was no 1996 on the dial. 

And 1996 was the year Tara was born! 

“Dad!” I cried. “I found the flaw! Look—there’s a year missing on the 
dial.” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Good job, son! Wow, isn’t that funny?” 

To him it was just a funny mistake. 

He had no idea his daughter had never been born. 

I suppose there’s some way to go back in time and get her. 

I guess I probably ought to do that. 

And I will. 

Really. 

One of these days. 

Maybe. 

MONSTER BLOOD III 

1 

“The Monster Blood! It’s growing again!” Evan Ross stared at the quivering 
green blob in his driveway. It looked like an enormous wad of sticky green 
bubble gum, and was bigger than a beach ball. Bigger than two beach balls! 

The green blob trembled and shook as if it were breathing hard. It made 
disgusting sucking sounds. Then it started to bounce. 

Evan took a step back. How did the sticky goo get out of its can? he 
wondered. Who left it in the driveway? Who opened the can? 

Evan knew that once Monster Blood starts to grow, it can’t be stopped. It 
will grow and grow, and suck up everything in its path. 

Evan knew this from painful experience. 

He had seen a giant glob of Monster Blood swallow kids whole. And he 
had seen what had happened when his dog, Trigger, had eaten Monster Blood. 
The cocker spaniel had grown and grown and grown—until he was big enough 
to pick up Evan in his teeth and bury him in the backyard! 

A small chunk of Monster Blood had turned Cuddles, the tiny hamster in 
Evan’s class, into a raging, growling monster. The giant hamster—bigger than a 
gorilla—had roared through the school, destroying everything in its path! 

This gunk is dangerous, Evan thought. It may be the most dangerous green 
slimy stuff on Earth! 

So how did it get in Evan’s driveway? 

And what was he going to do about it? 

The Monster Blood bounced and hiccupped. It made more disgusting 
sucking sounds. 

As it bounced, it picked up sticks and gravel from the driveway. They stuck 
to its side for a moment, before being sucked into the center of the giant wet ball. 

Evan took another step back as the ball slowly started to roll. “Oh, noooo.” 
Alow moan escaped his throat. “Please. Noooo.” 

The Monster Blood rolled over the driveway toward Evan, picking up speed 
as it moved. Evan had tossed one of his Rollerblades by the side of the house. 
The green goo swallowed up the skate with a loud thwoccccck. 

Evan gulped as he saw the skate disappear into the bouncing green ball. “I 
—I’m next!” he stammered out loud. 

No way! he told himself. I’m getting out of here. 

He turned to run—and went sprawling over the other skate. 

“Ow!” he cried out as he fell hard on his elbows and knees. Pain shot up his 
arms. He had landed on both funny bones. 

Shaking away the tingling, he scrambled to his knees. He turned in time to 
see the seething goo roll over him. 

He opened his mouth to scream. But the scream was trapped inside him as 
the heavy green gunk splatted over his face. 

He thrashed both arms wildly. Kicked his feet. 

But the sticky goo wrapped around him. Pulling him. Pulling him in. 

I—I can’t breathe! he realized. 

And, then, everything turned green. 

2 

“Evan—stop daydreaming and eat your Jell-O,” Mrs. Ross scolded. 

Evan shook his head hard. The daydream had seemed so real. His mother’s 
voice still sounded far away. 

“Evan—hurry. Eat the Jell-O. You’ll be late.” 

“Uh... Mom...” Evan said softly. “Could you do me a really big favor?” 

“What favor?” his mother asked him patiently, pushing back her straight 
blond hair into a ponytail. 

“Could we never have green Jell-0 again? Could you just buy other colors? 
Not green?” 

He stared at the shimmering, quivering green mound of Jell-0 in the glass 
bowl in front of him on the kitchen counter. 

“Evan, you’re weird,” Mrs. Ross replied, rolling her eyes. “Hurry up. 
Kermit is probably wondering where you are.” 

“Kermit is probably busy blowing up his house,” 

Evan replied glumly. He pulled the spoon out of the Jell-O. It made a gross 
sucking sound. 

“All the more reason for you to hurry over there,” his mother said sharply. 
“You are responsible for him, Evan. You are in charge of your cousin until his 
mom gets home from work.” 

Evan shoved the green Jell-0 away. “I can’t eat this,” he murmured. “It 
makes me think of Monster Blood.” 

Mrs. Ross made a disgusted face. “Don’t mention that slimy stuff.” 

Evan climbed down from the stool. Mrs. Ross pushed a hand gently through 
his curly, carrot-colored hair. “It’s nice of you to help out,” she said softly. “Aunt 
Dee can’t really afford a babysitter.” 

“Kermit doesn’t need a baby-sitter. He needs a keeper!” Evan grumbled. 
“Or maybe a trainer. A guy with a whip and a chair. Like in the circus.” 

“Kermit looks up to you,” Mrs. Ross insisted. 

“Only because he’s two feet tall!” Evan exclaimed. “I can’t believe he’s my 
cousin. He’s such a nerd.” 

“Kermit isn’t a nerd. Kermit is a genius!” Mrs. Ross declared. “He’s only 
eight, and already he’s a scientific genius.” 

“Some genius,” Evan grumbled. “Mom, yesterday he melted my sneakers.” 

Mrs. Ross’ pale blue eyes grew wide. “He what?” 

“He made one of his concoctions. It was a bright yellow liquid. He said it 
would toughen up the sneakers so they would never wear out.” 

“And you let him pour the stuff on your sneakers?” Evan’s mother 
demanded. 

“I didn’t have a choice,” Evan replied unhappily. “I have to do everything 
Kermit wants. If I don’t, he tells Aunt Dee I was mean to him.” 

Mrs. Ross shook her head. “I wondered why you came home barefoot 
yesterday.” 

“My sneakers are still stuck to Kermit’s basement floor,” Evan told her. 
“They melted right off my feet.” 

“Well, be careful over there, okay?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. He pulled his Atlanta Braves cap over his head, 
waved to his mother, and headed out the back door. 

It was a warm spring day. Two black-and-yellow monarch butterflies 
fluttered over the flower garden. The bright new leaves on the trees shimmered 
in the sunlight. 

Evan stopped at the bottom of the driveway and lowered the baseball cap to 
shield his eyes from the sun. He squinted down the street, hoping to see his 
friend Andy. 

No sign of her. 

Disappointed, he kicked a large pebble along the curb and started to make 
his way toward Kermit’s house. Aunt Dee, Kermit’s mom, paid Evan three 
dollars an hour to watch Kermit after school every afternoon. Three hundred 
dollars an hour would be a lot more fair! he thought angrily. 

But Evan was glad to earn the money. He was saving for a new Walkman. 
Trigger had mistaken his old Walkman for a dog bone. 

But Evan was earning every penny. Kermit was impossible. That was the 
only word for him. Impossible. 

He didn’t want to play video games. He didn’t want to watch TV. He 
refused to go outside and play ball or toss a Frisbee around. He didn’t even want 
to sneak down to the little grocery on the corner and load up on candy bars and 
potato chips. 

All he wanted to do was stay downstairs in his dark, damp basement lab 
and mix beakers of chemicals together. “My experiments,” he called them. “I 

have to do my experiments.” 

Maybe he is a genius, Evan thought bitterly. But that doesn’t make him any 
fun. He’s just impossible. 

Evan definitely wasn’t enjoying his after-school baby-sitting job watching 
Kermit. In fact, he had several daydreams in which Kermit tried one of his own 
mixtures and melted to the basement floor, just like Evan’s sneakers. 

Some afternoons, Andy came along, and that made the job a little easier. 
Andy thought Kermit was really weird, too. But at least when she was there, 
Evan had someone to talk to, someone who didn’t want to talk about mixing 
aluminum pyrite with sodium chlorobenzadrate. 

What is Kermit’s problem, anyway? Evan wondered as he crossed the street 
and made his way through backyards toward Kermit’s house. Why does he think 
mixing is so much fun? Why is he always mixing this with that and that with 
this? 

I can’t even mix chocolate milk! 

Kermit’s house came into view two yards down. It was a two-story white 
house with a sloping black roof. 

Evan picked up his pace. He was about fifteen minutes late. He hoped that 
Kermit hadn’t already gotten into some kind of trouble. 

He had just pushed his way though the prickly, low hedges that fenced in 
Kermit’s yard when a familiar gruff voice made him freeze. 

“Evan—were you looking at my yard?” 

“Huh?” Evan recognized the voice at once. It belonged to Kermit’s next- 
door neighbor, a kid from Evan’s school. 

His name was Conan Barber. But the kids at school all called him Conan 
the Barbarian. That’s because he had to be the biggest, meanest kid in Atlanta. 
Maybe in the universe. 

Conan sat on top of the tall white fence that separated the yards. His cold 
blue eyes glared down at Evan. “Were you looking at my yard?” Conan 
demanded. 

“No way!” Evan’s voice came out in a squeak. 

“You were looking at my yard. That’s trespassing,” Conan accused. He 
leaped down from the high fence. He was big and very athletic. His hobby was 
leaping over kids he had just pounded into the ground. 

Conan wore a gray muscle shirt and baggy, faded jeans cutoffs. He also 
wore a very mean expression. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute, Conan!” Evan protested. “I was looking at Kermit’s 
yard. I never look at your yard. Never!” 

Conan stepped up to Evan. He stuck out his chest and bumped Evan hard, 
so hard he stumbled backwards. 

That was Conan’s other hobby. Bumping kids with his chest. His chest 
didn’t feel like a chest. It felt like a truck. 

“Why don’t you look at my yard?” Conan demanded. “Is there something 
wrong with my yard? Is my yard too ugly? Is that why you never look at it?” 

Evan swallowed hard. It began to dawn on him that maybe Conan was 
itching for a fight. 

Before he could answer Conan, he heard a scratchy voice reply for him. 
“It’s a free country, Conan!” 

“Oh, noooo,” Evan groaned, shutting his eyes. 

Evan’s cousin, Kermit, stepped out from behind Evan. He was tiny and 
skinny. A very pale kid with a pile of white-blond hair, and round black eyes 
behind big red plastic-framed glasses. Evan always thought his cousin looked 
like a white mouse wearing glasses. 

Kermit wore enormous red shorts that came down nearly to his ankles, and 
a red-and-black Braves T-shirt. The short sleeves hung down past the elbows of 
his skinny arms. 

“What did you say?” Conan demanded, glaring down menacingly at 
Kermit. 

“It’s a free country!” Kermit repeated shrilly. “Evan can look at any yard he 
wants to!” 

Conan let out an angry growl. As he lumbered forward to pound Evan’s 
face into mashed potatoes, Evan turned to Kermit. “Thanks a lot,” he told his 
cousin. “Thanks for all your help.” 

“Which way do you want your nose to slant?” Conan asked Evan. “To the 
right or to the left?” 

3 

“Don’t do it!” Kermit shrieked in his scratchy mouse voice. 

Conan raised a huge fist. With his other hand, he grabbed the front of 
Evan’s T-shirt. He glared down at Kermit. “Why not?” he growled. 

“Because I have this!” Kermit declared. 

“Huh?” Conan let go of Evan’s shirt. He stared at the glass beaker Kermit 
had raised in both hands. The beaker was half-full with a dark blue liquid. 

Conan let out a sigh and swept a beefy hand back through his wavy blond 
hair. His blue eyes narrowed at Kermit. “What’s that? Your baby formula?” 

“Ha-ha,” Kermit replied sarcastically. 

If Kermit doesn’t shut up, we’re both going to get pounded! Evan realized. 
What is the little creep trying to do? 

He tugged at Kermit’s sleeve, trying to pull him away from Conan. But 
Kermit ignored him. He raised the beaker close to Conan’s face. 

“It’s an Invisibility Mixture,” Kermit said. “If I pour it on you, you’ll 
disappear.” 

We should both disappear! Evan thought frantically. He let his eyes dart 
around the backyard. Maybe I can make it through that hedge before Conan 
grabs me, he thought. If I can get around the next house and down to the street, I 
might escape. 

But would it be right to leave little Kermit at Conan’s mercy? 

Evan sighed. He couldn’t abandon his cousin like that. Even though Kermit 
was definitely asking for it. 

“You’re going to make me invisible with that stuff?” Conan asked Kermit 
with a sneer. 

Kermit nodded. “If I pour a few drops on you, you’ll disappear. Really. I 
mixed it myself. It works. It’s a mixture of Teflon dioxinate and magnesium 
parasulfidine.” 

“Yeah. Right,” Conan muttered. He peered at the liquid in the beaker. 
“What makes it blue?” 

“Food coloring,” Kermit replied. Then he lowered his squeaky voice, trying 
to sound tough. “You’d better go home now, Conan. I don’t want to have to use 
this stuff.” 

Oh, wow! Evan thought, pulling the bill of his Braves cap down over his 
face. I can’t bear to watch this. This is sad. Really sad. Kermit is such a jerk. 

“Go ahead. Try it,” Evan heard Conan say. 

Evan raised the cap so he could see. “Uh... Kermit... maybe we should go 
in the house now,” he whispered. 

“Go ahead. Make me invisible,” Conan challenged. 

“You really want me to?” Kermit demanded. 

“Yeah,” Conan replied. “I want to be invisible. Go ahead, Kermit. Pour it on 
me. Make me disappear. I dare you.” 

Kermit raised the beaker over the gray muscle shirt that covered Conan’s 
broad chest. 

“Kermit—no!” Evan pleaded. “Don’t! Please don’t!” 

Evan made a frantic grab for the beaker. 

Too late. 

Kermit turned the beaker over and let the thick blue liquid pour onto the 
front of Conan’s shirt. 

4 

Out of the corner of his eye, Evan saw a monarch butterfly fluttering over the 
low hedges. I wish I were a butterfly, he thought. I wish I could flap my wings 
and float away. 

As far away from here as I can get! 

The blue liquid oozed down the front of Conan’s muscle shirt. All three 
boys stared at it in silence. 

“Well? I’m not disappearing,” Conan murmured, narrowing his eyes 
suspiciously at Kermit. 

Then his shirt started to shrink. 

“Hey—!” Conan cried angrily. He struggled to pull off the shrinking shirt. 
It got tinier and tinier. “It—it’s choking me!” Conan shrieked. 

“Wow!” Kermit squeaked, his black eyes glowing excitedly behind his 
glasses. “This is cool!” 

Evan gazed in amazement as the muscle shirt shrank down to a tiny shred 
of cloth. And then it vanished completely. 

Now Conan stood in front of them bare-chested. 

A heavy silence fell over the backyard. All three of them stared at Conan’s 
broad, bare chest for a few moments. 

Conan broke the silence. “That was my best muscle shirt,” he told Evan 
through gritted teeth. 

“Uh-oh,” Evan uttered. 

“I like your nose that way,” Andy told Evan. “It kind of tilts in both directions at 
once.” 

“I think it will go back to the way it was,” Evan replied, patting his nose 
tenderly. “At least it stopped hurting so much.” He sighed. “All the other cuts 
and bruises will go away, too. In time.” 

It was two days later. Evan sat across from Andy in the lunchroom at 
school. He stared down sadly at the tuna fish sandwich his mom had packed for 
him. He hadn’t taken a bite. His mouth wasn’t working exactly right yet. It kept 
going sideways instead of up and down. 

Andy wiped a chunk of egg salad off her cheek. She had short brown hair 

and big brown eyes that stared across the table at Evan. 

Andy didn’t dress like most of the other kids in their sixth-grade class. She 
liked bright colors. A lot of bright colors. 

Today she wore a yellow vest over a magenta T-shirt and orange Day-Glo 
shorts. 

When Andy moved to Atlanta in the beginning of the school year, some 
kids made fun of her colorful clothes. But they didn’t anymore. Now everyone 
agreed that Andy had style. And a few kids were even copying her look. 

“So what happened after Conan the Barbarian pounded your body into 
coleslaw?” Andy asked. She pulled a handful of potato chips from her bag and 
shoved them one by one into her mouth. 

Evan took a few bites from a section of his tuna fish sandwich. It took him 
a long time to swallow. “Conan made me promise I’d never look in his yard 
again,” he told Andy. “I had to raise my right hand and swear. Then he went 
home.” 

Evan sighed. He touched his sore nose again. “After Conan left, Kermit 
helped me hobble into his house,” Evan continued. “A little while later, Aunt 
Dee got home.” 

“Then what happened?” Andy asked, crinkling up the empty potato chip 

bag. 

“She saw that I was messed up,” Evan replied. “So she asked what 
happened.” 

Evan shook his head and scowled. “And before I could say anything, that 
little rat Kermit piped up and said, 'Evan picked a fight with Conan.’” 

“Oh, wow,” Andy murmured. 

“And Aunt Dee said, ‘Well, Evan, if you’re just going to get into fights 
instead of taking care of Kermit, I’m going to have to talk to your mom about 
you. Maybe you’re not mature enough for this job.’” 

“Oh, wow,” Andy repeated. 

“And the whole thing was Kermit’s fault!” Evan shouted, pounding his fist 
so hard on the table that his milk carton tipped over. Milk spilled over the 
tabletop, onto the front of his jeans. 

Evan was so upset, he didn’t even move out of the way. “And do you know 
the worst thing?” Evan demanded. “The worst thing?” 

“What?” Andy asked. 

“Kermit did it deliberately. He knew what that blue mixture would do. He 

knew it would shrink Conan’s shirt. Kermit wanted me to get pounded by 
Conan. He did the whole thing to get me in trouble with Conan.” 

“How do you know?” Andy asked. 

“The smile,” Evan told her. 

“Huh? What smile?” 

“The smile on Kermit’s face. You know that twisted little smile he has 
where his two front teeth stick out? That’s the smile he had when he helped me 
back to the house.” 

Andy tsk-tsked. 

Evan finished the section of tuna fish sandwich. “Is that all you’re going to 
say?” he snapped. 

“What can I say?” Andy replied. “Your cousin, Kermit, is a weird little 
dude. I think you should teach him a lesson. Pay him back.” 

“Huh?” Evan gaped at her. “How do I do that?” 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know. Maybe you could... uh...” Her dark eyes 
suddenly flashed with excitement. “I know! Doesn’t he have a snack after school 
every day? You could slip some Monster Blood into his food.” 

Evan gulped and jumped to his feet. “Hey—no way! No way, Andy!” he 
shouted. 

Several kids turned to stare at Evan, startled by his loud cries. 

“Don’t even think it!” Evan shouted, ignoring the stares. “No Monster 
Blood. Ever! I never want to hear those words again!” 

“Okay, okay!” Andy cried. She raised both hands, as if to shield herself 
from him. 

“By the way,” Evan said, a little calmer, “where is the Monster Blood? 
Where did you hide it? You didn’t take any of it out—did you?” 

“Well...” Andy replied, lowering her eyes. A devilish grin spread across her 
face. “I put a little bit of it in the tuna fish sandwich you just ate.” 

5 

Evan let out a cry so loud, it made two kids fall off their chairs. Two other kids 
dropped their lunch trays. 

His eyes bulged and his voice rose higher than the gym teacher’s whistle. 
“You—you—you—!” he sputtered, grabbing his throat. 

Andy laughed. She pointed at his chair. “Evan, sit down. I was only 
joking.” 

“Huh?” 

“You heard me,” Andy said. “It was a joke. The Monster Blood is home, 
safe and sound.” 

Evan let out a long sigh. He sank back into the chair. He didn’t care that he 
was sitting in the milk he had spilled. 

“Annndrea,” he said unhappily, stretching out the word. “Annnndrea, that 
wasn’t funny.” 

“Sure it was,” Andy insisted. “And don’t call me Andrea. You know I hate 
that name.” 

“Andrea. Andrea. Andrea,” Evan repeated, paying her back for her mean 
joke. He narrowed his eyes at her sternly. “That new can of Monster Blood your 
parents sent you from Europe—it really is hidden away?” 

Andy nodded. “On the top shelf of a closet in the basement. Way in the 
back,” she told him. “The can is shut tight. No way the stuff can get out.” 

He stared hard at her, studying her face. 

“Don’t look at me like that!” she cried. She balled up the sandwich tinfoil 
and tossed it at him. “I’m telling the truth. The Monster Blood is totally hidden 
away. You don’t have to worry about it.” 

Evan relaxed. He pulled the Fruit Roll-Up from his lunch bag and started to 
unwrap it. “You owe me now,” he said softly. 

“Excuse me?” 

“You owe me for playing that stupid joke,” Evan said. 

“Oh, yeah? What do I have to do?” Andy demanded. 

“Come with me after school. To Kermit’s,” Evan said. 

Andy made a disgusted face. 

“Please,” Evan added. 

“Okay,” she said. “Kermit isn’t that bad when I’m around.” 

Evan held up the sticky Fruit Roll-Up. “Want this? I begged my mom not to 
buy the green ones!” 

* * * 

After school, Evan and Andy walked together to Kermit’s house. It was a gray 
day, threatening rain. The air felt heavy and wet, as humid as summer. 

Evan led the way across the street. He started to cut through the backyards 
—but stopped. “Let’s go the front way,” he instructed. “Conan might be hanging 
out in back. Waiting for us.” 

“Don’t say us,” Andy muttered. She shifted her backpack to the other 
shoulder. She scratched her arm. “Ow. Look at this.” 

Evan lowered his eyes to the large red bump on Andy’s right arm. “What is 
that? A mosquito bite?” 

Andy scratched it some more. “I guess so. It itches like crazy.” 

“You’re not supposed to scratch it,” Evan told her. 

“Thanks, Doc,” she replied sarcastically. She scratched it even harder to 
annoy him. 

A few sprinkles of rain came down as they made their way up Kermit’s 
driveway. Evan opened the front door and stepped into the living room. 

“Kermit—are you here?” 

No reply. 

A sour smell attacked Evan’s nostrils. He pressed his fingers over his nose. 
“Yuck. Do you smell that?” 

Andy nodded, her face twisted in disgust. “I think it’s coming from the 
basement.” 

“For sure,” Evan muttered. “Kermit must already be in his lab.” 

“Kermit? Hey—Kermit, what are you doing down there?” Evan called out. 

Holding their noses, they made their way quickly down the stairs. The 
basement was divided into two rooms. To the right stood the laundry room and 
furnace; to the left the rec room with Kermit’s lab set up along the back wall. 

Evan hurried across the tiled floor into the lab. He spotted Kermit behind 
his lab table, several beakers of colored liquids in front of him. “Kermit—what’s 
that disgusting smell?” he demanded. 

As Evan and Andy ran up to the lab table, Kermit poured a yellow liquid 

into a green liquid. “Uh-oh!” he cried, staring down at the bubbling mixture. 
Behind his glasses, his eyes grew wide with horror. 

“Run!” Kermit screamed. “Hurry! Get out! It’s going to BLOW!” 

6 

The liquid swirled and bubbled. 

Kermit ducked under the lab table. 

With a cry of horror, Evan spun round. Grabbed Andy’s hand. Started to 
pull her to the stairs. 

But he had only taken a step when he stumbled over Dogface, Kermit’s 
huge sheepdog. 

“Oof!” Evan felt the wind knocked out of him as he fell over the dog and 
landed facedown on the tile floor. He gasped. Struggled to choke in a mouthful 
of air. 

The room tilted and swayed. 

“It’s going to BLOW!” Kermit’s shrill warning rang in Evan’s ears. 

He finally managed to take a deep breath. Raised himself to one knee. 
Turned back to the lab table. 

And saw Andy standing calmly in the center of the rec room, her hands at 
her waist. 

“Andy—it’s going to BLOW!” Evan choked out. 

She rolled her eyes. “Evan, really,” she muttered, shaking her head. “Did 
you really fall for that?” 

“Huh?” Evan gazed past her to the long glass table. 

Kermit had climbed back to his feet. He was leaning with both elbows on 
the table. And he had the grin on his face. That grin. 

The twisted grin with the two front teeth sticking out. The grin Evan hated 
more than any grin in the world. 

“Yeah, Evan,” Kermit repeated, mimicking Andy, “did you really fall for 
that?” He burst into his squealing-high laugh that sounded like a pig stuck in a 
fence. 

Evan pulled himself up, muttering under his breath. Dogface hiccupped. 
The dog’s tongue tumbled out, and he began to pant loudly. 

Evan turned to Andy. “I didn’t really fall for it,” he claimed. “I knew it was 
another one of Kermit’s dumb jokes. I was just seeing if you believed it.” 

“For sure.” Andy rolled her eyes again. She was doing a lot of eye-rolling 
this afternoon, Evan realized. 

Evan and Andy stepped up to the table. It was littered with bottles and glass 
tubes, beakers and jars—all filled with colored liquids. 

On the wall behind the table stood a high bookshelf. The shelves were also 
jammed with bottles and jars of liquids and chemicals. Kermit’s mixtures. 

“I was only a few minutes late getting here,” Evan told Kermit. “From now 
on, don’t do anything. Just wait for me.” He sniffed the air. “What’s that really 
gross smell?” 

Kermit grinned back at him. “I didn’t notice it until you came in!” he joked. 

Evan didn’t laugh. “Give me a break,” he muttered. 

Andy scratched her mosquito bite. “Yeah. No more jokes today, Kermit.” 

The big sheepdog hiccupped again. 

“I’m mixing up something to cure Dogface’s hiccups,” Kermit announced. 

“Oh, no!” Evan replied sharply. “No way! I can’t let you give the dog one 
of your mixtures to drink.” 

“It’s a very simple hiccup cure,” Kermit said, pouring a blue liquid into a 
green liquid. “It’s just maglesium harposyrate and ribotussal polythorbital. With 
a little sugar for sweetness.” 

“No way,” Evan insisted. “You’re not giving Dogface anything to drink but 
water. It’s too dangerous.” 

Kermit ignored him and continued to mix chemicals from one glass beaker 
into another. He glanced up at Andy. “What’s wrong with your arm?” 

“It’s a really big mosquito bite,” Andy told him. “It itches like crazy.” 

“Let me see it,” Kermit urged. 

Andy eyed him suspiciously. “Why?” 

Kermit grabbed Andy’s hand and tugged her closer. “Let me see it,” he 
insisted. 

“It’s just a mosquito bite,” Andy said. 

“I have some of that blue shrinking mixture left,” Kermit announced. “The 
stuff I shrank Conan’s shirt with.” 

“Don’t remind me,” Evan groaned. 

“It’ll shrink your mosquito bite,” Kermit told Andy. He picked up the 
beaker. 

“You’re going to pour that stuff on my arm?” Andy cried. “I don’t think 

so!” 

She tried to step away. 

But Kermit grabbed her arm. And poured. 

The blue liquid spread over the mosquito bite. 
“No! Oh, no!” Andy shrieked. 

7 

“My arm!” Andy shrieked. “What did you do to me?” 

Evan lurched to the lab table, nearly stumbling over the dog again. He 
grabbed Andy’s arm and examined it. “It—it—” he stammered. 

“It’s gone!” Andy cried. “The mosquito bite—it’s gone!” 

Evan stared at Andy’s arm. Perfectly smooth, except for a few drips of the 
blue liquid. 

“Kermit—you’re a geniusl” Andy cried. “That mixture of yours shrank the 
mosquito bite away!” 

“Told you,” Kermit replied, grinning happily. 

“You can make a fortune!” Andy exclaimed. “Don’t you realize what 
you’ve done? You’ve invented the greatest cure for mosquito bites ever!” 

Kermit held up the beaker. He tilted it one way, then the other. “Not much 
left,” he said softly. 

“But you can mix up some more—right?” Andy demanded. 

Kermit frowned. “I’m not sure,” he said softly. 

“I think I can mix up a new batch. But I’m not sure. I didn’t write down 
what I put in it.” 

He scratched his white-blond hair and stared at the empty glass beaker, 
twitching his nose like a mouse, thinking hard. 

Dogface let out another loud hiccup. The hiccup was followed by a howl. 
Evan saw that the poor dog was getting very unhappy about the hiccups. 
Dogface was a big dog—and so he had big hiccups that shook his sheepdog 
body like an earthquake. 

“I’d better get to work on the hiccup cure,” Kermit announced. He pulled 
some jars of chemicals off the shelf and started to open them. 

“Whoa. Wait a minute,” Evan told him. “I told you, Kermit—I can’t let you 
feed anything to the dog. Aunt Dee will kill me if—” 

“Oh, let him try!” Andy interrupted. She rubbed her smooth arm. “Kermit is 
a genius, Evan. You have to let a genius work.” 

Evan glared at her. “Whose side are you on?” he demanded in a loud 
whisper. 

Andy didn’t answer. She unzipped her orange-and-blue backpack and 

pulled out some papers. “I think I’ll do my math homework while Kermit mixes 
up his hiccup cure.” 

Kermit’s eyes lit up excitedly behind his glasses. “Math? Do you have math 
problems?” 

Andy nodded. “It’s a take-home equations exam. Very hard.” 

Kermit set down the test tubes and beakers. He hurried out from behind the 
lab table. “Can I do the problems for you, Andy?” he asked eagerly. “You know I 
love to do math problems.” 

Andy flashed Evan a quick wink. Evan frowned back at her. He shook his 
head. 

So that’s why Andy is being so nice to Kermit! Evan told himself. It was all 
a trick. A trick to get Kermit to do the math test for her. 

Kermit could never resist math problems. His parents had to buy him stacks 
and stacks of math workbooks. He could spend an entire afternoon doing all the 
problems in the workbooks —for fun ! 

Dogface hiccupped. 

Kermit grabbed the math test from Andy’s hand. “Please let me do the 
equations,” he begged. “Pretty please?” 

“Well... okay,” Andy agreed. She flashed Evan another wink. 

Evan scowled back at her. Andy is going to get in trouble for this, he 
thought. Andy is a terrible math student. It’s her worst subject. Mrs. McGrady is 
going to get very suspicious when Andy gets every problem right. 

But Evan didn’t say anything. What was the point? 

Kermit was already scribbling answers on the page, solving the equations as 
fast as he could read them. His eyes were dancing wildly. He was breathing hard. 
And he had a happy grin on his face. 

“All done,” he announced. 

Wow, he’s fast! Evan thought. He finished that math test in the time it 
would take me to write my name at the top of the page! 

Kermit handed the pencil and math pages back to Andy. “Thanks a lot,” she 
said. “I really need a good grade in math this term.” 

“Cheater,” Evan whispered in her ear. 

“I just did it for Kermit,” Andy whispered back. “He loves doing math 
problems. So why shouldn’t I give him a break?” 

“Cheater,” Evan repeated. 

Dogface hiccupped. Then he let out a pained howl. 

Kermit returned to his lab table. He poured a yellow liquid into a red liquid. 
It started to smoke. Then it turned bright orange. 

Andy tucked the math test into her backpack. 

Kermit poured the orange liquid into a large glass beaker. He picked up a 
tiny bottle, turned it upside down, and emptied silvery crystals into the beaker. 

Evan stepped up beside Kermit. “You can’t feed that to Dogface,” Evan 
insisted. “I really mean it. I won’t let you give it to him.” 

Kermit ignored him. He stirred the mixture until it turned white. Then he 
added another powder that made it turn orange again. 

“You have to listen to me, Kermit,” Evan said. “I’m in charge, right?” 

Kermit continued to ignore him. 

Dogface hiccupped. His white furry body quivered and shook. 

“Let Kermit work,” Andy told Evan. “He’s a genius.” 

“Maybe he’s a genius,” Evan replied. “But I’m in charge. Until Kermit’s 
mom gets home, I’m the boss.” 

Kermit poured the mixture into a red dog dish. 

“I’m the boss,” said Evan. “And the boss says no.” 

Kermit lowered the dog dish to the floor. 

“The boss says you can’t feed that to Dogface,” Evan said. 

“Here, boy! Here, boy!” Kermit called. 

“No way!” Evan cried. “No way the dog is drinking that!” 

Evan made a dive for the bowl. He planned to grab it away. 

But he dove too hard—and went sliding under the lab table. 

Dogface lowered his head to the dog dish and began lapping up the orange 
mixture. 

Evan spun around and stared eagerly at the dog. All three of them were 
waiting... waiting... waiting to see what would happen. 

8 

Dogface licked the bowl clean. Then he stared up at Kermit, as if to say, “Thank 
you.” 

Kermit petted the big dog’s head. He smoothed the white, curly fur from in 
front of Dogface’s eyes. The fur fell right back in place. Dogface licked Kermit’s 
hand. 

“See? The hiccups are gone,” Kermit declared to Evan. 

Evan stared at the dog. He waited a few seconds more. “You’re right,” he 
confessed. “The hiccups are gone.” 

“It was a simple mixture,” Kermit bragged. “Just a little tetrahydropodol 
with some hydradroxilate crystals and an ounce of megahydracyl oxyneuroplat. 
Any child could do it.” 

“What a genius!” Andy exclaimed. 

Evan started to say something. But Dogface interrupted with a sharp yip. 

Then, without warning, the big sheepdog sprang forward. With another 
shrill yip, Dogface raised his enormous front paws—and leaped on to Kermit. 

Kermit let out a startled cry and stumbled back against the wall. Bottles and 
jars shook on the shelves behind him. 

Dogface began barking wildly, uttering shrill, excited yips. The dog jumped 
again, as if trying to leap into Kermit’s arms. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Kermit squealed. 

The dog jumped again. 

The shelves shook. Kermit sank to the floor. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Kermit shrieked, covering his head with both arms. 
“Stop it, Dogface! Stop jumping!” 

The excited dog used his head to push Kermit’s arm away. Then he began 
licking Kermit’s face frantically. Then he began nipping at his T-shirt. 

“Stop! Yuck! Stop!” Kermit struggled to get away. But the big dog had 
Kermit pinned to the floor. 

“What’s going on?” Andy cried. “What’s gotten into that dog?” 

“Kermit’s mixture!” Evan replied. He dove at the dog, grabbed Dogface 
with both hands, and tried to tug him off Kermit. 

Dogface spun around. With another high-pitched yip, he bounded away, 

running at full speed across the basement. 

“Stop him!” Kermit cried. “He’s out of control! He’ll break something!” 

CRAAAASH. 

A shelf of canning jars toppled to the floor. 

Barking loudly, the dog bounded away from the shelf and began running in 
wide circles, his big paws clomping on the tile floor. Round and round, as if 
chasing his tail. 

“Dogface—whoa!” Evan called, chasing after the sheepdog. He turned back 
to Andy. “Help me! We’ve got to stop him! He’s acting crazy!” 

Dogface disappeared into the laundry room. “Dogface—come back here!” 
Evan called. 

He burst into the laundry room in time to see the dog crash into the ironing 
board. It toppled over, along with a stack of clothes that had been resting on it. 
The iron clattered over the hard floor. 

Dogface yelped and climbed out from under the spilled clothes. Spotting 
Evan, the dog’s stubby tail began wagging—and he leaped across the room. 

“No!” Evan screeched as the huge dog knocked him over backwards to the 
ground. Dogface frantically licked Evan’s face. 

Behind him, Evan heard Andy laugh. “Too much energy! He’s acting like a 
crazy puppy!” she declared. 

“He’s too big to think he’s a puppy!” Evan wailed. 

Dogface was sniffing furiously under the washing machine. He pounced on 
a large black ant. 

Then he turned and came bounding over to Andy and Evan. 

“Look out!” Evan cried. 

But the big sheepdog lumbered past them, back into the other room. They 
followed him, watching him roll over a few times, kicking his big, furry paws in 
the air. 

Then Dogface jumped to his feet—and came charging at Kermit. 

“Whoa! Whoa, boy!” Kermit cried. He turned to Andy. “You’re right. This 
is just the way Dogface acted when he was a puppy. The mixture gave him too 
much energy!” 

The sheepdog crashed into an old couch against the wall. He climbed up 
onto the couch, sniffing the cushions, exploring. His stubby tail wagged 
furiously. 

“Dogface, you’re not a puppy!” Evan cried. “Please listen to me! You’re too 

big to be a puppy! Dogface—please!” 

“Look out!” Andy shrieked. 

The dog jumped off the couch and went running full speed toward Kermit. 

“No! Stop!” Kermit cried. He dove behind the lab table. 

The dog tried to slow down. But his big legs were carrying him too fast. 

Dogface crashed into the lab table. Bottles and beakers flew into the air, 
then crashed to the floor. The table toppled over on top of Kermit. 

The shelves fell off the wall, and all of the jars and tubes and beakers 
tumbled to the floor, shattering, clattering, chemicals pouring out over the floor. 

“What a mess!” Evan cried. “What a horrible mess!” 

He turned—and let out a loud gasp. 

Aunt Dee stood in the doorway. Her mouth was opened wide in surprise, 
and her eyes nearly bulged out of her head. 

“What on Earth is going on down here?” she shrieked. 

“Uh... well...” Evan started. 

How could he begin to explain? And if he did find a way to explain, would 
Aunt Dee believe him? 

Aunt Dee pressed her hands against her waist and tapped one foot on the 
floor. “What has happened here?” she demanded angrily. 

“Uh... well...” Evan repeated. 

Kermit spoke up first. He pointed an accusing finger at Evan. “Evan was 
teasing the dog!” he cried. 

9 

Kermit’s mom glared angrily at Evan. “I’m paying you to take care of Kermit,” 
she said sternly. “Not to play silly jokes on the dog and wreck my house.” 

“But—but—but—” Evan sputtered. 

“Evan didn’t do it!” Andy protested. 

But her words were drowned out by Kermit, who let out a loud, phony wail 
—and burst into tears. “I tried to stop Evan!” Kermit sobbed. “I didn’t want him 
to tease Dogface! But he wouldn’t stop!” 

Kermit rushed into his mother’s arms. “It’s okay,” Aunt Dee said 
soothingly. “It’s okay, Kermit. I’ll make sure Evan never does it again.” 

She narrowed her eyes angrily at Evan as Kermit continued to sob, holding 
on to his mother like a baby. 

Evan rolled his eyes at Andy. Andy replied with a shrug. 

“Evan, you and Andy can start cleaning up this mess,” Mrs. Majors 
ordered. “Kermit is a very sensitive boy. When you play jokes like this, it upsets 
him terribly.” 

Kermit sobbed even louder. His mom tenderly patted his head. “It’s okay, 
Kermit. It’s okay. Evan won’t ever tease Dogface again,” she whispered. 

“But—but—” Evan sputtered. 

How could Kermit put on such an act? 

How could he deliberately get Evan into trouble? This mess wasn’t Evan’s 
fault. It was Kermit’s! 

“I really don’t think—” Andy started. 

But Aunt Dee raised a hand to silence her. “Just get this mess cleaned up— 
okay?” 

She turned to Evan. “I’m not going to tell your mom about this, Evan,” she 
said, still patting Kermit’s head. 

“Thanks,” Evan muttered. 

“I’m going to give you one more chance,” she continued. “You don’t really 
deserve it. If you weren’t my nephew, I’d make you pay for all the damage. And 
I’d get someone else to take care of Kermit.” 

“Evan is mean,” Kermit murmured, removing his glasses and wiping tears 
off his cheeks. “Evan is really mean.” 

What a little rat! Evan thought. But he remained silent, his eyes lowered to 
the floor. 

“Kermit, let’s get you cleaned up,” Aunt Dee said, leading him to the stairs. 
“Then we’ll have to give the dog a bath.” 

She turned back to Evan and pointed a finger at him. “One more chance,” 
she warned. “One more chance.” 

In the corner, Dogface let out a loud hiccup. 

“See how you’ve upset the dog?” Kermit’s mom called to Evan. “You’ve 
given poor Dogface the hiccups!” 

“But—but—” Evan sputtered again. 

As Evan struggled to find words to defend himself, Kermit and his mom 
disappeared up the stairs. 

Two hours later, Andy and Evan wearily headed for home. 

“What a mess,” Evan moaned. “Look at me. I’m covered in chemicals.” 

“Two hours,” Andy muttered. “Two hours to clean up the basement. And 
Dogface stood there watching us, hiccupping the whole time.” 

“Kermit is such a little creep,” Evan said, kicking a stone across the 
sidewalk. 

Andy shook her head bitterly. “Do you have any more cousins like him?” 

“No,” Evan replied. “Kermit is one of a kind.” 

“He’s such a little liar,” Andy said. 

“Hey—you stuck up for him,” Evan accused. “You said he was a genius, 
remember? You were so happy that he did your math problems for you, you 
thought he was wonderful.” 

Andy shifted her backpack onto her other shoulder. A smile crossed her 
face. “I forgot all about the math problems,” she said. “Kermit may be a little 
creep—but he’s also a genius. I’m going to get an A in math!” She let out a 
happy cheer. 

“Winners never cheat, and cheaters never win,” Evan muttered. 

Andy gave him a playful shove. “Did you just make that up? It’s very 
catchy.” 

“Give me a break,” Evan growled. He turned and made his way up his 
driveway without saying good-bye. 

Andy called him two nights later. “Your cousin Kermit is a total creep!” She 

shouted so loudly, Evan had to hold his phone away from his ear. 

“Do you know what he did? Do you know what he did?” Andy shrieked. 

“No. What?” Evan asked softly. 

“He did all the math equations wrong,” Andy cried. 

“Excuse me?” Evan wasn’t sure he heard correctly. “The genius got 
everything wrong?” 

“On purpose!” Andy declared. “He got them wrong on purpose. He made 
up answers for all of them! He didn’t even read the problems. He just wrote 
down stupid answers.” 

“But why?” Evan demanded. 

“Why? Why? Because he’s Kermit!” Andy screamed. 

Evan swallowed hard. Poor Andy, he thought. Now she will fail in math. 

“What a mean, rotten trick!” Andy shrieked into the phone. “Mrs. McGrady 
called me up to her desk and asked me to explain my answers. She asked me 
how I could possibly be so totally off on every single equation.” 

Andy sighed bitterly. “Of course I couldn’t answer her. I just stood there 
with my mouth open. I think I drooled on her desk!” 

“After we left his house, Kermit probably laughed his head off,” Evan said. 

“That brat has such a sick sense of humor,” Andy wailed. “We have to pay 
him back, Evan. We really have to.” 

“Yeah. We do,” Evan agreed. 

“We have to get out the Monster Blood,” Andy urged. “We have to use the 
Monster Blood to pay him back.” 

“Yeah. We do,” Evan agreed. 

10 

Evan called Andy back later that night. “I changed my mind,” he said. “I don’t 
want to use the Monster Blood.” 

“What’s your problem?” Andy demanded. “Kermit deserves it. You know 
he does.” 

“Monster Blood is too dangerous,” Evan told her. “It turned Cuddles the 
hamster into a giant, roaring monster. I don’t want to turn Kermit into a giant, 
roaring monster.” 

“Neither do I!” Andy exclaimed. “I don’t want to feed it to him, Evan. I just 
want to slip a tiny bit into one of his mixtures. He thinks he’s so smart and can 
do anything. I want to see Kermit’s face when his mixture goes berserk!” 

She laughed gleefully. 

What an evil laugh, Evan thought. 

“It’ll be awesome!” Andy exclaimed. 

“Forget about it,” Evan insisted. “I have nightmares about Monster Blood 
almost every night. I don’t want to see that stuff again, Andy. I really don’t. 
Leave it locked up—please!” 

“But you said we could do it!” Andy pleaded. 

“I made a mistake,” Evan told her. “Don’t take it out of the closet, Andy. 
Leave it safe and sound in its can—okay?” 

Andy didn’t reply. 

“Okay?” Evan demanded. “Okay?” 

“Okay,” Andy finally agreed. 

“We’re going to play outside today, Kermit,” Evan said firmly. “It’s a beautiful 
day, and we’re going to go out and not stay in the stupid basement. Get it?” 

It was a sunny, warm Thursday afternoon. Golden sunlight filtered down 
through the dust-covered basement windows up near the ceiling. 

Standing behind his lab table, arranging his jars and bottles of chemicals, 
Kermit muttered something to himself. 

“No argument,” Andy added. “We’re going outside even if Evan and I have 
to drag you out.” 

“But I have a mixture I want to try,” Kermit whined. 

“You need some sunshine,” Evan told him. “Look how pale you are. You 
look just like a white mouse.” 

Kermit was wearing a huge olive-colored T-shirt over baggy brown shorts. 
With his white-blond hair, beady eyes, and buck teeth, he looked more like a rat 
in human clothes. 

He frowned, hurt by Evan’s description. 

“Okay. I’ll go outside with you,” he murmured unhappily. 

“Yaay!” Andy whooped. It was the first time Kermit had ever agreed to 
leave his basement lab. 

“But first I have to have a drink,” Kermit said. He stepped out from behind 
the lab table and made his way toward the basement stairs. “You want an orange 
soda?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied. He and Andy followed Kermit up the stairs to 
the kitchen. 

“I can’t believe he agreed to go out and play,” Andy whispered. “Do you 
think he’s sick or something?” 

“Maybe he feels bad about the mean tricks he’s pulled,” Evan whispered. 

The kitchen phone rang. Evan answered it. It was the wrong number. 

He hung up the phone. He and Andy stepped up to the counter. Andy was 
wearing pink jeans, a yellow sleeveless T-shirt, and bright orange high-tops. 

Kermit had already poured out three glasses of orange soda. The soda was 
the same color as Andy’s high-tops, Evan noticed. They all drank the soda down 
quickly. 

“I was really thirsty,” Kermit said. Evan didn’t pay any attention to the 
strange smile on Kermit’s face. After all, Kermit always had a strange smile on 
his face. 

“This orange soda is very sweet,” Andy commented. She made a face. “Too 
sweet! It makes my teeth itch!” 

Kermit laughed. “I think it’s good,” he said. 

They set their glasses down in the sink and stepped out the back door. Evan 
found a red Frisbee on the back stoop. He flipped it to Andy. 

Andy trotted across the backyard and flipped it back to Evan. “Let’s play 
keep-away from Kermit!” she cried. 

“Hey—no way!” Kermit protested. “Toss it to me!” 

Andy sent the Frisbee flying over Kermit’s head to Evan. Kermit made a 
wild grab for it, but it sailed out of his reach. It hit Evan’s hands, but Evan 

dropped it. 

Andy started to laugh. 

“What’s so funny?” Evan demanded. 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know.” She let out another giggle. 

Evan flipped the Frisbee to Kermit. It bounced off Kermit’s chest. 

This kid is a real klutz, Evan thought. It’s because he never plays sports. He 
never comes up out of his basement. 

Andy uttered a high-pitched laugh. 

Evan started to laugh, too. 

Kermit picked up the Frisbee. He tried to toss it to Andy, but the Frisbee 
sailed way over her head. It hit the side of the garage and bounced off. 

Evan and Andy both laughed harder. 

Evan trotted over to the garage. He sent a sidearm toss toward Andy. She 
missed, and the Frisbee flew into the low hedges at the side of the yard. 

Andy didn’t chase after it. She was laughing too hard. 

Evan laughed even harder. Tears ran down his cheeks. 

What’s happening to me? he wondered, suddenly feeling frightened. 

Why can’t I stop laughing? What’s going on? 

Kermit grinned at both of them. That grin! 

Evan laughed even harder. So hard, his stomach hurt. 

Something is wrong, Evan realized. Something is terribly wrong. 

“K-Kermit—why are we 1-laughing?” he stammered. 

Andy wiped tears from her eyes. She held her sides and laughed some 
more. 

“Why are we laughing?” Evan demanded. 

“I gave you my laughing mixture,” Kermit told them. “I put it in the orange 
soda.” 

Evan tossed back his head and laughed. Andy giggled so hard, she choked. 
But she kept on laughing. 

This isn’t funny. This is scary, Evan thought. But he let out a shrill giggle. 

“How—how long are we going to laugh like this, Kermit?” Evan managed 
to ask. 

“Probably forever,” Kermit replied, flashing his famous toothy grin. 

11 

Evan took a deep breath and tried to hold it. But the laughter burst out of him so 
hard, his chest ached. 

Laughing giddily, Andy made a grab for Kermit. 

Kermit ducked out of her reach and went scampering toward the fence at 
the back of the yard. 

Evan shook his head hard, trying to shake off the effect of the laughter 
potion. But it didn’t help. He laughed until tears rolled down his face. 

Andy chased after Kermit, laughing shrilly. 

Evan followed, gasping for breath. I can’t breathe, he realized. I’m laughing 
so hard, I can’t breathe. 

“K-Kermit—!” Evan choked out. “You’ve got to s-stop it!” A high giggle 
burst out of his throat. “You’ve g-got to!” 

“I don’t know how,” Kermit replied calmly. 

Andy and Evan laughed in reply. 

“It’s awesome—isn’t it!” Kermit declared happily. “The mixture works 
perfectly!” 

Andy made a grab for Kermit’s throat. 

Again, Kermit ducked away. 

Andy and Evan laughed a little harder. 

Andy picked up the Frisbee and tried to heave it at Kermit. But she was 
laughing too hard to control it. The Frisbee sailed over the fence. 

“Hey—get that back. That’s mine!” Kermit demanded. 

Evan and Andy laughed. 

A familiar face popped up on the other side of the fence. 

“Conan!” Kermit cried. 

Conan peered first at Andy, then at Evan. “Are you looking at my yard?” he 
asked Evan. 

Evan struggled to hold it in. But he let out a high, shrill laugh. 

“Didn’t I warn you last week about looking at my yard?” Conan demanded. 

Evan laughed. 

“Conan, give me back my Frisbee,” Kermit whined. 

Conan leaped over the fence. Evan saw that he had the Frisbee in his left 
hand. Conan quickly hid the Frisbee behind his back. 

Andy and Evan laughed. Andy wiped tears from her eyes. Her whole body 
shook with laughter. 

“Give me back my Frisbee,” Kermit insisted. 

Conan ignored him. “What’s so funny?” he asked Andy and Evan. He 
balled his right hand into a fist. 

Andy giggled. 

If we keep laughing, he’ll pound us! Evan realized. But he couldn’t help 
himself. He let out a loud belly laugh. 

“Hey—I want my Frisbee!” Kermit whined. 

“I don’t have your Frisbee,” Conan lied, keeping his left hand behind his 
back. 

Evan tossed his head back and laughed. 

“Yes, you do. It’s behind your back,” Kermit said. “Give it back, Conan.” 

“Who’s going to make me?” Conan demanded in a low, menacing voice. 

Evan let out a high giggle. Andy laughed, too. 

“They are!” Kermit replied to Conan. “They’re going to make you!” He 
turned to Evan. “Make Conan give back my Frisbee.” 

Evan laughed in reply. 

“What’s so funny?” Conan asked again. 

Andy shook her head. “Nothing. Nothing’s funny,” she choked. Then she 
burst out laughing. 

“I don’t like people laughing at me,” Conan said. 

This is horrible! Evan thought. One more laugh—and Conan could 
explode! 

Evan let out a long hyena laugh. 

“I really go ballistic when people laugh at me,” Conan warned. 

Evan and Andy laughed some more. 

“I have to hurt people who laugh at me,” Conan threatened. 

Evan and Andy laughed in reply. 

Conan turned to Kermit. “Why are they laughing like that?” 

Kermit shrugged. “Beats me. I guess they think you’re funny.” 

“Oh, is that right?” Conan shouted angrily, turning back to Evan and Andy. 
“You two think I’m funny?” 

Evan and Andy held their sides and laughed. 

“Give me my Frisbee!” Kermit shouted. 

“Okay. Go chase it.” Conan flung the Frisbee across the hedges. It sailed 
over two yards and disappeared in a clump of evergreen shrubs. 

Kermit went running after it. 

Conan scowled at Evan and Andy. “I’m going to count to three,” he 
growled. “And if you don’t stop laughing by the count of three, I’ll make you 
stop!” He raised both fists to show them how he would make them stop. 

“One...” Conan said. 

Evan laughed. Andy pressed her hand over mouth, but couldn’t stop a 
giggle from escaping. 

“Two...” Conan counted, his face twisted in anger. 

I’ve got to stop laughing! Evan told himself. I’m in serious trouble here. 
Serious. 

He opened his mouth, and a booming “Hahahahaha!” burst out. 

Andy had both hands pressed over her mouth. But it didn’t stop the snickers 
and guffaws from pouring out her nose. 

Kermit came jogging back into the backyard. “I can’t find the Frisbee,” he 
complained. “Somebody has to help me. I can’t find it anywhere.” 

Conan turned to him. “You sure you don’t know why they’re laughing like 
that?” he asked. 

Kermit shook his head. “They told me they think you’re funny-looking,” he 
told Conan. “I guess that’s why they’re laughing.” 

I don’t believe this! Evan thought, so angry he wanted to explode. That 
little creep! How can he do this to us? 

Conan turned back to Andy and Evan. “Last chance to stop,” he said. He 
took a deep breath, stretching out his big, powerful chest. “Three!” 

Andy laughed. 

Evan laughed even harder. 

“I warned you,” Conan growled. 

12 

Andy phoned Evan that night to see how he was feeling. Evan had to hold the 
phone away from his ear. His head hurt too much to press a phone against it. 

“I guess I’ll survive,” Evan groaned. “I’m getting used to looking in the 
mirror and seeing a pile of coleslaw where my head used to be.” 

Andy sighed. “Your cousin is such a creep,” she said. 

“How are you feeling?” Evan asked. “How long did it take you to climb 
down from the tree?” 

“Not too many hours,” Andy replied weakly. 

Conan had said he never hit girls. So he picked Andy up and stuck her onto 
a high tree branch. 

“At least Conan stopped us from laughing,” Evan said. “My stomach still 
hurts from laughing so hard.” 

“Mine, too,” Andy told him. “I’m never going to laugh again. Never. If 
someone tells me the funniest joke in the world, I’ll just smile and say, ‘Very 
funny.’” 

“I can’t believe Kermit did that to us,” Evan moaned. 

“I believe it,” Andy replied dryly. “Kermit will do anything to get us into 
trouble. That’s what he lives for—getting us into major trouble.” 

“Did you hear that little mouse laughing while Conan pounded me into the 
ground?” Evan asked. 

“I was up in the tree, remember? I could see him laughing!” Andy declared. 

There was a long silence at the other end. And then Andy spoke in a hushed 
voice, just above a whisper, “Evan—are you ready to use the Monster Blood on 
Kermit?” 

“Yeah,” Evan replied without having to think about it even for a second. 
“I’m ready.” 

13 

After school the next afternoon, Evan and Andy found Kermit behind his lab 
table as usual. “Hi, Kermit,” Evan called, tossing his backpack down and 
stepping up to the table. 

Kermit didn’t glance up. He was busy stirring ingredients in a large mixing 
bowl, using a large wooden spoon. 

Evan peered into the bowl. It looked like pie dough in there. It was thick 
and gooey and yellowish. 

Kermit hummed to himself as he stirred. 

Andy was wearing a sleeveless, hot pink T-shirt over bright yellow shorts 
and matching yellow sneakers. She stepped up beside Evan and peeked into the 
bowl. “Making a pie?” she asked. 

Kermit ignored her, too. He kept stirring and humming, stirring and 
humming. 

Finally he stopped and glanced up at Evan. “I told my mom you lost my 
Frisbee,” he said, sneering. “She says you have to get me a new one.” 

“Huh? Me?” Evan cried. 

Andy walked around to Kermit’s side of the table. She lowered her head to 
the bowl. “Smells lemony,” she said. “What is it, Kermit? Is it some kind of 
dough?” 

“It was your fault my Frisbee got lost,” Kermit told Evan, ignoring Andy’s 
questions. “Mom says you’re a very bad baby-sitter.” 

Evan let out an angry cry. He balled his hands into fists. He struggled to 
keep himself from strangling Kermit. 

It was a real struggle. 

“Mom wanted to know who drank up all the orange soda,” Kermit 
continued. “I told her you and Andy drank it.” 

“Kermit!” Evan shrieked. “You played a horrible trick on us yesterday! You 
put chemicals in our orange soda! You made us laugh and laugh and laugh— 
until it hurt. Then you got us in major trouble with Conan! Did you tell your 
mom that? Did you? Did you ? ” 

Kermit put his hands over his ears. “Don’t shout, Evan,” he whined. “You 
know I have very sensitive ears.” 

Another angry growl escaped Evan’s throat. He felt about to explode with 

rage. 

“I told my mom that you shout at me all the time,” Kermit continued. 
“Mom says you’re just immature. She thinks you’re very babyish. She only lets 
you stay with me because you’re my cousin.” 

Kermit picked up the wooden spoon and started to stir the doughy mixture 
again. 

Evan spun away, trying to control his anger. 

I’m glad Andy and I are going to do what we’re going to do, he thought. 
I’m glad we’re going to give Kermit a little scare. He’s been asking for it. He 
really has. And now he’s going to get it. 

Evan walked over to his backpack. He unzipped it and pulled out a candy 
bar. “Mmmm. A Choc-O-Lik Bar,” he murmured. He crossed back to the lab 
table, unwrapping the candy bar as he walked. 

Standing in front of Kermit, Evan took a big bite of the chocolate bar. It 
made a loud crunch as his teeth sank into it. “Mmmmmm!” he proclaimed. 
“Choc-O-Lik Bars are cool.” 

The candy bar was part of the plot. 

Evan knew that the Choc-O-Lik Bar was Kermit’s favorite. 

The candy bar was supposed to distract Kermit. While Kermit stared at the 
candy and pleaded with Evan to give him a bite, Andy would slip a tiny chunk of 
Monster Blood into Kermit’s mixture. 

Evan crunched the candy bar loudly, making lip-smacking sounds as he 
chewed. 

Kermit glanced up. He stopped stirring the yellowish dough. “Is that really 
a Choc-O-Lik Bar?” he asked. 

Evan nodded. “Yeah. Sure is.” 

“My favorite,” Kermit said. 

“I know,” Evan replied. He took another crunchy bite. 

Kermit stared at the candy bar. 

Andy stood beside Kermit. Evan saw the blue container of Monster Blood 
in her hand. Just seeing the can made Evan shiver. 

So many bad memories. So many nightmares. 

The green gunk inside the can was so dangerous. 

“Can I have a piece of the Choc-O-Lik Bar?” Kermit asked Evan. 

Andy lifted off the top of the Monster Blood container. 

“Maybe. Maybe not,” Evan told Kermit. 

Andy stuck two fingers in the container. She pulled out a gooey green hunk 
of Monster Blood. 

“Please? Pretty please?” Kermit begged Evan. 

Andy dropped the chunk of Monster Blood into Kermit’s big bowl of 
dough. Then she quietly snapped the cap back on the container and slid it back 
into her bag. 

Evan took another bite of the candy bar. 

“You shouldn’t eat a candy bar unless you have enough to share with 
everyone,” Kermit scolded. 

“You haven’t been very nice to me,” Evan told him. “So I’m not going to 
share.” 

Kermit started stirring the dough again. He stared angrily at Evan as he 
stirred. He didn’t see the green Monster Blood being stirred up in the yellow 
dough. 

Evan took another bite of the Choc-O-Lik Bar. Only a few bites left. 

“I’m going to tell Mom you were mean to me,” Kermit threatened. “I’m 
going to tell her you wouldn’t share.” 

Evan shook his head. “See what I mean? You’re not nice to me, Kermit. If 
you were nice to me, I’d share all my candy bars with you.” 

Andy winked at Evan. Then she peered into the bowl. 

Kermit stirred and stirred. 

Andy’s expression became tense. She gripped the edge of the table with 
both hands. Evan saw her nibble her bottom lip. 

Watching Kermit stir the Monster Blood, Evan suddenly had a heavy 
feeling in his stomach. 

We’ve done it, he thought. 

We’ve opened another can of Monster Blood. 

He stared at the yellow dough in the bowl. It made a soft plopping sound as 
Kermit pushed the wooden spoon through it. 

Now what? Evan wondered. 

Now what’s going to happen? 

14 

Kermit stirred the yellow dough. The big wooden spoon scraped the bowl. The 
doughy mixture plopped softly, tumbling and swirling as Kermit worked. 

Andy kept nibbling her lower lip, her eyes locked on the bowl. Her brown 
hair fell over her face. But she made no move to push it back. 

Evan watched from the other side of the table. His heart began doing flip- 
flops in his chest. He took another bite of the chocolate bar. 

He chewed as quietly as possible. He didn’t want to disturb Kermit. As he 
chewed, he stared at the bowl. 

He and Andy were waiting. Waiting to see what the little hunk of Monster 
Blood would do to Kermit’s mixture. 

Waiting to see the look of horror on Kermit’s face. 

Waiting to pay him back for being such a little monster. 

Kermit didn’t seem to notice how quiet it had become in the basement. 
Dogface came lumbering in, panting loudly, his paws thudding on the tile floor. 

No one turned to look at him. 

The dog hiccupped, turned, and padded out of the room. 

Evan bit off another chunk of the candy bar. 

Kermit stirred, humming to himself. The spoon scraped the side of the 
bowl. The dough slapped against the edge. 

And spilled over. 

Kermit stopped stirring. “Weird,” he muttered. 

Evan’s heart did a flip-flop up to his throat. “What’s weird?” he asked. 

“It grew,” Kermit replied, scratching his white-blond hair. “Look.” 

Kermit pointed to the yellow dough with the wooden spoon. It plopped up 
over the top of the bowl. 

“It—it’s growing really fast!” Kermit declared. 

Evan took a few steps closer. Andy leaned down to get a better look. 

The dough rose up, shimmering and quivering. 

“Wow!” Kermit cried. “It wasn’t supposed to do this! It was supposed to 
turn sticky and black!” 

Andy winked at Evan. Her brown eyes lit up excitedly. A smile spread 

across her face. 

The yellow blob quivered up over the top of the bowl, as big as a beach 

ball. 

How big was it going to get? 

“Oh, wow! This is awesome!” Kermit declared. 

The dough shimmered higher. Wider. 

It rose up high over the bowl. It overflowed the sides. 

Bigger. Bigger. It started to look like an enormous hot air balloon. 

“It’s taller than me!” Kermit declared. His voice had changed. He didn’t 
sound excited now. He was beginning to sound frightened. 

“We’d better stop it, I think,” he murmured. 

“How?” Andy asked. She stepped out from behind the lab table and joined 
Evan on the other side. 

Andy grinned at Evan. She was enjoying the expression of fear on Kermit’s 
face. Evan had to admit he enjoyed it, too. 

The ball of yellow dough shimmered and shook, growing bigger every 
second. It bubbled up faster and faster, pressing Kermit back against the 
basement wall. 

“Hey—help!” he sputtered. 

Andy’s grin grew wider. “He’s terrified now,” she whispered to Evan. 

Evan nodded. He knew he was supposed to enjoy this. It was supposed to 
be sweet revenge. 

But Evan was terrified, too. 

How much bigger would the huge yellow blob grow? Could they stop it? 
Or would it grow and grow and grow until it filled the entire basement? 

“Evan—help me!” Kermit cried. “I’m trapped back here!” 

The dough began to shake harder. It bobbed up against the basement 
ceiling. 

Evan glanced down and realized he was still holding a chunk of candy bar 
in his hand. The chocolate had started to melt. 

Evan started to pop the candy into his mouth—just as the giant dough ball 
exploded with a deafening roar. 

15 

“ULP!” 

Evan swallowed hard as the doughy goop exploded. The force of the blast 
sent the candy chunk flying down his throat. 

He started to cough and choke. 

With a hard splat, globs of sticky dough hit him in the face. The yellow goo 
spread over his hair and covered his eyes. 

“Hey!” Evan choked out. He frantically wiped the dough from his eyes, 
blinking hard. 

He could taste it on his tongue. “Yuck!” He spit it out and rubbed the sticky 
stuff off his lips. Then he pulled thick wads of goo off his face. 

“It’s stuck to my hair!” Andy wailed. 

“Help me! Help me!” Kermit’s cries sounded as if they were coming from 
far away. Evan quickly saw why. Kermit was buried under a big heap of yellow 
goop. 

Pulling dough from his hair, Evan hurried behind the lab table. He reached 
down with both hands and tugged Kermit up from under the dough. 

“Wow. I’m kind of dizzy!” Kermit cried. He leaned heavily against the lab 
table. His hands slid in the yellow goo that covered the table. 

“Til never get it out of my hair!” Andy wailed, tugging at her hair with both 
hands. “Never!” She turned to Evan. “It wasn’t supposed to explode. Just get 
big. I guess something in the dough made it blow up.” 

Wiping dough off the front of his T-shirt, Evan gazed around the basement. 
The yellow dough had splattered over everything. Now it dripped down the 
walls, making soft plopping sounds as it hit the floor. 

“That was an awesome explosion!” Kermit declared. His eyeglasses were 
covered with yellow goop. He pulled them off and squinted around the room. 

He turned to Andy. “Did you put something in the bowl?” 

“Never mind,” Andy replied, still pulling sticky yellow globs from her hair. 

Kermit tugged her arm. “What was it? What did you put in my mixture?” 

“Why do you want to know?” Andy demanded. 

“So we can do that again!” Kermit declared gleefully. “It was so awesome !” 

“No way we’re doing it again!” Evan moaned. 

Their revenge on Kermit hadn’t exactly worked out, Evan realized bitterly. 
Kermit should be in tears by now. Or he should be quivering in fear and terror. 

Instead, his eyes were dancing with excitement and he was grinning from 
ear to ear. 

We were total jerks! Evan thought sadly. Kermit is loving this! 

Kermit pulled out a cloth and cleaned his glasses. “What a mess!” he 
declared, gazing around the room. “Evan, you’re going to be in major trouble 
when Mom gets home.” 

Evan swallowed hard. He had forgotten about Kermit’s mom. 

She had given him one last chance to prove that he was a good baby-sitter. 

Now she was going to come home to a basement splattered with sticky 
yellow goop from floor to ceiling. And Kermit was sure to tell her the whole 
thing was Evan’s fault. 

Aunt Dee will tell everyone in the world why she had to take the job away 
from me, Evan thought unhappily. And I’ll never get another baby-sitting job as 
long as I live. 

Bye-bye, Walkman, he thought grimly. No way he’d ever earn the money 
for one now. 

“This is your fault!” he snapped at Andy, pointing an accusing finger at her. 
A spot of yellow dough stuck to his fingernail. 

“My fault?” Andy shrieked. “You’re the one who wanted to teach Kermit a 
lesson!” 

“But you ’re the one who wanted to use the Monster Blood!” Evan cried. 

“Look at my hair!” Andy wailed. “It’s solid goop! It looks like I’m wearing 
a helmet! It’s ruined! Ruined!” She uttered an angry growl. 

Kermit giggled. He bent down and picked up a chunk of the sticky yellow 
dough. “Think fast!” he shouted—and heaved it at Evan. 

The dough ball hit the front of Evan’s T-shirt and stuck there. “Stop it, 
Kermit!” he shouted angrily. 

“Let’s have a dough fight!” Kermit suggested, grinning. He scooped up 
another handful of the stuff. 

“No! No way! Stop it!” Evan cried. He pulled the dough ball off his T-shirt. 
“This is dangerous! We’ve got to clean this up!” 

Kermit flung another big chunk of yellow goo at Evan. 

Evan tried to dodge out of the way. But his sneakers slipped on a big, slimy 
puddle of goop, and he hit the floor hard. He landed on his side with a loud 

“OOF!” 

Kermit let out a gleeful laugh. “That was awesome!” he declared. “What a 
shot!” 

Andy hurried over and helped tug Evan to his feet. “Maybe we can vacuum 
it all up,” she suggested. She turned to Kermit. “Where does your mom keep the 
vacuum cleaner?” 

Kermit shrugged. “Beats me.” 

Evan leaned against the lab table. His hand rested in a puddle of dough, but 
he didn’t care. 

He suddenly felt strange. 

His entire body started to tingle. His stomach felt queasy. He shut his eyes, 
trying to force the strange feeling away. 

But the tingling grew stronger. 

He heard a shrill whistling sound in his ears. His muscles started to ache. 
He could feel the blood throbbing at his temples. 

“Maybe we can mop it up,” Evan heard Andy say. But her voice sounded 
tiny and far away. 

He turned to see her pick up a mop and bucket from against the basement 

wall. 

That bucket is too tiny, Evan thought. Why does Andy want to use such a 
tiny mop? 

The room tilted—to the right, then to the left. 

Evan blinked hard, trying to straighten everything out. 

His whole body buzzed, as if an electrical current were shooting through 
him. He shut his eyes and pressed both hands against his throbbing temples. 

“Evan—aren’t you going to help me?” Andy’s voice sounded so faint, so 
far away. “Evan—?” he heard her call. “Evan—?” 

When he opened his eyes, he saw that Andy and Kermit were staring up at 
him. Their expressions had changed. Their eyes bulged in fright and surprise. 
Their mouths were wide open. 

“What’s going on?” Evan demanded. His voice boomed through the 
basement, echoing off the concrete walls. 

Andy and Kermit stared up at him. The tiny mop fell out of Andy’s hand 
and clattered to the floor. 

Such a tiny mop, Evan thought again, staring down at it. Such a tiny bucket. 

And then he realized that Andy and Kermit were tiny, too. 


“Oh!” A cry of surprise escaped Evan’s throat. 

Everyone is so small. Everything is so tiny. 

It took Evan a long time to figure out what had happened. 

But when it finally dawned on him, he let out a shriek of horror. 

“Oh, no! No!” he moaned. “I’m growing ! I’m growing bigger and bigger!” 

16 

Evan lowered his eyes to the floor. It seemed so far below. 

“My—my legs—” he stammered. 

Andy and Kermit still hadn’t said a word. They stared up at him, their faces 
twisted in surprise. 

Evan swallowed hard. “What’s going on?” he cried. His voice boomed 
through the small room. “I must be eight feet tall!” 

“You—you’re a giant]” Kermit declared. He stepped forward and grabbed 
on to Evan’s knee. “Me, too! Okay? Okay, Evan? Make me a giant, too!” he 
begged. 

“Give me a break,” Evan muttered. He picked up Kermit easily and set him 
down on top of the lab table. 

Then Evan turned to Andy. “What am I going to do? This is terrible!” 

“Not so loud!” Andy pleaded, covering her ears with her hands. “Please, 
Evan—try to whisper or something, okay?” 

“What am I going to do?” Evan repeated, ignoring her plea. 

Andy forced a smile. “Try out for basketball, I guess.” 

Evan balled his huge hands into huge fists. “I’m not in the mood for your 
sick sense of humor, Andy,” he snapped. 

His body started to tingle again. His muscles ached. 

I’m growing even bigger, he realized. 

Evan’s throat suddenly felt very dry. He realized his knees were shaking. 
They made a loud banging sound as they hit together. 

Don’t panic! he instructed himself. 

The first rule is—don’t panic. 

But why shouldn ’t he panic? His head was nearly pushing up against the 
basement ceiling. 

Kermit stood up on top of the lab table. His white high-tops were splattered 
with yellow dough. They looked like little doll shoes to Evan. 

“Make me a giant, too!” Kermit pleaded. “Why can’t I be a giant?” 

Evan stared down at his cousin. Kermit really did look like a little white 

mouse now. 

Evan’s body tingled harder. The room tilted and swayed again. “This is 
your fault, Andy!” he shouted. 

Andy shrank back against the wall. “Huh? My fault?” 

“You and your Monster Blood!” Evan thundered. “I—I swallowed some!” 

Andy stared up at him. “How?” 

“When Kermit’s mixture exploded,” Evan replied. “I was putting the candy 
bar in my mouth. The dough exploded. I started to choke. The dough hit me in 
the face. I remember I tasted it. It was on my lips. And—and—” 

“And it had Monster Blood in it!” Andy finished his sentence for him. Her 
face filled with horror. “Oh, Evan. I’m sorry. I really am.” 

But then her face brightened. “The Monster Blood splashed on your 
clothes, too. That was lucky. They’re growing with you.” 

Evan let out an exasperated sigh. “Lucky?” he cried. “You call this lucky? 
What if I keep growing and never stop?” 

Kermit remained standing on the lab table. He stared up at Evan. “You 
mean if I eat some of the dough, I’ll turn into a giant, too?” He bent down and 
scooped up a handful of dough. 

“Don’t you dare!” Evan screamed. He leaned over and flicked the dough 
out of Kermit’s hand with two fingers. Then he hovered over Kermit, glaring at 
him menacingly. “I can squash you, Kermit. I really can,” Evan warned. 

“Okay, okay,” Kermit muttered, his voice trembling. He slid off the table 
and stepped behind Andy. 

Wow, Evan thought, I actually have Kermit afraid of me! That’s a first. 
Maybe growing so big isn’t all bad! 

His body tingled and vibrated. The whistling in his ears grew louder. He 
could feel himself grow some more. 

He turned to see Dogface pad into the room. The big sheepdog looked like 
a tiny poodle. 

The dog hiccupped. It sniffed at a yellow puddle of dough on the floor. 

“No!” Evan cried. “Don’t eat that! Dogface—no!” 

He bent over and picked up the sheepdog. 

Seeing a giant human lift him up easily off the floor, Dogface let out a yelp 
of terror. All four legs thrashed the air as the frightened dog struggled to break 
free. 

But Evan cradled the sheepdog in one arm and held on to him tightly. 

When he realized he couldn’t escape from the giant, the dog’s terrified 

yelps turned to quiet whimpers. 

“Take Dogface out of here. Lock him outside,” Evan ordered Kermit. He 
lowered the whimpering dog to the floor. 

Kermit obediently led the dog away. Halfway to the stairs, he turned back to 
Evan. “Hey, you cured Dogface’s hiccups!” 

I guess I scared them out of him! Evan told himself. 

Kermit led Dogface up the stairs. Evan turned to Andy. “I told you to leave 
the Monster Blood in the closet!” he cried. “Now look at me!” 

He had to duck his head. Otherwise it would brush against the ceiling. 

“Who told you to eat the stuff?” Andy replied. “Why did you have to be 
eating that candy bar?” 

“It was part of the plan—remember?” Evan snapped angrily. He uttered a 
bitter sigh. “Great plan we had!” 

“I guess it didn’t work out too well,” Andy admitted. 

“I guess it didn’t,” Evan muttered. “Now what will happen to me? What 
will Mom and Dad say?” 

“What will you eat?” Andy added. “You’ll probably have to eat sixteen 
meals a day! And where will you sleep? And how can you go to school? There 
aren’t any desks big enough for you. And what will you wear? They’ll have to 
make your T-shirts out of bedsheets!” 

“You’re not cheering me up,” Evan murmured glumly. 

He felt his body tingle. Again, he could feel his skin stretching, feel all of 
his muscles throb. 

“Ow!” he cried out as the top of his head banged against the ceiling. 

He had to lean over to rub his head. 

“Evan—you’re growing!” Andy exclaimed. 

“I know. I know,” Evan grumbled. The basement ceiling was at least nine 
feet high. Evan had to stoop to keep from banging the ceiling. That meant he 
was more than nine feet tall. 

A shiver of fear shook his body. He glanced around the basement. “I have to 
get out of here!” he cried. 

Kermit returned to the room. He stopped and gawked at Evan. “You grew 
even more!” he cried. “I’ll bet you weigh three hundred pounds!” 

“I don’t have time to weigh myself,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “I have 
to get out of here. I’m so big, I can’t stand up. I’m so big, I—” 

He stopped. He felt himself grow a little more. 

“I’m too big now!” he cried. “I’m trapped down here! There’s no way I can 
get out!” 

17 

“Stay calm,” Andy called up to him. 

“Calm? How can I stay calm?” Evan shrieked. “I’m going to spend the rest 
of my life in this basement! I’m too big for the stairs!” 

“Mom won’t like that,” Kermit said, shaking his head. 

“Try the stairs!” Andy cried. “Maybe you can squeeze up if you hurry!” 

Evan turned to the basement stairs. “I—I don’t think I’ll fit,” he stammered. 
The stairway appeared very narrow. And Evan was now very wide. 

“Come on,” Andy urged. “We’ll help you.” 

“You push and I’ll pull,” Kermit said, running to the stairs. 

Evan lumbered toward the stairs. His sneakers thudded heavily on the tile 
floor. He stooped his shoulders to keep his head from crashing against the 
ceiling. 

“Try not to grow any bigger!” Andy called, following closely behind him. 

“Great advice!” Evan replied sarcastically. “Do you have any more advice 
like that?” 

“Don’t be nasty,” Andy scolded. “I’m only trying to help you.” 

“You’ve already helped me more than enough,” Evan grumbled. 

He felt his body start to tingle. His muscles started to throb. 

“No! Please—no!” He uttered a silent plea. I don’t want to grow any more! 

He sucked in a deep breath and held it. He shut his eyes tight and tried to 
concentrate—concentrate on not growing. 

“I think I just saw you grow another few inches,” Andy called to him. 
“You’d better hurry, Evan.” 

“How big is Evan going to get?” Kermit asked. He had climbed halfway up 
the stairs. “Is he going to get bigger than an elephant?” 

“That’s not helpful, Kermit,” Evan muttered unhappily. “Please stop asking 
questions like that—okay?” 

“If you get as big as an elephant, will you give me a ride?” Kermit 
demanded. 

Evan glared angrily at his cousin. “Do you know what elephants do to 
mice?” he bellowed. Evan raised one foot and brought it down with a crunching 
thud to demonstrate to Kermit what elephants do to mice. 

Kermit swallowed hard and didn’t say anything more. 

Evan walked over to the stairway. He glanced up the stairs. “I don’t think I 
can make it,” he told Andy. “I’m too big.” 

“Give it a try,” she urged. “You’ve got to, Evan.” 

Evan stepped on to the first step. Leaning low, he raised himself to the next 

step. 

“You’re doing it!” Kermit cried happily. He stayed at the top of the stairs, 
watching Evan’s progress eagerly. 

Evan took another step. The wooden stairs creaked under his weight. He 
tried to lean on the banister. But it snapped beneath his hand. 

He climbed two more steps. 

He was a third of the way up when he became stuck. 

His body was just too wide for the narrow stairway. 

Kermit pulled both of Evan’s hands. Andy pushed him from behind. 

But they couldn’t budge him. 

“I—I can’t move,” Evan stammered. He felt panic choke his throat. “I’m 
jammed tight in here. There’s no way I’ll ever get out!” 

Then he felt his body start to tingle. And he knew he was growing even 

more. 

18 

As Evan grew, he heard a cracking sound. 

Soft at first. Then louder. Very close by. 

He cried out as the wall to his left crumbled. His expanding body had 
broken the wall away. 

As the wall cracked and fell, Evan took a deep breath and lurched up the 
stairs. 

“Made it!” he cried as he squeezed through the doorway. 

A few seconds later, he burst out through the kitchen door, into the sunlit 
backyard. 

Dogface lay stretched out near the fence. The dog jumped to his feet as the 
gigantic Evan appeared. Frightened, Dogface gave a loud bark, his stubby tail 
wagging furiously, then turned and bolted from the yard. 

Kermit and Andy followed Evan into the backyard, cheering and shouting, 
“You made it! You’re free!” 

Evan turned to face them. “But now what?” he asked. “Now what do I do? 
I’m nearly as tall as the garage. How tall am I going to grow?” 

Kermit stepped closer to Evan. “Look—I’m standing in your shade!” he 
declared. 

Evan’s shadow fell across the yard like the shadow of a tree trunk. “Kermit, 
give me a break,” Evan muttered. “I have a little bit of a problem here, you 
know?” 

“Maybe we should get you to a doctor,” Andy suggested. 

“A doctor?” Evan cried. “What could a doctor do for me?” 

“Put you on a diet?” Andy joked. 

Evan leaned over her, squinting down at her menacingly. “Andy, I’m 
warning you. One more bad joke, and—” 

“Okay, okay.” Andy raised her hands as if trying to shield herself from him. 
“Sorry. Just trying to keep it light.” 

“Evan isn’t light. He’s heavy!” Kermit chimed in. His idea of a joke. 

Evan let out an unhappy growl. “I don’t think a doctor can help me. I mean, 
I couldn’t fit into a doctor’s office.” 

“But maybe if we brought the can of Monster Blood along, the doctor could 

figure out an antidote,” Andy suggested. “Some kind of cure.” 

Evan started to reply. But shrill voices on the other side of the tall wooden 
fence at the back of the yard made him stop. 

“Cut it out, Conan!” a girl pleaded. 

“Yeah. Leave us alone, Conan!” Evan heard a boy shout. 

Evan lumbered over to the fence and peered into Conan’s yard. He saw 
Conan Barber furiously swinging a baseball bat, swinging it hard, forcing a little 
boy and girl to back up against the fence. 

“Let us go!” the little girl screamed. “Why are you so mean?” 

Conan swung the bat, bringing it close to the boy and girl, making them cry 

out. 

Evan leaned over the fence. His broad shadow fell over Conan. “Want to 
play ball with me, Conan?” Evan thundered. 

The two little kids spun around. They stared up at the enormous Evan. It 
took them a long time to realize they were staring at a real, giant human. 

Then they began to scream. 

Conan’s mouth dropped open and a strangled gurgling sound escaped his 
throat. 

“Hey, Conan, how about a little batting practice?” Evan asked, his voice 
booming over the backyard. Evan reached over the fence and plucked the bat 
from Conan’s hand. 

The little boy and girl ran away screaming. They darted through the hedge 
at the side of Conan’s yard and kept running until they vanished from view. 

Evan took the bat and snapped it in two between his hands. It cracked apart 
like a toothpick. 

Conan froze in place, staring up at Evan in disbelief. He pointed a 
trembling finger. “Evan—you—you—you—” he stammered. 

Evan tossed the two pieces of the cracked bat at Conan’s feet, forcing 
Conan to hop out of the way. 

“You ate Monster Blood!” Conan accused. “That sticky green stuff. The 
stuff that Cuddles the hamster ate last year! You ate some—didn’t you!” 

Evan didn’t want to be reminded of Cuddles the hamster. The little creature 
had turned into a huge, vicious beast after eating Monster Blood. Cuddles had 
returned to hamster size only because the Monster Blood was old and stale. 

But the Monster Blood Evan had swallowed was new and fresh. 

Now I’m a huge, vicious beast, Evan thought sadly. 

“Are you crazy? Are you totally messed up? Why did you eat Monster 
Blood?” Conan demanded. 

“It was an accident,” Evan told him. 

Conan continued to stare up at Evan, but his fearful expression faded. 
Conan suddenly started to laugh. “I’m glad it happened to you and not me!” he 
exclaimed. 

“Huh? Why?” Evan demanded. 

“Because I’m afraid of heights!” Conan replied. He laughed again. “I 
always thought you were a nerd, Evan!” Conan declared. “But now you’re a BIG 
nerd!” 

Evan let out an angry growl and lurched forward. He tried to climb over the 
fence. But he didn’t step high enough. Conan’s fence splintered beneath Evan’s 
heavy sneaker. 

“Hey—!” Conan cried in alarm. 

He tried to turn and run, but Evan was too fast for him. 

Evan grabbed Conan under the shoulders and lifted him off the ground as if 
he weighed nothing. 

“Let go! Let go of me!” Conan screamed. He kicked his arms and legs like 
a baby. 

“I never knew you were afraid of heights,” Evan said. Holding Conan in 
both hands, he raised him high in the air. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” Conan cried. “What are you going to do?” 

“Let’s see if you know how to fly!” Evan exclaimed. 

“Noooooo!” Conan’s shrill cry rose up over the yard. He kicked and 
thrashed as Evan raised him even higher. “Put me down! Put me down!” 

“Okay,” Evan agreed. “I’ll put you down.” He set Conan down on a high 
tree branch. 

Conan clung to the trunk for dear life, trembling and crying. “Evan—don’t 
leave me up here! Please! I told you, I’m afraid of heights! Evan—come back! 
Evan!” 

A huge grin on his huge face, Evan turned away from Conan. “That was a 
lot of fun!” he called down to his friends. 

Conan continued to weep and wail up in the tree. Evan took a few steps 
toward the front yard. “That was excellent!” Evan said, still grinning. 
“Excellent!” 

“Where are you going?” he heard Andy call up to him. 

“Yeah! What are you going to do now?” Kermit asked eagerly. 

“This is kind of cool!” Evan declared. Having his revenge on Conan had 
put him in a better mood. “Let’s go see if we can have some more fun!” 

“Yaaaay!” Kermit cried, racing to keep up with Evan. 

Evan ducked his head to keep from banging it on a low tree branch. He took 
several big steps toward the street. 

“Oh!” He stopped and cried out when he felt himself step on something. He 
heard a cracking, then a crunch beneath his enormous sneaker. 

He turned to see Kermit raise both hands to his face. “Oh, no!” Kermit 
shrieked. “You squashed Andy! Evan—you squashed Andy!” 

19 

Evan gasped and jerked up his foot. 

Kermit let out a high-pitched laugh. “Gotcha, Evan!” 

Andy came running over from the driveway. “That wasn’t funny!” she 
scolded Kermit. “That was a really dumb joke, Kermit. You scared Evan to 
death.” 

“I know!” Kermit laughed, very pleased with himself. 

Evan let out a sigh of relief. He bent down to see what he had stepped on. 
Conan’s skateboard. It lay crushed and splintered, flat on the grass. 

He turned angrily to Kermit. “No more stupid jokes,” he thundered. “Or I’ll 
put you up in the tree with Conan.” 

“Okay. Okay,” Kermit mumbled. “You think you’re tough just because 
you’re so big.” 

Evan held up a pointer finger. “Careful, Kermit,” he warned. “I could knock 
you over with one finger.” 

“Conan is still yelling for help back there,” Andy reported. 

Evan smiled. “Let’s see who’s hanging out at the playground. Maybe we 
can surprise some other kids.” 

Evan crossed the street, taking long, heavy strides. He felt as if he were 
walking on stilts. This is kind of cool, he told himself. I’m the biggest person in 
the world! 

He passed by the neighbors’ basketball hoop, which stood on a pole at the 
curb. Hey—I’m at least six feet taller than the basket! he realized. 

“Hey—wait up!” Andy called breathlessly. “Don’t walk so fast!” 

“I can’t help it!” Evan called back. 

A small blue car rolled by, then squealed to a stop. Evan could see a woman 
and two kids in the car. They were all staring out at him. 

A little girl on a bike turned the corner. She started pedaling toward Evan. 
He saw the look of surprise on her face when she spotted him. 

She braked her bike hard, nearly toppling over the handlebars. Then she 
wheeled around and sped out of sight. 

Evan laughed. 

Another car screeched to a halt. 

As he started to cross another street, Evan turned to see who was in the car. 
He didn’t watch where he was going. 

A loud crunch made him stop. 

With a gasp, he peered down—and saw that he had stepped on a car. 

“Oh, no!” Evan cried. His sneaker had crushed in the top of the car—as if it 
were made of tinfoil. 

Evan backed away in horror. Was someone inside? 

He dropped to his knees to stare in the window. “Thank goodness!” he cried 
when he saw that the car was empty. 

“Wow!” Kermit exclaimed, walking around and around the smashed-in car. 
“You must weigh at least a ton, Evan!” 

Andy stepped up beside Evan, who remained on his knees. “Be careful,” 
she warned. “You’ve got to watch every step.” 

Evan nodded in agreement. “At least I think I’ve stopped growing,” he 
called down to her. 

As they reached the playground, Evan saw several kids shouting and 
pointing excitedly at a tall maple tree on the corner. 

What’s going on? Evan wondered. 

As he lumbered closer, he saw the problem. Their yellow kite had become 
stuck up in the tree. 

“Hey—no problem!” Evan boomed. 

The kids screamed and cried out in surprise as Evan stepped up to them. 
They all backed away, their faces tight with fear. 

Evan reached up easily and tugged the kite loose from the tree limb. Then 
he leaned down and gently handed it to the nearest kid. 

“Hey, thanks!” A grin spread across the kid’s freckled face. 

The other kids all cheered. Evan took a bow. 

Andy laughed. “You need a red cape and a pair of blue tights,” she shouted 
up to him. “It’s Super Evan!” 

“Super Evan!” the kids shouted as they ran off happily with their kite. 

Evan leaned down to talk to Andy. “If I stay big like this, do you think I 
really could get a job as a superhero?” 

“I don’t think it pays very well,” Kermit chimed in. “In the comic books, 
you never see those guys getting paid.” 

They crossed the street and headed toward the playground. Evan glanced at 
the redbrick school building on the corner. It’s so small, he thought. 

He suddenly realized that he stood at least two stories tall. If I walk over 
there, I can see into the second-floor classrooms, he thought. 

How will I go to school? Evan wondered. I can’t squeeze through the door. 
I won’t fit in Mrs. McGrady’s room anymore. 

Feeling a wave of sadness roll over him, he turned away from the school 
building. He heard cheers and shouts. A softball game was underway on the 
practice diamond. 

Evan recognized Billy Denver and Brian Johnson and some of the other 
kids. He always had to beg to play softball with them. They never wanted Evan 
on their team because he wasn’t a very good hitter. 

He strolled over the grass to the practice diamond. Andy and Kermit ran 
behind him, struggling to keep up. 

Brian was starting to pitch the ball. But he stopped short when he spotted 
Evan. The ball dropped from his hand and dribbled to the ground. 

Players on both teams gasped and shouted. 

Evan strode up to Brian on the pitcher’s mound. Brian’s eyes bulged in fear 
as Evan drew near. Brian raised his hands to shield himself. “Don’t hurt me!” he 
pleaded. 

“Hey—it’s Evan!” Billy exclaimed. “Look, guys! It’s Evan!” 

Kids from both teams gathered around, murmuring excitedly, nervously. 

Brian slowly lowered his hands and stared up at the giant Evan. “Wow! It 
really is you! Evan—how did you do that?” 

“What happened to you?” another kid cried. 

“He’s been working out!” Andy told them. 

The kids laughed. Very tense laughter. 

Andy always has a joke for everything, Evan thought. 

“Uh... want to play?” Brian asked. “You can be on my team.” 

“No. My team!” Billy insisted. 

“No way! He’s on my team!” Brian shouted. “We’re one man short, 
remember?” 

“Don’t say short around Evan!” Andy joked. 

Everyone laughed again. 

Billy and Brian continued to fight over which team would get Evan. Evan 
stood back and enjoyed the argument. He picked up a wooden bat. It had always 
seemed so heavy before. Now it felt as light as a pencil. 

Billy won the argument. “You can bat now, Evan,” he said, grinning up at 

him. 

“How can I pitch to him? He’s a giant!” Brian complained. 

“Pitch it really high,” Evan suggested. 

“Evan, do your mom and dad know you grew like this?” Billy asked, 
walking to home plate beside Evan. 

Evan swallowed hard. He hadn’t thought about his parents. They’d be 
getting home from work soon. They weren’t going to be happy about this. How 
would he break the news to them? he wondered. 

And then he thought: I won’t have to break the news to them. They’ll see 
for themselves what has happened! 

He stepped up to the plate and swung the bat onto his shoulder. “Wish we 
had a bigger bat,” he muttered. It was a little larger than a drinking straw. 

“Get a hit!” Billy shouted from behind the backstop. 

“Get a hit, Evan!” several other players called. 

Brian’s first pitch sailed past Evan’s ankles. 

“Higher!” Evan called out to him. “You’ll have to throw it higher.” 

“I’m trying!” Brian grumbled. He pulled the softball back and tossed it 
again. 

This time, the pitch flew past Evan’s knees. 

“It’s hard to throw that high,” Brian complained. “This isn’t fair.” 

“Strike him out, Brian!” the first baseman cried. “You can do it. Evan 
always strikes out!” 

It’s true, Evan thought unhappily. I do usually strike out. 

He gripped the little bat tighter, poising it over his shoulder. He suddenly 
wondered if being so big would make a difference. 

Maybe he’d just strike out bigger ! 

Brian’s next pitch sailed higher. Evan swung hard. The bat hit the softball 
with a deafening thwack —and cracked in two. 

The ball sailed up, up, up. Off the playground. Over the school. And out of 
sight, somewhere in the next block. 

Cheers and cries of amazement rang out over the diamond. 

Evan watched the ball fly out of sight. Then he leaped joyfully in the air 
and began running the bases. 

The longest home run in the history of the world! 

It took only four steps between bases. He had just rounded second base 
when he heard the sirens. 

Evan turned his eyes to the street in time to see two fire trucks squeal 
around the corner. The trucks pulled right up onto the playground grass and 
came roaring toward the softball diamond, sirens blaring. 

Evan stopped at third base. 

The sirens cut off as the two fire engines skidded to a halt along the first 
base line. 

Evan’s mouth dropped open as Conan Barber leaped out of the first truck. 
Several black-uniformed firefighters dropped to the ground behind Conan. 

“There he is!” Conan cried, pointing furiously at Evan. “That’s him! Get 
him!” 

20 

Grim-faced firefighters began hoisting heavy firehoses off the trucks. Others 
moved toward Evan, hatchets clutched menacingly in their hands. 

“That’s him!” Conan shrieked. “He’s the one who put me in the tree and 
wrecked my parents’ fence!” 

“Huh?” Still standing on third base, Evan froze in shock. 

Was this really happening? 

The playground rang out with shouts of surprise. But the voices were 
drowned out by more sirens. 

Evan saw flashing red lights. And then two black-and-white police cars 
roared over the grass, screeching up behind the fire engines. 

A man and woman came running behind the police cars. “That’s the one!” 
they called breathlessly, pointing at Evan. “That’s the one who crushed the car. 
We saw him do it!” 

The firefighters were busily connecting the hoses to hydrants at the curb. 
Blue-uniformed police swarmed on to the field. The kids on the two softball 
teams huddled together on the pitcher’s mound. They all seemed dazed and 
frightened. 

“He tried to kill me!” Conan was shouting to a woman police officer. “That 
giant put me in a tree and left me there!” 

“He crushed a car!” a woman screamed. 

Evan hadn’t moved from third base. He gazed past the fire engines to Andy 
and Kermit. They stood near the backstop. Kermit had the dumb, toothy grin on 
his face. 

Andy had her hands cupped around her mouth. She was shouting something 
to Evan. But he couldn’t hear her over the wail of sirens and the excited shouts 
and cries of everyone in the playground. 

Some of the police and fire officers huddled together, talking rapidly. They 
kept glancing up at Evan as they talked. 

What are they going to do to me? Evan wondered, frozen in fear. 

Should I run? Should I try to explain? 

More people came hurrying across the playground. As soon as they spotted 
Evan, their expressions turned to surprise and amazement. 

They’re all staring at me, Evan realized. They’re pointing at me as if I’m 
some kind of freak. 

I am some kind of freak! he admitted to himself. 

Firefighters formed a line, holding their hatchets waist-high. Others readied 
the firehoses, aiming them up at Evan’s chest. 

Evan heard more sirens. More police cars rolled on to the playground. 

A young police officer with wavy red hair and a red mustache stepped up to 
Evan. “What—is—your—name?” he shouted, speaking each word slowly, as if 
maybe Evan didn’t speak English. 

“Uh... Evan. Evan Ross,” Evan called down. 

“Do you come from another planet?” the officer shouted. 

“Huh?” Evan couldn’t help himself. He burst out laughing. 

He heard some of the softball players laughing, too. 

“I live in Atlanta,” he shouted down to the officer. “Around the corner. On 
Brookridge Drive.” 

Several officers and firefighters held their ears. Evan’s voice came out 
louder than he had planned. 

Evan took a step toward them. 

The firefighters raised a firehose. Several others readied their hatchets. 

“He’s dangerous!” Evan heard Conan shout. “Watch out! He’s really 
dangerous!” 

That got everyone shouting and screaming. 

The playground was filling with people. Neighborhood people. Kids and 
their parents. Cars stopped and people climbed out to see why the crowd had 
gathered. 

More police cars bumped over the grass. Their wailing sirens added to the 
deafening noise, the shouts and cries, the frightened murmurs. 

The noise. The staring eyes. The pointed fingers. 

It all started to make Evan dizzy. 

He felt his legs tremble. His forehead throbbed. 

The police had formed a line. They started to circle Evan. 

As they closed in, Evan felt himself explode. “I can’t take any more!” he 
screamed, raising his fists. “Stop it! Stop it! All of you! Get away! Leave me 
alone! I mean it!” 

Silence as the sirens cut off. The voices hushed. 

And then Evan heard the red-haired police officer shout to the others: “He’s 

turned violent. We have to bring him down!” 

21 

Evan didn’t have time to be frightened. 

The firehoses chugged and gurgled—then shot out thick streams of water. 

Evan ducked low. Dove forward. Tried to get away from the roaring water. 

The force of the water stream ripped the ground to his side. 

Evan dodged to the other side. 

Wow! That’s powerful! he thought, horrified. The water is strong enough to 
knock me over! 

Frightened shouts rose up over the roar of the water. 

Evan plunged through the line of dark-uniformed police officers—and kept 
mnning. “Don’t shoot!” he screamed. “Don’t shoot me! I’m not from another 
planet! I’m just a boy!” 

He didn’t know if they could hear him or not. 

He dodged past several startled onlookers. A long hook-and-ladder stood in 
his path. 

He stopped. Glanced back. 

Firefighters were turning the hoses. The powerful spray arced high. Water 
crashed to the ground just behind Evan, loud as thunder. 

Kids and parents were running in all directions, frantic, frightened 
expressions locked on their faces. 

Evan took a deep breath. Bent his knees. And leaped over the fire truck in 
his path. 

He heard shouts of surprise behind him. He vaulted high over the truck. 
Landed hard on the other side. Stumbled. Caught his balance. 

Then, ducking low, his arms stretched out in front of him, Evan ran. 

His long legs carried him away quickly. As he reached the street, a low tree 
branch popped up as if from nowhere. 

Evan dipped his head just in time. 

Leaves scratched over his forehead, but he kept running. 

Got to watch out for tree branches, he warned himself. Got to remember 
that I’m two stories tall. 

Breathing hard, he plunged across the street. The late afternoon sun was 

lowering behind the trees. The shadows were longer now, and darker. Evan’s 
shadow seemed a mile long as it stretched out in front of him. 

He heard the rise and fall of shrill sirens behind him. Heard angry shouts. 
Heard the thud of footsteps, people running after him. 

Where can I hide? he asked himself. Where will I be safe? 

Home? 

No. That’s the first place the police will look. 

Where? Where? 

It was so hard to think clearly. They were close behind him, he knew. 
Chasing him. Eager to bring him down. 

If only he could stop somewhere, close his eyes, shut them all out, and 
think. Then maybe he could come up with a plan. 

But he knew he had to keep running. 

His head throbbed. His chest ached. 

His long legs were taking him quickly away from the playground. But he 
still felt awkward, with his sneakers so far below him and his head so high in the 
trees. 

I’ll hide out at Kermit’s house, he thought. 

Then he quickly decided that was a bad idea, too. 

“I can’t get in Kermit’s house!” he cried out loud. “I’m too big!” 

And then he had a truly frightening thought: “I can’t fit in any house!” 

Where will I sleep? he wondered. And then: Will they let me sleep? 

Can’t the police see I’m just a boy? Evan asked himself bitterly. He turned 
the corner and ran past his house. The lights were all off. The door closed. No 
car in the driveway. 

His parents hadn’t come home from work. 

He kept running. Running across yards. Ducking low. Trying to hide behind 
shrubs and tall hedges. 

Can’t they see I’m a boy? Not a creature from another planet? 

Why do they think I’m so dangerous? 

It’s all Conan’s fault, Evan decided. Conan got the firefighters and police all 
crazy with his wild stories. 

His wild, true stories. 

And now where can I run? Where can I hide? 

The answer came to him as he neared Kermit’s house. Two doors down, a 
lot had been cleared. And an enormous stack of lumber had been piled at the 

back. Someone was about to build a house on the lot. 

Breathing hard, sweat pouring down his broad forehead, Evan turned and 
ran across the lot. He ducked behind the tall pile of lumber. And stopped. 

He dropped to his knees and leaned against the lumber stack, struggling to 
catch his breath. He wiped the sweat off his forehead with the sleeve of his T- 
shirt. 

Maybe I’ll hide here for a while, he thought. He lowered himself to a sitting 
position. 

If I sit down and hunch my shoulders, the lumber pile hides me from the 
street. And it’s shady and cool behind it. And I can keep an eye on Kermit’s 
house from here. 

Yes. This is a good hiding spot for now, Evan decided. Then, after dark, I’ll 
sneak over to my house and try to explain to my parents what happened. 

He leaned his back against the lumber pile and shut his eyes. 

He had just started to relax a little when he heard a voice cry: “Got him!” 

22 

Evan’s eyes shot open. 

He tried to scramble to his feet. 

But then he saw who had shouted. 

“Kermit!” he cried angrily. “You scared me to death!” 

Kermit flashed his annoying grin. “I knew you’d hide here, Evan,” he said, 
smirking. “I’m so smart.” 

Kermit turned and called out, “He’s back here! I was right!” 

A few seconds later, Andy gingerly poked her head behind the stack of 
lumber. Her eyes studied Evan for a few seconds. Then a smile crossed her face. 

“You’re okay?” she asked softly. “I was so worried—” 

“Yeah. I’m okay—for now,” Evan replied bitterly. 

“The whole town is after you!” Kermit exclaimed. “It’s really awesome! It’s 
like a movie!” 

“I don’t want to be in a movie!” Evan griped. “This movie is too scary.” 

“They’ve got guns and everything!” Kermit continued excitedly, ignoring 
Evan’s complaint. “And did you see those firehoses? It’s amazing! They all want 
to catch you!” 

“They think you’re an alien from outer space,” Andy added, shaking her 
head. 

“And who told them that? Conan?” Evan asked bitterly. 

“Conan made them believe you’re real dangerous,” Kermit said, grinning 
that grin Evan hated so much. 

“I am dangerous!” Evan declared. He growled menacingly at Kermit. 

The growl shocked the grin off Kermit’s face. 

Evan turned to Andy. “What am I going to do? I can’t run and hide for the 
rest of my life. They’re going to catch me. If you two tracked me down, the 
police will track me down, too.” 

Evan let out a long, frightened sigh. “There’s nowhere I can hide. I’m too 
big to hide! So what can I do? What?” 

Andy scratched her arm. She knotted up her face, thinking hard. “Well...” 

And suddenly Evan knew exactly what to do. 

Watching Andy, Evan knew how to solve the whole problem. 

23 

Evan jumped to his feet. His heart began to pound. For the first time in hours, a 
big smile spread across his face. 

“Evan—what’s wrong?” Andy demanded. His sudden move had startled 
her. 

“I know what we can do!” Evan declared. “Everything is going to be okay!” 

“Get down!” Kermit cried. “I hear sirens. They’ll see you.” 

In his excitement, Evan had forgotten that he was taller than the lumber 
pile. He dropped back to his knees. Even on his knees, he was a lot taller than 
Kermit and Andy. 

The sirens blared louder. Closer. 

Evan gazed around. The sun had fallen behind the trees. The sky was 
evening gray now. The air grew cooler. 

“We’ve got to hurry,” Evan told them. He put a hand on Kermit’s slender 
shoulder. “Kermit, you’ve got to help me.” 

Behind his glasses, Kermit’s little mouse eyes bulged with excitement. 
“Me? What can I do?” 

“The blue mixture,” Evan said, holding on to his cousin’s shoulder. 
“Remember the blue mixture?” 

“Wh-which one?” Kermit stammered. 

“The one that shrank my mosquito bite!” Andy chimed in. She suddenly 
realized what Evan was thinking. 

“That’s right,” Evan explained to Kermit. “Watching Andy scratch her arm 
reminded me. That blue mixture of yours shrank the mosquito bite instantly.” 

“Maybe it can shrink Evan, too!” Andy exclaimed excitedly. 

Kermit nodded, thinking hard. “Yeah. Maybe it can.” 

“I’ll rub it all over my body, and I’ll shrink back to my normal size,” Evan 
said happily. 

“It’ll work! I know it will!” Andy cried enthusiastically. She let out a cheer 
and jumped up and down. Then she tugged Kermit’s arm. “Come on, Kermit. 
Hurry! Let’s get to your basement. You still have the blue mixture, don’t you?” 

Kermit narrowed his eyes, trying to remember. “I think so,” he told them. 
“A lot of stuff got wrecked, remember? But I think I have it.” 

“He has to have it!” Evan cried. “He has to!” 

Evan climbed to his feet. “Come on. Hurry.” 

They heard sirens. Loud and near. 

Kermit peered around the lumber pile toward the street. “A police car!” he 
whispered. “They’re cruising this block.” 

“You’d better wait here,” Andy warned Evan. 

Evan shook his head. “No way. I’m coming with you. I want to get that blue 
mixture as fast as I can.” 

He ducked his head. “We can walk through the backyards. No one will see 

us.” 

“But, Evan—” Andy started to protest. 

She stopped when Evan stepped away from the lumber pile and started 
loping quickly across the backyard toward Kermit’s house. 

Dogface greeted them in the driveway. The sheepdog barked happily, 
jumping up on Kermit, nearly knocking him to the ground. 

“Shhh. Quiet, boy! Quiet!” Kermit cried, petting the dog, trying to stop his 
barks. “We don’t want anyone to hear us.” 

Dogface gazed up at Evan—and got very quiet. The dog slumped across the 
driveway. It stared up suspiciously at Evan, panting hard, its stubby tail wagging 
furiously. 

Evan’s eyes darted up and down the driveway. No car. “Your mom isn’t 
home yet, Kermit,” he said. 

“She must be working late,” Kermit replied. “That’s good news. This is our 
lucky day!” 

Evan let out a bitter laugh. “For sure. Lucky day,” he muttered. 

Kermit and Andy hurried to the kitchen door. Evan started to follow. Then 
he remembered he didn’t fit in the house. 

“Wait right there,” Andy instructed him. “Make sure no one sees you.” 

Evan nodded. “Hurry—please!” 

He watched them disappear through the door. Then he sat down behind the 
house. He motioned for Dogface to come over to him. He felt like holding on to 
something. 

But the big dog just stared back and wouldn’t budge. 

The whole town is looking for me, Evan thought unhappily. The whole 
town is looking for a giant me. But they’ll never find the giant me. Because in a 
few seconds, I’ll shrink back to normal size. 

Then everything will be okay again. 

He raised his eyes to the house. What is keeping Andy and Kermit? he 
wondered. Can’t they find the bottle of blue liquid? 

He took a deep breath. Don’t panic, Evan, he instructed himself. They’ve 
only been in the house a few seconds. They’ll be out soon. And everything will 
be okay. 

To pass the time, he counted slowly to ten. Then he counted slowly to ten 
again. 

He was about to start counting one more time when the screen door flew 
open. Kermit stepped out, carrying the blue beaker. Andy followed right behind. 

“Found it!” Kermit cried happily. 

Evan jumped to his knees. He reached out eagerly. “Quick—let me have it.” 

Kermit stretched up his hand. Evan grabbed for the glass beaker. 

It slipped out of his grasp. 

It started to fall. 

“Ohhh!” Evan let out a horrified moan—and caught the beaker just before it 
crashed against the driveway. 

“Wow! Nice catch!” Kermit exclaimed. 

Evan’s heart had leaped to his mouth. He took a deep breath. He grasped 
the beaker tightly in his hand. “Close one,” he murmured. The beaker was so 
tiny in his hand, like something made for a dollhouse. 

They heard sirens in the distance. 

The search for the giant Evan was still on. 

“I—I hope this mixture works,” Evan declared. 

He raised the beaker. Tilted it upside down over his other hand. Waited. 

And waited. 

Finally, a tiny blue drop of liquid dripped on to Evan’s palm. 

Nothing more. 

He shook the beaker. Hard. Harder. The way he shook a ketchup bottle 
when the ketchup stuck. 

Then he raised the beaker to his eye and peered inside. 

A few seconds later, he let out a long, sad sigh. He tossed the bottle 
disgustedly onto the grass. “It’s empty,” Evan reported. “Totally empty.” 

24 

“I knew there wasn’t much left,” Kermit murmured, shaking his head. 

The empty bottle rolled under a shrub. Dogface walked over and sniffed it. 

“I’m doomed,” Evan muttered. Forgetting how strong he was, he angrily 
kicked a pebble down the driveway. The pebble sailed up into the air and 
disappeared over the house across the street. 

“Be careful,” Andy warned. “You could break a window.” 

“Who cares?” Evan snapped. “My life is ruined.” 

“No way!” Kermit cried. “You’ll be okay, Evan.” He started running to the 
house. “Be right back!” 

“Kermit, where are you going?” Evan called glumly. 

“To mix up another batch!” Kermit replied. “It will only take me a few 
seconds, Evan. I’ve got all the ingredients.” 

Evan could feel his sadness lifting. “Do you really think you can do it?” he 
asked his cousin. 

“No problem,” Kermit replied, flashing Evan a thumbs-up sign. “I think I 
remember what I put in it. I’ll mix up more blue shrinking stuff and be back in a 
jiffy.” 

Kermit disappeared into the house. “I’m coming, too!” Andy called after 
him. She turned back to Evan. “I can try to clean up some of the lab while 
Kermit mixes the liquid. If Kermit’s mom gets home and sees the basement, 
you’ll be in big trouble.” 

Evan let out a weak laugh. “Big trouble. Very funny, Annnndrea. You’re a 

riot.” 

“Don’t call me Andrea,” she shot back, ignoring his sarcasm. He watched 
her hurry into the house. 

Dogface got tired of sniffing the blue bottle. The sheepdog lumbered across 
the yard to inspect the fence that Evan had knocked down earlier. 

Evan sighed. I wonder if my own dog will recognize me now? he thought. 
Trigger, Evan’s cocker spaniel, had been the first to eat Monster Blood. The dog 
had grown bigger than a horse. 

I wonder if Trigger ever has nightmares about that? Evan asked himself. 

He knew he’d be having nightmares about today for a long time to come. 

He glanced at his watch. Almost dinnertime. His parents would be getting 
home soon. And Kermit’s mom would be pulling up the driveway at any minute. 

“Wow. She’ll be surprised when she sees me!” Evan exclaimed out loud. 

He turned to the house in time to see Kermit step out. He was carrying a 
fresh bottle of blue liquid. “See? No problem!” Kermit declared. 

Evan carefully took the bottle from Kermit’s hand. 

Andy walked over, her eyes raised to Evan’s. “Go ahead. Rub it all over,” 
she urged. “Hurry!” 

Evan carefully poured a puddle of blue liquid into his palm. Then he rubbed 
it onto his cheeks, his forehead, his neck. 

He poured more into his hand. He rubbed blue liquid onto his arms. Then 
he raised his T-shirt and rubbed some on his chest. 

Please let it work, he prayed silently. Please let it work. 

He turned to Andy and Kermit. “See any change?” 

25 

Andy’s mouth dropped open. 

Kermit’s eyes bulged, and he uttered a choking sound. 

“Well?” Evan demanded eagerly. “Do you see any change? Do you?” 

“Uh... well... uh...” Kermit sputtered. 

“You turned blue! ” Andy cried. 

“Excuse me?” Evan demanded. He knew he hadn’t heard her correctly. 

“Your skin—it’s bright blue!” Andy wailed, pressing her hands against her 
cheeks. 

“My—what?” Evan shrieked. “You mean—HIC!—” A powerful hiccup 
made his entire body shake. 

Evan stared down at his hands. 

“They—they’re blue!” he cried. “HIC!” 

Another hiccup burst from his open mouth. His enormous body shook as if 
struck by an earthquake. 

Frantically, he pulled up the T-shirt and stared at his stomach. His blue 
stomach. 

His arms. His chest. All blue. Bright blue. 

“HIC!” 

“I don’t believe it!” Evan screamed. “I’m bright blue, and—HIC!—I’ve got 
the hiccups!” 

He glared down furiously at Kermit. 

Kermit was so frightened, his legs trembled and his knees actually knocked 
together. “I—I can fix it,” he called up to Evan. “N-no problem! I just mixed it 
up wrong. I’ll be right back with another mixture.” 

He ran to the house. At the screen door, he turned back to Evan. “Don’t go 
anywhere—okay?” 

Evan let out a furious roar, interrupted by a deafening hiccup. “Where can I 
go?” he shrieked at the top of his lungs. “Where can I — HIC! — go?!” 

The door slammed behind Kermit. 

Evan let out another roar, clenching his blue fists and shaking his blue arms 
over his head. He paced back and forth on the driveway, hiccupping every few 

seconds. 

“Try to calm down a little,” Andy called up to him. “People will hear you.” 

“I—I—HIC!—can’t calm down!” Evan complained bitterly. “Look at me!” 

“But the neighbors will hear you. Or see you,” Andy warned. “They’ll call 
the police.” 

Evan replied with a hiccup that nearly knocked him off his feet. 

Kermit came running out of the house. He raised another bottle of blue 
liquid to Evan. “Here! Try this!” 

“HIC!” Evan declared. He grasped the bottle in his blue hand. 

Without saying another word, he turned the bottle upside down. With quick, 
frantic motions, he splashed the blue liquid all over him. Over his cheeks. His 
forehead. His hands and arms. His chest. 

He rolled up his jeans and rubbed the mixture onto his knees and legs. He 
pulled off his socks and sneakers and smoothed the blue liquid over his ankles 
and feet. 

“It’s got to work!” he cried. “This time, it’s got to!” 

Andy and Kermit stared up at him eagerly. 

They waited. 

Evan waited. 

Nothing happened. No change at all. 

Then Evan began to feel it. 

“Hey—I’m tingling!” he announced happily. 

He felt the same electric tingling he had felt before. The itchy feeling he 
had every time he was about to grow a little more. 

“Yes!” Evan cheered. “Yes!” 

The tingling grew sharper, stronger, as it spread over his entire body. 

“It’s working! I can—HIC!—feel it!” Evan shouted. “It’s really working! 
I’m tingling! I’m itching! I can feel it! It’s working!” 

“No, it isn’t,” Andy murmured quietly. 

26 

“Huh?” Evan narrowed his eyes at her. 

The tingling became a violent itch. He started to scratch. But pulled back 
his hand because his skin felt so strange. 

“It... didn’t... work....” Andy said sadly, her voice trembling. 

“Yuck! He looks so gross!” Kermit declared, making a disgusted face. 

“Huh? HIC!” Evan replied. 

He uttered a horrified gasp as he stared at his arms. “F-f-feathers!” he 
stammered in a high, shrill voice. 

He checked out his arms. His stomach. His legs. 

“Noooooo!” Along, low wail burst from his chest. 

His entire body was covered in fluffy white feathers. 

“Noooo—HIC! —oooooooo! ” 

“I’m sorry,” Kermit said, shaking his head. “I don’t know what I’m doing 
wrong. I thought I had the mixture right this time.” 

“You look like a big eagle,” Andy commented. “Except eagles aren’t blue.” 

“HIC!” Evan cried. 

“And eagles don’t get hiccups,” Andy added. She gazed up at him with 
concern. “Poor Evan. That must itch like crazy. You’re having a real bad day.” 

Evan frantically scratched his feathery chest. “It can’t get any worse than 
this,” he muttered. 

And then he saw a police car pull up in front of the house. 

27 

“HIC!” Evan cried. He backed off the driveway and crouched low against the 
back wall of the house. “The police!” he whispered. 

His throat tightened in panic. His feathers all stood up on end. 

What should I do? he asked himself, pressed against the house, ducking his 
head. Should I run? Should I give myself up? 

“One more try!” Kermit cried, leaping into the house. “Let me try one more 
mixture. I think I can get it this time!” 

The door slammed behind him. 

“Hurry!” Andy called from the driveway. “The police—they’re climbing 
out of their car.” 

“How many are there?” Evan whispered. His feathers itched, but he was too 
frightened to scratch. 

“Two,” Andy replied, staring through the gray evening light to the street. 
“They look kind of mean.” 

A sudden cool gust of wind ruffled Evan’s feathers. His huge body 
trembled. 

“They’re walking up the driveway,” Andy reported. “They’re going to be 
here in a few seconds!” 

“I’d better make a run for it,” Evan declared. He took one step away from 
the house and nearly fell. It was hard to run when your feet were covered with 
stiff, prickly feathers. 

His entire body itched. He pressed himself against the house again. “I’m 
doomed,” he murmured to himself. 

“They stopped to check out the front door,” Andy told him. “You’ve still 
got a few seconds.” 

“Hurry, Kermit! Hurry!” Evan urged out loud. 

He turned to the kitchen door. No sign of Kermit. 

Would Kermit get the mixture right this time? Could he get the mixture to 
Evan before the two police officers entered the backyard? 

The screen door opened. Kermit burst out. He tripped on the back stoop. 
The blue bottle nearly went flying. 

He caught his balance. He handed the bottle up to Evan. “Good luck!” 

Kermit called up to Evan. Kermit raised both hands. He had his fingers tightly 
crossed on both hands. 

“Here come the police,” Andy warned. “They’re walking really fast now.” 

The bottle trembled in Evan’s hand. He turned it upside down. It puddled in 
his enormous, feathery palm. 

Frantically, he began rubbing it over his feathers, over his blue skin. 
Splashing it wildly. Pouring it over his body. 

Please work! he silently urged it. Please work! 

He waited. 

Kermit stared up at him hopefully, his fingers still crossed. 

“They’re here!” Andy reported from the driveway. 

Evan gulped. 

The mixture hadn’t worked. 

He hadn’t changed. Not a bit. 

The two dark-uniformed officers approached the back of the house. “Hello, 
there,” one of them called to Andy. 

28 

Evan heard a loud POP. 

He uttered a startled cry as he felt himself falling. Falling to the ground. 

He reached out a hand and steadied himself against the house. 

It took him a second or two to realize that he hadn’t fallen. He had shrunk. 

The two officers stepped into the backyard. One was very tall. The other 
was short and plump. “Sorry to bother you kids,” the tall one said. “But we got a 
call from a neighbor.” 

“A call? About what?” Andy demanded. She cast a surprised glance at 
Evan. She didn’t expect to see him back to normal. 

“Did you kids see a giant in the neighborhood?” the short officer asked. He 
narrowed his eyes at them, trying to appear tough. 

“A giant? What kind of giant?” Kermit asked innocently. 

“A giant kid,” the short officer replied. 

Evan, Andy, and Kermit shook their heads. “He didn’t come back here,” 
Andy told them. 

“No. We didn’t see him,” Evan said. He couldn’t keep a smile from 
crossing his face. His voice was back to normal, too. 

The tall officer pushed his cap back on his head. “Well, if you see him, be 
careful,” he warned. “He’s dangerous.” 

“He’s very dangerous,” the short officer added. “Call us right away— 
okay?” 

“Okay,” all three kids replied in unison. 

The officers gave the backyard one last look. Then they turned and headed 
back down the driveway to their car. 

As soon as they were gone, Evan burst into a long, happy cheer. Andy and 
Kermit joined in, clapping him joyfully on the back, slapping high fives all 
around. 

“Am I a genius or what?” Kermit demanded, grinning his toothy grin. 

“Or what!” Evan joked. 

They were still laughing and celebrating Evan’s return to Evan-size when 
Kermit’s mom pulled up the driveway. As she climbed out of her car, she 
appeared surprised to find them outdoors. 

“Sorry I’m so late,” she called. She hugged Kermit. “How was your 
afternoon?” 

Kermit glanced at Evan. Then he smiled at his mother. “Oh, it was kind of 
boring,” he told her. 

“Yeah. Kind of boring,” Andy repeated. 

“Kind of boring,” Evan agreed. 

Evan knew he’d have nightmares about what had happened to him. And that 
night, he had a really scary one. In the dream, he was a giant boy being chased 
by giant rats. The rats all looked like Kermit. 

Evan sat up in the dark, shivering all over. 

“Just a nightmare,” he murmured, glancing at his clock radio. Midnight. “It 
was just a nightmare.” 

He sat up straight, wiping sweat off his forehead with his pajama-top 
sleeve. I need a glass of cold water, he decided. 

He started to climb out of bed—but stopped when he saw what a steep drop 
it was to the floor. 

Huh? What’s going on? he asked himself. 

He tried to click on the bedtable lamp. But it towered high above him, way 
beyond his reach. 

He stood up on the bed. As his eyes adjusted to the dim light, he saw that 
his bed seemed to stretch on forever. A lump in the bedspread curled up over 
Evan’s head. 

I—I’m short! he realized. I’m as short as a mouse! 

Kermit! 

Kermit strikes again! Evan thought bitterly. 

He made the blue shrinking mixture too powerful. 

I shrank—and shrank—and shrank. And now I’m as tiny as a mouse. 

“I’ll pound Kermit! I really will!” Evan cried. His voice came out as tiny 
mouse squeaks. 

Standing on the edge of his bed, staring down, down—miles down—to the 
floor, Evan heard a rumbling sound. Loud panting that sounded like a strong 
wind through the trees. 

A big head popped up in front of him. Two dark eyes. 

“No! Trigger! Go back to sleep!” Evan pleaded in his little mouse voice. 
“No! Trigger—down!” 

Evan’s squeaks had awakened the cocker spaniel. 

Evan felt the dog’s hot breath blow across his face. 

“Yuck! Dog breath!” he squeaked. 

Then he felt sharp teeth close around his waist. Felt himself tilted sideways. 
Felt the hot, wet saliva of Trigger’s mouth as the dog secured Evan between its 
teeth. 

“Trigger—down! Put me down!” Evan begged. 

He was bounced hard now. The dog teeth tightened their grip. 

“Trigger! Put me down! Where are you taking me?” 

Through the dark hallway. The hot breath blowing over Evan’s helpless 
body. 

Into his parents’ room. Evan gazed up to see his mom and dad getting ready 
for bed. 

Mr. Ross leaned over the dog. “What have you got there, Trigger? Did you 
find a bone?” 

“Uh... Dad? Dad?” Evan squeaked up at him. “Dad? It’s me? Do you see 
me? Dad? Uh... I think we have a little problem!” 


IT CAME FROM 
BENEATH THE SINK! 

1 

Before my brother and I found the strange little creature under the sink, we were 
a normal happy family. In fact, I’d have to say we were very lucky. 

But our luck quickly changed when we pulled the creature from its dark 
hiding place. 

The sad, frightening story begins on the day we moved. 

“Here we are, kids.” Dad honked the horn happily as we rounded the corner 
onto Maple Lane and pulled up in front of our new house. “Ready for the big 
move, Kitty Kat?” 

My dad is the only one who can get away with calling me Kitty Kat. My 
real name is Katrina (ugh!) Merton, but only the teachers call me Katrina. To 
everyone else I’m simply Kat. 

“Definitely, Dad!” I shouted. I jumped out of the station wagon. 

“Rowf! Rowf!” Killer, our cocker spaniel, barked in agreement and 
followed me out onto the sidewalk. 

Daniel, my goofy little brother, is the one who named the dog. What a 
dumb name. Killer is afraid of everything. The only thing he kills is his rubber 
ball! 

Daniel and I had hiked past the new house plenty of times already. It’s only 
three blocks away from where we used to live, on East Main. 

But I still couldn’t believe we’d be living here. I mean, I always thought our 
old house was pretty great. But this place is awesome! 

Three stories high, sitting up on its own little hill, with butter-yellow 
shutters and at least a dozen windows. A wide porch wraps around the whole 
house. The front yard must be about the size of a football field. 

It’s not a house—it’s a mansion! 

Well, practically a mansion. Enormous—but not exactly fancy. What Mom 
calls “a comfortable old shoe kind of house.” 

Actually, today it really looked messy and old. A few of the shutters hung 
crookedly, the grass needed mowing, and the whole place seemed to be covered 
with an inch of dust. 

But as Mom said, “Nothing that can’t be taken care of with a good cleaning, 
a coat of paint, and a few bangs with the hammer.” 

Mom, Dad, and Daniel climbed out of the car, and we all stood staring 
excitedly at the house. Today, I’d finally get to see the inside! 

Mom pointed to the second floor. “See that big balcony?” she asked. 
“That’s the room where your father and I will sleep. The next room over is 
Daniel’s.” 

She gave my hand a little squeeze. “The little balcony—that’s outside your 
room, Kat.” She beamed. 

My very own private porch! I leaned over and gave Mom a big hug. “I love 
it already,” I whispered into her ear. 

Naturally, Daniel started whining immediately. He’s ten years old, but most 
of the time he acts as if he’s about two. 

“How come Kat’s room has a balcony—and mine doesn’t?” he complained. 
“It’s not fair! I want a balcony, too!” 

“Get a life, Daniel,” I muttered. “Mom, tell him to be quiet. Don’t I get 
something for being two years older?” 

Well, almost two years older. My birthday was in four days. 

“Quiet, kids,” Mom ordered. “Daniel, you don’t have a balcony. But you 
are getting something neat, too—bunk beds. So Carlo can sleep over whenever 
you want.” 

“Excellent!” Daniel shouted. Carlo is Daniel’s best friend. They’re always 
together—and always bugging me. 

Daniel is okay—most of the time. But he insists on being right. Dad calls 
him Mr. Know-It-All. 

And sometimes Dad calls Daniel the Human Tornado, because he runs 
around like a whirlwind and makes unbelievable messes. 

I’m a lot more like my Dad—sort of calm and quiet. Well, usually calm. 
And we both have the same favorite foods—lasagna, really sour garlic pickles, 
and mocha-chip ice-cream. 

I even look like my father, tall and thin with a lot of freckles and reddish 
hair. I usually wear my hair in a ponytail. Dad doesn’t have much hair to worry 
about. 

Daniel looks more like my mother. Straight, light brown hair that’s always 
falling in his eyes, and what Mom calls a “sturdy” build. (That means he’s 
chunky.) 

Today, Daniel was definitely in Human Tornado mode. He ran up onto the 
big green lawn and began spinning around in a circle. “It’s huge,” he shouted. 

“It’s gigantic. It’s... it’s... it’s super-house!” 

He collapsed in a heap on the grass. “And this is the super-yard! Hey, Kat, 
look at me—I’m Super-Daniel!” 

“You’re super-dumb,” I told him, messing up his hair with both hands. 

“Hey, quit it!” Daniel yelped. He pulled out his super-soaker gun and 
squirted the front of my T-shirt. “You’re captured,” he announced. “You are my 
prisoner!” 

“I don’t think so,” I replied, tugging on the water pistol. “Give up the gun!” 
I commanded. I pulled harder. “Let go!” 

“Okay!” Daniel grinned. He loosened his grip so suddenly that I staggered 
backwards—and fell on to the sidewalk. 

“What a klutz!” Daniel snickered. 

I knew how to get him. I zoomed up the porch steps. “Hey, Daniel,” I 
called, “I’m going to be first in the new house!” 

“No way!” he exclaimed, scrambling up off the lawn. He hurled himself at 
the steps and grabbed me by the ankle. “Me first! Me first!” 

That’s when Dad walked up the driveway, carrying an overstuffed 
cardboard box with Kitchen written on the side. Two moving men followed, 
hauling our big blue couch. 

“Hey, stop goofing around! Mom and I really need your help today. That’s 
why we allowed you to miss a school day,” he called. “Daniel, walk Killer—and 
make sure he has food and water. Kat, keep an eye on Daniel. 

“And Kat, clean the inside of the kitchen cabinets, okay?” Dad added. 
“Mom wants to start putting the dishes and pots away.” 

“Sure, Dad,” I answered. I saw Daniel rummaging through a box on the 
lawn. The box was marked Cards and Comics. 

“Hey, where’s the dog?” I yelled to him. 

He shrugged. 

“Daniel!” I frowned. “I don’t see Killer anywhere. Where is he?” 

He dropped a stack of baseball cards. “Okay, okay, I’ll go find him,” he 
mumbled. He stood up and made his way to the driveway, calling the dog’s 
name. 

As soon as he disappeared around the side of the house, I hurried to the box 
marked Cards and Comics and checked through it. Sure enough, the little brat 
had stolen some of my comics. 

I tucked them under my arm and walked inside to the kitchen to clean out 

the cabinets. One quick glance made me groan. 

Cabinets filled just about every square inch of the big bright room! Sighing, 
I yanked paper towels and a bottle of cleaner out of the Cleaning Supplies box 
and started scrubbing. 

Spritz, rub, spritz, rub. 

This could take hours! 

After I finished a cabinet, I stepped back to admire my work. Then I knelt 
down in front of the cabinet under the sink. 

But something—a squeaky noise, like the sound of a footstep on an old 
wooden stair—made me stop short. 

What is that? I wondered, my heart beating faster. 

I slowly opened the cabinet. Tried to peek inside. 

I opened it a little wider. A little wider. 

I heard the noise again. 

My heart was pounding now. 

I opened the cabinet door another inch. 

And then it grabbed me. 

A dark, hairy claw. 

It wouldn’t let go. 

I screamed. 

2 

“Daniel! You scared me to death!” I screamed. I pounded him on the back. 

Laughing his head off, my brother yanked off the stupid rat costume he had 
insisted on packing. “You should have seen your face!” he cried. “Know what? 
I’m going to start calling you Scaredy-Kat!” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Did I mention that Daniel 
also thinks he’s the king of practical jokes? 

I suddenly remembered what my brother was supposed to be doing. “Dad 
asked you to find Killer. Where is he?” 

“I didn’t have to find him.” Daniel snickered. “He was never lost.” 

“What do you mean?” I demanded. 

“I stuck Killer in the basement,” he said proudly. “While you were hanging 
around on the porch, I ran in through the side door and hid under the sink.” 

“You really are a big rat!” I exclaimed. 

I heard a funny tap-tapping on the linoleum floor. “What’s that noise?” I 
asked. 

Daniel’s mouth dropped open. “Oh, no, it’s a real rat!” he shrieked. “Kat, 
look out! Move!” 

Without thinking, I jumped on to a kitchen chair as... Killer came trotting 
into the kitchen. 

Daniel let out a high-pitched laugh. “Twice on the same trick!” He was very 
pleased with himself. 

I dove at my brother, ready to tickle him. “Prepare to die laughing!” I 
yelled. 

“Stop! Help! No!” he gulped. “Kat, please. Stop, please. I... can’t... take... 
it!” 

“Give up?” I asked. 

Daniel nodded. “Yes!” he half-gasped, half-laughed. 

“All right,” I said generously. “You can get up now.” 

“Thanks!” he said. “Hey, what’s Killer doing over there?” 

“No way. I’m not falling for another one of your tricks,” I declared. 

But when I glanced over, the cocker spaniel did seem very interested in 
something inside the sink cabinet I’d left open. 

He pulled it out, then sniffed. Pushed it with his nose and gave a head¬ 
tossing growl. 

That’s weird, I thought. Killer never growls. 

“What do you have there, boy?” I called to him. 

The dog didn’t even look up. 

Sniff, sniff, sniff... growl. 

I leaned in for a closer view. 

“What is it, Kat?” Daniel asked. 

“Nothing much,” I answered casually. “Just an old sponge, I think.” 

Sniff, sniff, sniff... growl. 

It seemed perfectly ordinary—small, round, and light brown. A little bigger 
than an egg. 

But the sponge had Killer all excited and nervous. The dog danced around 
it, barking and growling. 

I snatched the sponge from him to get a better look. And my sweet dog tried 
to bite me! 

“Killer!” I yelled. “Bad boy!” 

He slunk to a corner. And with an embarrassed howl, he lay his head down 
sadly on his paws. 

I held the sponge up close to my face, to study it better. 

Whoa! Wait a minute! 

I suddenly understood Killer’s strange behavior. 

“Daniel—check it out!” I exclaimed. “Wow! I don’t BELIEVE this!” 

3

“Huh? What is it, Kat?” Daniel cried. 

I stared in shock at the tiny sponge. 

“Maybe my eyes are playing tricks on me,” I muttered. “It’s totally weird!” 

“Come on, Kat,” Daniel insisted. “What is it?” 

I studied the sponge some more. “Wow!” I gasped. My eyes weren’t fooling 
me. 

The round sponge moved in my hand, gently and slowly, in and out, in and 
out in a lazy rhythm. 

As if it were breathing! 

But sponges don’t breathe. Do they? 

This one sure did! 

I could even hear its little breaths: Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

“Daniel! I don’t think this is just a sponge,” I stammered. “I think it’s 
alive!” I tossed it back into the sink cabinet. I admit it. I felt a little scared. 

My brother put his hands on his hips. “That’s a pretty lame joke,” he 
snickered. 

“But, Daniel—” I started. 

“You can’t get me with that one, Kat. It’s an old sponge,” he insisted, 
grinning. “A dirty old sponge that’s probably been here for a hundred years.” 

“All right, don’t believe me!” I exclaimed. “When I’m famous for 
discovering this thing, I won’t tell them you’re my brother.” 

Mom walked by, carrying an armload of winter coats. I knew that she 
would believe me. 

“Mom!” I yelled. “The sponge! It’s alive!” 

“That’s nice, dear,” she murmured. “Only a few more things to bring in. 
Now, where did I put that box of silverware?” 

My mother acted as if she didn’t even hear me! “Mom,” I started again, 
even louder this time. “The sponge! Under the sink! It’s breathing!” 

She ignored me and kept walking through the kitchen and right out the 
screen door into the backyard. 

Nobody cared about my amazing find. 

Except for Killer. He seemed really interested. 

Maybe too interested. 

Killer bent his neck down low, poked his head into the cabinet, gave the 
sponge a long stare—and growled, deep in his throat. 

Grrrr. Grrrr. 

Why was he growling again? 

Killer touched his wet nose to the sponge. He shoved it around, sniffing and 
sniffing. He gazed up at me for a moment, a puzzled expression on his dog face. 
Grrrr. Grrrr. 

Killer opened his mouth and grabbed the sponge in his teeth. 

“Hey, that’s not lunch!” I yelped, grabbing Killer by his collar and yanking 
him out from under the sink. “That could be a very important discovery.” 

I turned to my brother. 

“See, Daniel? Killer knows it’s alive,” I insisted. “Honest, it’s not a trick. 
Look closer—I promise that you’ll see it breathing.” 

Daniel smirked as if he didn’t believe me. But he poked his head into the 
cabinet. 

“Hey, whoa! You might be right,” he admitted. He pulled himself up to face 
me. “I think it is alive! And I also think... it’s mine!” 

With that, he dove under the sink to grab the sponge. 

“No way!” I protested. I grabbed the back of his T-shirt and hauled him out. 
“I saw it first. The sponge belongs to me!” 

He shook me off and dove back down again. “Finders, keepers!” he cried. 

I made another grab for him. 

But before I could touch him, Daniel uttered a bloodcurdling scream of 

pain! 

4 

“AAAAAIIIIIIII!” 

You could probably hear Daniel’s wail for blocks. 

That got Mom’s attention. She came banging through the screen door from 
the backyard. 

“What happened? Who screamed? What’s wrong? What’s going on?” Mom 
demanded. 

Daniel backed out from under the sink, holding his head. He squinted up at 
us. “I hit my head on the sink,” he wailed. “Kat pushed me!” 

Mom knelt down and put her arm around Daniel. “You poor thing,” she said 
soothingly. She patted his head softly. 

“I did not push him,” I declared. “I didn’t even touch him.” 

Daniel groaned and rubbed the side of his head. “It really hurts,” he 
complained. “I’ll probably have a huge bump there.” 

He glared at me. “You did it on purpose! And it’s not your sponge, anyway. 
It was in the house. So it belongs to all of us!” 

“It is so my sponge!” I insisted. “What’s your problem, Daniel? Why do 
you always want what’s mine?” 

“That’s enough!” Mom cried impatiently. “I can’t believe you’re fighting 
over a stupid sponge!” 

Mom turned to me. “Kat, you are supposed to be keeping an eye on your 
brother, aren’t you?” she demanded. “And, Daniel, don’t take things that aren’t 
yours.” 

She turned to leave the room. “Not one more word about a silly sponge! Or 
you’ll both be sorry!” 

As soon as Mom left the room, Daniel stuck out his tongue at me and 
crossed his eyes. “Thanks for getting me in trouble,” he grumbled. 

He stomped off, with Killer at his heels. 

Alone in the kitchen, I bent down, reached my hand under the sink, and 
picked up the sponge. 

“Everyone’s yelling and screaming around here,” I whispered to it. “You’re 
causing a lot of trouble—aren’t you?” 

I felt sort of dumb talking to a sponge. 

But it didn’t feel like a sponge. Not at all. 

It’s warm, I thought in surprise. Warm and damp. 

“Are you alive?” I asked the wrinkled little ball. 

I closed my hand around it softly—and the weirdest thing happened. The 
sponge started moving in my hand. 

Well, not exactly moving. 

Pulsing—slowly and gently. 

Ca-chunk. Ca-chunk. 

It moved like the plastic model heart we used in science class. 

Could I be feeling a heartbeat? 

I peered curiously at the thing. I ran my fingertips over the wrinkles that 
covered it, pushing back the folds of spongy, moist material. 

“Whoa!” I cried, startled. Two wet, black eyes stared out at me. 

I shuddered. “Yuck!” 

You aren’t a sponge at all, I thought. Sponges don’t have eyes, do they? 
What are you? 

I needed some answers. Quick. But who could I talk to? 

Not Mom. She didn’t want to hear about the sponge. 

“Dad! Dad!” I called out, dashing through the living room and dining room. 
“Where are you?” 

“Mmmmph,” he shouted. “Mmmmmpph.” 

“What?” I yelled, running through the house. “Oh, here you are.” 

Dad stood at the top of a ladder in the front hall. He had a hammer in one 
hand and a big roll of black electrician’s tape in the other. 

And a bunch of nails in his mouth. “Mmmmpph,” he mumbled. 

“Dad, what are you trying to say?” I asked. 

He spit the nails out. 

“Sorry,” Dad grumbled. “I’ve got to get this hall light working. These darn 
old wires.” 

He stared down at a pile of tools on the floor. “Kat, hand me those pliers. If 
this doesn’t do it, I’ll have to call an electrician.” 

Dad is great at getting flowers to bloom and grass to grow. But when it 
comes to handyman stuff, he messes up. A lot. 

One time, he tried to fix a fan—and knocked out the electricity all over the 
neighborhood. 

“Here, Dad.” I handed him the pliers and held up the sponge. 

“Check this out,” I urged. I stood on tiptoes so he could see the sponge up 
close. “I found it under the sink, and it’s warm and it has eyes and it’s alive. I 
can’t figure out what it is.” 

Dad peered out from under his baseball cap. “Let’s have a look at that,” he 
offered. 

I shoved the sponge up so he could reach it. 

He leaned down to grab the sponge from me. 

I didn’t see the ladder wobble. 

And I didn’t see it start to tilt over. 

I only saw Dad’s expression change. I saw his eyes go wide. And his mouth 
open in a startled scream. 

As he started to fall, he grabbed at the light in the ceiling for support. 

“Nooooooo!” 

The light came crashing down on his head. Dad sailed off the top of the 
ladder. He lay on the hall floor, perfectly still. “Mom! Mo-om! Mom!” I 
shrieked. “Come quick! It’s Dad!” 

5 

Mom, Daniel, and I huddled around Dad. His eyes fluttered open. He blinked. 

“Huh?” he murmured. “What happened?” 

Dad shook his head and pushed himself up onto his elbows. “I think I’m 
okay, guys,” he said shakily. 

Dad tried to stand up. But he collapsed to the floor. “My ankle. I think it 
may be broken.” He groaned in pain. 

With me on one side and Mom on the other, we helped Dad to the couch. 
“Oof, that really hurts,” he moaned. He rubbed the ankle tenderly. 

“Daniel, go put some ice into a towel for your father,” Mom instructed. 
“Kat, get him a cold drink.” 

“Now, honey,” Mom whispered, wiping Dad’s brow, “tell me what 
happened.” 

When I came running back into the living room with a tall glass of ice 
water, Mom and Dad had the weirdest expressions on their faces. 

“Kat,” said Mom angrily, “did you push your father?” 

“Why did you push the ladder?” Dad asked, rubbing his ankle. 

“Huh? Excuse me?” I spluttered. “I didn’t push you! I wouldn’t!” 

“We’ll discuss this later, young lady,” Mom said sternly. “For now, I’ve got 
to take care of your father.” 

She leaned over and applied the ice pack to Dad’s swelling ankle. 

I felt a hot red flush of embarrassment creep over my face. How could Dad 
think I pushed him? 

I lowered my eyes and realized I still held the sponge. 

And I realized something else. Something strange and scary. 

Instead of pulsing gently, the sponge throbbed in my hand. Throbbed 
wildly. 

Ba-boom, ba-boom, ba-boom. 

Vibrating—as if someone had turned a blender to high speed. The sponge 
practically purred with excitement. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I sat down on the hall floor, feeling shaky. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. Daniel thought I pushed him. And then 
Dad said the same thing. 

They both think I pushed them. Why? 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. Ba-boom. The sponge throbbed warmly in my hand. 

I shivered with fear. Suddenly, the sponge seemed kind of scary. I didn’t 
want the thing anywhere near me—or my family. 

I ran outside. I found a big metal garbage can near the garage. I lifted the 
lid. Dropped the sponge inside. Pushed the lid shut firmly. 

Back inside the house, Mom called me into the living room. “I think Dad’s 
ankle is only sprained,” she said. “Now, tell me what happened.” 

Thursday, I sat at my desk, writing down the names of guests for my birthday 
party. The big day was only two days away. 

I had to give the list to Mom today, so she could buy enough favors by 
Saturday. 

I heard Daniel babbling away to Carlo as the two boys clambered noisily up 
the stairs. 

“Check it out—it looks like an old sponge. But it’s alive!” Daniel 
explained. “I bet it’s a prehistoric creature, like a dinosaur or something.” 

I jumped up and ran out of my room. 

“Hey!” I yelled at Daniel. “What are you doing with that?” I pointed at the 
sponge in his hands. “I threw that thing away.” 

“I found it in the garbage can,” Daniel replied. “It’s too cool to throw away. 
Right, Carlo?” 

Carlo shrugged, his shaggy black hair touching his shoulders. “It looks like 
an old sponge. What’s the big deal?” 

“It’s a very big deal,” I shot back. “And that thing is definitely not a 
sponge.” 

I pulled a large book from my new bookcase. “I checked the encyclopedia,” 
I explained. “Under sponges. You should have left it in the trash, Daniel. You 
really should have.” 

“What did the encyclopedia say?” Daniel asked eagerly, plopping down on 
my bed. He held the sponge between his hands. 

“It said that sponges do not have eyes,” I replied. “And they can live only in 
the water. If they’re out of the water for more than thirty minutes, they die.” 

“See, Carlo? It’s not a sponge,” Daniel declared. “Our creature has eyes. It’s 

been out of water since we found it.” 

“Well, I don’t see any eyes. And it sure doesn’t look alive to me,” said 
Carlo doubtfully. 

Daniel leaped off the bed and offered his friend the sponge. “Hold it. You’ll 

see.” 

Carlo carefully cradled the sponge in his hands. His big brown eyes grew 
wide. “It’s warm! And... and... it’s moving. It’s squirming! It is alive.” 

Carlo spun around to face me. “But if it’s not a sponge, then... then, what is 

it?” 

“I haven’t figured that out yet,” I admitted. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of a super-sponge,” Daniel offered. “So powerful 
that it can live on land.” 

“It could be part sponge and part another animal,” added Carlo, gazing at it. 
“Can I take it home for a while? It’ll really spook Sandy.” 

Sandy is Carlo’s baby-sitter. “I’ll bring it right back,” Carlo promised. 

“No way, Carlo,” I said quickly. “I think I’ll keep the sponge right here until 
I know exactly what it is. Here—stick it in this old gerbil cage.” 

“Aw, come on,” Carlo begged, petting the sponge on the top of its wrinkled 
head. “See? It likes me.” 

“No way!” I replied. “Daniel, tell your friend to quit bugging me.” 

“Okay, okay,” Carlo muttered. “Hey, what does this little guy eat, anyway?” 
“I don’t know,” I replied. “But it seems to be fine without eating. Put it in 
the cage.” 

Carlo reached into the gerbil cage and set the creature down. As he did, his 
face filled with horror. 

I saw his arm tremble. 

Then he let out a terrified scream. 

“Aaagh! My hand! It ate my hand!” 

6 

“Noooo!” I shrieked. 

His mouth twisted in horror, Carlo yanked his arm from the gerbil cage— 
and shoved it in my face. 

“Oh!” I gasped. 

Carlo wiggled his hand in my face and began to laugh. His hand was 
perfectly okay. 

“You are horrible!” I yelled. “That is so completely not funny. It’s sick!” 

Carlo and Daniel collapsed with laughter. 

“Excellent joke!” Daniel grinned. “Hey, Carlo. Give me a... hand! Haw, 
haw, haw.” 

He and Carlo slapped each other high fives. “Way to go, dude!” Daniel 
cried. 

I glared at the dumb, immature brats. 

“You know, guys, this isn’t funny,” I said seriously. “We don’t know what 
kind of creature the sponge is.” 

“We don’t know what kind of creature you are, either!” Daniel announced 
with a big grin. 

“If I’m a creature, you’re a creature’s baby brother!” I shot back. 

“Hey, I have an idea,” said Carlo, winking at Daniel. “Maybe you should 
put the sponge on a leash and take it for a walk. The exercise will give it an 
appetite!” He hooted with laughter. 

He really cracked himself up. 

“But it doesn’t have legs,” Daniel chimed in. 

“She can roll it down Maple Lane!” Carlo suggested. 

More laughter. 

“That’s it, you guys. Get out!” I shouted. “Leave me and the sponge alone! 
Now!” 

Slapping each other another high five, Daniel and Carlo turned to leave. 

I could hardly wait for them to go. I needed to be by myself for a while. To 
sit and figure out what I should do with the little round creature. 

But before Carlo and Daniel got out the bedroom door, a scream made me 

nearly jump to the ceiling. 

I turned to see Carlo hopping frantically up and down on one foot. 

“Oh, right,” I said. “Like I’m going to believe another one of your stupid 
jokes.” 

Carlo, his face twisted in pain, pointed wildly to his foot. Falling back onto 
the bed with a groan, he yanked off his sneaker. 

Blood oozed through his white sock. 

“A nail!” he gasped. “I stepped on a nail!” 

I dropped my eyes to the sneaker on the floor. 

Along nail had poked through the thick rubber sole—and into Carlo’s foot! 

Weird, I thought. Where did a nail come from? 

“Hey, it’s really bleeding!” Carlo wailed. “Do something!” 

I searched around frantically for something to use as a bandage. As I did, 
my eyes rested on the sponge in the gerbil cage. 

“Whoa!” I cried. 

The sponge quivered and shook. 

It shook with what seemed like joy\ 

And it breathed—so loudly that I could hear the eerie sound from the other 
side of the room! 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

As I wrapped an old T-shirt around Carlo’s foot, two questions ran through 
my mind—what in the world is happening here? Why did the sponge creature 
suddenly get so excited? 

I wouldn’t find out the frightening truth about the sponge creature until the 
next day. 

When I learned it, I understood why there were so many accidents in our 
new house. 

And it made me wish that I had never opened that cabinet, never reached 
under the sink, and never found the spongy... thing. 

Because now it was too late. 

Too late for us all. 

7 

“Kat, it’s all set.” Mom grinned at me the next morning when I walked into the 
kitchen for breakfast. 

“What’s all set?” I asked sleepily. 

“Your birthday party tomorrow!” Mom replied, giving me a quick hug. 
Mom’s very big on hugging. 

“How could you forget?” she asked in surprise. “We’ve been planning your 
birthday for weeks!” 

“My party!” I breathed with delight. “Oh, I can’t wait!” I sat down at the 
table for cornflakes and orange juice. 

Birthday parties are a really big deal around the Merton house. Mom 
always orders a big cake. And she makes all the invitations and decorations by 
hand. 

This year, I helped with the invitations. We cut them out of purple 
construction paper and used a pink sparkle pen to write the words. 

I usually have a theme for my parties. Last year’s theme was “Make your 
own pizza.” And it was awesome! My friends talked about it for weeks. 

Now that I’m going to be twelve, I decided I’m too old for a theme. So 
Mom and Dad are taking me and five of my best friends to WonderPark—for the 
entire day. 

WonderPark is definitely the coolest. It has two wave pools, a whole bunch 
of water slides, and the Monster Masher. That’s the scariest upside-down roller 
coaster I’ve ever been on! 

Just how cool is it? Well, last summer, Carlo lost his lunch after a ride on 
the Masher. 

Pretty cool. 

“This is going to be my best birthday ever!” I exclaimed, smiling across the 
table at Mom. I turned to Daniel. “Sorry, you’re not invited. This is for twelve- 
year-olds only.” 

“No fair! Why can’t I come along?” he complained, banging his spoon into 
his cereal and splashing milk all over the table. “I promise I won’t talk to any of 
Kat’s friends. Who would want to? Please let me come!” 

I started to feel sort of bad. I started to change my mind. 

And then Daniel totally mined his chance. 

He folded his arms over his chest. “Kat gets everything around here,” he 
grumbled. “She won’t even share the sponge with me!” 

“That old thing Kat found under the sink?” Mom asked in surprise. “Who’d 
want it?” 

“Me!” yelled Daniel. 

“Well, I found it, so it’s mine. And I’m bringing my sponge to school 
today,” I informed Daniel. 

“Why?” Mom asked. 

“I’m going to show it to Mrs. Vanderhoff,” I explained. “Maybe she’ll 
know what it is. Now I need to find a carrier for my sponge.” 

I searched around in the kitchen cabinets. “Perfect!” I proclaimed, holding 
up a plastic container labeled Deli. It still smelled faintly of potato salad. 

With an old pair of scissors, I punched a few air holes in the top of the 
container. Then I ran upstairs to get the sponge. 

Back in the kitchen, I set the sealed container on the floor and opened the 
refrigerator. 

“Mom,” I called, “which lunch bag is mine?” 

“The blue one, honey,” she replied. 

I grabbed my lunch and shut the refrigerator. 

I heard a sniffing sound coming from the kitchen floor. I looked down. 

“Killer, what are you doing, boy?” I smiled at the floppy-eared dog. 

Snrff. Snrff. Snrff. 

He sniffed at the container. 

Grrr. Grrr. 

He pawed the ground and growled. 

Here we go again, I thought. 

Killer set his ears back, circling the container suspiciously. 

And barked. 

And barked. And barked. 

“Killer! Get back!” I shouted. 

But the dog was way too excited to listen to me. 

“Mom, Daniel!” I called. “Help me get Killer away. I think he wants to eat 
the sponge for breakfast!” 

Mom grabbed Killer by his collar and hauled him, still growling, away from 
the container. She pushed the door open and shooed the dog into the backyard. 

“Go outside, boy, there you go,” she said gently. 

Mom turned to me. “What’s got that dog so upset? He sure is acting 
strange. Now get a move on, or you’ll be late for school. And then I’ll be 
growling and barking!” 

Throwing my backpack over my shoulder, I gave Mom a quick kiss good¬ 
bye and followed Daniel out the door. 

“Watch this!” he yelled, dashing across the street to the Johnsons’ house 
and planting himself underneath their basketball hoop. 

Daniel faked a dribble and a pass, and ran madly around in circles. “Bet you 
can’t jump this high!” he said, pretending to sink a basket. 

“Come on, Daniel,” I replied, walking quickly down the street. “Mrs. 
Vanderhoff will keep me after school if I show up late.” 

Daniel trotted over to me. Suddenly, his eyes bulged! 

“Kat! Look out!” he screamed. 

Craaack! 

I heard a frightening sound above my head. A loud cracking. As if someone 
had cracked about a thousand knuckles at the same time. 

I glanced up in time to see a huge dead tree branch hurtling down through 
the air. 

I froze. 

I couldn’t scream. I couldn’t move. 

I couldn’t move a muscle. 

I was about to be crushed into Kat litter! 

8 

“Ohhhhhhh.” A terrified moan escaped my throat. 

I felt someone shove me hard from behind. 

The force of it sent me flying to the ground. 

I lay there in shock and watched the huge tree branch crash down to the 
ground, cracking and shattering. 

It landed a few feet behind me. 

As I struggled to pull myself up, the sponge container rolled out of my 
hand. The little creature came spilling out onto the sidewalk. 

“Saved your life!” cried Daniel. “Now you owe me big!” 

I barely heard him. 

The sponge. I could only stare at the sponge. 

Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

Breathing louder and faster and deeper than I’d ever heard before. 

Whoa-ahhh, whoa-ahhh. 

Throbbing its little heart out. Practically hopping around on the ground in 
excitement. 

Ba-boom, ba-boom. 

Very weird. I’d almost been killed by the falling branch. And the sponge 
seemed really excited. As if it enjoyed my near accident. As if my accident made 
it really happy. 

“Mrs. Vanderhoff!” I called, rushing into the classroom. “I have to show you 
something!” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff is a brain. She basically knows everything about 
everything. 

She’s very smart. And she takes us on great class trips. At Halloween, we 
visited a spooky old theater that’s supposed to be haunted by the ghosts of dead 
actors. 

But Mrs. Vanderhoff is also really strict. Anyone who goofs off or talks out 
of turn stays after school for a week! 

One other problem. She has no sense of humor at all. I’ve never even seen 
her crack a smile. 

“Check this out, Mrs. Vanderhoff,” I blurted out, shoving the sponge under 
her nose. “I found it under the kitchen sink of our new house. And when Daniel 
went to grab it, he hit his head. And my Dad thought I pushed him, and—and—” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff peered at me over her wire-rim glasses. “Kat, sshh,” she 
ordered sharply. “Now, start over—slowly and clearly.” 

I took a deep breath and began again, starting with moving day and ending 
with the falling tree branch. 

“And you say it throbs and breathes?” Mrs. Vanderhoff asked, staring hard 
at me. 

“Yes!” I exclaimed. 

“Let me see it,” Mrs. Vanderhoff replied. I handed over the container. 

Hesitantly, she stuck her hand in and lifted the sponge out. 

“Oh, wow.” I groaned in disappointment. The sponge appeared dry and 
shriveled. 

It didn’t breathe. It didn’t throb. 

Mrs. Vanderhoff glared at me. “Kat, what’s the meaning of this?” she 
huffed. “This is an ordinary kitchen sponge.” 

She made a face. “A dirty one, I might add.” 

“You’re wrong!” I cried shrilly, desperate for her to believe me. “It’s much 
more than a sponge. It’s alive. It has eyes—see? You’ve got to see!” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff squinted at me, shaking her gray-haired head. 

“Oh, all right,” she said with a sigh. She bent her head and examined the 
sponge closely. She ran her fingers over its wrinkled surface. 

“I don’t know what in the world you’re talking about,” she said angrily, 
motioning for me to take my seat. “This thing doesn’t have eyes. And it’s not 
alive. It’s a dirty, dried-up old sponge.” 

Mrs. Vanderhoff glared at me. “If this is your idea of a joke, Katrina, I don’t 
get it. I don’t get it at all.” 

“But...” I started. 

Mrs. Vanderhoff held up her hand. “Not another word,” she instructed. She 
handed the sponge back—dropping it into my hand like a piece of junk. 

My stomach churned with disappointment. 

Couldn’t I say anything else to convince her? 

The sharp rap of a ruler on her desk interrupted my thoughts. “I’m going to 
pass back the papers from your math test last week,” Mrs. Vanderhoff 
announced. 

Everyone groaned. The surprise quiz on long division had been a major 
disaster for all of us. 

“Settle down,” Mrs. Vanderhoff snapped. 

She reached into her desk to pull out the test papers, and —slammed her 
fingers in the drawer! 

With a howl of pain, she shrieked, “My fingers! Owww—I think I broke 
my fingers! ” 

I was still standing beside her desk. Holding her hand, she turned to me. 
“Help me, Katrina. I’ve got to get to the nurse’s office!” 

I opened the classroom door for Mrs. Vanderhoff. Then I helped her down 
the hall to the infirmary. 

“What’s happened?” Mrs. Twitchell, the school nurse, jumped up from her 
desk and came running up to us. Her starchy white uniform rustled as she 
moved. She sat Mrs. Vanderhoff in a comfortable chair. 

“My fingers,” groaned Mrs. Vanderhoff, holding up her red, swollen hand. 
“I smashed them in the desk drawer!” 

“All right,” Mrs. Twitchell said soothingly. “We’ll put some ice on that 
hand. And I’ll make sure the principal sends somebody to watch your class.” 

“Thank you,” Mrs. Vanderhoff moaned. “Katrina, you can go on back to 
class now. You’ve been very helpful.” 

Helpful? 

Everywhere I went these days, I told myself, somebody seemed to get badly 

hurt! 

Unhappily, I shuffled my way back toward classroom 6B. 

“Kat! Kat!” I heard someone shouting my name. 

Daniel raced out of the library, nearly tripping over his untied shoelaces. He 
crashed right into me. 

“I found it!” he cried breathlessly. “I found the sponge creature! In a book! I 
know what it is!” 

9 

I grabbed Daniel by the front of his shirt. “What is it? What?” I demanded. “I 
have to know!” 

“Whoa. Take it easy. Cool your jets.” Daniel pushed my hands off his shirt. 
“Til show you,” he promised. “I have a picture in here.” 

“In where?” I asked. 

Daniel gazed around the hall. No one in sight. 

He pulled a book out from under his shirt and handed it to me. A big black 
volume. 

I glanced quickly at the title: Encyclopedia of the Weird. 

“Is your picture in there?” I teased. 

“Ha-ha. Very funny,” he replied. He grabbed the book away from me. “Do 
you want to see your sponge?” 

“Definitely!” 

Daniel flipped the pages quickly, muttering to himself, “Grebles, Griffins, 
Grocks. Here it is!” 

He shoved the book under my nose. It smelled funny—sort of musty. I 
guessed it had been sitting on the library shelf a long, long time. 

Daniel pointed to a drawing on page 89.1 lowered my eyes to the page. 

Wrinkly skin. Tiny black eyes. “It does look like the sponge,” I gasped. 

I began reading the story underneath the drawing. 

“This is a Grool. ” 

A Grool? I thought. What in the world is that? I returned to the book: 

“The Grool is an ancient and mythical creature. ” 

“Mythical?” I cried. “That means it’s not real—that it’s made up! But it is 
real!” 

“Keep reading,” Daniel urged. 

“The Grool does not eat food or drink water. Instead, it gets its strength 
from luck. Bad luck. ” 

“Daniel,” I stammered. “This is weird. Really weird.” He nodded, his eyes 
wide. 

“The Grool has always been known as a bad-luck charm. It feeds on the 

bad luck of other people. The Grool becomes stronger each time something bad 
happens around it. ” 

“This book is crazy,” I muttered. I eagerly read some more: 

“Bad luck for the Grool owner never ends. The Grool cannot be killed—by 
force or by any violent means. And it cannot — ever—be given away or tossed 
aside. ” 

Why not? I wondered. 

The next lines gave me the answer: 

“A Grool is only passed on to a new owner when an owner dies. Anyone 
who gives the Grool away will DIE within one day. ” 

“That is so stupid!” I exclaimed. “Stupid. Stupid. Stupid.” 

Turning to Daniel, I said in a low voice, “There is no such thing as a 
creature that lives on bad luck.” 

“How do you know, genius?” Daniel demanded. 

“Everything needs food and water,” I replied. “Everything that’s alive, 
anyway.” 

“I don’t know,” Daniel said. “I think the book could be right.” 

The drawing of a creature on another page caught my eye. “Hey, what’s 
this?” I asked. 

It looked like a potato—oval and brown. But it had a mouth full of sharp, 
pointy teeth. 

I quickly read the description. 

“The Lanx is a cousin of the Grool. But it is much more dangerous. ” 

“Yuck!” Daniel cried, making a face. 

I kept reading: 

“Once the Lanx latches on to someone, it never lets go—until it has drained 
every drop of energy from that person. ” 

I slammed the encyclopedia shut. “Here, Daniel, take this dumb book!” I 
shoved the Encyclopedia of the Weird back into my brother’s arms. “This stuff is 
totally crazy. I don’t believe any of it.” 

“But I thought you wanted to know more about the sponge,” Daniel said. 

“I do. But not this made-up stuff!” I told him. 

I knew I was acting sort of rotten to Daniel. And that he only wanted to 

help. 

But give me a break. After all that had been happening, I was a little 
stressed out. 

I mean, it had been a bad couple of days—with Dad falling off the ladder, 
and Mrs. Vanderhoff slamming her hand in the desk. 

And me nearly being crushed by the tree branch! 

I stomped down the hall back to class. “Stupid book,” I muttered to myself. 
But another thought kept forcing its way into my mind: What if the book is 
right? 

I stared at the Grool, still sitting in its container on the corner of Mrs. 
Vanderhoff’s desk. I walked up to it. 

It was wet again. And breathing. Its cold, black eyes stared back. 

I felt a chill of fear and a prickling all over my skin. 

“Mythical creatures don’t exist,” I whispered to the creature. “I’m not going 
to believe that book. I’m not!” 

The sponge stared up at me, breathing softly. 

I picked up the container and shook it angrily. “What are you?” I cried. 
“What?” 

Daniel told Carlo the whole story on the walk home. I walked behind them, 
trying to think about something else. Anything else. 

“It’s called a Grool. And it’s a bad-luck charm,” Daniel explained excitedly. 
“Right, Kat?” 

“I think you’re the bad-luck charm,” I snapped. “And I don’t think that 
book makes any sense.” 

“Oh, yeah?” he cried. He grabbed my backpack. 

“You don’t need these books, do you?” he teased. “You’re so smart, you 
know more than the encyclopedia.” 

Dancing down the street with my books, Daniel turned on to Maple Lane. 
“Hey, Mom’s outside!” he cried, surprised. He started to run. 

Carlo and I hurried to catch up with Daniel. 

Mom stood at the door, waiting for us. Her face wore a tense, worried 
expression. “Hi, kids. Come on inside,” she said. 

Daniel, Carlo, and I followed Mom into the kitchen. 

“I’m afraid I have some very bad news,” she began sadly. 

10 

“Killer is gone,” Mom announced. She bit her lower lip. 

“Gone?” Daniel and I shrieked at once. 

“He ran away,” Mom explained. “I can’t find him anywhere. He must have 
slipped out when I went to put some things in the garage.” 

“But, Mom—” I protested. “Killer never runs away. He’s never done it 
before.” 

“Kat is right!” Daniel agreed. “He’s not brave enough to run away.” 

“Don’t worry,” Mom said. “I’m sure we’ll find him. I’ve called the police, 
and they’re out searching for him right now.” 

“I’ll find Killer,” Daniel cried. “Bet I can find him before the police! Come 
on, Carlo!” 

Daniel grabbed a handful of doggie treats and ran out. Carlo followed close 
behind. 

The door slammed shut behind them. 

Poor Killer, I thought. Out somewhere alone. Probably lost. Bet he’s scared. 

Our new house is so close to the highway—to all those speeding cars. What 
will happen to my little dog? 

I suddenly felt like crying. I grabbed the sponge in its container and ran up 
the stairs. 

“It’s all your fault, isn’t it?” I accused the creature. “I bet you are a Grool 
after all!” 

As I talked, the Grool pulsed. It shook so hard, I expected it to throb right 
out of the container. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

And it breathed fast and deep. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I yanked the Grool out. “We’ve had enough bad luck!” I wailed. “Maybe 
this will stop you!” I hurled the horrible thing as hard as I could against the wall. 

The Grool hit the wall with a sickening splat. 

And I let out a shrill cry of pain. 

11 

I glanced down and saw red. 

Red blood. 

Flowing over my left hand. 

As I threw the Grool, I slammed the hand down on my desk—onto the 
sharp point of a pair of scissors! 

“Ohhh!” I moaned, checking out my hand. A deep, nasty cut. 

I wrapped some tissues around the cut to slow the bleeding. Then I spotted 
the Grool down on the floor. 

Dead, I hoped. 

I bent down. 

“Gross!” I yelped. The Grool was breathing and throbbing—faster and 
harder than ever before. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

I leaned in closer. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

“Hey, what’s that?” I murmured. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

I guess you’d call the noise a laugh. A dry, cruel snicker that sounded more 
like a cough. 

Then, as I listened to that evil laugh, the Grool began changing. 

Its color suddenly brightened—from dull brown to light pink. As I stared in 
amazement, the Grool turned bright tomato-red. 

As red as the blood on my cut hand. 

My hand! Yuck! Blood seeped through the tissues and dripped slowly onto 
the floor. 

I needed help with this. Mom’s help. 

“Mom!” I called, leaping up. “I need a Band-Aid. A big one!” 

As I hurried down the hall, a jumble of questions ran through my mind. 

Why did the Grool change color? I wondered. And that laugh—I’d never 
heard it before. What did it mean? Was it really laughing? 

Did I hurt the Grool when I threw it against my bedroom wall? Is that why 

it turned red? 

So many frightening questions.... 

I listened at the door, cupping my hand around my ear. 

Voices. Inside my room. 

“Who’s there?” I called out shakily. 

The door flew open. 

“It’s the ghost of the Grool,” Daniel whispered in a spooky voice. 
“Owoooooooo.” 

Daniel and Carlo stood over the gerbil cage, giggling. 

“Oh, I’m so scared,” I sneered. “Did you find Killer?” 

“No,” Daniel replied sadly. “Carlo and I searched all over the 
neighborhood. Mom says the police will find him.” 

I turned my eyes to the gerbil cage. “How did the Grool get back in there?” 

“I found it on the floor, so I stuck it back in the cage,” Daniel replied. “How 
did it get out?” 

“Beats me.” I shrugged. I didn’t feel like explaining. 

Carlo, who’d been studying the Grool closely, stared at me. “Hey, what 
happened to your hand?” he asked, pointing to my bandage. 

I didn’t want to tell them. 

“Oh, uh, nothing,” I replied. “Just a little cut. Why are you guys standing 
there staring at the Grool?” 

“Carlo still wants to borrow it,” Daniel explained, tapping the side of the 
cage to get the creature’s attention. “I told him no.” 

Carlo turned to me. “Please,” he begged. “I promise I’ll be careful. Please, 
please, please, please...” 

That stupid Grool! “Oh, take it and keep it!” I snapped. 

“Excellent!” Carlo’s eyes lit up, and he reached eagerly into the plastic cage 
to grab his prize. 

“Wait!” Daniel cried, grabbing Carlo’s arm to stop him. “Kat, remember 
what the Encyclopedia of the Weird said.” 

Daniel began reciting the Grool entry from memory, staring at me all the 
while. 

“You cannot give a Grool away. Anyone who gives the Grool away will DIE 
within one day. ” 

A feeling of dread grew in my stomach. 

But I couldn’t believe that stupid book. Could I? 

Did the encyclopedia say that Grools laugh? Or change color? 

No. 

Carlo and Daniel stared at me. Waiting for my decision. Should I give the 
sponge creature to Carlo? 

I studied the Grool. 

“Don’t do it, Kat,” Daniel urged. “Please don’t give it away. It’s too 
dangerous.” 

I knew only one thing. I wanted to get the Grool away from me as quickly 
as I could. And if Carlo wanted it so badly, I decided, let him have it! 

“Go ahead, Carlo,” I said. “Take the gross, disgusting thing.” 

Daniel grabbed the Grool out of the cage and held it tightly. “No!” he cried. 
“Carlo is not taking it. I don’t care what you say. I won’t let him take it!” 

“Now who’s the scaredy-cat?” I asked, giving Daniel a poke in the arm. 

“I’m trying to save you!” Daniel exclaimed. “Don’t you understand?” 

Poor Daniel. He seemed so serious, so frightened. I decided to give him a 
break. 

“Well, okay. Carlo, I guess you’d better not take the Grool,” I announced. 

Daniel heaved a sigh of relief. 

Carlo frowned. “Okay. Bye. I’m out of here.” 

“I’ll go with you,” Daniel said, tossing the Grool back into the cage. “Come 
on, let’s ride our bikes to the park. Maybe Killer’s there.” As he hurried out of 
the bedroom, Daniel turned and gave me a thumbs-up. 

After the boys left, I collapsed on my bed. What’s going to happen next? I 
wondered. 

I lifted my eyes to the plastic cage and glared at the Grool. I felt a deep 
hatred for the little creature. 

“If one more bad thing happens around here, I’ll bury you,” I promised it. 
“I’ll bury you so far in the ground that no one will ever find you or see you 
again. Ever.” 

It was a promise I would soon have to keep. 

12 

The next morning I woke up with a jolt. 

Toot! Toot! Daniel stood at the foot of my bed, blowing away on a party 

horn. 

“Time to get up, Kat!” he squealed. 

I reached out to grab the noisy horn away. “Quit it, you loser!” I grumbled. 
Then I remembered. 

My birthday! Finally! Something to celebrate. 

I jumped out of bed. Time to get ready to go to WonderPark! 

I planned to be on the Seattle Log Flume and the Wild Wave Slide all day 

long! 

Running to the window, I peeked out through the glass. “No!” I cried in 
disappointment. “No! It can’t be!” 

Rain poured down. Lightning crackled through the sky. Thunder boomed so 
loud, I felt the house shake. 

How could we go to WonderPark in this mess? 

“Kat,” Mom called from downstairs. “Breakfast.” 

I threw on my purple-and-pink-striped leggings and a purple T-shirt and ran 
to the kitchen. On my birthday Mom always makes my favorite—waffles with 
strawberries and powdered sugar. 

“Here’s the birthday girl. Happy birthday, honey.” Mom beamed, giving me 
a big hug. 

“I’m dressed for my party,” I said hopefully as I sat down at the table. 

“Oh, honey, I’m afraid we’ll have to cancel your party,” Mom said sadly. 
“We certainly can’t go to WonderPark in this storm.” 

Cancel? I poked unhappily at my waffles. 

“Can’t we have the party here—indoors?” I pleaded. “We’ll order pizza and 
play computer games in the den.” 

“You know that we can’t do that,” Mom said. “The painters will be here all 
day in the living room and dining room. With all those ladders and buckets of 
paint, I can’t have your friends running around.” 

What rotten luck. 

“But, Mom, it’s my birthday!” I protested, throwing down my fork. “And 

you promised I could have a party. You promised!” 

Mom sighed. “I know how disappointed you are, Kat. We’ll have your party 
another day. Maybe next weekend.” 

Another day wouldn’t be my birthday. “Everything’s going wrong!” I cried. 
“Ever since we moved!” 

I hated this new house. I even hated my birthday. 

Most of all, I hated the Grool. 

Leaving my waffles on the plate, I ran up to my room. I snatched the Grool 
out of its cage and shook it as hard as I could. 

“I warned you!” I threatened. “You ruined my birthday! Now you’ll pay!” 

The Grool throbbed happily in my hand, and I hurled it back into the gerbil 
cage. “I hate you!” I shrieked. “I really hate you! You and your bad luck!” 

Plopping down at my desk, I decided I had to take action. Strong action. 

No birthday party. No more Grool. 

“I’m keeping my promise,” I told the creature. 

I pulled a notebook out of my desk drawer and began to make some plans 
to get rid of it. 

“Daniel, it’s not raining anymore,” I whispered to my brother. “Come on, it’s 
time.” 

The Grool vibrated in its plastic container. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

Daniel glanced up from his computer screen. “Now?” he asked. “Give me a 
break, Kat. I’m on level ten, and I need to slay only one more troll before I can 
open the treasure chest.” 

“This is important. Really important,” I insisted. 

Daniel sighed. “Do you think you should do it? You know what the book 
said.” 

“I’ve got to!” I cried. “Remember, it’s the Grool’s fault that Killer ran 
away.” 

Daniel was definitely nervous. And scared. 

But he obediently hit the save button on Troll Terror and followed me 
outside to the backyard. It had rained all day. But now a few stars shone high 
above us in the charcoal night sky. 

“Here. You hold the Grool,” I whispered. I shoved the creature into his 
trembling hands. 

I skipped over to the garage—feeling happy for the first time in days. “I’m 
getting rid of the Grool,” I sang to myself. 

Grabbing the biggest shovel I could find, I made my way back to Daniel. 
Then I started to dig. 

This had to be a serious hole, a deep hole. Something the Grool could 
never, ever climb out of. 

A cool breeze blew around me. But digging in the damp ground was hard 
work. Sweat rolled down my back and forehead. 

I didn’t feel scared at all. I had to do something to make life normal again. I 
had to stop all the bad luck. 

And if it meant burying a living sponge, fine. As long as I never had to see 
that stupid, snickering creature again. 

I peered down into the hole. It seemed pretty deep, about as long as my 

arm. 

“I’m finished,” I told my brother. “Pass me the Grool.” 

Daniel silently handed the sponge to me. 

As I held it over the deep hole, the sponge didn’t throb. It didn’t breathe. It 
didn’t even feel warm. 

It felt dry and dead, like an ordinary kitchen sponge. 

But I knew better. 

I dropped the Grool into the hole and watched happily as it tumbled down 
the steep dirt sides to the bottom. 

Picking up the shovel again, I began throwing dirt onto the creature—heap 
after heap. 

Dig. Throw. Dig. Throw. 

Finally, the hole was filled up. I used the back of the shovel to smooth the 
dirt flat. “There,” I said. “No one but us will know the Grool is buried here.” 

I lowered my eyes to the soft, wet dirt. “Bye, bye Grool,” I called out 
happily. “Daniel, I think our luck is going to change now.” 

Daniel didn’t reply. 

I spun around. “Daniel? Daniel? Where are you?” 

My brother had disappeared. 

13 

What had I done? 

I dropped the shovel in a panic. “Daniel!” I shrieked. “Where are you?” 

Had I made my brother disappear? Did burying the Grool somehow make 
Daniel vanish into thin air? 

“Daniel? Daniel?” I called in a trembling voice. 

I heard a soft rustling sound coming from behind the garage. 

I crept quietly toward it. “Daniel,” I whispered. “Is that you?” 

No reply. 

I peeked behind the garage. 

Daniel sat with his arms locked around his knees. Safe and sound. 

“Daniel!” I cried. I felt so relieved that I pinched him. 

“Cut it out,” he snapped. He leaped to his feet. 

“What are you doing back here? I was so worried—I thought the Grool got 
you!” 

Daniel didn’t reply. He lowered his eyes to the ground. 

“Why did you hide?” I demanded. 

“I was scared,” he murmured. “I thought the Grool might explode or fight 
back or something.” 

“You were scared?” I asked. “Why didn’t you at least answer me when I 
called you?” 

“I thought maybe the Grool was chasing you,” he confessed, his face 
turning red. 

“Daniel, don’t worry,” I said. The poor guy was really frightened. And 
embarrassed that he had hid. 

I put both hands on his shoulders. “The Grool is gone. It’s buried deep in 
the ground.” 

He swallowed hard. “But what if it comes back? What if what the book said 
comes true?” 

“We’ll never see the Grool again,” I said quietly. “And don’t forget—the 
book said Grools don’t really exist. It’s all made up. Just a myth, a fairy tale.” 

Daniel sighed. “I hate to admit it, but you’re right, Kat,” he said. “At least 

this time.” 

“This time?” I shot back. “How about all the time?” I slugged Daniel on the 

arm. 

“Oh, that hurts so much I think I’m going to pass out!” Daniel cried 
sarcastically. He fell on to the wet lawn and pretended to faint. 

“Come on, let’s go in,” I urged. “You’re getting soaked. And I’m covered 
with dirt.” 

Daniel scrambled up and elbowed me aside. 

“Race you!” he cried, running toward the house. 

I leaped up the steps and beat him into the house by about a second. I 
slammed the screen door and held it closed, so Daniel couldn’t open it. 

“I won!” I shouted. 

“Only because I let you,” Daniel cried. He banged on the door. 

“Do you want to get in here?” I asked. 

Daniel nodded. 

“Then say, ‘Kat beat me fair and square’,” I commanded. 

“No way!” he replied. 

“Stay out there all night, then—with the Groooooooool!” I told him. I let 
out a ghostly howl. 

“Okay, okay. Kat beat me fair and square,” Daniel grumbled. “But I’ll win 
next time!” 

Actually, I didn’t really care about the race. I felt so glad that I buried the 
Grool, I would have let Daniel win ten races. 

As we burst into the living room, Mom and Dad raised their eyes from their 
newspapers. The house smelled of fresh paint. 

“Where were you?” Dad asked. 

“Oh, just fooling around in the yard,” I replied. 

“Is everything all right?” Mom asked with concern. “You’re filthy!” 

“Everything is fine,” I answered. “Now.” 

“Okay, go and wash up,” Mom ordered. “Then come into the kitchen.” 

Daniel and I crowded into the bathroom, leaned over the sink, pushing and 
bumping each other, and cleaned ourselves up. 

“Do you know what time it is?” Mom asked as I raced back into the 
kitchen. 

“Yes!” I shouted happily. “It’s time for my birthday cake.” 

Mom beamed. “Well, sit right down here.” 

I dropped excitedly into the chair she offered. Finally, I thought, things are 
going right again. 

Daniel perched on the chair next to mine. He grabbed my arm. “Something 
bad is going to happen,” he whispered. “I know it. I just know it.” 

I’m not going to let anything wreck tonight, I thought. 

“Don’t be such a wimp,” I whispered. “Everything’s fine.” 

At the kitchen counter, Mom hovered over the cake. She touched a match to 
each of the thirteen candles—one for each year and an extra one for luck. 

What an awesome cake! Mom had ordered it from the bakery down the 
street. It had all my favorites: pink frosting roses, chocolate icing, and a layer of 
strawberries. A tiny chocolate Ferris wheel sat on top. 

“Ready, Kat?” Mom asked. She carried the cake to the table. Her faced 
glowed happily in the candlelight. Dad flashed me a big grin. 

They all began to sing “Happy Birthday”. 

I saw Daniel watching me closely as he sang. 

They finished the song. I shut my eyes and made my wishes. 

“I wish Killer would come home,” I said to myself. “And I wish the Grool 
would never return. And that Daniel is wrong—that nothing bad will happen.” 

I leaned forward, closer to the candles, and blew hard. 

Pop! 

The loud noise from the kitchen nearly made me fall into my cake! 

14 

“Boy, that cork was loud!” chirped Mom. 

She set down a tray of glasses and a large green bottle. “It’s your favorite— 
sparkling apple cider,” she announced. “I know it’s not as good as a day at 
WonderPark....” 

“Oh, Mom!” I gasped, my heart still pounding. “It’s great. Everything is 
going to be great.” 

An excellent birthday. Cake, sparkling cider, and presents—two new video 
games, a Discman and some CDs, a purple backpack, and a sweatshirt in pink 
and purple—my favorite colors. 

That night before bed, I stuffed my school books into my new backpack. I 
stared at the gerbil cage. Empty and clean—as if the Grool had never even 
existed. 

I got rid of the disgusting creature, I thought happily. I really did. 

My family will finally be safe from bad luck. 

The clock in the hall chimed ten. Time for bed. I climbed into my nightshirt 
and dove under the covers. 

When the alarm rang the next morning, I bounced out of bed and ran to the 
window to check the weather. 

“Oh, nooo!” 

I uttered a low moan of horror. 

The backyard—it looked like a desert! 

Overnight, the grass had all burned brown. All the pink begonias dropped to 
the ground, dead and brown. Dad’s red roses had shriveled and turned black. 

Poor Dad, I thought. He worked so hard to make the yard beautiful. And, 
now... 

As I stared at the ugly, dead yard, I tried to force the thought from my mind. 
But deep down inside, I knew exactly how it all happened. 

The Grool. 

From its grave, the Grool had turned its evil powers on the lawn. And it 
killed every single living plant, flower, and blade of grass! 

What should I do? I wondered, staring out at the burned, dried-out, dead, 

dead yard. 

Should I remove the Grool from the ground? 

Did I have a choice? 

Not really. 

I quickly pulled on my new sweatshirt and a pair of jeans. Then I crept 
downstairs. I sneaked out to the spot where I had buried the Grool. 

And I began to dig. 

Brown, dry leaves rained down on my head. My shoulder ached from lifting 
the damp, heavy dirt. My stomach didn’t feel too great, either. 

Dig, toss. Dig, toss. 

The more I dug, the worse I felt. 

I wanted to throw the shovel down and run from the spot. To leave the 
terrible creature buried for good. 

But I had to face the truth. 

If I left the Grool buried, it would keep on punishing me. It would punish 
my whole family. 

I dug to the bottom of the hole. Then I bent down and pushed the dirt away 
with both hands. 

Slowly, before my frightened eyes, the Grool throbbed into view. More 
alive and excited than ever. 

“I should smash you with this shovel!” I yelled at it. 

The Grool vibrated crazily, almost as if what I said made it happy. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. I could hear it breathe. 

And then once again, it turned from brown to pink to tomato-red. And it 
kept changing color as it breathed. 

Brown. Pink. Red. 

Brown. Pink. Red. 

I grabbed the Grool from its grave. It pulsed so hard that it throbbed right 
out of my hand and fell to the ground. 

“Stay still!” I shrieked, snatching it up. 

The Grool stared at me. Its tiny, round eyes glowed red with evil. 

I shivered. 

I gritted my teeth and shoved the Grool into the pocket of my new 
sweatshirt. I trudged back to the house, through the kitchen door, and into the 
hall that led to the stairs. 

At the bottom of the stairs, I heard a noise. It came from Mom and Dad’s 

bedroom. 

They’re awake, I thought. I’ve got to hurry before they see me and ask 
questions. That’s all I need. 

I leaped up the stairs, taking them two at a time. 

Whomp! I slipped and landed hard on my right knee. “Ouch!” I shrieked. 

I felt the Grool shake in my pocket. I heard its ugly, soft snicker. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

It was laughing at me! 

I jerked it out of my pocket and squeezed it so hard that my fingers hurt. 
Then I ran to my room and threw the Grool into the gerbil cage. 

“I’ll find a way to destroy you,” I promised. I rubbed my aching knee and 
glared at the little beast. “Before you can bring us any more bad luck, I will 
destroy you!” I cried. 

But how? I wondered. 

How? 

15 

“Kids, Aunt Louise is coming tomorrow,” Mom told Daniel and me the next 
morning. “So I want you both to clean up your rooms after school today.” 

“Aunt Louise is coming?” I asked. “Great!” 

Aunt Louise is my favorite aunt. Even though she^s a grown-up, she^s 
completely cool. 

She wears long, flowery dresses and drives a bright yellow convertible. 

And Aunt Louise blows the biggest bubble gum bubbles! And she knows a 
lot of really funny jokes. 

Mom says Aunt Louise has her head in the clouds. I guess that means she 
has a wild imagination. I don’t know about that, but she does know a lot about 
things like astrology and tarot cards. 

And, maybe—about Grools. 

That night, after I cleaned my room and before I went to bed, I said a 
special good night to the Grool. 

“My aunt is coming tomorrow and she’s going to help me get rid of you 
forever,” I whispered. It stared up at me, breathing softly. 

After school the next afternoon, Daniel and I turned the corner onto our block. 
And we saw Aunt Louise’s yellow convertible in the driveway. We ran the rest 
of the way home. 

“Hey—what’s up?” Aunt Louise called as we burst into the house. A floppy 
yellow straw hat covered her black curly hair. 

Before Daniel could get to her, I threw my arms around Aunt Louise and 
whispered in her ear, “Come upstairs with me. Now. It’s super-important.” 

My aunt pulled off her hat and set it on my head. She admired me in the hat. 
“Super-important?” she asked. 

“Yes,” I whispered, grabbing her hand and tugging her toward the stairs. 

“Have you ever heard of a Grool?” I asked. 

“A Grool? Hmmm. I’ll have to think about that one for a minute,” she 
replied thoughtfully. “No, I don’t think so. What is a Grool?” 

“Well,” I explained, “Daniel found a picture in an encyclopedia. And the 
book said it was an ancient, mythical creature....” 

“Well, if it’s mythical, honey, that means it doesn’t exist,” Aunt Louise 
interrupted. 

“But it’s not mythical!” I cried impatiently. “I should know because I have 
one. And it causes trouble, lots of trouble.” 

Aunt Louise followed me to my room. 

“Have you ever heard of a Lanx?” I asked. 

She shook her head. 

“That’s another creature in that encyclopedia. It looks like a potato, but it 
has a mouth full of sharp teeth.” 

“Good heavens. It sounds disgusting!” Aunt Louise exclaimed. “But tell me 
about this... Grool. What does it look like?” 

“Here. I’ll show you,” I said. I pulled her into my room. 

I pointed at the gerbil cage. The Grool squatted in the corner. 

Aunt Louise walked up to the cage. “So you’re a Grool,” she said, leaning 
down. She reached over to pick it up. 

“Wait,” I cried. “Maybe you shouldn’t touch it.” 

But I was too late. 

16 

Aunt Louise picked up the Grool and placed it in the palm of her hand. She 
studied it for a long while. 

Then she turned to me. “Kat, it’s only a dried-up sponge. What’s the big 
idea?” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Oh, I get it!” she laughed. “You really had me fooled! I thought you were 
serious!” She tossed the Grool to me. 

I tried to catch it, but I didn’t want to touch it. It plopped to the floor. 

“Pretty funny, kid.” She chuckled as she turned to leave. “You have a great 
imagination. Just like your aunt.” 

I picked up the Grool and examined it closely. 

Not warm. 

Not breathing. 

Not moving at all. 

Dry and hard. 

An ordinary sponge. 

Aunt Louise thought I was joking. But the joke was on me. 

The Grool had tricked me again! 

I hurled the creature back into the gerbil cage. It lay there lifeless. “I hope 
you rot in there!” I exploded. 

Before my amazed eyes, the dry brown sponge began plumping-up. In a 
few seconds, it became fuller and moister. 

“Yuck!” I groaned, watching it turn pink and then red. 

The Grool huffed and puffed. Whoa-ahhhh. Whoa-ahhh. 

Those little black eyes peered out at me excitedly. 

The Grool snickered softly. 

Why was it so pleased with itself? I wondered. Nothing horrible had 
happened. 

Or had it? 

I thought of Dad’s fall off the ladder. The tree branch. Mrs. Vanderhoff’s 
fingers. Killer running away. My spoiled birthday party. Our dry, rotted 

backyard. 

It was all too much. Too much! 

With a desperate cry, I yanked the evil thing out of its cage. Then I 
slammed it down hard on my desk. 

Breathing hard, my heart pounding, I grabbed one of my heaviest 
textbooks. And I slammed it down onto the Grool. 

“Die!” I shouted. “Please! Die!” 

I raised the book high. Pounded the Grool with it. 

Again. Again. 

I pounded hard enough to kill anything. 

Finally, I stopped. Gasping for breath, my arms aching, I stared down at 
what I’d done. 

Yuck. What a mess. 

Brown and pink shreds of Grool littered my desk. 

I had smashed it to pieces. 

“Yes!” I cried breathlessly. “Yes!” 

Finally! I had finally destroyed the evil creature! 

“Yes!” I cried again. 

But the cry stuck in my throat. 

As the pink and brown shreds started to move, I stared down in horror—and 
began to shake all over. 

17 

“This can’t be happening,” I whispered. 

But it was. 

The pieces—the shreds of Grool—they were sliding across the desktop. 
Slithering. Rolling together. 

Coming back together. 

Forming a brown ball. A sponge. 

It didn’t take long. A minute at the most. 

And now the Grool stared up at me again. And it vibrated so hard that my 
desk actually began to rock. 

Its cruel snicker cut through my shocked silence. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

“Shut up! Shut up!” I screamed. 

But it snickered even louder. 

Frantic, I grabbed a dirty sock from the clothes hamper. I used it to pick up 
the Grool. And then I hurled the thing back into the cage. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

With a cry, I threw myself face down on my bed and covered my ears. “Will 
I have this bad luck for the rest of my life? Is there anything I can do?” 

I was so frightened. So angry. So confused. 

I couldn’t even pretend to be my usual cheery self. 

When Aunt Louise took me and Daniel out to an ice-cream parlor, I 
couldn’t even finish a small butterscotch sundae. Usually, I’m good for a triple 
decker. 

But how could I ever be happy again? I was stuck with the Grool—forever. 

“Wake up, Kat! Wake up!” A frantic voice whispered in my ear. 

I slowly raised my head off the pillow. “Huh?” 

Daniel was waving his bookbag back and forth about an inch above my 
head. “Get that away!” I shouted, grabbing for it. 

“Hey, I’m only trying to help you,” he replied, snatching the pack away. 
“You’re going to be late for school. You’d better get moving!” 

He ran out of the room. 

I tore the covers off and raced to the closet. I slipped on my Save the Earth 
sweatshirt and purple flowered leggings. Then I remembered. 

“Daniel, you little dweeb!” I bellowed. “We have no school today! There’s 
a teachers’ conference!” 

He peeked back into my room. 

“Got you!” he gloated. 

I hurled a pillow at his head and hit him in the face. A nice shot. 

“You’re a bad sport,” he said, laughing. “Carlo’s coming over after 
breakfast. We can play Mega Monster Warriors. ” 

I slammed the door in his face. 

Daniel’s stupid tricks usually don’t bother me too much. 

And a day off from school always puts me in a great mood. 

But how could I enjoy myself? I just kept wondering what bad thing was 
going to happen next. 

What bad luck would the evil Grool bring today? 

After breakfast, I hung around on the back porch, reading a magazine. And 
trying to ignore Daniel’s and Carlo’s shrieks and wild laughter as they played 
computer games. 

I really missed Killer. He usually sits next to me when I read. 

After about an hour, I got bored. I decided to go up to my room and work 
on my social studies assignment. 

I had to write an essay for Mrs. Vanderhoff. My Family and What They 
Mean to Me. 

But I kept thinking about the Grool and how it was totally ruining my 
family. 

So far, all I had written was: “I’m Kat Merton and my family means an 
awful lot to me.” 

Not exactly grade-A material. And the paper was due tomorrow morning. 

I decided to take a break. I went to the kitchen and poured myself a glass of 
chocolate milk and grabbed a handful of oatmeal cookies. 

On my way back upstairs, I peeked into the den. Things seemed very quiet 
in there. 

I didn’t see Carlo. Only Daniel, playing Underwater Adventure Quest. 

“Where is Carlo?” I asked. 

“Um,” Daniel replied, his eyes glued to the submarines and torpedoes 

flashing across the computer screen. 

“Was my question too hard for you?” I asked sarcastically. “I’ll go slower 
now. Where... is... Carlo?” 

“Home,” he mumbled. 

“Did he get mad because you sank more enemy submarines than he did?” I 
joked. 

Daniel didn’t answer. 

I headed upstairs to my room. I set down my milk and cookies. I couldn’t 
help but glance at the gerbil cage. 

It wasn’t what I saw that made a prickle of fear run down my back. It was 
what I didn’t see. 

The cage stood empty. 

The Grool was gone. 

Escaped. 

18 

How had it escaped? The Grool had never even tried to get out of its cage 
before. 

In fact, the stupid sponge never seemed very interested in going anywhere. 

Why did it disappear now? And where did it go? 

And what kind of trouble was it planning to make? 

It couldn’t get very far, I told myself. It had no legs. 

I started to call to Daniel. But my throat choked with panic. 

I frantically started to search for the Grool. I slid on my stomach under the 
bed. Not there. 

I pulled everything out of my closet. I opened dresser drawers. No sign of 
it. 

I checked every inch of the room. I even called out to it: “Here Grool, here 
Grool.” 

No. No way. The creature was gone. 

The words from the Encyclopedia of the Weird suddenly flashed into my 
mind: “Anyone who gives the Grool away will DIE within one day.” 

“Daniel!” I shrieked. “Daniel!” I tore downstairs and into the TV room. I 
shook him so hard, he dropped his computer mouse. 

“The Grool is gone!” I cried. “It escaped!” 

Daniel turned away from the computer screen. “Excuse me? What do you 
mean—gone?” 

“It’s gone! The cage is empty!” I wailed. 

Daniel scrunched up his face, thinking hard. “I know where it is,” he said. 
“Carlo.” 

“Huh?” I cried. “How could you? How could you let Carlo take it?” 

“I didn’t let him!” Daniel snapped. “He must have grabbed it when he left. 
Carlo thinks it’s all a big joke. He said there’s no way a little sponge can do 
anything bad.” 

“What a jerk!” I sputtered. “Maybe we should let him keep the Grool. It 
would teach him a lesson—a real nasty lesson!” 

“Kat, we can’t!” Daniel exclaimed. “He’s my best friend. We have to get 
the Grool back from him—before something terrible happens!” 

Daniel and I pulled our jackets out of the hall closet. Then we ran out to the 
garage. We jumped on our bikes and pedaled furiously down Maple Lane. 

“Where do you think he went?” I shouted. 

“Let’s try the school playground,” Daniel suggested. “There’s always a 
bunch of kids there.” 

“Yeah, and Carlo’s a big show-off,” I exclaimed. “He probably went 
straight to the playground to show off the Grool.” 

“He is not a show-off,” Daniel protested. 

“Is too!” I argued. Pedaling furiously, I shot way ahead of Daniel. 

I made it to Chestnut Street a few minutes later. “Only two more blocks!” I 
called breathlessly. I slowed down so that Daniel could catch up. 

I turned the corner. 

“Oh, no!” I screamed. 

I squeezed on the brakes. Stopped short. 

Who was that lying in the middle of the street? 

Was it Carlo? 

Yes! 

Carlo. Sprawled on his stomach. His arms and legs stretched over the 
pavement. 

“We’re too late!” Daniel cried. “We’re too late!” 

19 

Our bikes crashed to the ground as Daniel and I leaped off them. We bent over 
Carlo, calling his name. 

“Ohhhh, wow.” Carlo let out a low moan. He clutched his right leg. 

“Carlo!” I yelled breathlessly. “What is it? What happened? Are you okay?” 

Carlo bent his leg carefully and winced. “My knee really hurts. I twisted it 
when I fell off my bike.” 

I looked up and saw his bike, on its side under a tree. 

“How did it happen?” Daniel asked weakly. My brother hates the sight of 
blood. 

“Some of the older kids wanted to race me,” Carlo groaned. “I didn’t really 
want to race them—but they dared me.” 

He sat up, still rubbing his knee. “Man, I was flying! Then, well, I hit some 
gravel—and skidded into a tree. Those kids all thought it was a riot. They just 
rode off and left me.” 

“Daniel, help me get him up,” I instructed. We put our arms around Carlo 
and guided him over to the curb. 

Then we just sat there, staring at Carlo’s mangled bicycle. The handlebars 
looked like a giant metal pretzel. 

“You know what?” Carlo finally said. “I didn’t even see that stupid tree 
until I was right on top of it.” 

Daniel poked me. I knew he was thinking what I was thinking. 

The Grool strikes again. 

We had to get the Grool back. 

“Carlo, where is the Grool?” I asked. 

“Right there in my bike basket.” He pointed. 

I reached over the tangled handlebars and felt around the basket with my 
hand. 

And felt again. 

Nothing in the basket. Completely empty. 

“Carlo, give me a break,” I complained. “There’s no Grool in there. Where 
is it?” My voice got high and shrill. I could feel the panic sweeping over me. 

“Huh? It’s got to be in there!” Carlo declared. “That’s where I stuck it. I 
was going to take it right home.” 

“Oh, sure, Carlo,” I snapped. “Like you weren’t going to bring it to the 
playground and show it off?” 

Carlo hung his head. “Well, maybe for a couple of minutes.” 

“Great! Just great!” I fumed. “Because of you, the Grool is missing.” 

Daniel leaned close to me, his face pale with fear. “We’ve got to find the 
Grool, Kat,” he whispered. “Remember what the encyclopedia said. If you don’t 
find it in a day, you’ll die!” 

“I remember,” I replied with a shudder. “But how are we ever going to find 
it now? Where can it be?” 

20 

“I don’t even know where to start looking.” I sighed. 

“Maybe it fell out of the basket when I hit the tree,” Carlo suggested. 
“Maybe it rolled somewhere around here.” 

Daniel tugged on my sleeve. “Come on,” he urged. “Let’s start looking.” 

Carlo stood up. “I’d better get home,” he said. He limped away. Luckily, his 
house was on the next block. 

Daniel and I hunted all over the block. In doorways, underneath cars, in 
flower beds—anywhere the Grool might have rolled. 

No luck. 

As we were about to give up, I spotted a sewer grating a few feet away 
from Carlo’s bike. Could the Grool have tumbled down there? 

Daniel saw the sewer, too. “Kat? I’ll bet it rolled down into the sewer! It’s 
down there. I know it is!” 

I dropped to the pavement. On my stomach. I peered into the darkness 
through the grating. 

“It’s way too dark to see anything,” I reported. “Somebody will have to go 
down there.” 

“Uh... somebody? Maybe... maybe I could go,” my brother offered in a 
shaky voice. 

Daniel acts really brave. But I know he’s afraid of a lot of things. Like dark 
sewers. 

He’d freak out down in the sewer. 

“No. I’ll do it,” I said. “The Grool knows me better.” 

We lifted off the heavy grate. I felt around with my sneaker. It slid against a 
narrow ladder built into the side of the sewer. 

“I guess this is the only way down,” I said softly. “Here I go.” 

Slowly, I lowered myself into the dark wet hole. The ladder rungs were wet 
and slippery. The walls were thick with sewer slime. 

“This place really stinks /” I called up. “I can’t believe I’m doing this.” 

Squishhhhh! 

As I reached the sewer floor, my sneaker landed on something wet and 
oozy. 

“Gross!” I screamed, pulling my foot back up. 

“Are you okay?” Daniel called from above. He sounded ten miles away. 

“Yeah,” I shouted back. “I think I stepped in a pile of slime. Wow, it’s really 
dark down here.” 

I carefully touched my feet down again, and gripped the ladder tightly with 
one hand—afraid I would never find my way back if I let go. 

It’s too dark, I realized. I’ll never find the Grool down here. 

Then I heard it. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

Breathing! 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

The Grool! But where? 

I held my breath and stood completely still. I concentrated really hard, 
trying to figure out exactly where in the inky blackness the breathing came from. 

Whoa-ahhh. Whoa-ahhhh. 

Somewhere to my right? 

I knew I had to walk over there and snatch the Grool. But I was afraid to let 
go of the ladder. Finally, I decided to count my steps there, find the Grool—then 
count the same number of steps back to the ladder. 

I swallowed hard and let go of the ladder. I stepped into the blackness and 
started counting. 

“One... two... three... four...” 

The breathing sounded a little closer. 

“Five... six...” 

I stopped. I listened hard. 

“Huh?” I cried to myself. “What’s that scratching sound?” Then I saw the 
eyes. Not the Grool’s small, round eyes. Big, bright eyes. Several pairs of them. 
All glowing at me in the dark. 

21 

The scratching grew louder. The eyes stared up at me. 

Yellow eyes. Glowing in the darkness. 

I heard a creature scrabble over the floor. Felt something warm and furry 
brush against my leg. 

Were they raccoons? Rats? 

I didn’t want to know. 

Another one brushed against me. They were all starting to scrape around on 
the sewer floor. They were growing restless. 

I forced myself to breathe. 

Turned. 

And started to run. 

Get me out of here! I thought. Get me out of here before they attack! 

My sneakers slid over the damp, slimy floor. 

“Please let me find my way out of here,” I prayed as I stumbled through the 
darkness. 

“Oww!” 

My knee slammed into something hard. 

I cried out and reached for something to lean on. 

And caught hold of the ladder. 

“Yes! Yes!” I cried happily. 

Ignoring my throbbing knee, I scrambled up the slimy rungs. Up, up, up 
toward the light. 

“Daniel—help me out!” I cried. 

Daniel leaned down and grabbed my hands. He helped pull me out of that 
awful hole. 

I fell on to the pavement and nearly sobbed with relief. 

Daniel dropped down next to me. “Did you get it?” he asked eagerly. “Did 
you find it?” 

I wiped my sludge-covered hands on my jeans. “No,” I told him. “No 
Grool.” 

“I should have gone down there,” he declared. “I definitely would have 

found it.” 

“You definitely would have been terrified!” I replied angrily. “There were 
animals down there. Rats, maybe. Dozens of them.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” he said, rolling his eyes. He sighed. “Now what do we do?” 
He kicked a pebble across the street. 

I sighed. “Don’t worry—we’ll find the Grool.” 

“But how?” he cried. “We can’t even find Killer. We’ll never find a little 
sponge.” 

I had never seen Daniel this upset. “Daniel, the police will find Killer. I 
know they will,” I said softly. 

“We must have missed the sponge,” he said, ignoring my words. “We have 
to check everywhere again.” 

We started to search again. In the street. In the grass. Behind hedges. Under 
trees. 

Carlo appeared as we were about to give up. He was walking fine. He 
examined his mangled bike. Then he helped us with our search. 

The afternoon sun was settling behind the trees. The air felt cooler. Evening 
was approaching. 

I sank down on the sidewalk, feeling totally hopeless. 

The warning in the encyclopedia kept running through my mind. Was it 
possible? Could it be true? If we didn’t find the Grool, would my life really be 
over by tomorrow? 

“There it is!” 

Daniel’s excited shout interrupted my frightening thoughts. 

“There it is!” my brother cried happily. “I see it! I see the Grool!” 

22 

Daniel took off, running full speed. 

“Way to go!” My heart pounding, I leaped up from the sidewalk. “You are 
the most awesome brother in the entire universe!” 

I was so excited and happy, I threw my arms around Carlo. “He saved my 
life!” I shouted. “He saved my life!” 

“Hey—give me a break!” Carlo cried, squirming away. 

I hurried after Daniel. I watched him bend down to pick up something. 
Something small and round and brown. 

But a gust of wind rolled the Grool away from him. 

“Hey—!” he cried out. He stumbled after it. The wind blew it out of his 
reach again. 

“Got you!” Daniel cried, pouncing on it. 

“Bring it here!” I yelled. 

“Oh, wow,” he murmured. His face fell. “Sorry about that. It’s not the 
Grool.” 

I grabbed the thing from his hands. “No, it’s not,” I whispered sadly. 

Not the Grool. Only a brown paper bag, all wadded up in a ball. 

Daniel hurled the paper bag to the ground and stomped on it. 

My stomach lurched. I really felt sick. 

Time is running out, I thought. And we have no idea where the Grool might 
be. 

A tear came to my eye, and I blinked it away quickly. I didn’t want Daniel 
and Carlo to see how scared I was. 

The panic rose in my chest. Would I really die if we didn’t find that evil 
creature? 

I suddenly pictured Mom and Dad sitting around crying and missing me. I 
pictured Aunt Louise wailing, “It’s all my fault. I didn’t believe her.” 

I imagined Daniel walking to school all alone. 

I gazed down at my brother, who slumped sadly on the curb with Carlo. 

And I had a truly terrifying idea. Maybe the Grool xvasn ’t lost. 

Maybe the creepy little creature had decided to hide. 

To hide from me. 

So it could perform its most evil trick of all. 

Hide for twenty-four hours so that I’d have the ultimate bad luck. 

Death! 

Carlo startled me by jumping to his feet. His dark eyes glowed excitedly. “I 
—I have an idea!” he cried. 

“An idea?” I demanded. “What kind of idea?” 

He smiled at me and grabbed my arm. “Come on. Hurry. I think I know 
where the Grool might be!” 

23 

“You know those guys who raced me?” Carlo asked, tugging me forward along 
the street. “The ones who hang out at the playground?” 

“Yeah. What about them?” I asked. 

“HI bet one of them picked up the Grool. I kind of remember—” 

Daniel didn’t even wait for Carlo to finish the sentence. “Let’s go!” he 
shouted. He sprang onto his bike and raced off toward the playground. 

I picked up my bike and started pedaling after my brother. Carlo ran behind 
us, calling, “Wait up! Wait up!” 

We pedaled to the playground and walked our bikes to the baseball field. 
That’s where the older kids usually hang out. 

“There they are,” Carlo said. He pointed to a group of boys taking turns 
batting and fielding balls. 

“Carlo,” Daniel whispered nervously. “Those guys are really big. They look 
like they’re in high school.” 

I spotted two older boys standing on the side of the baseball field. Their 
heads were bent, and they were staring at something in the taller boy’s hands. 

Something small and round and brown. 

The Grool! 

I ran up to them. “Hey, how’s it going?” I said in my friendliest voice. “I 
know this sounds dumb, but you’ve got my favorite sponge. Can I have it back?” 

The tall boy narrowed his eyes at me. He was kind of good-looking, with 
bright green eyes, and straight blond hair down over his shoulders. 

“Your favorite sponge?” he repeated. He grinned. “Sorry. You’re mistaken. 
This is my favorite sponge.” 

“No. Really,” I insisted. “It fell off that kid’s bike.” I pointed to Carlo. He 
and Daniel stood watching from a distance. “I really need it.” 

“Can you prove it’s yours?” the boy demanded. He rolled it around in his 
hand. “I don’t see your name on it.” 

I narrowed my eyes and gave him my meanest glare. “You’d better give it 
back to me,” I threatened. “Because it’s not really a sponge. It’s evil. It brings 
bad luck to anyone who has it.” 

“Oooh, I’m really scared,” he teased. “Maybe it’s bad luck for you— 

because you’re not getting it back!” 

He waved the Grool in front of my face, then called to his friend, “Hey, 
Dave. Catch!” 

He tossed the Grool to Dave. “Here,” he snickered. “Catch some bad luck!” 

“Hey, give me that!” I leaped for the Grool. But the sponge sailed high over 
my head. 

Back and forth they threw the Grool, laughing, keeping it high over my 
head, out of my reach. 

They were having fun. I wasn’t. 

After ten minutes of their stupid keep-away game, I gave up. 

Fine, I thought. Let them play with the Grool. 

They would soon find out that it didn’t play fair, I thought nastily. 

As I backed off, I shouted at the two older boys, “You’ll be sorry.” 

The blond guy shrugged his shoulders, laughed, and hurried off to take his 
turn at bat. He made a big show of tucking the sponge into his back pocket— 
where he knew I couldn’t get it. 

He stepped to the plate, crouched in a batter’s stance... 

Thwock! 

The very first pitch beaned the guy in the head. 

His eyes rolled around wildly. He wobbled, then sank to the ground. He 
collapsed in a heap and didn’t move. 

“Help!” the other boys were shouting. “Somebody—help!” 

The Grool had done its work. The bad luck had struck again! 

“Is he okay?” Daniel asked. “Is he—?” 

I didn’t answer. I saw the Grool roll out of the boy’s back pocket and onto 
the ground. 

I darted forward and dove for the evil sponge. 

But my hands closed around dry grass. 

Dave, the blond boy’s friend, snatched the Grool before I could reach it. 

“Go chase it!” he cried. He heaved the little creature high into the sky. 

24 

I made a desperate grab. But Dave was much taller than me. He caught the Grool 
easily. 

“Here. Take it,” he said. He tossed it at me. Then he hurried over to check 
on his friend. 

The blond boy was sitting up now, rubbing his head. “I’m okay,” he kept 
repeating. “Really. I’m okay. What hit me?” 

Daniel and I hurried to our bikes. Carlo came running after us. I tossed the 
Grool into my bike basket. 

The sponge creature pulsed so violently that the basket shook as I rode. Its 
body changed from red to black, red to black, changing in time to its horrible 
breathing. 

Ba-boom. Ba-boom. 

It snickered with joy. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

It acted so pleased with itself. So happy it had knocked the blond boy out. 

“You’re disgusting!” I shouted. “I’m taking you home and locking you in 
that cage!” 

I pedaled rapidly, standing up for an extra boost of speed. Home, I thought. 
Get me home. 

I zoomed down Oak Street, hunching over the bike with my head down. 
Faster, faster I pedaled. 

The wind whipped my hair into my eyes. 

I heard Daniel calling out from behind me. 

But I was riding too fast. The wind rushed past me. I couldn’t make out 
Daniel’s words. 

I heard him call out again. 

And then I heard the blare of a horn and the shrill squeal of brakes. 

I turned around in time to see an enormous black and silver truck skidding 
over the street, about to crush me like a bug. 

25 

I squeezed my brakes hard. 

The truck skidded up behind me, tires scraping the pavement, horn blaring. 

My bike lurched to a stop—and I tumbled off. 

Hit the pavement hard on my elbows and knees. 

The bike bounced on to the curb. Toppled over. 

I rolled on to the grass. 

As the truck swerved away. Squealed to a stop. 

Missed me by less than a foot. 

I climbed shakily to my feet. And stood there on the side of the road, too 
terrified to move. 

I turned to see the truck driver toss open the door of his cab. “What were 
you doing in the middle of the street?” he shouted at me. “I could have killed 
you! Do your parents know you’re out here like this?” 

Great, I thought bitterly. First this guy almost squashes me into a pancake— 
then he yells at me. 

“Sorry!” I called. 

What else could I say? 

I waited for the truck driver to back up and drive away. 

And all the time, I kept thinking: Bad luck forever. I’m going to have bad 
luck forever. 

I called to Daniel and Carlo that I was okay. Then I raced down Oak Street 
and turned on to Maple. 

Only two houses to go, I thought. I pushed down harder on the pedals. 

Blam! 

My front tire hit something. A broken bottle, I think. 

The bike toppled on to its side, and I fell with it. 

“Ow!” I cried. I’m spending a lot of time on the ground, I realized. 

I examined the tire. Completely shredded. 

Bad luck. Bad luck forever. 

Heh, heh, heh. I heard the Grool’s wicked laugh. 

The sound filled me with rage. I kicked the bicycle and stubbed my toe on 

the metal wheel rim. 

“Oww!” I yelped, grabbing my foot. 

Bad luck. Bad luck forever. 

With a furious cry, I grabbed the evil sponge and flung it to the ground. 
Then I jumped back on my bike and started to run over the Grool. 

Back and forth, back and forth. 

Squishing the evil creature into the ground. 

“Stop it! Stop!” Daniel screamed, riding up onto the grass. “You can’t kill 
the Grool. You’re only giving it what it wants.” 

I glared at my brother. I struggled to catch my breath. 

“Look at it!” Daniel shouted, pointing. “The Grool is getting even more 
excited. You’re helping it, not hurting it!” 

I lowered my eyes to the Grool. It pulsed faster than before. An evil light 
shone from its ugly little eyes. Its blood-red body gleamed in the afternoon sun. 

Heh, heh, heh. 

The cruel snicker cut through the air like fingernails on a blackboard. 

I grabbed my bike and wheeled it to our driveway. I let it fall on to the 
asphalt. 

Then I ran back to the Grool, gripped it tightly in one hand, and carried it 
into the house. 

Daniel followed close behind me. “Now what are you going to do?” he 
asked. 

“You’ll see,” I said. I made my way into the kitchen. 

My heart pounded. I could feel the blood racing at my temples. 

I jammed the Grool into the kitchen sink drain. Then I grabbed a wooden 
spatula and stabbed at the Grool, shoving it deep into the pipe. 

Daniel stood beside me, watching in silence. 

I turned the hot water on full force. I flicked a switch next to the sink and 
smiled at my brother. 

The garbage disposal gurgled on. 

The gurgle became a whine. 

The whine became a roar as the grinding teeth went to work. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. “Yes!” 

A few seconds later, the disposal had ground up the Grool. 

“That’s the end of that,” I told Daniel, sighing happily. I listened to the 
pipes run clean. “Down the drain! Yaaay!” 

Carlo came running into the kitchen. “What’s happening?” he cried 
breathlessly. “Where’s the Grool?” 

I turned to Carlo, grinning. “It’s gone. The Grool is gone!” I announced 
gleefully. 

Then I heard my brother gasp. 

I saw his mouth drop open as he stared down at the sink. “No, it’s not.” His 
voice was so low, I could barely hear him. “No, it’s not gone,” he whispered. 

26 

I lowered my eyes to the sink. 

And realized at once what had horrified Daniel. 

The hot water had started to back up. 

It splashed and spurted up from the drain. As if something were pushing it 
with great force. 

The hot water churned quickly—rolling up from the pipe below. 

“I don’t believe it!” Carlo cried. 

The Grool popped up, bobbing in the churning hot water. 

There it was. Still in one piece. It had turned bright purple, an angry purple. 
As I stared down at it in horror, it thumped wildly in the sink. 

“No!” I screamed. “It’s impossible! You can’t be back!! You can’t!” 

I grabbed the sopping wet Grool and squeezed it as hard as I could. 

A river of water ran out of the slimy thing and into the sink. 

The harder I gripped, the warmer the Grool felt. 

Warmer and warmer and... 

“Ow!” I dropped it as it became scorching hot. Quickly, I ran my hands 
under soothing cold water. 

The Grool perched on the side of the sink. It throbbed with joy, leered up at 
me with its creepy eyes, and let out an evil cackle. 

“Daniel, Carlo,” I moaned. “There has to be a way to kill this thing! There 
has to! Think, guys!” 

But the two of them stared in silence at the throbbing Grool. 

“Come on, Daniel—think!” I waved my hand in front of Daniel’s face. 
“Help me! I’m all out of ideas.” 

Suddenly, his eyes came back into focus. “I’ve got an idea,” he said quietly. 

He rushed out of the kitchen. “I’ll be right back,” he shouted, leaving Carlo 
and me alone with the nasty creature. 

“I hate you!” I shouted at it. But my anger seemed to make it pulse faster. 

A short while later, Daniel hurried back into the room. “Maybe this will 
help,” he announced. He set the Encyclopedia of the Weird on the kitchen table. 

“I borrowed it from the library,” he explained. “I thought we might need it.” 

He started to search for “Grool” in the index. 

“Oh, Daniel,” I sighed wearily. “We’ve already read everything in that book 
about Grools. It can’t help us.” 

“But maybe you missed something important,” Carlo insisted. 

Daniel flipped through the pages of the encyclopedia. “Here’s the part about 
killing the Grool,” he said. “Let’s see what it says.” 

He started reading: “The Grool cannot be killed—by force or by any violent 
means. ” 

“That’s it?” I demanded. “There’s nothing else?” 

Daniel slammed the book shut. “Nothing else,” he replied sadly. “Kat, it 
really can’t be killed. It’s the most evil creature in the world and it can’t be 
killed. Not by force. Not by violence. Not by anything.” 

“Not by force,” I repeated, thinking hard. “Not by violence.” 

I stared at the throbbing, purple creature. 

“Hmmmm.” I couldn’t help but smile. 

“Kat? What’s your problem?” Daniel demanded. “Are you totally losing it? 
Why are you smiling?” 

“Because the Grool can be killed,” I announced. “And I’ve just figured out 
how to do it.” 

“Huh?” Carlo cried. “You’ve really figured it out?” 

“What are you going to do?” Daniel demanded. “You can’t kill it. It always 
conies back to life.” 

I shook my head. “We’ll see,” I replied. 

I wanted to think my plan through before I explained it to them. 

Actually, it turned out to be pretty simple. 

27 

Much as I hated to, I picked up the throbbing Grool from the sink and held it 
gently in my hands. 

I patted the disgusting creature tenderly on its wrinkled head. Then I sang to 
it sweetly: 

“Lullaby and good night, little Grool, I love you. Please sleep tight, little 
Grool, la la la, la la la.” 

“Kat, I’m worried about you,” Daniel groaned. “Stop it, okay? You’re a 
little messed up. You need to lie down.” 

But I just kept singing as sweetly as I could. 

“What is she doing?” Daniel asked Carlo. “Do you get it?” 

Carlo shook his head. 

I didn’t pay any attention to them. 

I had to concentrate. 

I forced myself to stroke the Grool lovingly. I hugged the slimy thing and 
cuddled it in my arms—as I would a soft puppy. 

I cooed in its ear: 

“Little Grool, cute Grool, you are so nice, so sweet, so wonderful. I love 
you, Grool.” 

“Kat, please stop,” Daniel begged. “You’re upsetting me. I’m really worried 
about you, Kat.” 

“How can you pet the thing?” Carlo demanded. “It’s so gross!” 

“Sweet, Grool,” I whispered. “So sweet.” I cuddled it tenderly and stroked 
its wrinkled skin. 

If this doesn’t work, I told myself, nothing will. 

“I’m going to get Mom and Dad,” Daniel threatened. He started backing 
toward the kitchen door. 

“Ssshhh.” I raised a finger to my lips. Then I pointed down at the Grool 
cradled in my arms. “Look, guys.” 

The Grool’s violent throbbing had slowed to a gentle pulse. 

I sang some more, softly, gently, sweetly. 

And we all watched in amazement as the Grool’s color faded. From red to 



pink, and—finally—back to its ordinary dull brown color. 

“Wow!” Daniel whistled. 

“Keep watching,” I said, hugging the Grool closely. I sang another lullaby. 

The Grool let out a low sigh. I could see it shrinking, see it drying up in my 
arms. 

Its eyes closed. The dry, brown skin covered them up. 

“It—it’s getting weaker, Kat,” Daniel whispered excitedly. 

“Keep watching,” I told him. Then I cooed to the Grool, “There, there little 
Grool. What a sweet Grool.” I rocked it like a baby. 

The Grool’s breathing slowed—slowed—then stopped. 

The Grool slumped lifelessly in my hand. Not a sound. Not a throb. Not a 
twitch. 

“Now, check this out!” I announced to Daniel and Carlo. 

I raised the wrinkled sponge to my face—and planted a big fat kiss on it. 

28 

The two boys made disgusted faces. 

But I knew what I was doing. 

I lowered the Grool from my face and studied it carefully. 

“Aaaaaaaah. ” The sponge let out a long, slow sigh—and shrank into a tiny 

ball. 

I took a deep breath and blew. 

The tiny ball flew apart. Dry, brown puffs floated into the air. 

I watched the feathery puffs float to the floor. Then I wiped my hands off on 
a towel. “All done.” 

“It—it’s gone!” Carlo declared. 

“But how?” Daniel demanded. 

“Well, you helped give me the idea,” I told him. 

“I did?” 

“Yes,” I replied. “When you read that part of the encyclopedia that said the 
Grool can’t be killed by force or violence.” 

I smiled. “I kept going over that in my mind. And finally, it hit me.” 

“What hit you?” Carlo asked. 

“I knew the Grool couldn’t be killed by force or violence,” I explained. 
“But what about the opposite? I guessed that no one had ever tried being nice to 
it before.” 

Both boys stared at me in rapt silence. “That gave me the idea that being 
kind was the secret to destroying the Grool,” I continued. “And it worked. The 
Grool was so evil that it couldn’t stand being loved.” 

“Wow!” Carlo breathed. 

“Excellent!” Daniel exclaimed. “I’m glad I came up with it.” 

“Yeah, it’s great to have a genius in the family,” I said sarcastically. 

I reached into my back pocket and pulled out the twelve dollars my 
grandma had sent for my birthday. “What do you say we celebrate with ice¬ 
cream?” I suggested with a grin. 

“Excellent!” the two boys cried happily. 

“Maybe our luck will change now,” I told Daniel. “I bet we become the 

luckiest family on the block.” 

Then I heard it. That familiar, terrifying, breathing sound again. 

I swung around and faced the door. 

“What’s that?” I cried, my heart sinking. “Do you hear it, too?” 

Yes. We all heard it. 

My throat felt dry. Cold chills ran down my back. The breathing grew 
louder. Closer. “I didn’t kill it,” I moaned. “It’s back. It’s back!” 

29 

Daniel grabbed my hand. I could see the fear on his face. 

Carlo took a step back from the door. He backed up till he bumped against 
the kitchen counter. 

We huddled together in the kitchen, afraid to move. Afraid to go look. 

“We have no choice,” I choked out finally. “If it’s back, we have to let it 

in.” 

I took a deep breath. My legs didn’t want to carry me. They felt as if they 
were made of lead. 

But I forced myself to the back door. 

My entire body trembled as I reached for the doorknob. And yanked the 
door open. 

“Oh!” I let out a startled cry. 

Killer gazed up at me, breathing noisily, his stub of a tail wagging furiously. 

“Killer!” I yelled joyfully. “You’re back!” I bent down to hug him. But the 
dog ran past me, into the kitchen. 

Daniel let out a happy cry and pulled the wiggling dog into his arms. Killer 
covered Daniel’s face with wet licks. 

“Our luck has changed!” I declared. 

I looked outside. 

Wow! Healthy green grass covered the ground. The flowers lifted their 
drooping heads and burst back into dazzling color as I watched. 

All of the Grool’s evil seemed to be disappearing. 

I grabbed Killer and hugged him hard. “Killer, Killer,” I crooned. “We got 
rid of the Grool.” 

“Come on,” Daniel cried. “Ice-cream time!” 

I set Killer back on the floor and kissed him on the head. “We’ll be back 
soon, boy,” I said. 

“To the ice-cream parlor!” Daniel shouted as he dashed outside. “Race 
you!” he cried as he ran down the street. “The winner gets a triple-decker 
sundae!” 

Carlo and I took off after Daniel. I pumped my legs hard and pulled out in 
front. 

But at the last minute, Daniel pushed past me and tagged the door of the 
restaurant. “I won!” Daniel cried happily. 

We hurried into the ice-cream parlor. “Table for three,” Daniel said with a 
grin. The waitress seated us, handed out menus, and wiped the table with a... 
sponge! 

“Yuck! Get that thing out of here!” Daniel shrieked. 

The waitress didn’t understand. But we all laughed—for the first time in 
weeks. 

“Don’t mind my brother,” I said. “He’s got a thing about sponges.” He 
kicked me under the table, and I pinched him back hard. 

The waitress rolled her eyes. Then she took our orders. 

As we shoveled down our sundaes, I realized how hungry I was—and how 
happy I was. 

The Grool was gone—forever. 

We were so full that we practically rolled back home. 

“Killer. Here, boy!” I pushed the back door open and stepped into the 
kitchen. 

“Hey—Killer? Come here! Aren’t you glad to see us?” 

Killer didn’t turn around. 

He stood at the sink, growling and wagging his tail. He had his nose pressed 
up against the cabinet door, trying to push it open. 

“All right, Killer. We had our ice-cream. Now it’s time for your treat,” I 

said. 

I put down a fresh bowl of dog food—and added a few small pieces of last 
night’s turkey. 

“Come on Killer. Dinnertime,” I called. 

He growled at the cabinet underneath the sink. 

What’s going on? This dog never walks away from a meal, I thought. 
“Killer,” Daniel said, “what are you doing under there? Killer?” 

I bent down and petted the dog’s back. “Killer, there’s nothing in there. The 
Grool is gone.” 

But Killer kept growling. 

“Okay, okay.” I yanked the cabinet door open for the dog. “See?” 

Killer shoved his head inside. 

I grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and pulled him out. He carried 

something in his teeth. 

“What is that, boy?” Daniel asked. 

Killer dropped his find on the floor, then gazed up at me. 

I picked it up. Hmmm. Something hard. Lumpy. 

“What is it?” Daniel asked, stepping close. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. “No problem. It’s only a potato.” 
I started to hand it to Daniel. 

But something sharp pricked my finger. 

“Ow!” I cried, startled. 

I rolled the potato over in my hand. 

It felt warm. I could feel it breathing. 

“Daniel, I don’t like the looks of this,” I murmured. 

The potato had a mouth full of teeth. 



NIGHT OF THE 
LIVING DUMMY II 

1 

My name is Amy Kramer, and every Thursday night I feel a little dumb. That’s 
because Thursday is “Family Sharing Night” at my house. 

Sara and Jed think it’s dumb, too. But Mom and Dad won’t listen to our 
complaints. “It’s the most important night of the week,” Dad says. 

“It’s a family tradition,” Mom adds. “It’s something you kids will always 
remember.” 

Right, Mom. It’s something I’ll always remember as really painful and 
embarrassing. 

You’ve probably guessed that on Family Sharing Night, every member of 
the Kramer family—except for George, our cat—has to share something with the 
rest of the family. 

It isn’t so bad for my sister, Sara. Sara is fourteen—two years older than me 
—and she’s a genius painter. Really. One of her paintings was chosen for a show 
at the art museum downtown. Sara may go to a special arts high school next 
year. 

So Sara always shares some sketches she’s working on. Or a new painting. 

And Family Sharing Night isn’t so bad for Jed, either. My ten-year-old 
brother is such a total goof. He doesn’t care what he shares. One Thursday night, 
he burped really loud and explained that he was sharing his dinner. 

Jed laughed like a lunatic. 

But Mom and Dad didn’t think it was funny. They gave Jed a stern lecture 
about taking Family Sharing Night more seriously. 

The next Thursday night, my obnoxious brother shared a note that David 
Miller, a kid at my school, had written to me. A very personal note! Jed found 
the note in my room and decided to share it with everyone. 

Nice? 

I wanted to die. I really did. 

Jed just thinks he’s so cute and adorable, he can get away with anything. He 
thinks he’s really special. 

I think it’s because he’s the only redhead in the family. Sara and I both have 
straight black hair, dark green eyes, and very tan skin. With his pale skin, 
freckled face, and curly red hair, Jed looks like he comes from another family! 

And sometimes Sara and I both wish he did. 

Anyway, I’m the one with the most problems on Family Sharing Night. 
Because I’m not really talented the way Sara is. And I’m not a total goof like 
Jed. 

So I never really know what to share. 

I mean, I have a seashell collection, which I keep in a jar on my dresser. But 
it’s really kind of boring to hold up shells and talk about them. And we haven’t 
been to the ocean for nearly two years. So my shells are kind of old, and 
everyone has already seen them. 

I also have a really good collection of CDs. But no one else in my family is 
into Bob Marley and reggae music. If I start to share some music with them, they 
all hold their ears and complain till I shut it off. 

So I usually make up some kind of a story—an adventure story about a girl 
who survives danger after danger. Or a wild fairy tale about princesses who turn 
into tigers. 

After my last story, Dad had a big smile on his face. “Amy is going to be a 
famous writer,” he announced. “She’s so good at making up stories.” Dad gazed 
around the room, still smiling. “We have such a talented family!” he exclaimed. 

I knew he was just saying that to be a good parent. To “encourage” me. Sara 
is the real talent in our family. Everyone knows that. 

Tonight, Jed was the first to share. Mom and Dad sat on the living room 
couch. Dad had taken out a tissue and was squinting as he cleaned his glasses. 
Dad can’t stand to have the tiniest speck of dust on his glasses. He cleans them 
about twenty times a day. 

I settled in the big brown armchair against the wall. Sara sat cross-legged 
on the carpet beside my chair. 

“What are you going to share tonight?” Mom asked Jed. “And I hope it isn’t 
another horrible burp.” 

“That was so gross!” Sara moaned. 

“Your face is gross!” Jed shot back. He stuck out his tongue at Sara. 

“Jed, please—give us a break tonight,” Dad muttered, slipping his glasses 
back on, adjusting them on his nose. “Don’t cause trouble.” 

“She started it,” Jed insisted, pointing at Sara. 

“Just share something,” I told Jed, sighing. 

“I’m going to share your freckles,” Sara told him. “I’m going to pull them 
off one by one and feed them to George.” 

Sara and I laughed. George didn’t glance up. He was curled up, napping on 
the carpet beside the couch. 

“That’s not funny, girls,” Mom snapped. “Stop being mean to your brother.” 

“This is supposed to be a family night,” Dad wailed. “Why can’t we be a 
family?” 

“We are!” Jed insisted. 

Dad frowned and shook his head. He looks like an owl when he does that. 
“Jed, are you going to share something?” he demanded weakly. 

Jed nodded. “Yeah.” He stood in the center of the room and shoved his 
hands into his jeans pockets. He wears loose, baggy jeans about ten sizes too big. 
They always look as if they’re about to fall down. Jed thinks that’s cool. 

“I... uh... learned to whistle through my fingers,” he announced. 

“Wow,” Sara muttered sarcastically. 

Jed ignored her. He pulled his hands from his pockets. Then he stuck his 
two little fingers into the sides of his mouth—and let out a long, shrill whistle. 

He whistled through his fingers two more times. Then he took a deep bow. 
The whole family burst into loud applause. 

Jed, grinning, took another low bow. 

“Such a talented family!” Dad declared. This time, he meant it as a joke. 

Jed dropped down on the floor beside George, startling the poor cat awake. 

“Your turn next, Amy,” Mom said, turning to me. “Are you going to tell us 
another story?” 

“Her stories are too long!” Jed complained. 

George climbed unsteadily to his feet and moved a few feet away from Jed. 
Yawning, the cat dropped on to his stomach beside Mom’s feet. 

“I’m not going to tell a story tonight,” I announced. I picked up Dennis 
from behind my armchair. 

Sara and Jed both groaned. 

“Hey—give me a break!” I shouted. I settled back on the edge of the chair, 
fixing my dummy on my lap. “I thought I’d talk to Dennis tonight,” I told Mom 
and Dad. 

They had half-smiles on their faces. I didn’t care. I’d been practicing with 
Dennis all week. And I wanted to try out my new comedy routine with him. 

“Amy is a lousy ventriloquist,” Jed chimed in. “You can see her lips move.” 

“Be quiet, Jed. I think Dennis is funny,” Sara said. She scooted toward the 
couch so she could see better. 

I balanced Dennis on my left knee and wrapped my fingers around the 
string in his back that worked his mouth. Dennis is a very old ventriloquist’s 
dummy. The paint on his face is faded. One eye is almost completely white. His 
turtle-neck sweater is torn and tattered. 

But I have a lot of fun with him. When my five-year-old cousins come to 
visit, I like to entertain them with Dennis. They squeal and laugh. They think 
I’m a riot. 

I think I’m getting much better with Dennis. Despite Jed’s complaints. 

I took a deep breath, glanced at Mom and Dad, and began my act. 

“How are you tonight, Dennis?” I asked. 

“Not too well,” I made the dummy reply in a high, shrill voice. Dennis’ 
voice. 

“Really, Dennis? What’s wrong?” 

“I think I caught a bug. ” 

“You mean you have the flu?” I asked him. 

“No. Termites!” 

Mom and Dad laughed. Sara smiled. Jed groaned loudly. 

I turned back to Dennis. “Well, have you been to a doctor?” I asked him. 

“No. A carpenter! ” 

Mom and Dad smiled at that one, but didn’t laugh. Jed groaned again. Sara 
stuck her finger down her throat, pretending to puke. 

“No one liked that joke, Dennis,” I told him. 

“Who’s joking?” I made Dennis reply. 

“This is lame,” I heard Jed mutter to Sara. She nodded her head in 
agreement. 

“Let’s change the subject, Dennis,” I said, shifting the dummy to my other 
knee. “Do you have a girlfriend?” 

I leaned Dennis forward, trying to make him nod his head yes. But his head 
rolled right off his shoulders. 

The wooden head hit the floor with a thud and bounced over to George. The 
cat leaped up and scampered away. 

Sara and Jed collapsed in laughter, slapping each other high fives. 

I jumped angrily to my feet. “Dad!” I screamed. “You promised you’d buy 
me a new dummy!” 

Jed scurried over to the rug and picked up Dennis’ head. He pulled the 
string, making the dummy’s mouth move. “Amy reeks! Amy reeks!” Jed made 

the dummy repeat over and over. 

“Give me that!” I grabbed the head angrily from Jed’s hand. 

“Amy reeks! Amy reeks!” Jed continued chanting. 

“That’s enough!” Mom shouted, jumping up off the couch. 

Jed retreated back to the wall. 

“I’ve been checking the stores for a new dummy,” Dad told me, pulling off 
his glasses again and examining them closely. “But they’re all so expensive.” 

“Well, how am I ever going to get better at this?” I demanded. “Dennis’ 
head falls off every time I use him!” 

“Do your best,” Mom said. 

What did that mean? I always hated it when she said that. 

“Instead of Family Sharing Night, we should call this the Thursday Night 
Fights,” Sara declared. 

Jed raised his fists. “Want to fight?” he asked Sara. 

“It’s your turn, Sara,” Mom replied, narrowing her eyes at Jed. “What are 
you sharing tonight?” 

“I have a new painting,” Sara announced. “It’s a watercolor.” 

“Of what?” Dad asked, settling his glasses back on his face. 

“Remember that cabin we had in Maine a few summers ago?” Sara replied, 
tossing back her straight black hair. “The one overlooking the dark rock cliff? I 
found a snapshot of it, and I tried to paint it.” 

I suddenly felt really angry and upset. I admit it. I was jealous of Sara. 

Here she was, about to share another beautiful watercolor. And here I was, 
rolling a stupid wooden dummy head in my lap. 

It just wasn’t fair! 

“You’ll have to come to my room to see it,” Sara was saying. “It’s still 
wet.” 

We all stood up and trooped to Sara’s room. 

My family lives in a long, one-story ranch-style house. My room and Jed’s 
room are at the end of one hallway. The living room, dining room, and kitchen 
are in the middle. Sara’s room and my parents’ room are down the other hall, 
way at the other end of the house. 

I led the way down the hall. Behind me, Sara was going on and on about all 
the trouble she’d had with the painting and how she’d solved the problems. 

“I remember that cabin so well,” Dad said. 

“I can’t wait to see the painting,” Mom added. 

I stepped into Sara’s room and clicked on the light. 

Then I turned to the easel by the window that held the painting—and let out 
a scream of horror. 

2 

My mouth dropped open in shock. I stared at the painting, unable to speak. 

When Sara saw it, she let out a shriek. “I—I don’t believe it!” she screamed. 
“Who did that?” 

Someone had painted a yellow-and-black smile face in the corner of her 
painting. Right in the middle of the black rock cliff. Mom and Dad stepped up to 
the easel, fretful expressions on their faces. They studied the smile face, then 
turned to Jed. 

Jed burst out laughing. “Do you like it?” he asked innocently. 

“Jed—how could you!” Sara exploded. “I’ll kill you! I really will!” 

“The painting was too dark,” Jed explained with a shrug. “I wanted to 
brighten it up.” 

“But... but... but...” my sister sputtered. She balled her hands into fists, 
shook them at Jed, and uttered a loud cry of rage. 

“Jed—what were you doing in Sara’s room?” Mom demanded. 

Sara doesn’t like for anyone to go into her precious room without a written 
invitation! 

“Young man, you know you’re never allowed to touch your sister’s 
paintings,” Dad scolded. 

“I can paint, too,” Jed replied. “I’m a good painter.” 

“Then do your own paintings!” Sara snapped. “Don’t sneak in here and 
mess up my work!” 

“I didn’t sneak,” Jed insisted. He sneered at Sara. “I was just trying to 
help.” 

“You were not!” Sara screamed, angrily tossing her black hair over her 
shoulder. “You ruined my painting!” 

“Your painting reeks!” Jed shot back. 

“Enough!” Mom shouted. She grabbed Jed by both shoulders. “Jed—look 
at me! You don’t seem to see how serious this is. This is the worst thing you’ve 
ever done!” 

Jed’s smile finally faded. 

I took another glance at the ugly smile face he had slopped on to Sara’s 
watercolor. Since he’s the baby in the family, Jed thinks he can get away with 

anything. 

But I knew that this time he had gone too far. 

After all, Sara is the star of the family. She’s the talented one. The one with 
the painting that hung in a museum. Messing with Sara’s precious painting was 
bound to get Jed in major trouble. 

Sara is so stuck-up about her paintings. A few times, I even thought about 
painting something funny on one of them. But of course I only thought it. I 
would never do anything that horrible. 

“You don’t have to be jealous of your sister’s work,” Dad was telling Jed. 
“We’re all talented in this family.” 

“Oh, sure,” Jed muttered. He has this weird habit. Whenever he’s in trouble, 
he doesn’t say he’s sorry. Instead, he gets really angry. “What’s your talent, 
Dad?” Jed demanded, sneering. 

Dad’s jaw tightened. He narrowed his eyes at Jed. “We’re not discussing 
me,” he said in a low voice. “But I’ll tell you. My talent is my Chinese cooking. 
You see, there are all kinds of talents, Jed.” 

Dad considers himself a Master of the Wok. Once or twice a week, he 
chops a ton of vegetables into little pieces and fries them up in the electric wok 
Mom got him for Christmas. 

We pretend it tastes great. 

No point in hurting Dad’s feelings. 

“Is Jed going to be punished or not?” Sara demanded in a shrill voice. 

She had opened her box of watercolor paints and was rolling a brush in the 
black. Then she began painting over the smile face with quick, furious strokes. 

“Yes, Jed is going to be punished,” Mom replied, glaring at him. Jed 
lowered his eyes to the floor. “First he’s going to apologize to Sara.” 

We all waited. 

It took Jed a while. But he finally managed to mutter, “Sorry, Sara.” 

He started to leave the room, but Mom grabbed his shoulders again and 
pulled him back. “Not so fast, Jed,” she told him. “Your punishment is you can’t 
go to the movies with Josh and Matt on Saturday. And... no video games for a 
week.” 

“Mom—give me a break!” Jed whined. 

“What you did was really bad,” Mom said sternly. “Maybe this punishment 
will make you realize how horrible it was.” 

“But I have to go to the movies!” Jed protested. 

“You can’t,” Mom replied softly. “And no arguing, or I’ll add on to your 
punishment. Now go to your room.” 

“I don’t think it’s enough punishment,” Sara said, dabbing away at her 
painting. 

“Keep out of it, Sara,” Mom snapped. 

“Yeah. Keep out of it,” Jed muttered. He stomped out of the room and down 
the long hall to his room. 

Dad sighed. He swept a hand back over his bald head. “Family Sharing 
Night is over,” he said sadly. 

* * * 

I stayed in Sara’s room and watched her repair the painting for a while. She kept 
tsk-tsking and shaking her head. 

“I have to make the rocks much darker, or the paint won’t cover the stupid 
smile face,” she explained unhappily. “But if I make the rocks darker, I have to 
change the sky. The whole balance is ruined.” 

“I think it looks pretty good,” I told her, trying to cheer her up. 

“How could Jed do that?” Sara demanded, dipping her brush in the water 
jar. “How could he sneak in here and totally destroy a work of art?” 

I was feeling sorry for Sara. But that remark made me lose all sympathy. I 
mean, why couldn’t she just call it a watercolor painting? Why did she have to 
call it “a work of art”? 

Sometimes she is so stuck-up and so in love with herself, it makes me sick. 

I turned and left the room. She didn’t even notice. 

I went down the hall to my room and called my friend Margo. We talked for 
a while about stuff. And we made plans to get together the next day. 

As I talked on the phone, I could hear Jed in his room next door. He was 
pacing back and forth, tossing things around, making a lot of noise. 

Sometimes I spell the word “Jed” B-R-A-T. 

Margo’s dad made her get off the phone. He’s real strict. He never lets her 
talk for more than ten or fifteen minutes. 

I wandered into the kitchen and made myself a bowl of Frosted Flakes. My 
favorite late snack. When I was a little kid, I used to have a bowl of cereal every 
night before bed. And I just never got out of the habit. 

I rinsed out the bowl. Then I said good night to Mom and Dad and went to 

bed. 

It was a warm spring night. A soft breeze fluttered the curtains over the 
window. Pale light from a big half-moon filled the window and spilled on to the 
floor. 

I fell into a deep sleep as soon as my head hit the pillow. 

A short while later, something woke me up. I’m not sure what. 

Still half asleep, I blinked my eyes open and raised myself on my pillow. I 
struggled to see clearly. 

The curtains flapped over the window. 

I felt as if I were still asleep, dreaming. 

But what I saw in the window snapped me awake. 

The curtains billowed, then lifted away. 

And in the silvery light, I saw a face. 

An ugly, grinning face in my bedroom window. Staring through the 
darkness at me. 

3 

The curtains flapped again. 

The face didn’t move. 

“Who—?” I choked out, squeezing the sheet up to my chin. 

The eyes stared in at me. Cold, unblinking eyes. 

Dummy eyes. 

Dennis. 

Dennis stared blankly at me, his white eye catching the glow of the 
moonlight. 

I let out an angry roar, tossed off the sheet, and bolted out of bed. To the 
window. 

I pushed away the billowing curtains and grabbed Dennis’ head off the 
window ledge. “Who put you there?” I demanded, holding the head between my 
hands. “Who did it, Dennis?” 

I heard soft laughter behind me. From the hallway. 

I flew across the room, the head still in my hands. I pulled open my 
bedroom door. 

Jed held his hand over his mouth, muffling his laughter. “Gotcha!” he 
whispered gleefully. 

“Jed—you creep!” I cried. I let the dummy head drop to the floor. Then I 
grabbed Jed’s pajama pants with both hands and jerked them up as high as I 
could—nearly to his chin! 

He let out a gasp of pain and stumbled back against the wall. 

“Why did you do that?” I demanded in an angry whisper. “Why did you put 
the dummy head on my window ledge?” 

Jed tugged his pajama pants back into place. “To pay you back,” he 
muttered. 

“Huh? Me?” I shrieked. “I didn’t do anything to you. What did I do?” 

“You didn’t stick up for me,” he grumbled, scratching his red curly hair. His 
eyes narrowed at me. “You didn’t say anything to help me out. You know. About 
Sara’s painting.” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “How could I help you out? What could I say?” 

“You could have said it was no big deal,” Jed replied. 

“But it was a big deal!” I told him. “You know how seriously Sara takes her 
paintings.” I shook my head. “I’m sorry, Jed. But you deserve to be punished. 
You really do.” 

He stared at me across the dim hallway, thinking about what I’d said. Then 
an evil smile spread slowly over his freckled face. “Hope I didn’t scare you too 
much, Amy.” He snickered. Then he picked Dennis’ head up off the carpet and 
tossed it at me. 

I caught it in one hand. “Go to sleep, Jed,” I told him. “And don’t mess with 
Dennis again!” 

I stepped back into my room and closed the door. I tossed Dennis’ head 
onto a pile of clothes on my desk chair. Then I climbed wearily back into bed. 

So much trouble around here tonight, I thought, shutting my eyes, trying to 
relax. 

So much trouble... 

Two days later, Dad brought home a present for me. A new ventriloquist’s 
dummy. That’s when the real trouble began. 

4 

Margo came over the next afternoon. Margo is real tiny, sort of like a mini¬ 
person. She has a tiny face, and is very pretty, with bright blue eyes, and delicate 
features. 

Her blond hair is very light and very fine. She let it grow this year. It’s just 
about down to her tiny little waist. 

She’s nearly a foot shorter than me, even though we both turned twelve in 
February. She’s very smart and very popular. But the boys like to make fun of 
her soft, whispery voice. 

Today she was wearing a bright blue tank top tucked into white tennis 
shorts. “I bought the new Beatles collection,” she told me as she stepped into the 
house. She held up a CD box. 

Margo loves the Beatles. She doesn’t listen to any of the new groups. In her 
room, she has an entire shelf of Beatles CDs and tapes. And she has Beatles 
posters on her walls. 

We went to my room and put on the CD. Margo settled on the bed. I 
sprawled on the carpet across from her. 

“My dad almost didn’t let me come over,” Margo told me, pushing her long 
hair behind her shoulder. “He thought he might need me to work at the 
restaurant.” 

Margo’s dad owns a huge restaurant downtown called The Party House. It’s 
not really a restaurant. It’s a big, old house filled with enormous rooms where 
people can hold parties. 

A lot of kids have birthday parties there. And there are bar mitzvahs and 
confirmations and wedding receptions there, too. Sometimes there are six parties 
going on at once! 

One Beatles song ended. The next song, “Love Me Do”, started up. 

“I love this song!” Margo exclaimed. She sang along with it for a while. I 
tried singing with her, but I’m totally tone deaf. As my dad says, I can’t carry a 
tune in a wheelbarrow. 

“Well, I’m glad you didn’t have to work today,” I told Margo. 

“Me, too,” Margo sighed. “Dad always gives me the worst jobs. You know. 
Clearing tables. Or putting away dishes. Or wrapping up garbage bags. Yuck.” 

She started singing again—and then stopped. She sat up on the bed. “Amy, 
I almost forgot. Dad may have a job for you.” 

“Excuse me?” I replied. “Wrapping up garbage bags? I don’t think so, 
Margo.” 

“No. No. Listen,” Margo pleaded excitedly in her mouselike voice. “It’s a 
good job. Dad has a bunch of birthday parties coming up. For teeny tiny kids. 
You know. Two-year-olds. Maybe three- or four-year-olds. And he thought you 
could entertain them.” 

“Huh?” I stared at my friend. I still didn’t understand. “You mean, sing or 
something?” 

“No. With Dennis,” Margo explained. She twisted a lock of hair around in 
her fingers and bobbed her head in time to the music as she talked. “Dad saw 
you with Dennis at the sixth-grade talent night. He was really impressed.” 

“He was? I was terrible that night!” I replied. 

“Well, Dad didn’t think so. He wonders if you’d like to come to the 
birthday parties and put on a show with Dennis. The little kids will love it. Dad 
said he’d even pay you.” 

“Wow! That’s cool!” I replied. What an exciting idea. 

Then I remembered something. 

I jumped to my feet, crossed the room to the chair, and held up Dennis’ 
head. “One small problem,” I groaned. 

Margo let go of her hair and made a sick face. “His head? Why did you take 
off his head?” 

“I didn’t,” I replied. “It fell off. Every time I use Dennis, his head falls off.” 

“Oh.” Margo uttered a disappointed sigh. “The head looks weird all by 
itself. I don’t think little kids would like it if it fell off.” 

“I don’t think so,” I agreed. 

“It might frighten them or something,” Margo said. “You know. Give them 
nightmares. Make them think their own head might fall off.” 

“Dennis is totally wrecked. Dad promised me a new dummy. But he hasn’t 
been able to find one.” 

“Too bad,” Margo replied. “You’d have fun performing for the kids.” 

We listened to more Beatles music. Then Margo had to go home. 

A few minutes after she left, I heard the front door slam. 

“Hey, Amy! Amy—are you home?” I heard Dad call from the living room. 

“Coming!” I called. I made my way to the front of the house. Dad stood in 

the entryway, a long carton under his arm, a smile on his face. 

He handed the carton to me. “Happy Un-birthday!” he exclaimed. 

“Dad! Is it—?” I cried. I tore open the carton. “Yes!” Anew dummy! 

I lifted him carefully out of the carton. 

The dummy had wavy brown hair painted on top of his wooden head. I 
studied his face. It was kind of strange. Kind of intense. His eyes were bright 
blue—not faded like Dennis’. He had bright red painted lips, curved up into an 
eerie smile. His lower lip had a chip on one side so that it didn’t quite match the 
other lip. 

As I pulled him from the box, the dummy appeared to stare into my eyes. 
The eyes sparkled. The grin grew wider. 

I felt a sudden chill. Why does this dummy seem to be laughing at me? I 
wondered. 

I held him up, examining him carefully. He wore a gray, double-breasted 
suit over a white shirt collar. The collar was stapled to his neck. He didn’t have a 
shirt. Instead, his wooden chest had been painted white. 

Big, black leather shoes were attached to the ends of his thin, dangling legs. 

“Dad—he’s great!” I exclaimed. 

“I found him in a pawnshop,” Dad said, picking up the dummy’s hand and 
pretending to shake hands with it. “How do you do, Slappy.” 

“Slappy? Is that his name?” 

“That’s what the man in the store said,” Dad replied. He lifted Slappy’s 
arms, examining his suit. “I don’t know why he sold Slappy so cheaply. He 
practically gave the dummy away!” 

I turned the dummy around and looked for the string in his back that made 
the mouth open and close. “He’s excellent, Dad,” I said. I kissed my dad on the 
cheek. “Thanks.” 

“Do you really like him?” Dad asked. 

Slappy grinned up at me. His blue eyes stared into mine. He seemed to be 
waiting for an answer, too. 

“Yes. He’s awesome!” I said. “I like his serious eyes. They look so real.” 

“The eyes move,” Dad said. “They’re not painted on like Dennis’. They 
don’t blink, but they move from side to side.” 

I reached my hand inside the dummy’s back. “How do you make his eyes 
move?” I asked. 

“The man showed me,” Dad said. “It’s not hard. First you grab the string 

that works the mouth.” 

“I’ve got that,” I told him. 

“Then you move your hand up into the dummy’s head. There is a little lever 
up there. Do you feel it? Push on it. The eyes will move in the direction you 
push.” 

“Okay. I’ll try,” I said. 

Slowly I moved my hand up inside the dummy’s back. Through the neck. 
And into his head. 

I stopped and let out a startled cry as my hand hit something soft. 

Something soft and warm. 

His brain! 

5 

“Ohhh.” I uttered a sick moan and jerked my hand out as fast as I could. 

I could still feel the soft, warm mush on my fingers. 

“Amy—what’s wrong?” Dad cried. 

“His—his brains—!” I choked out, feeling my stomach lurch. 

“Huh? What are you talking about?” Dad grabbed the dummy from my 
hands. He turned it over and reached into the back. 

I covered my mouth with both hands and watched him reach into the head. 
His eyes widened in surprise. 

He struggled with something. Then pulled his hand out. 

“Yuck!” I groaned. “What’s that!” 

Dad stared down at the mushy, green and purple and brown object in his 
hand. “Looks like someone left a sandwich in there!” he exclaimed. 

Dad’s whole face twisted in disgust. “It’s all moldy and rotten. Must have 
been in there for months!” 

“Yuck!” I repeated, holding my nose. “It really stinks! Why would someone 
leave a sandwich in a dummy’s head?” 

“Beats me,” Dad replied, shaking his head. “And it looks like there are 
wormholes in it!” 

“Yuuuuuck!” we both cried in unison. 

Dad handed Slappy back to me. Then he hurried into the kitchen to get rid 
of the rotted, moldy sandwich. 

I heard him run the garbage disposal. Then I heard water running as he 
washed his hands. A few seconds later, Dad returned to the living room, drying 
his hands on a dish towel. 

“Maybe we’d better examine Slappy closely,” he suggested. “We don’t 
want any more surprises —do we?” 

I carried Slappy into the kitchen, and we stretched him out on the counter. 
Dad examined the dummy’s shoes carefully. They were attached to the legs and 
didn’t come off. 

I put my finger on the dummy’s chin and moved the mouth up and down. 
Then I checked out his wooden hands. 

I unbuttoned the gray suit jacket and studied the dummy’s painted shirt. 

Patches of the white paint had chipped and cracked. But it was okay. 

“Everything looks fine, Dad,” I reported. 

He nodded. Then he smelled his fingers. I guess he hadn’t washed away all 
of the stink from the rotted sandwich. 

“We’d better spray the inside of his head with disinfectant or perfume or 
something,” Dad said. 

Then, as I was buttoning up the jacket, something caught my eye. 

Something yellow. A slip of paper poking up from the jacket pocket. 

It’s probably a sales receipt, I thought. 

But when I pulled out the small square of yellow paper, I found strange 
writing on it. Weird words in a language I’d never seen before. 

I squinted hard at the paper and slowly read the words out loud: 

“Karru marri odonna loma molonu karrano.” 

I wonder what that means? I thought. 

And then I glanced down at Slappy’s face. 

And saw his red lips twitch. 

And saw one eye slowly close in a wink. 

6 

“D-d-dad!” I stuttered. “He—moved!” 

“Huh?” Dad had gone back to the sink to wash his hands for a third time. 
“What’s wrong with the dummy?” 

“He moved!” I cried. “He winked at me!” 

Dad came over to the counter, wiping his hands. “I told you, Amy—he 
can’t blink. The eyes only move from side to side.” 

“No!” I insisted. “He winked. His lips twitched, and he winked.” 

Dad frowned and picked up the dummy head in both hands. He raised it to 
examine it. “Well... maybe the eyelids are loose,” he said. “I’ll see if I can 
tighten them up. Maybe if I take a screwdriver I can—” 

Dad didn’t finish his sentence. 

Because the dummy swung his wooden hand up and hit Dad on the side of 
the head. 

“Ow!” Dad cried, dropping the dummy back onto the counter. Dad grabbed 
his cheek. “Hey—stop it, Amy! That hurt!” 

“Me?” I shrieked. “I didn’t do it!” 

Dad glared at me, rubbing his cheek. It had turned bright red. 

“The dummy did it!” I insisted. “I didn’t touch him, Dad! I didn’t move his 
hand!” 

“Not funny,” Dad muttered. “You know I don’t like practical jokes.” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but no words came out. I decided I’d better 
just shut up. 

Of course Dad wouldn’t believe that the dummy had slapped him. 

I didn’t believe it myself. 

Dad must have pulled too hard when he was examining the head. Dad 
jerked the hand up without realizing it. 

That’s how I explained it to myself. 

What other explanation could there be? 

I apologized to Dad. Then we washed Slappy’s face with a damp sponge. We 
cleaned him up and sprayed disinfectant inside his head. 

He was starting to look pretty good. 

I thanked Dad again and hurried to my room. I set Slappy down on the chair 
beside Dennis. Then I phoned Margo. 

“I got a new dummy,” I told her excitedly. “I can perform for the kids’ 
birthday parties. At The Party House.” 

“That’s great, Amy!” Margo exclaimed. “Now all you need is an act.” 

She was right. 

I needed jokes. A lot of jokes. If I was going to perform with Slappy in 
front of dozens of kids, I needed a long comedy act. 

The next day after school, I hurried to the library. I took out every joke 
book I could find. I carried them home and studied them. I wrote down all the 
jokes I thought I could use with Slappy. 

After dinner, I should have been doing my homework. Instead, I practiced 
with Slappy. I sat in front of the mirror and watched myself with him. 

I tried hard to speak clearly but not move my lips. And I tried hard to move 
Slappy’s mouth so that it really looked as if he were talking. 

Working his mouth and moving his eyes at the same time was pretty hard. 
But after a while, it became easier. 

I tried some knock-knock jokes with Slappy. I thought little kids might like 
those. 

“Knock knock,” I made Slappy say. 

“Who’s there?” I asked him, staring into his eyes as if I were really talking 
to him. 

“Jane,” Slappy said. 

“Jane who?” 

“Jane jer clothes. You stink!” 

I practiced each joke over and over, watching myself in the mirror. I wanted 
to be a really good ventriloquist. I wanted to be excellent. I wanted to be as good 
with Slappy as Sara is with her paints. 

I practiced some more knock-knock jokes and some jokes about animals. 
Jokes I thought little kids would find funny. 

I’ll try them out on Family Sharing Night, I decided. It will make Dad 
happy to see how hard I’m working with Slappy. At least I know Slappy’s head 
won’t fall off. 

I glanced across the room at Dennis. He looked so sad and forlorn, 
crumpled in the chair, his head tilted nearly sideways on his shoulders. 

Then I propped Slappy up and turned back to the mirror. 

“Knock knock.” 

“Who’s there?” 

“Wayne.” 

“Wayne who?” 

“Wayne wayne, go away! Come again another day!” 

On Thursday night, I was actually eager to finish dinner so that Sharing Night 
could begin. I couldn’t wait to show my family my new act with Slappy. 

We had spaghetti for dinner. I like spaghetti, but Jed always ruins it. 

He’s so gross. He sat across the table from me, and he kept opening his 
mouth wide, showing me a mouth full of chewed-up spaghetti. 

Then he’d laugh because he cracks himself up. And spaghetti sauce would 
run down his chin. 

By the time dinner was over, Jed had spaghetti sauce smeared all over his 
face and all over the tablecloth around his plate. 

No one seemed to notice. Mom and Dad were too busy listening to Sara 
brag about her grades. For a change. 

Report cards were being handed out tomorrow. Sara was sure she was 
getting all A’s. 

I was sure, too. Sure I wasn’t getting all A’s! 

I’d be lucky to get a C in math. I really messed up the last two tests. And I 
probably wasn’t going to do real well in science, either. My weather balloon 
project fell apart, so I hadn’t handed it in yet. 

I finished my spaghetti and mopped up some of the leftover sauce on my 
plate with a chunk of bread. 

When I glanced up, Jed had stuck two carrot sticks in his nose. “Amy, 
check this out. I’m a walrus!” he cried, grinning. He let out a few urk urks and 
clapped his hands together like a walrus. 

“Jed—stop that!” Mom cried sharply. She made a disgusted face. “Get 
those out of your nose.” 

“Make him eat them, Mom!” I cried. 

Jed stuck his tongue out at me. It was orange from the spaghetti sauce. 

“Look at you. You’re a mess!” Mom shouted at Jed. “Go get cleaned up. 
Now! Hurry! Wash all that sauce off your face.” 

Jed groaned. But he climbed to his feet and headed to the bathroom. 

“Did he eat anything? Or did he just rub it all over himself?” Dad asked, 
rolling his eyes. Dad had some sauce on his chin, too, but I didn’t say anything. 

“You interrupted me,” Sara said impatiently. “I was telling you about the 
State Art Contest. Remember? I sent my flower painting in for that?” 

“Oh, yes,” Mom replied. “Have you heard from the judges?” 

I didn’t listen to Sara’s reply. My mind wandered. I started thinking again 
about how bad my report card was going to be. I had to force myself to stop 
thinking about it. 

“Uh... I’ll clear the dishes,” I announced. 

I started to stand up. 

But I stopped with a startled cry when I saw the short figure creep into the 
living room. 

A dummy! 

My dummy. 

He was crawling across the room! 

7 

I let out another cry. I pointed to the living room with a trembling finger. “M- 
mom! Dad!” I stammered. 

Sara was still talking about the art competition. But she turned to see what 
everyone was gaping at. 

The dummy’s head popped out from behind the armchair. 

“It’s Dennis!” I cried. 

I heard muffled laughter. Jed’s muffled laughter. 

The dummy reached up both hands and pulled off his own head. And Jed’s 
head popped up through the green turtleneck. He still had spaghetti sauce 
smeared on his cheeks. He was laughing hard. 

Everyone else started to laugh, too. Everyone but me. 

Jed had really frightened me. 

He had pulled the neck of his sweater way up over his head. Then he had 
tucked Dennis’ wooden head inside the turtleneck. 

Jed was so short and thin. It really looked as if Dennis were creeping into 
the room. 

“Stop laughing!” I shouted at my family. “It isn’t funny!” 

“I think it’s very funny!” Mom cried. “What a crazy thing to think of!” 

“Very clever,” Dad added. 

“It’s not clever,” I insisted. I glared furiously at my brother. “I always knew 
you were a dummy!” I screamed at him. 

“Amy, you really were scared,” Sara accused. “You nearly dropped your 
teeth!” 

“Not true!” I sputtered. “I knew it was Dennis—I mean—Jed!” 

Now everyone started laughing at me! I could feel my face getting hot, and 
I knew I was blushing. 

That made them all laugh even harder. 

Nice family, huh? 

I climbed to my feet, walked around the table, and took Dennis’ head away 
from Jed. “Don’t go in my room,” I told him through clenched teeth. “And don’t 
mess with my stuff.” I stomped away to put the dummy head back in my room. 

“It was just a joke, Amy,” I heard Sara call after me. 

“Yeah. It was just a joke,” Jed repeated nastily. 

“Ha-ha!” I shouted back at them. “What a riot!” 

My anger had faded away by the time we started Family Sharing Night. We 
settled in the living room, taking our usual places. 

Mom volunteered to go first. She told a funny story about something that 
had happened at work. 

Mom works in a fancy women’s clothing store downtown. She told us 
about a really big woman who came into the store and insisted on trying on only 
tiny sizes. 

The woman ripped every piece of clothing she tried on—and then bought 
them all! “They’re not for me,” the woman explained. “They’re for my sister!” 

We all laughed. But I was surprised Mom told that story. Because Mom is 
pretty chubby. And she’s very sensitive about it. 

About as sensitive as Dad is about being bald. 

Dad was the next to share. He brought out his guitar, and we all groaned. 
Dad thinks he’s a great singer. But he’s nearly as tone deaf as I am. 

He loves singing all these old folk songs from the sixties. There’s supposed 
to be some kind of message in them. But Sara, Jed, and I have no idea what he’s 
singing about. 

Dad strummed away and sang something about not working on Maggie’s 
farm anymore. At least, I think that’s what he was saying. 

We all clapped and cheered. But Dad knew we didn’t really mean it. 

It was Jed’s turn next. But he insisted that he had already shared. “Dressing 
up like Dennis—that was it,” he said. 

No one wanted to argue with him. “Your turn, Amy,” Mom said, leaning 
against Dad on the couch. Dad fiddled with his glasses, then settled back. 

I picked up Slappy and arranged him on my lap. I was feeling a little 
nervous. I wanted to do a good job and impress them with my new comedy act. 

I’d been practicing all week, and I knew the jokes by heart. But as I slipped 
my hand into Slappy’s back and found the string, my stomach felt all fluttery. 

I cleared my throat and began. 

“This is Slappy, everyone,” I said. “Slappy, say hi to my family.” 

“Hi to my family! ” I made Slappy say. I made his eyes slide back and forth. 

They all chuckled. 

“This dummy is much better!” Mom commented. 

“But it’s the same old ventriloquist,” Sara said cruelly. 

I glared at her. 

“Just joking! Just joking!” my sister insisted. 

“I think that dummy reeks,” Jed chimed in. 

“Give Amy a break,” Dad said sharply. “Go ahead, Amy.” 

I cleared my throat again. It suddenly felt very dry. “Slappy and I are going 
to tell some knock-knock jokes,” I announced. I turned to face Slappy and made 
him turn his head to me. “Knock knock,” I said. 

“Knock it off! ” came the harsh reply. 

Slappy spun around to face my Mom. “Hey — don’t break the sofa, fatso!” 
he rasped. “Why don’t you skip the French fries and have a salad once in a 
while?” 

“Huh?” Mom gasped in shock. “Amy—” 

“Amy, that’s not funny!” Dad cried angrily. 

“What’s your problem, baldy?” Slappy shouted. “Is that your head—or are 
you hatching an ostrich egg on your neck?” 

“That’s enough, Amy!” Dad cried, jumping to his feet. “Stop it—right 
now!” 

“But—but—Dad—!” I sputtered. 

“Why don’t you put an extra hole in your head and use it for a bowling 
ball?” Slappy screamed at Dad. 

“Your jokes are horrible!” Mom exclaimed. “They’re hurtful and insulting.” 

“It’s not funny, Amy!” Dad fumed. “It’s not funny to hurt people’s 
feelings.” 

“But, Dad—” I replied. “I didn’t say any of that! It wasn’t me! It was 
Slappy! Really! I wasn’t saying it! I wasn’t!” 

Slappy raised his head. His red-lipped grin appeared to spread. His blue 
eyes sparkled. “Did I mention you are all ugly?” he asked. 

8 

Everyone started shouting at once. 

I stood up and dropped Slappy facedown on the armchair. 

My legs were trembling. My entire body was shaking. 

What’s going on here? I asked myself. I didn’t say those things. I really 
didn’t. 

But Slappy can’t be talking on his own —can he? 

Of course not, I realized. 

But what did that mean? Did that mean I was saying those horrible, 
insulting things to my parents without even knowing it? 

Mom and Dad stood side by side, staring at me angrily, demanding to know 
why I insulted them. 

“Did you really think that was funny?” Mom asked. “Didn’t you think it 
would hurt my feelings to call me fatso?” 

Meanwhile, Jed was sprawled on his back in the middle of the floor, 
giggling like a moron. He thought the whole thing was a riot. 

Sara sat cross-legged against the wall, shaking her head, her black hair 
falling over her face. “You’re in major trouble,” she muttered. “What’s your 
problem, Amy?” 

I turned to Mom and Dad. My hands were balled into tight fists. I couldn’t 
stop shaking. 

“You’ve got to believe me!” I shrieked. “I didn’t say those things! I really 
didn’t!” 

“Yeah. Right. Slappy is a baaad dude!” Jed chimed in, grinning. 

“Everybody, just be quiet!” Dad screamed. His face turned bright red. 

Mom squeezed his arm. She didn’t like it when he got too angry or excited. 
I guess she worried he might totally explode or something. 

Dad crossed his arms in front of his chest. I saw that he had a sweat stain on 
the chest of his polo shirt. His face was still red. 

The room suddenly fell silent. 

“Amy, we’re not going to believe you,” Dad said softly. 

“But—but—but—” 

He raised a hand to silence me. 

“You’re a wonderful storyteller, Amy,” Dad continued. “You make up 
wonderful fantasies and fairy tales. But we’re not going to believe this one. I’m 
sorry. We’re not going to believe that your dummy spoke up on his own.” 

“But he did! ” I screamed. I felt like bursting out in sobs. I bit my lip hard, 
trying to force them back. 

Dad shook his head. “No, Slappy didn’t insult us. You said those things, 
Amy. You did. And now I want you to apologize to your mother and me. Then I 
want you to take your dummy and go to your room.” 

There was no way they’d ever believe me. No way. I wasn’t sure I believed 
it myself. 

“Sorry,” I muttered, still holding back the tears. “Really. I’m sorry.” 

With an unhappy sigh, I lifted Slappy off the chair. I carried him around the 
waist so that his arms and legs dangled toward the floor. “Good night,” I said. I 
walked slowly toward my room. 

“What about my turn?” I heard Sara ask. 

“Sharing Night is over,” Dad replied grumpily. “You two—get lost. Leave 
your mom and me alone.” 

Dad sounded really upset. 

I didn’t blame him. 

I stepped into my room and closed the door behind me. Then I lifted Slappy 
up, holding him under the shoulders. I raised his face to mine. 

His eyes seemed to stare into my face. 

Such cold blue eyes, I thought. 

His bright red lips curled up into that smirking grin. The smile suddenly 
seemed evil. Mocking. 

As if Slappy were laughing at me. 

But of course that was impossible. My wild imagination was playing tricks 
on me, I decided. 

Frightening tricks. 

Slappy was just a dummy, after all. Just a hunk of painted wood. 

I stared hard into those cold blue eyes. “Slappy, look at all the trouble you 
caused me tonight,” I told him. 

Thursday night had been awful. Totally awful. 

But Friday turned out to be much worse. 

9 

First I dropped my tray in the lunchroom. The trays were all wet, and mine just 
slipped out of my hand. 

The plates clattered on the floor, and my lunch spilled all over my new 
white sneakers. Everyone in the lunchroom clapped and cheered. 

Was I embarrassed? Take three guesses. 

Later that afternoon, report cards were handed out. 

Sara came home grinning and singing. Nothing makes her more happy than 
being perfect. And her report card was perfect. All A’s. 

She insisted on showing it to me three times. She showed it to Jed three 
times, too. And we both had to tell her how wonderful she was each time. 

I’m being unfair to Sara. 

She was happy and excited. And she had a right to be. Her report card was 
perfect— and her flower painting won the blue ribbon in the State Art Contest. 

So I shouldn’t blame her for dancing around the house and singing at the 
top of her lungs. 

She wasn’t trying to rub it in. She wasn’t trying to make me feel like a 
lowly slug because my report card had two C’s. One in math and one in science. 

It wasn’t Sara’s fault that I had received my worst report card ever. 

So I tried to hold back my jealous feelings and not strangle her the tenth 
time she told me about the art prize. But it wasn’t easy. 

The worst part of my report card wasn’t the two C’s. It was the little note 
Miss Carson wrote at the bottom. 

It said: Amy isn’t working to the best of her ability. If she worked harder, she 
could do much better than this. 

I don’t think teachers should be allowed to write notes on report cards. I 
think getting grades is bad enough. 

I tried to make up some kind of story to explain the two C’s to my parents. I 
planned to tell them that everyone in the class got C’s in math and science. “Miss 
Carson didn’t have time to grade our papers. So she gave us all C’s—just to be 
fair.” 

It was a good story. But not a great story. 

No way Mom and Dad would buy that one. 

I paced back and forth in my room, trying to think of a better story. After a 
while, I noticed Slappy staring at me. 

He sat in the chair beside Dennis, grinning and staring. 

Slappy’s eyes weren’t following me as I paced—were they? 

I felt a chill run down my back. 

It really seemed as if the eyes were watching me, moving as I moved. 

I darted to the chair and turned Slappy so that his back was to me. I didn’t 
have time to think about a stupid dummy. My parents would be home from work 
any minute. And I needed a good story to explain my awful report card. 

Did I come up with one? No. 

Were my parents upset? Yes. 

Mom said she would help me get better organized. Dad said he would help 
me understand my math problems. The last time Dad helped me with my math, I 
nearly flunked! 

Even Jed—the total goof-off—got a better report card than me. They don’t 
give grades in the lower school. The teacher just writes a report about you. 

And Jed’s report said that he was a great kid and a really good student. That 
teacher must be sick! 

I stared at Jed across the dinner table. He opened his mouth wide to show 
me a mouth full of chewed-up peas. 

Sick! 

“You reek,” he said to me. For no reason at all. 

Sometimes I wonder why families were invented. 

Saturday morning, I called Margo. “I can’t come over,” I told her with a sigh. 
“My parents won’t let me.” 

“My report card wasn’t too good, either,” Margo replied. “Miss Carson 
wrote a note at the bottom. She said I talk too much in class.” 

“Miss Carson talks too much,” I said bitterly. 

As I chatted with Margo, I stared at myself in the dresser mirror. I look too 
much like Sara, I thought. Why do I have to look like her twin? Maybe I’ll cut 
my hair really short. Or get a tattoo. 

I wasn’t thinking too clearly. 

I was too angry that my parents weren’t allowing me to go over to Margo’s 
house. 

“This is bad news,” Margo said. “I wanted to talk to you about performing 

with Slappy at my dad’s place.” 

“I know,” I replied sadly. “But they’re not letting me go anywhere until my 
science project is finished.” 

“You still haven’t turned that in?” Margo demanded. 

“I kind of forgot about it,” I confessed. “I did the project part—for the 
second time. I just have to write the report.” 

“Well, I told you, Daddy has a birthday party for a dozen three-year-olds 
next Saturday,” Margo said. “And he wants you and Slappy to entertain them.” 

“As soon as I finish the science report, I’m going to start rehearsing,” I 
promised. “Tell your dad not to worry, Margo. Tell him I’ll be great.” 

We chatted for a few more minutes. Then my mom shouted for me to get 
off the phone. I talked for a little while longer—until Mom shouted a second 
time. Then I said good-bye to Margo and hung up. 

I slaved over my computer all morning and most of the afternoon. And I 
finished the science report. 

It wasn’t easy. Jed kept coming into my room, begging me to play a 
Nintendo game with him. “Just one! ” And I had to keep tossing him out. 

When I finally finished writing the paper, I printed it out and read it one 
more time. I thought it was pretty good. 

What it needs is a really great-looking cover, I decided. 

I wanted to get a bunch of colored markers and do a really bright cover. But 
my markers were all dried up. 

I tossed them into the trash and made my way to Sara’s room. I knew that 
she had an entire drawer filled with colored markers. 

Sara was at the mall with a bunch of her friends. Miss Perfect could go out 
and spend Saturday doing whatever she wanted. Because she was perfect. 

I knew she wouldn’t mind if I borrowed a few markers. 

Jed stopped me outside her door. “One game of Battle Chess!” he pleaded. 
“Just one game!” 

“No way,” I told him. I placed my hand on top of his head. His red, curly 
hair felt so soft. I pushed him out of my way. “You always murder me at Battle 
Chess. And I’m not finished with my work yet.” 

“Why are you going in Sara’s room?” he demanded. 

“None of your business,” I told him. 

“You reek,” he said. “You double reek, Amy.” 

I ignored him and made my way into Sara’s room to borrow the markers. 

I spent nearly an hour making the cover. I filled it with molecules and 
atoms, all in different colors. Miss Carson will be impressed, I decided. 

Sara returned home just as I finished. She was carrying a big shopping bag 
filled with clothes she’d bought at Banana Republic. 

She started to her room with the bag. “Mom—come see what I bought,” she 
called. 

Mom appeared, carrying a stack of freshly laundered towels. 

“Can I see, too?” I called. I followed them to Sara’s room. 

But Sara stopped at her door. 

The bag fell from her hand. 

And she let out a scream. 

Mom and I crowded behind her. We peered into the bedroom. 

What a mess! 

Someone had overturned about a dozen jars of paint. Reds, yellows, blues. 
The paint had spread over Sara’s white carpet, like a big, colorful mud puddle. 

I gasped and blinked several times. It was unreal! 

“I don’t believe it!” Sara kept shrieking. “I don’t believe it!” 

“The carpet is ruined!” Mom exclaimed, taking one step into the room. 

The emptied paint jars were on their sides, strewn around the room. 

“Jed!” Mom shouted angrily. “Jed—get in here! Now!” 

We turned to see Jed right behind us in the hall. “You don’t have to shout,” 
he said softly. 

Mom narrowed her eyes angrily at my brother. “Jed—how could you?” she 
demanded through clenched teeth. 

“Excuse me?” He gazed up at her innocently. 

“Jed—don’t lie!” Sara screamed. “Did you do this? Did you go in my room 
again?” 

“No way!” Jed protested, shaking his head. “I didn’t go in your room today, 
Sara. Not once. But I saw Amy go in. And she wouldn’t tell me why.” 

10 

Sara and Mom both turned accusing eyes on me. 

“How could you?” Sara screamed, walking around the big paint puddle. 
“How could you?” 

“Whoa! Wait! I didn’t! I didn’t!” I cried frantically. 

“I asked Amy why she was going in here,” Jed chimed in. “And she said it 
was none of my business.” 

“Amy!” Mom cried. “I’m horrified. I’m truly horrified. This—this is sick!” 

“Yes, it’s sick,” Sara repeated, shaking her head. “All of my poster paint. 
All of it. What a mess. I know why you did it. It’s because you’re jealous of my 
perfect report card.” 

“But I didn’t do it!” I wailed. “I didn’t! I didn’t! I didn’t!” 

“Amy—no one else could have,” Mom replied. “If Jed didn’t do it, then—” 

“But I only came in here to borrow markers!” 

I cried in a trembling voice. “That’s all. I needed markers.” 

“Amy—” Mom started, pointing to the huge paint puddle. 

“I’ll show you!” I cried. “I’ll show you what I borrowed.” 

I ran to my room. My hands were shaking as I scooped Sara’s markers off 
my desk. My heart pounded. 

How could they accuse me of something so terrible? I asked myself. 

Is that what everyone thinks of me? That I’m such a monster? 

That I’m so jealous of my sister, I’d pour out all her paints and ruin her rug? 

Do they really think I’m crazy? 

I ran back to Sara’s room, carrying the markers in both hands. Jed sat on 
Sara’s bed, staring down at the thick red, blue, and yellow puddle. 

Mom and Sara stood over it, gazing down and shaking their heads. Mom 
kept making clucking noises with her tongue. She kept pressing her hands 
against her cheeks. 

“Here! See?” I cried. I shoved the markers toward them. “That’s why I 
came in here. I’m not lying!” 

Some of the markers fell out of my hands. I bent to pick them up. 

“Amy, there were only three of us home this afternoon,” Mom said. She 

was trying to keep her voice low and calm. But she spoke through gritted teeth. 
“You, me, and Jed.” 

“I know—” I started. 

Mom raised a hand to silence me. “I certainly didn’t do this horrible thing,” 
Mom continued. “And Jed says that he didn’t do it. So...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Mom—I’m not a sicko!” I shrieked. “I’m not!” 

“You’ll feel better if you confess,” Mom said. “Then we can talk about this 
calmly, and—” 

“But I didn’t do it! ” I raged. 

With a cry of anger, I flung the markers to the floor. Then I spun around, 
bolted from Sara’s room, and ran down the long hall to my room. 

I slammed the door and threw myself facedown onto my bed. I started 
sobbing loudly. I don’t know how long I cried. 

Finally, I stood up. My face was sopping wet, and my nose was running. I 
started to the dresser to get a tissue. 

But something caught my eye. 

Hadn’t I turned Slappy around so that his back was turned to me? 

Now he was sitting facing me, staring up at me, his red-lipped grin wider 
than ever. 

Did I turn him back around? Did I? 

I didn’t remember. 

And what did I see on Slappy’s shoes? 

I wiped the tears from my eyes with the backs of my hands. Then I took a 
few steps toward the dummy, squinting hard at his big leather shoes. 

What was that on his shoes? 

Red and blue and yellow... paint? 

Yes. 

With a startled gasp, I grabbed both shoes by the heels and raised them 
close to my face. 

Yes. 

Drips of paint on Slappy’s shoes. 

“Slappy—what is going on here?” I asked out loud. “What is going on?” 

11 

When Dad came home and saw Sara’s room, he nearly exploded. 

I was actually worried about him. His face turned as red as a tomato. His 
chest started heaving in and out. And horrible gurgling noises came up from his 
throat. 

The whole family gathered in the living room. We took our Sharing Night 
places. Only, this wasn’t Family Sharing Night. This was What Are We Going 
To Do About Amy Night. 

“Amy, first you have to tell us the truth,” Mom said. She sat stiffly on the 
couch, squeezing her hands together in her lap. 

Dad sat on the other end of the couch, tapping one hand nervously against 
the couch arm, chewing his lower lip. Jed and Sara sat on the floor against the 
wall. 

“I am telling the truth,” I insisted shrilly. I slumped in the armchair across 
from them. My hair fell over my forehead, but I didn’t bother to brush it back. 
My white T-shirt had tear stains on the front, still damp. “If you would only 
listen to me,” I pleaded. 

“Okay, we’re listening,” Mom replied. 

“When I went into my room,” I started, “there were splashes of paint on 
Slappy’s shoes. And—” 

“Enough!” Dad cried, jumping to his feet. 

“But, Dad—” I protested. 

“Enough!” he insisted. He pointed a finger at me. “No more wild stories, 
young lady. Storytime is over. We don’t want to hear about paint stains on 
Slappy. We want an explanation for the crime that was committed in Sara’s room 
today.” 

“But I am giving an explanation!” I wailed. “Why did Slappy have paint on 
his shoes? Why?” 

Dad dropped back onto the couch with a sigh. He whispered something to 
Mom. She whispered back. 

I thought I heard them mention the word “doctor”. 

“Are you—are you going to take me to a psychiatrist?” I asked timidly. 

“Do you think you need one?” Mom replied, staring hard at me. 

I shook my head. “No.” 

“Your father and I will talk about this,” Mom said. “We will figure out the 
best thing to do.” 

The best thing to do? 

They grounded me for two weeks. No movies. 

No friends over. No trips to the mall. No trips anywhere. 

I heard them talking about finding me a counselor. But they didn’t say 
anything about it to me. 

All week, I could feel them watching me. Studying me as if I were some 
kind of alien creature. 

Sara was pretty cold to me. Her room had to be emptied out and a new rug 
installed. She wasn’t happy about it. 

Even Jed treated me differently. He kind of tiptoed around me and kept his 
distance, as if I had a bad cold or something. He didn’t tease me, or tell me that I 
reek, or call me names. 

I really missed it. No kidding. 

How did I feel? I felt miserable. 

I wanted to get sick. I wanted to catch a really bad stomach flu or 
something so they’d all feel sorry for me and stop treating me like a criminal. 

One good thing: They said I could perform with Slappy at The Party House 
on Saturday. 

Whenever I picked Slappy up, I felt a little weird. I remembered the paint 
on his shoes and the mess in my sister’s room. 

But I couldn’t come up with one single explanation. So I practiced with 
Slappy every night. 

I had put a lot of good jokes together. Silly jokes I thought little three-year- 
olds would find funny. 

And I studied myself in the mirror. I was getting better at not moving my 
lips. And it was getting easier to make Slappy’s mouth and eyes move correctly. 

“Knock knock,” I made Slappy say. 

“Who’s there?” I asked. 

“Eddie.” 

“Eddie who?” I asked. 

“Eddie-body got a tissue? I hab a teddible cold!” 

And then I pulled back Slappy’s head, opened his mouth really wide, and 

jerked his whole body as I made him sneeze and sneeze and sneeze. 

I thought that would really crack up the three-year-olds. 

Every night, I worked and worked on our comedy act. I worked so hard. 

I didn’t know that the act would never go on. 

On Saturday afternoon, Mom dropped me off at The Party House. “Have a good 
show!” she called as she drove away. 

I carried Slappy carefully in my arms. Margo met me at the door. She 
greeted me with an excited smile. 

“Just in time!” she cried. “The kids are almost all here. They’re total 
animals!” 

“Oh, great!” I muttered, rolling my eyes. 

“They’re total animals, but they’re so cute!” Margo added. 

She led me through the twisting hallway to the party room in back. Clusters 
of red and yellow balloons covered the ceiling. I saw a brightly decorated table, 
all yellow and red. A balloon on a string floated up from each chair around the 
table. Each balloon had the name of a guest on it. 

The kids really were cute. They were dressed mostly in jeans and bright T- 
shirts. Two of the girls wore frilly party dresses. 

I counted ten of them, all running wildly, chasing each other in the huge 
room. 

Their mothers were grouped around a long table against the back wall. 
Some of them were sitting down. Some were standing, huddled together, 
chatting. Some were calling to their kids to stop being so wild. 

“I’m helping out, pouring the punch and stuff,” Margo told me. “Dad wants 
you to do your act first thing. You know. To quiet the kids down.” 

I swallowed hard. “First thing, huh?” 

I had been excited. I could barely choke down my tuna fish sandwich at 
lunch. But now I began to feel nervous. I had major fluttering in my stomach. 

Margo led me to the front of the room. I saw a low wooden platform there, 
painted bright blue. That was the stage. 

Seeing the stage made my heart start to pound. My mouth suddenly felt 
very dry. 

Could I really step up on that stage and do my act in front of all these 
people? Kids and mothers? 

I had forgotten that the mothers would all be there. Seeing adults in the 

audience made me even more nervous. 

“Here is the birthday girl,” a woman’s voice said. 

I turned to see a smiling mother. She held the hand of a beautiful little girl. 
The girl gazed up at me with sparkling blue eyes. She had straight black hair, a 
lot like mine, only silkier and finer. She had a bright yellow ribbon in her hair. It 
matched her short yellow party dress and yellow sneakers. 

“This is Alicia,” the mother announced. 

“Hi. I’m Amy,” I replied. 

“Alicia would like to meet your dummy,” the woman said. 

“Is he real?” Alicia asked. 

I didn’t know how to answer that question. “He’s a real dummy,” I told 
Alicia. 

I propped Slappy up in my arms and slipped my hand into his back. “This is 
Slappy,” I told the little girl. “Slappy, this is Alicia.” 

“How do you do?” I made Slappy say. 

Alicia and her mother both laughed. Alicia stared up at the dummy with her 
sparkling blue eyes. 

“How old are you?” I made Slappy say. 

Alicia held up three fingers. “I’m fffree,” she told him. 

“Would you like to shake hands with Slappy?” I asked. 

Alicia nodded. 

I lowered the dummy a little. I pushed forward Slappy’s right hand. “Go 
ahead,” I urged Alicia. “Take his hand.” 

Alicia reached up and grabbed Slappy’s hand. She giggled. 

“Happy Birthday,” Slappy said. 

Alicia shook his hand gently. Then she started to back away. 

“We can’t wait to see your show,” Alicia’s mother said to me. “I know the 
kids are going to love it.” 

“I hope so!” I replied. My stomach fluttered again. I was still really 
nervous. 

“Let go!” Alicia cried. She tugged at Slappy’s hand. She giggled. “He won’t 
let go!” 

Alicia’s mom laughed. “What a funny dummy!” She grabbed Alicia’s other 
hand. “Let go of the dummy, honey. We have to get everyone in their seats for 
the show.” 

Alicia tugged a little harder. “But he won’t let go of me, Mommy!” she 

cried. “He wants to shake hands!” 

Alicia gave a hard tug. But her tiny hand was still wrapped up inside 
Slappy’s. She giggled. “He likes me. He won’t let go.” 

“Oh, look,” her mother said, glancing to the door. “Phoebe and Jennifer just 
arrived. Let’s go say hi.” 

Alicia tried to follow her mom, but Slappy held tight to her hand. Alicia’s 
smile faded. “Let go!” she insisted. 

I saw that several kids had gathered around. They watched Alicia tug at 
Slappy’s hand. 

“Let go! Let me go!” Alicia cried angrily. 

I leaned over to examine Slappy’s hand. To my surprise, it appeared that his 
hand had clenched tightly around hers. 

Alicia gave a hard tug. “Ow! He’s hurting me, Mommy!” 

More kids came over to watch. Some of them were laughing. Two little 
dark-haired boys exchanged frightened glances. 

“Please—make him let go!” Alicia wailed. She tugged again and again. 

I froze in panic. My mind whirred. I tried to think of what to do. 

Had Alicia gotten her hand caught somehow? 

Slappy’s hand couldn’t really close around hers—could it? 

Alicia’s mother was staring at me angrily. “Please let Alicia’s hand out,” 
she said impatiently. 

“He’s hurting me!” Alicia cried. “Ow! He’s squeezing my hand!” 

The room grew very quiet. The other kids were all watching now. Their 
eyes wide. Their expressions confused. 

I didn’t know what to do. I had no control for Slappy’s hands. 

My heart pounded in my chest. I tried to make a joke of it. “Slappy really 
likes you!” I told Alicia. 

But the little girl was sobbing now. Little tears rolled down her cheeks. 
“Mommy—make him stop!” 

I pulled my hand out from Slappy’s back. I grabbed his wooden hand 
between my hands. “Let go of her, Slappy!” I demanded. 

I tried pulling the fingers open. 

But I couldn’t budge them. 

“What is wrong?” Alicia’s mother was screaming. “Is her hand caught? 
What are you doing to her?” 

“He’s hurting me!” Alicia wailed. “Owwww! He’s squeezing me!” 

Several kids were crying now. Mothers rushed across the room to comfort 
them. 

Alicia’s sobs rose up over the frightened cries of the other three-year-olds. 
The harder she tugged, the tighter the wooden hand squeezed. 

“Let go, Slappy!” I shrieked, pulling his fingers. “Let go! Let go!” 

“I don’t understand!” Alicia’s mother cried. She began frantically tugging 
my arm. “What are you doing? Let her go! Let her go!” 

“Owwwww!” Alicia uttered a high, heartbreaking wail. “Make him stop! It 
hurts! It hurts!” 

And then Slappy suddenly tilted his head back. His eyes opened wide, and 
his mouth opened in a long, evil laugh. 

12 

I burst into the house and let the screen door slam behind me. I had taken the city 
bus to Logan Street. Then I had run the six blocks to my house with Slappy 
hanging over my shoulder. 

“Amy, how did it go?” Mom called from the kitchen. “Did you get a ride? I 
thought we were supposed to come pick you up.” 

I didn’t answer her. I was sobbing too hard. I ran down the hall to my room 
and slammed the door. 

I hoisted Slappy off my shoulder and tossed him into the closet. I never 
wanted to see him again. Never. 

I caught a glimpse of myself in the dresser mirror. My cheeks were swollen 
and puffy from crying. My eyes were red. My hair was wet and tangled, and 
matted to my forehead. 

I took several deep breaths and tried to stop crying. 

I kept hearing that poor little girl’s screams in my ears. Slappy finally let go 
of her after he uttered his ugly laugh. 

But Alicia couldn’t stop crying. She was so frightened! And her little hand 
was red and swollen. 

The other kids were all screaming and crying, too. 

Alicia’s mother was furious. She called Margo’s dad out from the kitchen. 
She was shaking and sputtering with anger. She said she was going to sue The 
Party House. 

Margo’s dad quietly asked me to leave. He led me to the front door. He said 
it wasn’t my fault. But he said the kids were too frightened of Slappy now. There 
was no way I could do my show. 

I saw Margo hurrying over to me. But I turned and ran out the door. 

I had never been so upset. I didn’t know what to do. A light rain had started 
to come down. I watched rainwater flow down the curb and into the sewer drain. 
I wanted to flow away with it. 

Now I threw myself onto my bed. 

I kept picturing little Alicia, screaming and crying, trying to twist out of 
Slappy’s grasp. 

Mom knocked hard on my bedroom door. “Amy? Amy—what are you 

doing? What’s wrong?” 

“Go away!” I wailed. “Just go away.” 

But she opened the door and stepped into the room. Sara came in behind 
her, a confused expression on her face. 

“Amy—the show didn’t go well?” Mom asked softly. 

“Go away!” I sobbed. “Please!” 

“Amy, you’ll do better next time,” Sara said, stepping up to the bed. She put 
a hand on my trembling shoulder. 

“Shut up!” I cried. “Shut up, Miss Perfect!” 

I didn’t mean to sound so angry. I was out of control. 

Sara stepped back, hurt. 

“Tell us what happened,” Mom insisted. “You’ll feel better if you tell us.” 

I pulled myself up until I was sitting on the edge of the bed. I wiped my 
eyes and brushed my wet hair off my face. 

And then, suddenly, the whole story burst out of me. 

I told how Slappy grabbed Alicia’s hand and wouldn’t let go. And how all 
the kids were crying. And the parents were all screaming and making a fuss. And 
how I had to leave without doing my act. 

And then I leaped to my feet, threw my arms around my mom, and started 
to sob again. 

She petted my hair, the way she used to do when I was a little girl. She kept 
whispering, “Ssshh shhhh shhhh.” 

Slowly, I began to calm down. 

“This is so weird,” Sara murmured, shaking her head. 

“I’m a little worried about you,” Mom said, holding my hands. “The little 
girl got her hand caught. That’s all. You don’t really believe that the dummy 
grabbed her hand—do you?” 

Mom stared at me hard, studying me. 

She thinks I’m crazy, I realized. She thinks I’m totally messed up. 

She doesn’t believe me. 

I decided I’d better not insist that my story was true. I shook my head. 
“Yeah. I guess her hand got caught,” I said, lowering my eyes to the floor. 

“Maybe you should put Slappy away for a while,” Mom suggested, biting 
her bottom lip. 

“Yeah. You’re right,” I agreed. I pointed. “I already put him in the closet.” 

“Good idea,” Mom replied. “Leave him in there for a while. I think you’ve 

been spending too much time with that dummy.” 

“Yeah. You need a new hobby,” Sara chimed in. 

“It wasn’t a hobby!” I snapped. 

“Well, leave him in the closet for a few days—okay, Amy?” Mom said. 

I nodded. “I never want to see him again,” I muttered. 

I thought I heard a sigh from inside the closet. But, of course, that was my 
imagination. 

“Get yourself cleaned up,” Mom instructed. “Wash your face. Then come to 
the kitchen and I’ll make you a snack.” 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

Sara followed Mom out the door. “Weird,” I heard Sara mutter. “Amy is 
getting so weird.” 

Margo called after dinner. She said she felt terrible about what had happened. 
She said her dad didn’t blame me. “He wants to give you another chance,” 
Margo told me. “Maybe with older kids.” 

“Thanks,” I replied. “But I put Slappy away for a while. I don’t know if I 
want to be a ventriloquist anymore.” 

“At the party today—what happened?” Margo asked. “What went wrong?” 
“I don’t really know,” I said. “I don’t really know.” 

That night, I went to bed early. Before I turned out the light, I glanced at the 
closet door. It was closed tightly. 

Having Slappy shut up in the closet made me feel safer. 

I fell asleep quickly. I slept a deep, dreamless sleep. 

When I awoke the next morning, I sat up and rubbed my eyes. 

Then I heard Sara’s angry screams down the hall. 

“Mom! Dad! Mom! Hurry!” Sara was shouting. “Come see what Amy did 
now!” 

13 

I shut my eyes, listening to my sister’s screams. 

What now? I thought with a shudder. What now? 

“Ohh!” I let out a low cry when I saw that my closet door was open a crack. 
My heart pounding, I climbed out of bed and began running down the hall 
to Sara’s room. Mom, Dad, and Jed were already on their way. 

“Mom! Dad! Look what she did!” Sara screamed. 

“Oh, no!” I heard Mom and Dad shriek. 

I stopped in the doorway, peered in—and gasped. 

Sara’s bedroom walls! They were smeared with red paint! 

Someone had taken a thick paintbrush and had scrawled AMY AMY AMY 
AMY in huge red letters all over Sara’s walls. 

“Noooo!” I moaned. I covered my mouth with both hands to stop the sound. 
My eyes darted from wall to wall, reading my name over and over. 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

Why my name? 

I suddenly felt sick. I swallowed hard, trying to force back my nausea. 

I blinked several times, trying to blink the ugly red scrawls away. 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

“Why?” Sara asked me in a trembling voice. She adjusted her nightshirt and 
leaned against her dresser. “Why, Amy?” 

I suddenly realized that everyone was staring at me. 

“I—I—I—” I sputtered. 

“Amy, this cannot continue,” Dad said solemnly. His expression wasn’t 
angry. It was sad. 

“We’ll get you some help, dear,” Mom said. She had tears in her eyes. Her 
chin trembled. 

Jed stood silently with his arms crossed in front of his pajama shirt. 

“Why, Amy?” Sara demanded again. 

“But—I didn’t!” I finally choked out. 

“Amy—no stories,” Mom said softly. 

“But, Mom—I didn’t do it!” I insisted shrilly. 

“This is serious,” Dad murmured, rubbing his whiskery chin. “Amy, do you 
realize how serious this is?” 

Jed reached out two fingers and rubbed them over one of the red paint 
scrawls. “Dry,” he reported. 

“That means it was done early in the night,” Dad said, his eyes locked on 
me. “Do you realize how bad this is? This isn’t just mischief.” 

I took a deep breath. My whole body was shaking. “Slappy did it!” I blurted 
out. “I’m not crazy, Dad! I’m not! You’ve got to believe me! Slappy did it!” 
“Amy, please—” Mom said softly. 

“Come with me!” I cried. “I’ll prove it. I’ll prove that Slappy did it. Come 

on!” 

I didn’t wait for them to reply. I turned and bolted from the room. 

I flew down the hall. They all followed silently behind me. 

“Is Amy sick or something?” I heard Jed ask my parents. 

I didn’t hear the answer. 

I burst into my room. They hurried close behind. 

I stepped up to the closet and pulled the door open. 

“See?” I cried, pointing to Slappy. “See? That proves it! Slappy did it!” 

14 

I pointed triumphantly at Slappy. “See? See?” 

The dummy sat crossed-legged on the closet floor. His head stood erect on 
his narrow shoulders. He appeared to grin up at us. 

Slappy’s left hand rested on the closet floor. His right hand was in his lap. 

And in his right hand he clutched a fat paintbrush. 

The bristles on the brush were caked with red paint. 

“I told you Slappy did it!” I cried, stepping back so the others could get a 
better view. 

But everyone remained silent. Mom and Dad frowned and shook their 
heads. 

Jed’s giggle broke the silence. “This is dumb,” he told Sara. 

Sara lowered her eyes and didn’t reply. 

“Oh, Amy,” Mom said, sighing. “Did you really think you could blame it 
on the dummy by putting the paintbrush in his hand?” 

“Huh?” I cried. I didn’t understand what Mom was saying. 

“Did you really expect us to believe this?” Dad asked softly. His eyes stared 
hard into mine. 

“Did you think you could put the brush into Slappy’s hand, and make us 
think he painted your name on Sara’s walls?” 

“But I didn’t /” I shrieked. 

“When did he learn how to spell?” Jed chimed in. 

“Be quiet, Jed,” Dad said sharply. “This is serious. It isn’t a joke.” 

“Sara, take Jed out of here,” Mom instructed. “The two of you go to the 
kitchen and get breakfast started.” 

Sara began to guide Jed to the door. But he pulled away. “I want to stay!” 
he cried. “I want to see how you punish Amy.” 

“Get!” Mom cried, shooing him away with both hands. 

Sara tugged him out of the room. 

I was shaking all over. I narrowed my eyes at Slappy. Had his grin grown 
even wider? 

I stared at the paintbrush in his hand. The red paint on the bristles blurred, 

blurred until I saw only red. 

I blinked several times and turned back to my parents. “You really don’t 
believe me?” I asked softly, my voice trembling. 

They shook their heads. “How can we believe you, dear?” Mom replied. 

“We can’t believe that a wooden dummy has been doing these horrible 
things in Sara’s room,” Dad added. “Why don’t you tell us the truth, Amy?” 

“But I am!” I protested. 

How could I prove it to them? How? 

I let out an angry cry and slammed the closet door shut. 

“Let’s try to calm down,” Mom urged quietly. “Let’s all get dressed and 
have some breakfast. We can talk about this when we’re feeling better.” 

“Good idea,” Dad replied, still squinting at me through his glasses. He was 
studying me as if he’d never seen me before. 

He scratched his bald head. “Guess I’ll have to call a painter for Sara’s 
room. It’ll take at least two coats to cover up the red.” 

They turned and made their way slowly from my room, talking about how 
much it was going to cost to have my sister’s room painted. 

I stood in the center of the room and shut my eyes. Every time I closed 
them, I saw red. All over Sara’s wall: 

AMY AMY AMY AMY. 

“But I didn’t do it!” I cried out loud. 

My heart pounding, I spun around. I grabbed the knob and jerked open the 
closet door. 

I grabbed Slappy by the shoulders of his gray jacket and pulled him up from 
the floor. 

The paintbrush fell from his hand. It landed with a thud beside my bare 

foot. 

I shook the dummy angrily. Shook him so hard that his arms and legs 
swung back and forth, and his head snapped back. 

Then I lifted him so that we were eye to eye. 

“Admit it!” I screamed, glaring into his grinning face. “Go ahead! Admit 
that you did it! Tell me that you did it!” 

The glassy blue eyes gazed up at me. 

Lifelessly. 

Blankly. 

Neither of us moved. 

And then, to my horror, the wooden lips parted. The red mouth slowly 
opened. 

And Slappy let out a soft, evil, “Hee hee hee. ” 

15 

“I can’t come over,” I told Margo glumly. I was sprawled on top of my bed, the 
phone pressed against my ear. “I’m not allowed out of my room all day.” 

“Huh? Why?” Margo demanded. 

I sighed. “If I told you, Margo, you wouldn’t believe me.” 

“Try me,” she replied. 

I decided not to tell her. I mean, my whole family thought I was crazy. Why 
should my best friend think it, too? 

“Maybe I’ll tell you about it when I see you,” I said. 

Silence at the other end. 

Then Margo uttered, “Wow.” 

“Wow? What does wow mean?” I cried. 

“Wow. It must be pretty bad if you can’t talk about it, Amy.” 

“It—it’s just weird,” I stammered. “Can we change the subject?” 

Another silence. “Daddy has a birthday party for six-year-olds coming up, 
Amy. And he wondered—” 

“No. Sorry,” I broke in quickly. “I put Slappy away.” 

“Excuse me?” Margo reacted with surprise. 

“I put the dummy away,” I told her. “I’m finished with that. I’m not going 
to be a ventriloquist anymore.” 

“But, Amy—” Margo protested. “You loved playing with those dummies. 
And you said you wanted to make some money, remember? So Daddy—” 

“No,” I repeated firmly. “I changed my mind, Margo. I’m sorry. Tell your 
dad I’m sorry. I—I’ll tell you about it when I see you.” 

I swallowed hard. And added: “If l ever see you.” 

“You sound terrible,” Margo replied softly. “Should I come over to your 
house? I think I could get my dad to drop me off.” 

“I’m totally grounded,” I said unhappily. “No visitors.” 

I heard footsteps in the hall. Probably Mom or Dad checking up on me. I 
wasn’t allowed to be on the phone, either. 

“Got to go. Bye, Margo,” I whispered. I hung up the phone. 

Mom knocked on my bedroom door. I recognized her knock. “Amy, want to 

talk?” she called in. 

“Not really,” I replied glumly. 

“As soon as you tell the truth, you can come out,” Mom said. 

“I know,” I muttered. 

“Why don’t you just tell the truth now? It’s such a beautiful day,” Mom 
called in. “Don’t waste the whole day in your room.” 

“I—I don’t feel like talking now,” I told her. 

She didn’t say anything else. But I could hear her standing out there. Finally 
I heard her footsteps padding back down the hall. 

I grabbed my pillow and buried my face in it. 

I wanted to shut out the world. And think. 

Think. Think. Think. 

I wasn’t going to confess to a crime I didn’t do. No way. 

I was going to find a way to prove to them that Slappy was the culprit. And 
I was going to prove to them that I wasn’t crazy. 

I had to show them that Slappy wasn’t an ordinary dummy. 

He was alive. And he was evil. 

But how could I prove it? 

I climbed to my feet and began pacing back and forth. I stopped at the 
window and gazed out at the front yard. 

It was a beautiful spring day. Bright yellow tulips bobbed in the flower 
patch in front of my window. The sky was a solid blue. The twin maple trees in 
the center of the yard were starting to unfurl fresh leaves. 

I took a deep breath. The air smelled so fresh and sweet. 

I saw Jed and a couple of his friends. They were Rollerblading down the 
sidewalk. Laughing. Having a good time. 

And I was a prisoner. A prisoner in my room. 

All because of Slappy. 

I spun away from the window and stared at the closet door. I had shoved 
Slappy into the back of the closet and shut the door tightly. 

I’m going to catch you in the act, Slappy, I decided. 

That’s how I’m going to prove I’m not crazy. 

I’m going to stay up all night. I’m going to stay up every night. And the 
first time you creep out of that closet, I’ll be awake. And I’ll follow you. 

And I’ll make sure that everyone sees what you are doing. 

I’ll make sure that everyone sees that you are the evil one in this house. 

I felt so upset. I knew I wasn’t really thinking clearly. 

But having a plan made me feel a little better. 

Taking one last glance at the closet door, I crossed the room to my desk and 
started to do my homework. 

* * * 

Mom and Dad let me come out for dinner. 

Dad had grilled hamburgers in the backyard, the first barbecue of spring. I 
loved grilled hamburgers, especially when they’re charred real black. But I could 
barely taste my food. 

I guess I felt too excited and nervous about trapping Slappy. 

No one talked much. 

Mom kept chattering to Dad about the vegetable garden and what she 
wanted to plant. Sara talked a little about the mural she had started to paint in her 
room. Jed kept complaining about how he wrecked his knee Rollerblading. 

No one spoke to me. They kept glancing over the table at me. Studying me 
like I was some kind of zoo animal. 

I asked to be excused before dessert. 

I usually stay up till ten. But a little after nine, I decided to go to bed. 

I was wide awake. Eager to trap Slappy. 

I turned out the light and tucked myself in. Then I lay staring up at the 
shifting shadows on the bedroom ceiling, waiting, waiting... 

Waiting for Slappy to come creeping out of the closet. 

I must have fallen asleep. 

I tried not to. But I must have drifted off anyway. 

I was startled awake by sounds in the room. 

I raised my head, instantly alert. And listened. 

The scrape of feet on my carpet. A soft rustling. 

A shiver of fear ran down my back. I felt goose-bumps up and down my 
arms. 

Another low sound. So near my bed. 

I reached forward quickly. Clicked on the bed table lamp. 

And cried out. 

16 

“Jed—what are you doing in here?” I shrieked. 

He stood blinking at me in the center of the room. One leg of his blue 
pajama pants had rolled up. His red hair was matted against one side of his head. 

“What are you doing in my room?” I demanded breathlessly. 

He squinted at me. “Huh? Why are you yelling at me? You called me, 
Amy.” 

“I—I what?” I sputtered. 

“You called me. I heard you.” He rubbed his eyes with his fingers and 
yawned. “I was asleep. You woke me up.” 

I lowered my feet to the floor and stood up. My legs felt shaky and weak. 
Jed had really scared me. 

“I was asleep, too,” I told him. “I didn’t call you.” 

“Yes, you did,” he insisted. “You told me to come to your room.” He bent to 
pull down the pajama leg. 

“Jed, you just woke me up,” I replied. “So how could I call you?” 

He scratched his hair. He yawned again. “You mean I dreamed it?” 

I studied his face. “Jed—did you sneak into my room to play some kind of 
prank?” I demanded sternly. 

He wrinkled his face up, tried to appear innocent. 

“Did you?” I demanded. “Were you going into the closet to do something 
with Slappy?” 

“No way!” he protested. He started to back out of the room. “I’m telling the 
truth, Amy. I thought you called me. That’s all.” 

I squinted hard at him, trying to decide if he was telling the truth. I let my 
eyes wander around the room. Everything seemed okay. Dennis lay in the 
armchair, his head in his lap. 

The closet door remained closed. 

“It was a dream, that’s all,” Jed repeated. “Good night, Amy.” 

I said good night. “Sorry I got upset, Jed. It’s been a bad day.” 

I listened to him pad back to his room. 

The cat poked his head into my room, his eyes gleaming like gold. “Go to 

sleep, George,” I whispered. “You go to sleep, too, okay?” He obediently turned 
and disappeared. 

I clicked off the bed table lamp and settled back into bed. 

Jed was telling the truth, I decided. He seemed as confused as I was. 

My eyes suddenly felt heavy. As if there were hundred-pound weights over 
them. I let out a loud yawn. 

I felt so sleepy. And the pillow felt so soft and warm. 

But I couldn’t let myself fall back to sleep. 

I had to stay awake. Had to wait for Slappy to make his move. 

Did I drift back to sleep? I’m not sure. 

Aloud click made my eyes shoot open wide. 

I raised my head in time to see the closet door start to open. 

The room lay in darkness. No light washed in from the window. The door 
was a black shadow, sliding slowly, slowly. 

My heart began to pound. My mouth suddenly felt dry as cotton. 

The closet door slid slowly, silently. 

A low creak. 

And then a shadow stepped out from behind the dark door. 

I squinted hard at it. Not moving a muscle. 

Another creak of the door. 

The figure took another silent step. Out of the closet. Another step. Another. 
Making its way past my bed, to the bedroom door. 

Slappy. 

Yes! 

Even in the night blackness I could see his large, rounded head. I watched 
his skinny arms dangle at his sides, the wooden hands bobbing as he moved. 

The heavy leather shoes slid over my carpet. The thin, boneless legs nearly 
collapsed with each shuffling step. 

Like a scarecrow, I thought, gripped with horror. 

He walks like a scarecrow. Because he has no bones. No bones at all. 

Up and down, his whole body bobbed as he crept away. 

I waited until he slithered and scraped out the door and into the hall. Then I 
jumped to my feet. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

Then I tiptoed through the darkness after him. 

Here we go! I told myself. Here we go! 

17 

I stopped at the bedroom door and poked my head into the hall. Mom keeps a 
small night-light on all night just outside her bedroom door. It cast dim yellow 
light over the other end of the hall. 

Peering into the light, I watched Slappy pull himself silently toward Sara’s 
room. The big shoes shuffled along the carpet. Slappy’s body bobbed and bent. 
The big, wooden hands nearly dragged along the floor. 

When my chest started to ache, I realized I hadn’t taken a breath. As 
silently as I could, I let out a long whoosh of air. Then I took another deep breath 
and started to follow Slappy down the hall. 

I had a sudden impulse to shout: “Mom! Dad!” 

They would burst out of their room and see Slappy standing there in the 
middle of the hall. 

But, no. 

I didn’t want to shout for them now. I wanted to see where Slappy was 
heading. I wanted to see what he planned to do. 

I took a step. The floorboard creaked under my bare foot. 

Did he hear me? 

I pressed my back against the wall, tried to squeeze myself flat in the deep 
shadows. 

I peered through the dim yellow light at him. He kept bobbing silently 
along. His shoulders rode up and down with each shuffling step. 

He was just outside Sara’s room when he turned around. 

My heart stopped. 

I ducked low. Dropped back into the bathroom. 

Had he seen me? 

Had he turned around because he knew I was there? 

I shut my eyes. Waited. Listened. 

Listened for him to come scraping back. Listened for him to turn around 
and come back to get me. 

Silence. 

I swallowed hard. My mouth felt so dry. My legs were trembling. I grabbed 
the tile wall to steady myself. 

Still silent out there. 

I gathered up my courage and slowly, slowly poked my head out into the 

hall. 

Empty. 

I squinted toward Sara’s room in the yellow light. 

No one there. 

He’s in Sara’s room, I told myself. He’s doing something terrible in Sara’s 
room. Something I’ll be blamed for. 

Not this time, Slappy! I silently vowed. 

This time you’re going to be caught. 

Pressing against the wall, I crept down the hall. 

I stopped in Sara’s doorway. 

The night-light was plugged in across from Sara’s room. The light was 
brighter here. 

I squinted into her bedroom. I could see the mural she had started to paint. 
A beach scene. The ocean. A broad, yellow beach. Kites flying over the beach. 
Kids building a sand castle in one corner. The mural was tacked up, nearly 
covering the entire wall. 

Where was Slappy? 

I took a step into the room—and saw him. 

Standing at her paint table. 

I saw his big wooden hand fumble over the table of supplies. Then he 
grabbed a paintbrush in one hand. 

He raised and lowered the brush, as if pretending to paint the air. 

Then I saw him dip the paintbrush in a jar of paint. 

Slappy took a step toward the mural. Then another step. 

He stood for a moment, admiring the mural. 

He raised the paintbrush high. 

That’s when I burst into the room. 

I dove toward the dummy just as he raised the paintbrush to the mural. 

I grabbed the paintbrush with one hand. Wrapped my other hand around his 
waist. And tugged him back. 

The dummy kicked both legs and tried to punch me with his fists. 

“Hey—!” a startled voice shouted. 

The light clicked on. 

Slappy went limp on my arm. His head dropped. His arms and legs dangled 

to the floor. 

Sitting up in bed, Sara gaped at me in horror. 

I saw her eyes stop at the paintbrush in my hand. 

“Amy—what are you doing?” she cried. 

And, then, without waiting for an answer, Sara began to shout: “Mom! Dad! 
Hurry! She’s in here again!” 

18 

Dad came rumbling in first, adjusting his pajama pants. “What’s going on? 
What’s the problem?” 

Mom followed right behind him, blinking and yawning. 

“I—I took this from Slappy,” I stammered, holding up the paintbrush. “He 
—he was going to ruin the mural.” 

They stared at the paintbrush in my hand. 

“I heard Slappy sneak out of the closet,” I explained breathlessly. “I 
followed him into Sara’s room. I grabbed him just before—before he did 
something terrible.” 

I turned to Sara. “You saw Slappy—right? You saw him?” 

“Yeah,” Sara said, still in bed, her arms crossed over her chest. “I see 
Slappy. You’re carrying him on your arm.” 

The dummy hung over my arm, its head nearly hitting the floor. 

“No!” I cried to Sara. “You saw him sneak into your room—right? That’s 
why you turned on the light?” 

Sara rolled her eyes. “I saw you come into my room,” she replied. “You’re 
carrying the dummy, Amy. You’re holding the dummy—and the brush.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

My eyes darted from face to face. They ah stared back at me as if I had just 
landed on Earth in a flying saucer. 

No one in my family was going to believe me. No one. 

The next morning, Mom hung up the phone as I came down for breakfast. 
“You’re wearing shorts to school?” she asked, eyeing my outfit—olive-green 
shorts and a red, sleeveless T-shirt. 

“The radio said it’s going to be hot,” I replied. 

Jed and Sara were already at the table. They glanced up from their cereal 
bowls, but didn’t say anything. 

I poured myself a glass of grape juice. I’m the only one in my family who 
doesn’t like orange juice. I guess I am totally weird. 

“Who were you talking to on the phone?” I asked Mom. I took a long drink. 

“Uh... Dr. Palmer’s secretary,” she replied hesitantly. “You have purple 



above your lip,” she told me, pointing. 

I wiped the grape juice off with a napkin. “Dr. Palmer? Isn’t she a shrink?” 
I asked. 

Mom nodded. “I tried to get an appointment for today. But she can’t see 
you until Wednesday.” 

“But, Mom—!” I protested. 

Mom placed a finger over her mouth. “Sssshhh. No discussion.” 

“But, Mom—!” I repeated. 

“Ssshhh. Just talk to her once, Amy. You might enjoy it. You might think 
it’s helpful.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered. 

I turned to Sara and Jed. They stared down at their cereal bowls. 

I sighed and set the juice glass down in the sink. 

I knew what this meant. It meant that I had until Wednesday to prove to my 
family that I wasn’t a total wack job. 

In the lunchroom at school, Margo begged me to tell her what was going on with 
me. “Why were you locked up in your room all day yesterday?” she demanded. 
“Come on, Amy—spill.” 

“It’s no big deal,” I lied. 

No way I was going to tell her. 

I didn’t need the story going around school that Amy Kramer believes her 
ventriloquist dummy is alive. 

I didn’t need everyone whispering about me and staring at me the way 
everyone in my family did. 

“Dad wants to know if you’ll change your mind about the birthday party,” 
Margo said. “If you want to perform with Slappy, you can—” 

“No. Forget it!” I interrupted. “I put Slappy in the closet, and he’s staying 
there. Forever.” 

Margo’s eyes went wide. “Okay. Okay. Wow. You don’t have to bite my 
head off.” 

“Sorry,” I said quickly. “I’m a little stressed out these days. Here. Want 
this?” I handed her the brownie Mom had packed. 

“Thanks,” Margo replied, surprised. 

“Later,” I said. I crinkled up my lunch bag, tossed it in the trash, and 
hurried away. 



In my room that night, I couldn’t concentrate on my homework. I kept staring at 
the calendar. 

Monday night. I had only two nights to prove that I wasn’t crazy, that 
Slappy really was doing these horrible things. 

I slammed my history book shut. No way I could read about the firing on 
Fort Sumter tonight. 

I paced back and forth for a while. Thinking. Thinking hard. But getting 
nowhere. 

What could I do? 

What? 

After a while, my head felt about to split open. I reached up both hands and 
tugged at my hair. 

“Aaaaagh!” I let out a furious cry. Of anger. Of frustration. 

Maybe I’ll just get rid of Slappy, I decided. 

Maybe I’ll take him outside and toss him in the trash. 

And that will end the whole problem. 

The idea made me feel a little better. 

I turned and took two steps toward the closet. 

But I stopped with a gasp when I saw the doorknob slowly turn. 

As I stared in shock, the closet door swung open. 

Slappy stepped out. 

He slumped forward and stopped a few feet in front of me. 

His blue eyes glared up at me. His grin grew wider. 

“Amy,” he rasped, “it’s time you and I had a little talk.” 



19 


“Amy, now you are my slave,” Slappy said. His threat came out in a harsh, cold 
rasp. The eerie voice made me shiver. 

I stared back at him. I couldn’t reply. 

I gaped into those glassy blue eyes, that red-lipped smirk. 

“You read the ancient words that bring me to life,” the dummy whispered. 
“And now you will serve me. You will do everything I ask.” 

“No!” I finally managed to choke out. “No! Please—!” 

“Yes!” he cried. The grinning wooden head bobbed up and down, nodding. 
“Yes, Amy! You are my slave now! My slave forever!” 

“I w-won’t!” I stammered. “You can’t make me—” My voice caught in my 
throat. My legs wobbled like rubber. My knees buckled, and I nearly fell. 

Slappy raised one hand and grabbed my wrist. I felt the cold, wooden 
fingers tighten around me. 

“You will do as I tell you—from now on,” the dummy whispered. “Or 
else...” 

“Let go of me!” I cried. I struggled to tug my arm free. But his grasp was 
too tight. “Or else what?” I cried. 

“Or else I will destroy your sister’s mural,” Slappy replied. His painted grin 
grew wider. The cold eyes glared into mine. 

“Big deal,” I muttered. “Do you really think I’ll be your slave because you 
wreck her painting? You’ve already wrecked Sara’s room—haven’t you? That 
doesn’t mean I’ll be your slave!” 

“I’ll keep on destroying things,” Slappy replied, tightening his grip on my 
wrist, tugging me down toward him. “Maybe I’ll start wrecking your brother’s 
things, too. And you will be blamed, Amy. You will be blamed for it all.” 

“Stop—” I cried, trying to twist free. 

“Your parents are already worried about you—aren’t they, Amy?” the 
dummy rasped in that harsh, cold whispery voice. “Your parents already think 
you’re crazy!” 

“Stop! Please—!” I pleaded. 

“What do you think they’ll do when you start wrecking everything in the 
house?” Slappy demanded. “What do you think they’ll do to you, Amy?” 

“Listen to me!” I shrieked. “You can’t—” 

He jerked my arm hard. “They’ll send you away!” he rasped, his eyes 
flashing wildly. “That’s what your parents will do. They’ll send you away. And 
you’ll never see them again—except on visiting days!” 

He tilted back his wooden head and uttered a shrill laugh. 

A low moan escaped my throat. My entire body shuddered with terror. 

Slappy tugged me closer. “You will be an excellent slave,” he whispered in 
my ear. “You and I will have many good years together. You will devote your 
life to me.” 

“No!” I cried. “No, I won’t!” 

I sucked in a deep breath. Then I swung my arm hard, as hard as I could. 

I caught the dummy by surprise. 

Before he could let go of my wrist, I pulled him off balance. 

He let out a startled grunt as I lifted him off the floor. 

He’s just a dummy, I told myself. Just a dummy. I can handle him. I can 
beat him. 

His hand fell off my wrist. 

I ducked low. Grabbed his boneless arm with both hands. Swung my 
shoulder. Flipped him over my back. 

He landed hard on his stomach. His head made a loud clonk as it hit the 
floor. 

Breathing hard, my heart thudding wildly, I dove. 

I can handle him. I can beat him. 

I tried to pin him to the floor with my knees. 

But he spun away and scrambled up, faster than I could believe. 

I cried out as he swung his wooden fist. 

I tried to dodge away. But he was too fast. 

The heavy fist hit me square in the forehead. 

My face felt as if it had exploded. Pain shot down my body. 

Everything went bright red. 

And, holding both sides of my head, I crumpled to the floor. 

20 

I can handle him. I can beat him. 

The words repeated in my mind. 

I blinked my eyes. Raised my head. 

I refused to give up. 

Through the haze of red, I reached up with both hands. 

I grabbed Slappy by the waist and pulled him down. 

Ignoring my throbbing forehead, I wrestled him to the ground. He kicked 
both feet and thrashed his arms wildly. He swung at me, trying to land another 
blow. 

But I dug my knee into his middle. Then I wrapped my hands around his 
thrashing arms and pinned them to the floor. 

“Let go, slave!” he squealed. “I command you—let go!” He struggled and 
squirmed. 

But I held tight. 

His eyes darted frantically from side to side. 

His wooden jaw clicked open and shut, open and shut, as he strained to 
squirm free. 

“I command you to let go, slave! You have no choice! You must obey me!” 

I ignored his shrill cries and swung his arms behind his back. Holding them 
tightly in place, I climbed to my feet. 

He tried to kick me with both shoes. But I let go of the arms and grabbed 
his legs. 

I swung him upside down. Once again, his head hit the floor with a clonk. 

It didn’t seem to hurt him a bit. 

“Let go! Let go, slave! You will pay! You will pay dearly for this!” He 
screamed and protested, squirming and swinging his arms. 

Breathing hard, I dragged him across the rug—and swung him into the open 
closet. 

He dove quickly, trying to escape. 

But I slammed the door in his face. And turned the lock. 

With a sigh, I leaned my back against the closet door and struggled to catch 

my breath. 

“Let me out! You can’t keep me in here!” Slappy raged. 

He began pounding on the door. Then he kicked the door. 

“ITl break it down! I really will!” he threatened. He pounded even harder. 
The big wooden hands thudded against the wooden door. 

I turned and saw the door start to give. 

He’s going to break it open! I realized. 

What can I do? What can I do now? I tried to fight back my panic, 
struggled to think clearly. 

Slappy furiously kicked at the door. 

I need help, I decided. 

I bolted into the hall. Mom and Dad had their bedroom door closed, I saw. 
Should I wake them up? 

No. They wouldn’t believe me. 

I’d drag them into my room. Slappy would be slumped lifelessly on the 
closet floor. Mom and Dad would be even more upset about me. 

Sara, I thought. Maybe I can convince Sara. Maybe Sara will listen to me. 

Her door was open. I burst into her bedroom. 

She stood at the mural, brush in hand, dabbing yellow paint on the beach. 

She turned as I ran in, and her face tightened in anger. “Amy—what do you 
want?” she demanded. 

“You—you’ve got to believe me!” I sputtered. “I need your help! It wasn’t 
me who did those horrible things. It really wasn’t, Sara. It was Slappy. Please— 
believe me! It was Slappy!” 

“Yes. I know,” Sara replied calmly. 

21 

“Huh?” My mouth dropped open. I stared at her in surprise. “What did you say?” 

Sara set down the paintbrush. She wiped her hands on her gray smock. 
“Amy—I know it’s Slappy,” she repeated in a whisper. 

“I—I—” I was so stunned, I couldn’t speak. “But, Sara—you—” 

“I’m sorry. I’m so sorry!” she cried with emotion. She rushed forward and 
threw her arms around me. She hugged me tightly. 

I still didn’t believe what she had said. My head was spinning. 

I gently pushed her away. “You knew all this time? You knew it was Slappy 
and not me?” 

Sara nodded. “The other night, I woke up. I heard someone in my room. I 
pretended to be asleep. But I had my eyes open partway.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“I saw Slappy,” Sara confessed, lowering her eyes. “I saw him carrying a 
red paintbrush. I saw him painting AMY AMY AMY AMY all over my walls.” 

“But you didn’t tell Mom and Dad?” I cried. “You made them think it was 
me? And the whole time, you knew the truth?” 

Sara kept her eyes on the floor. Her black hair fell over her face. She 
brushed it back with a quick, nervous sweep of one hand. 

“I—I didn’t want to believe it,” she confessed. “I didn’t want to believe that 
a dummy could walk on its own, that it could be... alive.” 

I glared at her. “And, so—?” 

“So I accused you,” Sara said with a sob. “I guess the truth was just too 
scary. I was too frightened, Amy. I wanted to believe it was you doing those 
horrible things. I wanted to pretend it wasn’t the dummy.” 

“You wanted to get me in trouble,” I accused. “That’s why you did it, Sara. 
That’s why you lied to Mom and Dad. You wanted to get me in trouble.” 

She finally raised her face to me. I saw two tears trailing down her cheeks. 
“Yeah, I guess,” she murmured. 

She wiped the tears off with her hands. Her green eyes locked on mine. “I 
—I guess I’m a little jealous of you,” she said. 

“Huh?” My sister had stunned me again. I squinted at her, trying to make 
sense of her words. “You?” I cried. “You’re jealous of me?” 

She nodded. “Yeah. I guess. Everything is easy for you. You’re so relaxed. 
Everyone likes your sense of humor. It’s not like that for me,” Sara explained. “I 
have to paint to impress people.” 

I opened my mouth, but no sound came out. 

This had to be the biggest surprise of all. Sara jealous of me? 

Didn’t she know how jealous I was of her? 

I suddenly had a funny feeling in my chest. My eyes brimmed with tears. 
Strong emotion swept over me like an ocean wave. 

I rushed forward and hugged Sara. 

For some reason, we both started laughing. I can’t explain it. We stood there 
in the middle of her room, laughing like lunatics. 

I guess we were just so glad that the truth was out. 

Then Slappy’s painted face flashed back into my mind. And I remembered 
with a chill why I had burst into my sister’s room. 

“You have to help me,” I told her. “Right now.” 

Sara’s smile vanished. “Help you do what?” she demanded. 

“We have to get rid of Slappy,” I told her. “We have to get rid of him for 
good.” 

I tugged her hand. She followed me down the hall. 

“But—how?” she asked. 

Stepping into my room, we both cried out at once. 

We heard a final kick—and the closet door swung open. 

Slappy burst out, his eyes wild with rage. 

“Guess what, slaves?” he rasped. “Slappy wins!” 

22 

“Grab him!” I cried to my sister. 

I reached out both arms and made a frantic dive for the dummy. But he 
scampered to the side and slipped away from my tackle. 

His blue eyes flashed excitedly. His red lips twisted in an ugly grin. 

“Give up, slaves!” he rasped. “You cannot win!” 

Sara held back, hands against the door frame. I could see the fear in her 

eyes. 

I made another grab for Slappy. Missed again. 

“Sara—help me!” I pleaded. 

Sara took a step into the room. 

I leaped at Slappy, grabbed one boneless ankle. 

With a grunt, he pulled out of my grasp. He darted toward the door—and 
ran right into Sara. 

The collision stunned them both. 

Sara staggered back. 

Slappy teetered off balance. 

I threw myself at him, caught his arms, and pulled them behind his back. 

He squirmed and twisted. He kicked out furiously. 

But Sara grabbed both of his big leather shoes. “Tie him in a knot!” she 
cried breathlessly. 

He kicked and thrashed. 

But we held tight. 

I twisted his arms behind him. Twisted them around each other. Twisted. 
Twisted. Then tied them in as tight a knot as I could. 

Slappy squirmed and bucked, grunting loudly, his wooden jaws clicking. 
When I glanced up from my work on the arms, I saw that Sara had wrapped 
his legs in a knot, too. 

Slappy tilted back his head and uttered a roar of rage. His eyes slid up into 
his head so that only the whites showed. “Put me down, slaves! Put me down at 
once!” 

With one hand, I grabbed a wad of tissues from my bed table and jammed it 

into Slappy’s mouth. 

He uttered a grunt of protest, then went silent. 

“Now what?” Sara cried breathlessly. “Where should we put him?” 

My eyes shot around the room. No, I decided. I don’t want him in my room. 
I don’t want him in the house. 

“Outside,” I instructed my sister, holding on to the knotted arms with both 
of my hands. “Let’s get him outside.” 

Struggling to hold on to the bucking legs, Sara glanced at the clock. “It’s 
after eleven. What if Mom and Dad hear us?” 

“I don’t care!” I cried. “Hurry! I want him out of here! I never want to see 
him again!” 

We dragged Slappy out into the hall. Mom and Dad’s door remained closed. 

Good, I thought. They hadn’t heard our struggle. 

Sara carried him by the knotted legs. I held on to the arms. 

Slappy had stopped struggling and squirming. I think he was waiting to see 
what we were going to do with him. The wad of tissues had silenced his cries. 

I didn’t know where to take him. I only knew I wanted him out of the 
house. 

We carried him through the darkened living room and out the front door. 
We stepped into a hot, sticky night, more like summer than spring. A pale sliver 
of a moon hovered low in a blue-black sky. 

There was no breeze. No sounds of any kind. Nothing moved. 

Sara and I carried the dummy to the driveway. “Should we take him 
somewhere on our bikes?” she suggested. 

“How will we balance him?” I asked. “Besides, it’s too dark. Too 
dangerous. Let’s just carry him a few blocks and dump him somewhere.” 

“You mean in a trash can or something?” Sara asked. 

I nodded. “That’s where he belongs. In the trash.” 

Luckily, the dummy didn’t weigh much at all. We made our way to the 
sidewalk, then carried him to the end of the block. 

Slappy remained limp, his eyes rolled up in his head. 

At the corner, I spotted two circles of white light approaching. Car 
headlights. “Quick—!” I whispered to Sara. 

We slipped behind a hedge just in time. The car rolled by without slowing. 

We waited for the glow of red taillights to disappear in the darkness. Then 
we continued down the next block, carrying the dummy between us. 

“Hey—how about those?” Sara asked, pointing with her free hand. 

I squinted to see what she had spotted. A row of metal trash cans lined up at 
the curb in front of a dark house across the street. 

“Looks good,” I said. “Let’s shove him in and clamp down the lid. Maybe 
the trash guys will haul him away tomorrow.” 

I led the way across the street—and then stopped. “Sara—wait,” I 
whispered. “I have a better idea.” 

I dragged the dummy toward the corner. I motioned to the metal drain down 
at the curb. 

“The sewer?” Sara whispered. 

I nodded. “It’s perfect.” Through the narrow opening at the curb, I could 
hear running water far down below. “Come on. Shove him in.” 

Slappy still didn’t move or protest in any way. 

I lowered his head to the drain opening. Then Sara and I pushed him in 
headfirst. 

I heard a splash and a hard thud as he hit the sewer floor. 

We both listened. Silence. Then the soft trickle of water. 

Sara and I grinned at each other. 

We hurried home. I was so happy, I skipped most of the way. 

The next morning, Sara and I came to the kitchen for breakfast together. Mom 
turned from the counter, where she was pouring herself a cup of coffee. 

Jed was already at the table, eating his Frosted Flakes. “What’s he doing 
down here?” Jed asked. 

He pointed across the table. 

At Slappy. Sitting in the chair. 

23 

Sara and I both gasped. 

“Yes. Why is that dummy down here?” Mom asked me. “I found him sitting 
there when I came in this morning. And why is he so dirty? Where has he been, 
Amy?” 

I could barely choke out a word. “I... uh... I guess he fell or something,” I 
finally mumbled. 

“Well, take him back upstairs,” Mom ordered. “He’s supposed to be kept in 
the closet—remember?” 

“Uh... yeah. I remember,” I said, sighing. 

“You’ll have to clean him up later,” Mom said, stirring her coffee. “He 
looks as if he’s been wallowing in the mud.” 

“Okay,” I replied weakly. 

I hoisted Slappy up and slung him over my shoulder. Then I started to my 
room. 

“I—I’ll come with you,” Sara stammered. 

“What for?” Mom demanded. “Sit down, Sara, and eat your breakfast. 
You’re both going to be late.” 

Sara obediently sat down across from Jed. I made my way down the hall. 

I was halfway to my room when Slappy raised his head and whispered in 
my ear, “Good morning, slave. Did you sleep well?” 

I tossed him into the closet and locked the door. I could hear him laughing 
inside the closet. The evil laugh made me shake all over. 

What am I going to do now? I asked myself. What can I do to get rid of this 
creature ? 

The day dragged by. I don’t think I heard a word my teacher said. 

I couldn’t get Slappy’s evil, grinning face out of my mind. His raspy voice 
rattled in my ears. 

I won’t be your slave! I silently vowed. I’ll get you out of my house—out of 
my life—if it’s the last thing I do! 

That night, I lay wide awake in my bed. How could I sleep, knowing that evil 

dummy sat in the closet a few feet away? 

The night was hot and steamy. I had pushed the window open all the way, 
but there was no breeze. A fly buzzed by my head, the first fly of spring. 

Staring up at the twisting shadows on the ceiling, I brushed the fly away 
with one hand. As soon as the buzzing vanished, another sound took its place. 

A click. A low squeak. 

The sound of the closet door opening. 

I raised myself up off the pillow. Squinting into the darkness, I saw Slappy 
creep out of the closet. 

He took a few shuffling steps, his big shoes sliding silently over my carpet. 
He turned. 

Was he coming toward my bed? 

No. 

His head and shoulders bobbed as he pulled himself to the door. Then out 
into the hall. 

He’s going to Sara’s room, I knew. 

But what was he going to do there? Did he plan to pay us back for what we 
did to him last night? 

What new horror was he going to create? 

I lowered my feet to the floor, climbed out of bed, and followed him out 
into the hall. 

24 

My eyes adjusted quickly to the dim yellow light from the night-light at the other 
end of the hall. I watched Slappy slither toward my sister’s room. He moved as 
silently as a shadow. 

I held my breath and kept my back against the wall as I followed behind 
him. When he turned into Sara’s room, I stepped away from the wall and started 
to run. 

I reached the bedroom doorway in time to see Slappy pick up a wide 
paintbrush from Sara’s supply table. He took a step toward the mural on the wall. 

One step. 

And then another small figure leaped out of the darkness. 

The lights flashed on. 

“Dennis!” I cried. 

“Stand back!” Dennis ordered in a high, shrill voice. He lowered his 
wooden head and charged at Slappy. 

Sara sat up in her bed and uttered a frightened cry. 

I could see the stunned expression on Slappy’s face. 

Dennis flew at Slappy. He slammed his head into Slappy’s middle. 

Slappy let out a loud “Oooof!” He staggered back. Fell. 

A loud thud rang through the room as the back of Slappy’s head hit Sara’s 
iron bedpost. 

I raised both hands to my cheeks and gasped as Slappy’s head cracked 
open. 

The wooden head split down the middle. 

I watched the evil face crack apart. The wide, shocked eyes slid in different 
directions. The red lips cracked and fell away. 

The head dropped to the floor in two pieces. And then the body collapsed in 
a heap beside them. 

My hands still pressed against my face, my heart pounding, I took a few 
steps into the room. 

Dennis ran past me, out to the hall. 

But my eyes were locked on the two pieces of Slappy’s head. I stared in 
horror as an enormous white worm crawled out of one of the pieces. The fat 

worm slithered and curled to the wall—and vanished into a crack in the molding. 

Sara climbed out of bed, breathing hard, her face bright red from the 
excitement. 

The closet door swung open. Mom and Dad came bursting out. 

“Girls—are you okay?” Dad cried. 

We nodded. 

“We saw the whole thing!” Mom exclaimed. She threw her arms around 
me. “Amy, I’m so sorry. I’m so sorry. We should have believed you. I’m so sorry 
we didn’t believe you.” 

“We believe you now!” Dad declared, staring down at Slappy’s broken 
head, his crumpled body. “We saw everything!” 

It was all planned. Sara and I had worked it out before dinner. 

Sara convinced Mom and Dad to hide in the closet. Mom and Dad were 
really creeped out by the way I was acting. They were willing to do anything. 

So Sara pretended to go to sleep. Mom and Dad hid in the closet. 

I left the closet door unlocked to make it easier for Slappy to get out. 

I knew Slappy would creep into Sara’s room. I knew Mom and Dad would 
finally see that I’m not crazy. 

And then Jed burst out dressed as Dennis, with Dennis’ head propped up on 
top of his turtleneck sweater. 

We knew that would shock Slappy. We knew it would give us a chance to 
grab him. 

We didn’t know what a great job Jed would do. We didn’t know that Jed 
would actually destroy the evil dummy. We didn’t know that Slappy’s head 
would crack apart. That was just good luck. 

“Hey—where is Jed?” I asked, my eyes searching the room. 

“Jed? Jed?” Mom called. “Where are you? You did a great job!” 

No reply. 

No sign of my brother. 

“Weird,” Sara muttered, shaking her head. 

We all trooped down the hall into Jed’s room. 

We found him in bed, sound asleep. He groggily raised his head from the 
pillow and squinted at us. “What time is it?” he asked sleepily. 

“It’s nearly eleven,” Dad replied. 

“Oh, no!” Jed cried, sitting up. “I’m sorry! I forgot to wake up! I forgot I 
was supposed to dress up like Dennis!” 

I felt a shiver run down my back. I turned to my parents. “Then who fought 
Slappy?” I asked. “Who fought Slappy?” 

THE BARKING GHOST 

1 

For the zillionth time that night, I threw the covers off my legs and bolted up 
from the bed. 

I definitely heard something that time. 

And it wasn’t the wind, either. I’m always hearing things. But no matter 
what I hear, Mom says, “It’s just the wind, Cooper. Just the wind.” 

But the wind doesn’t sound like heavy footsteps crunching through the 
leaves. And that’s what I heard this time. Definitely. 

I stood next to my bedroom window. Then I leaned over and peered out. It 
sure was spooky out there. 

I squinted to see better in the dark. Don’t lean over too far, I thought. Don’t 
let whoever or whatever is out there see you. 

My eyes searched the backyard. I lifted my head—and spotted them. A few 
feet away. Huge, black, gnarly arms. Reaching out toward the window. 

Ready to grab me. 

No. It was only the branches of the old oak tree. 

Well, give me a break. I said it was dark out! 

My eyes swept over the yard again. The sound. There it was! 

I ducked. My legs trembled as I crouched beneath the window. I broke out 
into a cold sweat. 

Crunch. Crunch. 

Even louder than before. 

I swallowed hard and took another peek. Something moved in the shadows. 
Under the oak tree. I held my breath. 

Crunch. Crunch, crunch. 

A gust of wind blew the tree branches furiously. 

Crunch, crunch, crunch. 

The frightening sounds grew louder. Closer to the house. 

As I peered out, two eyes suddenly flashed in the dark. My throat went dry. 
I couldn’t cry out. 

The eyes flashed again. They were even closer to the house this time. Right 
outside my window. 

Staring at me. 

Moving toward me. 

The creature’s dark shape began to take form. It was a— 

—bunny rabbit?? 

I let out a long sigh. 

The first night in my new house—and I was already shaking in terror. 

I shuffled into the bathroom for a towel. As I mopped the sweat from my 
forehead, I stared at my reflection in the medicine chest mirror. 

Whenever I’m scared, my freckles really stand out. There they were. 
Millions of them. 

I ran my fingers through my hair. I wear it long. To help cover my big, 
droopy ears. 

I’ve had these huge ears my whole life. Mom keeps telling me not to worry. 
She says I’ll grow into them. But I’m twelve now, and nothing has changed. My 
ears are still huge. Huge and droopy. 

I wear a cap most of the time to help hide them. It’s my favorite cap from 
my favorite baseball team—the Red Sox. So I don’t mind wearing it. 

A bunny rabbit, I mumbled as I stared at myself in the mirror. Scared by a 
bunny rabbit. 

I’d made it through the entire day without being scared once. That’s pretty 
good for me. 

Back where I used to live—in Boston, Massachusetts—my best friends, 
Gary and Todd, always made fun of me. 

“Cooper,” they’d say, “you probably scare yourself on Halloween!” 

They were right. I get scared a lot. Some people just scare easier than 
others. I’m an easy scarer. 

Take last summer at camp. I got lost in the woods on my way to the 
bathroom cabin. What did I do? 

Nothing. I just stood there. 

When the kids from my bunk finally found me, I was shaking all over. 
Practically in tears. Turns out I was standing a few feet from the dining hall the 
whole time. 

So, okay. I admit it. When it comes to bravery, I’m not exactly Indiana 
Jones! 

When my parents announced we were moving from the city into a house in 
the woods, I was a little tense. 

Maybe even scared. 

Scared to leave the apartment I’d lived in my entire life. 

Scared of a house in the woods. 

And then I learned that our new house was deep in the woods, somewhere 
in Maine. Miles from the nearest town. 

The only two scary books I’d ever read took place in Maine. In the woods. 

But I had no choice. We were moving. Mom’s new job landed us in Maine, 
and there was nothing I could do about it. 

I left the bathroom and crept back to my bed. The floorboards creaked and 
cracked with each step. It was going to be hard getting used to that. 

It was also going to be hard getting used to all the other strange noises this 
old house made. The rattling pipes. The scraping shutters. And some weird noise 
that thumped really loudly every hour. 

At dinner, Mom said that the thumping noise was only the house “settling”. 

Whatever that means. 

At least she didn’t say, “It’s just the wind, Cooper.” 

I jumped into bed and pulled the covers up to my chin. Then I fluffed my 
pillows two or three times, trying hard to get comfortable. I felt a little safer in 
bed. 

I love my bed. Mom wanted to trash it when we moved. She said I needed a 
new one. But I said no way. It had taken me years to break this bed in. The 
mattress had just the right amount of lumps, and they were in all the right spots. 

In the dark, I glanced around my new room. It was so weird seeing all my 
things in this strange place. When the movers carried my stuff in here this 
morning, I had them put the furniture exactly the way it was in my old room. 

Across from my bed, my dad built a really cool bookcase for all my snow 
domes. It has a light in it and everything. 

I can’t wait to unpack my snow domes. I have seventy-seven of them from 
all over the world—even Australia and Hong Kong. I guess you could call me a 
snow dome collector. 

Anyway, I was finally beginning to relax, thinking about my snow domes— 
when I heard another noise. 

Not a bunch of little crunches like before—but one long, drawn-out crunch. 

I shot straight up in bed. This time I was sure. One hundred percent sure. 
Someone—or something—was creeping around out there. Right outside my 
window! 

I threw off the covers. Then I dropped to the floor on my hands and knees. 
Moving slowly, I crawled to the window. Then I carefully pulled myself up and 
peered outside. 

What was it? 

A snake? 

I flung open the window. I grabbed a softball from the floor and tossed it at 
the snake. Then I fell back down to my knees and listened. 

Silence. No crunching. No slithering. 

A direct hit. Great! 

I stood and leaned carefully out the window. I was feeling pretty proud of 
myself. After all, I had just saved my family from a deadly— 

—garden hose! 

I let out a disappointed sigh and shook my head. Get a grip, Cooper. 

If Gary and Todd were here, they would never let me hear the end of this. 
They’d be laughing their heads off. 

“Nice going, Coop!” Gary would say. “Saved your family from a poisonous 
garden hose!” 

“Yeah. Super Cooper strikes again!” Todd would say. Back in bed again, I 
fluffed up my pillows one more time. Then I closed my eyes as tightly as I 
could. 

That’s it, I said to myself. I am not getting up again. I don’t care what I hear 

next. 

I will not get up from this bed again. No matter what. 

And then I heard another noise. A different kind of noise. A sound that 
made my heart pound right through my chest. 

Breathing. 

Deep, heavy breathing. 

In my room. 

Under my bed! 

2 

I didn’t move. 

I couldn’t move. 

I stared at the ceiling. Listening. Listening to the raspy breathing under my 

bed. 

Okay, Cooper, I told myself. Calm down. It’s probably your imagination. 
Playing tricks on you again. 

The breathing grew louder. Raspier. 

I covered my ears and shut my eyes tight. 

It’s nothing. It’s nothing. It’s nothing. 

It’s an old house, I thought, still covering my ears. Old houses have to 
breathe—don’t they? 

Or, what was it that Mom said? Settling? Yeah, that’s what it must be. The 
house settling. 

Or maybe it’s the pipes. We had pipes in our apartment in Boston, and they 
made crazy noises all the time. I’ll bet that’s what it is—the pipes. 

I lowered my hands. 

Silence now. No settling. No pipes. No breathing. 

I must be losing my mind. 

If I told Gary and Todd about this one, they’d really laugh their heads off. 
And then the breathing started again. Raspy and wet. Hoarse breathing. 
Like a sick animal. 

I couldn’t just lie there. I had to see what it was. 

I swung my legs out of bed. I took a deep breath. Then I lowered myself to 
the floor. 

Carefully, I lifted the blanket from the bottom of the bed. Then carefully, 
carefully, I lowered my head and peeked under the bed. 

That’s when the hands darted out—and grabbed me. Two strong, cold 
hands. Slowly tightening their grip around my throat. 

3 

I screamed. 

So loudly, I surprised myself. 

My attacker must have been surprised, too. He quickly let go of my neck. I 
clutched my throat and sputtered for air. 

“Cooper, will you keep it down?” a voice whispered. “You’ll wake Mom 
and Dad!” 

Huh? 

Oh, man. 

It was Mickey. My totally obnoxious older brother. 

“Mickey! You jerk!” I cried. “You scared me to death!” 

Mickey slid out from under the bed and wiped some dust off his pajamas. 
“No big challenge,” he muttered. 

“Shut up,” I snapped, rubbing my sore neck. In the mirror I could see where 
Mickey’s hands had grabbed my throat. Dark red blotches circled my neck. 

“Look what you did!” I cried. “You know I bruise easily!” 

“Oh, don’t be such a baby! I got you, man!” Mickey cried, grinning. 

I stared furiously at my idiot brother. I wished I could wipe that grin off his 
face. And not get in trouble for it. 

“You’re a jerk!” was all I could think to say. 

“Grow up!” Mickey shot back. He headed for the door, then turned around. 
“Would Cooper like a little night-light next to his bed?” he asked in a tiny baby 
voice. 

That’s when I lost it. 

I leaped on to his back and pounded his head with my fists. 

“Hey!” he screamed, trying to shake me off. “What do you think you’re 
doing? Get off me!” 

Mickey’s legs buckled under him, and he fell to the floor. I clung to his 
back. I kept pounding him with my fists. 

Mickey is three years older than me, and he’s a lot bigger. But I had him in 
the right position, and landed a few good punches. 

Then he shifted to the right. 

And started pounding me back. Luckily, he got in only one really good 
wallop before Mom and Dad ran in to break it up. 

“Cooper! Mickey! What’s going on in here?” 

“He started it!” I called out, trying to duck Mickey’s fists. 

My father reached down and pulled Mickey off me. “I don’t care who 
started it!” he said angrily. “This is no way to act on the first night in your new 
house. Mickey, get back to your room!” 

“But, Dad, he—” 

“Never mind who started it. This behavior had better stop—now! Because 
if there is a next time, you’ll both start off the new school year grounded!” 

Grumbling, Mickey stomped out of the room. But not before sticking his 
tongue out at me. Mickey was the baby. Not me. 

“Really, Dad, Mickey started it,” I said when he was gone. 

“And you’re totally innocent, right?” my father asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Yes!” I insisted. 

Dad just shook his head. “Go to sleep, Cooper.” 

When my parents left the room, I paced back and forth, rubbing my neck. 

I was so steamed! 

It wasn’t the first time Mickey’s pulled something like this. For as long as I 
can remember, Mickey has played tricks on me, trying to terrify me. 

He usually succeeds, too. 

Once, when Mom and Dad went away for a weekend, he hid a tape recorder 
in my room. It played horrifying screams all night long. 

And another time, he didn’t come to get me after Little League practice. He 
left me standing there, all alone on the playground, while he hid out and watched 
me panic. 

But hiding under my bed tonight was the worst. He has to be one of the 
biggest jerks alive. 

I climbed back into bed and stared up at the ceiling. I had to think of a way 
to get Mickey back. 

What could I do? Hide outside his window and scream? 

Jump out from behind the shower curtain when he’s brushing his teeth? 

No. Too dumb. It would have to be something totally excellent. Something 
so creepy it would scare me. Even though I was the one doing it. 

I watched the spooky shadows move along my walls and ceiling. And 
listened to the frightening noises of my new house—noises I would have to hear 

for the rest of my life. 

The pipes rattling. The dogs barking. 

Wait a minute. 

Dogs? 

I sat up. We don’t have a dog. And there isn’t another house around here for 
miles. 

But I definitely heard a barking dog. 

I listened closely. The dog barked again. Then started to howl. 

I sighed and pulled off the covers again. I started to climb out of bed. Then 
it hit me. 

Mickey! 

This had to be another one of my brother’s stupid tricks. He was an 
excellent dog-barker. He practiced it all the time. 

Smiling, I settled back on my pillow. I wouldn’t get up. I wouldn’t go to the 
window. 

He wasn’t going to get me this time. No way. 

I lay there listening to Mickey make a fool of himself. Howling and barking 
like a big old dog. 

What a jerk. 

Then, suddenly, I sat up again. Whoa. I heard two dogs howling now. 

Even Mickey couldn’t pull that off. 

The howling turned to piercing cries. So close. Right under my window. 

As I said, I made it through a whole day without being scared. But, boy, 
was I making up for it tonight! 

For the zillionth and third time, I slowly crept to the window. I could hear 
them clearly. Two dogs. Wailing and howling. 

For the zillionth and third time, I gazed out the window. 

But for the first time, I couldn’t believe what I saw. 

4 

I didn’t see anything. 

Nothing at all. No dogs. Not one. 

I squinted into the yard. Empty. 

How could they have vanished so quickly? 

I stood at the window for a few more seconds, but no dogs appeared. 

I shivered. I’ll never sleep again, I thought. Not as long as I have to live 

here. 

I crept back to bed. I pulled the covers up to my chin. And counted the 
green and blue squigglies on the wallpaper by my head. 

I guess I finally fell asleep. When I opened my eyes, light streamed in 
through my window. 

Yawning, I glanced at the clock. Six-thirty. I’m usually an early bird. I like 
to start my day as soon as possible. 

I leaped out of bed and checked the yard. It didn’t seem half as scary in the 
morning light. 

I smiled when I noticed the jungle gym in the far corner. The last owners of 
the house built it. It had a slide and really high monkey bars. Yesterday, Dad 
hung a rope and tire from one of its beams, so now it had a swing, too. 

Behind the jungle gym, the woods stretched all around. Woods thick with 
all different kinds of trees and shrubs and weeds. The woods surrounded our 
house on three sides. It seemed to go on forever. 

I changed quickly, pulling a clean Red Sox T-shirt over my jeans. Grabbing 
my baseball cap, I flew through the house and ran outside. 

A great summer day! Sunny and warm. If I were back home in Boston, I 
would hop on my bike and ride over to Gary’s or Todd’s house. Then we would 
spend the day outdoors, playing softball at the playground. Or just messing 
around. 

But I’m not in Boston anymore. Better get used to that, I told myself. 

I hoped some cool kids lived in this neighborhood. When we drove up to 
our house yesterday, I didn’t see any other houses around. I guessed I’d have to 
spend the next few days alone—until school started next week. 

I wandered over to the jungle gym. I swung on the tire swing for a little 

while. Back and forth. Back and forth. Staring at my bedroom window from the 
outside. Back and forth. Back and forth. Remembering last night. 

Remembering just how brave Super Cooper had been. Yuck! 

Back and forth. Back and forth. 

Remembering the dogs. 

Hey. That’s weird, I thought. Those dogs I heard should have left paw prints 
all over the yard. But I couldn’t see a single one. 

I hopped off the swing and searched the ground all around the house. No 
sign of any dogs. 

That’s funny. I knew there were dogs out here last night. 

I glanced up at the edge of the woods. Maybe those dogs were lost, I 
thought. Maybe they came to the house last night searching for help. 

Maybe I should go track them down. 

I bit my lower lip. A kid could lose his way—forever—in those woods, I 
thought nervously. 

Well, I’m going in, I decided. Today is the first day of the new me. Super 
Cooper—for real. I wanted to find those dogs. To prove to myself that I wasn’t 
going crazy. 

Who knows? If I find the dogs, maybe Dad will let me keep one, I decided. 
It might be fun to have a dog. 

I’d always wanted a puppy. But Mom said the fur made her sneeze. Maybe 
she’d change her mind. 

I took one long, deep breath. Then I stepped into the woods. I saw some 
amazing trees. I saw beautiful old birch trees with smooth, white trunks. And I 
saw sassafras and maple trees. Their trunks were gnarled and thick. 

They could be over a hundred years old, I thought. Awesome. 

Maybe Dad can build a tree house back here, I told myself excitedly. That 
would be so cool. Then when Gary and Todd came to visit, we could hang out in 
it. 

I kept my eyes on the ground as I walked, searching for any sign of dogs. 

Nothing. No prints. No broken branches. 

How weird. I definitely heard dogs last night. 

Or maybe I just thought I’d heard those dogs. It was kind of late, and I was 
pretty sleepy. Maybe it was my imagination. 

Or maybe it was Mickey after all. 

Maybe he tape-recorded another dog and barked along with it. 

He would do something like that. 

He’s that sneaky. 

I really had to pay him back. Something way creepy. Maybe I could do 
something out here in the woods. 

I made my way through the thick trees and tall weeds, the whole time 
thinking of how to scare Mickey. 

I suddenly realized I hadn’t been paying attention to where I was going. 

I spun around and peered through the thick trunks. 

My house! I couldn’t see it! 

Okay, Cooper, keep cool. You can’t be that far away, I told myself. 

But my palms began to sweat. 

I swallowed hard, then tried to remember which way I’d come. 

Definitely the left. 

No, wait. Maybe right. 

I hung my head and moaned. It’s no use, I thought. 

I’m lost. Hopelessly lost. 

5 

I really didn’t want to cry. 

Who needed Mickey seeing me with wet, red eyes? 

I’d never hear the end of it. 

Besides, today was the first day of the new me. The new Super Cooper. 

I took a really deep breath and tried to calm down. 

I decided to walk a little to my right. If I didn’t see my house, I’d turn and 
double back to the left. 

It was worth a try. 

What did I have to lose? I was lost anyway. 

I turned to the right. I tried to take the straightest path possible. 

The snapping of branches behind me made me spin around. 

No one there. 

It’s just a harmless squirrel or something, I told myself. Just keep going. 

I returned to my straight path again. But with my first step, I heard leaves 
mstling behind me. 

I didn’t turn around. I quickened my pace. 

And I heard it again. 

Twigs snapping. Leaves rustling. 

My throat suddenly felt dry. Don’t panic. Don’t panic. “Wh-who’s there?” I 
croaked. 

No answer. 

I turned back. 

Whoa! Which way had I been walking? My head began to spin. I suddenly 
felt dizzy. Too dizzy to remember where I had been. 

Snap. Snap. Crack. Crunch. 

“Who is there?” I called out again. My voice didn’t sound all that steady for 
Super Cooper. 

“Mickey, is that you? This isn’t funny! Mickey?” 

Then I felt something horrible scrape my cheek. Something cold. And 
sharp. 

I couldn’t help it. I started to scream. 

6 

A leaf. A dumb leaf. 

Come on, Cooper! Get a grip! 

I sat down on the ground for a second. I checked my watch. It was almost 
eight. 

Dad would be out in the yard soon. He planned to set up the new barbecue 
grill first thing this morning. I figured I could just wait for the hammering to 
start, then walk in the direction of the noise. 

I’d just sit here. And wait. Wait for the hammering. Good idea, I thought. 

I heard something rustle behind me. 

Just the leaves, I told myself. The dumb leaves. 

I stole a glance up at the trees. I tilted my head way back—and someone 
grabbed my arm. 

I jerked away. Sprang up. Started to run. 

And tripped over my own feet. 

Scrambling up, I gasped in surprise. 

A girl. 

She was about my age and had really long, red hair. It was frizzy, and it 
stuck out in a million directions. She had big green eyes. She wore a bright red 
T-shirt and red shorts. She reminded me of a rag doll Todd’s little sister used to 
carry around. 

“You okay?” she asked, her hands on her waist. 

“Yeah, sure. Fine,” I muttered. 

“Didn’t mean to scare you,” she said. 

“I wasn’t scared,” I lied. 

“Really,” she said. “I would have been scared, too, if someone grabbed me 
like that. I really didn’t mean to.” 

“I told you,” I said sharply, “I wasn’t scared.” 

“Okay. Sorry.” 

“What are you sorry about?” I asked. This had to be the weirdest girl I’d 
ever met. 

“I don’t know,” she replied, shrugging. “I’m just sorry.” 

“Well, you can stop apologizing,” I told her. I brushed the dirt off my 
clothes and picked up my baseball cap. I quickly set it back on my head. To 
cover my ears. 

The girl stared at me. She stood there and stared. Without saying a word. 
Was she staring at my ears? 

“Who are you?” I finally asked. 

“Margaret Ferguson,” she replied. “But people call me Fergie. Like the 
duchess.” 

I didn’t know what duchess she was talking about. But I pretended I did. 

“I live through the woods that way,” she said, pointing behind her. 

“I thought no one lived around here for miles,” I said. 

“Yeah. There are some houses around here, Cooper,” she replied. “They’re 
pretty spread out.” 

“Hey! How did you know my name?” I asked suspiciously. 

Margaret, or Fergie, or whatever her name was, turned beet-red. 

“I, uh, watched you move in yesterday,” she confessed. 

“I didn’t see you,” I replied. 

“That’s because I hid in the woods,” she said. “I heard your father call you 
Cooper. And I know your last name, too. It’s Holmes. I saw it written on all the 
boxes in the moving van. And I know you have a brother, Mickey,” she added. 
“He’s a jerk.” 

I laughed. “You got that right!” I exclaimed. “So how long have you lived 
around here?” 

She didn’t answer. She kept her eyes on the ground. 

“I said, how long have—” 

Suddenly, her head jerked up and she gazed into my eyes. 

“Wh-what’s wrong?” I asked when I saw her frightened face. 

Her face tightened, as if she were in pain. Her lips trembled. 

“Margaret!” I cried. “What? What is it?” 

She opened her mouth, but no words came out. She breathed deeply, 
gulping air. Finally, she clutched my shoulders and shoved her face right up 
close to mine. 

“Dogs,” she whispered. Then she let go of me and darted away. 

I froze for a moment. Then I chased after her. 

She made it to a big tree stump before I caught up. I grabbed hold of the 
back of her T-shirt and spun her around. 

“Margaret, what do you mean ‘dogs’?” I asked. 

“No! No!” she cried. “Just let me go! Let me go!” 

I held her tightly. 

“Let me go! Let me go!” she cried again. 

“Margaret, what did you mean back there?” I repeated. “This is important. 
Why did you say ‘dogs’?” 

“Dogs?” Her eyes grew wide. “I don’t remember saying that.” 

My jaw fell open. “You did!” I insisted. “You looked straight at me and 
said, ‘dogs’! I heard you!” 

She shook her head. “No, I don’t remember that,” she replied thoughtfully. 

Now I’ve met weird kids in my life, but Margaret here takes the cake. She 
almost makes Mickey seem normal. 

Almost. 

“Okay,” I said, trying to sound calm, “here’s what happened. You freaked 
out. Then you grabbed me. Then you said, ‘Dogs’. Then you freaked out again.” 

“Don’t remember,” she replied softly, shaking her head from side to side. 
“Why would I say that?” 

“I don’t know!” I screamed, starting to lose it. “I’m not the one who said 
it!” 

She gazed around in all directions, then focused those green, crazy eyes on 
me. 

“Listen to me, Cooper,” she whispered mysteriously. “Get away from here.” 

“Huh?” 

“I’m warning you, Cooper! Tell your parents they must leave at once!” She 
glanced nervously behind her, then turned back to me. 

“Please—listen to me. Get away from here! As fast as you can!” 

7 

Fergie let go of my shoulders and ran. 

For a few seconds, I stared after her, too shocked to move. Then I decided 
I’d better not let her get away. 

“Fergie!” I called out. “Wait up!” 

For a girl, Fergie ran pretty fast. Actually, most girls I know are fast 
mnners. 

Whoever said they were slower than boys in the first place? It isn’t true. 
Lots of girls in my class last year could beat any guy in a race. 

Anyway, / happen to be a very fast runner. When you’re afraid of 
everything, you learn to run—fast! 

“Fergie!” I called again. “Please! Tell me what’s going on!” But I couldn’t 
catch up. 

Then, to my surprise, she stopped and turned back to me. “Listen, Cooper,” 
she said, calmer than before. “The woods are haunted. Your house is probably 
haunted, too. Go home. Go home and tell your parents to move back to wherever 
you came from.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“It’s too dangerous here,” Fergie warned. “Get away, Cooper. As fast as you 
can!” 

With that, she turned and walked away in the direction of her house. 

I didn’t follow her this time. 

I should have. I totally forgot that I was lost. 

I turned around. My house is probably in the opposite direction, I decided. 

She disappeared through the trees. Fine with me, I thought angrily. It would 
be fine with me if I never saw her again. 

Why did she tell me all that? 

Why did she say the woods were haunted? 

Because it was tme? 

Leave it to my parents to buy a haunted house in haunted woods! 

I continued on, unable to shake the creepy feeling I had. I felt as if a 
hundred eyes were stalking me through the trees. 

I wished Fergie had kept her mouth shut. 

The longer I walked, the more frightened I became. Now I was positive that 
the woods were haunted. Haunted by ghosts tracking every step I made. 

Then, in the distance, I heard a faint banging. It startled me at first. When I 
realized it was Dad working on the grill, I shrieked with joy. 

“All right! I’m almost home!” My plan had worked. 

I followed the hammering sounds. 

Something rustled the branches above my head and made me jump. 

I gazed up. 

Just a bird. 

Staring up at the trees, I nearly fell headfirst into a stream. 

The water lapped quietly against the grassy shore. It reflected the pale blue 
morning sky above it. 

Funny, I hadn’t seen this stream here before. 

I bent down to touch the water. Cold. 

This is awesome! I thought. Areal stream, practically in my own backyard. 
Then I remembered that it wouldn’t be my backyard for long. As soon as I 
told my parents what Fergie had said, we’d pack up and move back to Boston. 

As I dried my hand on my shirt, I had that creepy feeling again. The feeling 
of eyes watching me. My head jerked up, and I gasped. 

There were eyes watching me. 

Four dark eyes glared at me from across the stream. 

The eyes of two enormous black Labradors. 

One dog panted loudly, its tongue hanging out. The other dog flashed its 
teeth at me. Ugly, yellow teeth. 

They both uttered low, menacing growls. 

Not friendly. Not friendly at all. 

Run! I urged myself. Run! 

But my legs wouldn’t budge. 

Growling, the dogs eyed me hungrily. 

Then they attacked. 

8 

Their heavy paws thudded the ground as they came bounding toward me. Their 
eyes glowed with excitement. Their large heads bobbed up and down. 

With a terrified cry, I turned and ran. 

If only I could fly! 

“Helllllp!” Was that me letting out that frightened wail? 

Yes. I think it was. 

Suddenly, I caught a glimpse of light through the trees. Sunlight glistening 
off the jungle gym slide! 

Yes! 

Almost home. 

The two black Labs ran at my heels. I could feel their hot breath on the 
backs of my legs. I felt a pair of sharp teeth scrape my ankle. 

With one last gasp of speed, I burst through the trees and out of the woods. 
“Dad!” I yelled, racing toward my father. 

“Help me!” I shrieked. “The dogs! The dogs!” I threw my arms around his 
waist and held on. 

“Cooper, calm down! What’s gotten into you?” my father asked, grabbing 
me by the shoulders. 

“The dogs!” I wailed, refusing to let go of him. 

“Cooper, what dogs?” Dad demanded. 

I blinked at him in confusion. Didn’t he hear them? Couldn’t he see them? 

I let go of him and pointed toward the woods. 

“Wild dogs. Big, black Labs, I think. They chased me, and—” 

I scanned the yard frantically. Dad and I were alone. 

No barking. 

No snarling. 

The sunlight glistened off the slide. 

The tire swung lazily from its rope. 

The dogs had vanished. 

9 

“Cooper, this is a joke—right?” Dad asked, shaking his head. 

“Huh? No way!” I cried. “They were right behind me. One almost bit me, 
and—” 

“And then they disappeared into thin air!” Dad declared. 

“Come into the woods with me,” I pleaded. “They’ve got to be there.” I ran 
to the edge of the woods, desperately searching for some sign of the dogs. Dad 
followed right behind. 

But there was nothing to see. 

I turned and slunk back to the house. 

Dad didn’t say anything until we were back in the yard. He sat down on the 
jungle gym slide. His eyes studied me. 

“Cooper, tell me what’s wrong,” Dad said in a low voice. I could tell he 
thought I had made all this up. 

“I told you, Dad. Two dogs chased me through the woods. They were 
inches from me! One tried to tear my leg off!” 

Dad continued to stare up at me, his expression thoughtful. 

“Dad, listen,” I pleaded. “We have to move. We can’t live here!” 

He climbed to his feet. “What are you talking about, Cooper?” 

“We have to move back to Boston,” I insisted. “We can’t stay here!” 

“Why not?” Dad asked. 

“It’s this house!” I shouted, my voice cracking. “It’s haunted!” 

“Now, Cooper—” 

“Dad! Listen to me,” I begged. “The woods... this house... they’re all 
haunted. Everybody around here knows it already! We never should have moved 
here!” 

“Cooper, you’re not making any sense,” Dad replied, keeping his voice low 
and calm. “You know, walking in the woods by yourself can be scary. Why don’t 
you come inside and calm down? Mom made a big breakfast. Have some French 
toast. You’ll feel better.” He put his arm around my shoulders. 

Now I really felt upset. My own father didn’t believe me. 

“But, Dad, it’s true!” I insisted. “The woods are haunted, and this weird girl 
I met warned me to move out! She—” 

“Cooper, I know you’re unhappy about the move,” Dad said. “But these 
wild stories aren’t going to change anything. This is where we live now.” 

“But—” 

“When school starts, you’ll make some new friends and everything will be 
fine. So come on in and have breakfast. You’ll feel better. You’ll see.” 

He led me back to the house. 

As Dad held the door open for me, I glanced back and took one last look at 
the woods. 

Two big black dogs stared at me from the trees. 

10 

When I blinked, the dogs vanished. 

Shaking my head, I made my way into the kitchen. 

Mickey had already finished half his breakfast when Dad and I entered the 
room. He leaned over his cereal bowl, snickering about something. I ignored 
him. 

“Cooper, have some French toast,” Mom said. “It’s on your plate, waiting 
for you.” 

I sat across from Mickey, trying hard not to look at his dumb face. I was 
still really steamed at him. 

“Mom, do you know who our neighbors are?” I asked, pouring maple syrup 
over the toast. 

“Why, sure,” Mom answered. “Your father and I met some of them a few 
weeks ago when we came to see the house.” 

“Did you meet the Fergusons?” I asked. 

Mom squinted her eyes, thinking. Then she shook her head. “No, I don’t 
think we met them. We met the Martells. Joel and Shirley. Very nice people.” 
Then she asked, “Who are the Fergusons?” 

I didn’t answer. I pressed on. “Did the Martells tell you our house was 
haunted?” 

Mom laughed. “No, Cooper, they didn’t. It must have slipped their minds,” 
she joked. 

“Ha-ha. It’s nothing to laugh about,” I insisted. “Our house is haunted. And 
so are the woods!” 

“Cooper, what are you talking about?” my mother demanded. 

“Enough, Cooper,” my father warned. “Eat your breakfast.” 

“Yeah,” Mickey said with a snort. “Eat your breakfast, Drooper.” 

I could feel my face turn red. I hated when Mickey called me Drooper. He 
called me that because of my big droopy ears. 

“Shut up, Sickey, ” I replied. 

“Cut it out, you two,” Dad snapped. 

I dug my fork into the French toast. How could they not believe me? Did 
they really think I made this story up? 

I lifted a chunk of toast to my mouth and stuffed it in. 

“Aghhhh!” 

Choking and coughing, I spit the food out on my plate. 

“Gross!” Mickey cried, grinning. “Gross! A guy could lose his appetite 
around here.” 

My eyes teared, and I coughed a few more times. 

“You okay, Cooper?” Mom asked. 

“Somebody dumped salt on my French toast!” I exclaimed angrily. 

Mickey started to laugh. 

That creep. 

My father climbed up from the table. Without saying a word, he stomped 
out of the room. 

That’s how my Dad acts when he’s angry. He gets all quiet, then just walks 
away. Punishments come later. 

I gulped down a glass of milk, trying to wash the salt out of my mouth. 
Mom returned to the stove to make another batch of French toast for me. 

“Mickey,” she said, sighing, “you know that wasn’t funny. Now apologize 
to your brother.” 

“Apologize? But it was just a joke!” Mickey complained. 

“We’re all cracking up,” I muttered bitterly, gulping down a second glass of 
milk. “You’re a real riot.” 

“Apologize!” my mother insisted again. 

Mickey hung his head and stared at the floor. 

I folded my arms across my chest. “I’m waiting!” I sang happily. 

Mickey made an ugly face at me. When Mom turned around, he changed 
his expression to an innocent smile. 

“I’m so sorry, Cooper,” Mickey oozed. “It won’t happen again.” He blinked 
innocently. 

Satisfied, Mom turned back to the stove. 

As soon as she did, Mickey pulled on his ears, trying to stretch them as big 
as mine. 

I’d had it with Mickey. I pushed my chair away from the table and hurried 
out of the room. I didn’t want to get into another fight with my stupid brother 
now. 

I had more important things to do. I had to talk to Dad about the dogs. I had 
to make him believe me. 

Dad sat in his favorite chair, which just didn’t look right in our new living 
room. Even he seemed to notice. He kept shifting uncomfortably. 

“Maybe it’s time for a new chair,” he muttered. 

“Dad, can I talk to you for a second?” I asked. 

“What is it, Cooper?” he asked as he moved Great-grandma’s lamp closer 
to the chair. 

“It’s about the dogs,” I said. 

Dad sighed. “Really, Cooper. Aren’t you making too big a deal about this? 
So what if you saw dogs in the woods? They could belong to anybody!” 

“But they chased me!” I replied, getting all worked up again. “And then 
they disappeared into thin air! And after that girl told me the woods were 
haunted—” 

“What girl?” my dad demanded. 

“She said her name was Margaret Ferguson,” I told him. “She said her 
family lived next door.” 

Dad rubbed his chin. “That’s strange,” he said. “The real estate broker 
never mentioned the Fergusons.” 

“Well, I met her this morning, and she told me everyone around here knows 
that our house is haunted!” 

“Maybe that’s why we got such a good deal on the house,” Dad muttered, 
chuckling. 

I didn’t see what was so funny. 

He stopped laughing and stared at me seriously. “Forget about the dogs for 
now, Cooper. We’ll deal with it if you see them again. In the meantime, I’ll ask 
around in town if anyone knows who owns them. Okay?” 

“But what about the house?” I asked. “Margaret said we should move as 
fast as we can.” 

“French toast is ready!” Mom called out, interrupting me. “Come on, 
Cooper. Before it gets cold.” 

“Go eat,” my father urged. “And please. Not another word about dogs or 
the house being haunted.” 

With a sigh, I headed back to the kitchen. As I stepped through the door, 
Mickey jumped in my face and let out a roar. 

Naturally, it scared me to death. 

“Mom!” I cried. 

“Mickey, enough!” my mother screamed. “Stop teasing Cooper. He’s 

having a hard time adjusting to the new house.” 

“No, I’m not!” I yelled at her. Why wasn’t anybody taking me seriously? 
“This house is haunted. You’ll be sorry you didn’t listen to me. You’ll be sorry!” 

Then I stormed out and stomped off to my room. I collapsed on my bed and 
gazed around. Same old stuff, but the room didn’t feel like my own. 

I stayed in there all day. I didn’t want to see Mickey. I didn’t want to see 
Mom and Dad. And I really didn’t want to see those dogs again. 

By dinnertime, I’d unpacked most of my things. The room felt a little better. 
More like my old bedroom back in Boston. 

After dinner, I lugged all seventy-seven snow domes into the bathroom and 
washed them, one by one. People don’t realize that you have to take care of 
snow domes and keep them clean and filled with water or they’ll dry out. 

When they were all sparkling clean, I arranged them carefully on my new 
bookcase. 

They looked awesome! 

I tried to organize them in some sort of size order, but that didn’t work. 
Instead, I alphabetized them—from Annapolis to Washington, D.C. Of course, I 
placed my absolute favorite dome—a Boston Red Sox snow dome—on the 
middle shelf, front and center. 

I finished at eleven, then got ready for bed. All that unpacking had tired me 

out. 

I had closed my eyes and was just drifting off to sleep when I heard it. 

Loud and clear. 

Barking. 

And growling. 

Outside my window. 

I bolted straight up in bed. 

I waited for my parents and Mickey to come running in. This time, they 
must have heard the dogs, too. 

I waited. And waited. 

The barking grew louder. 

No one else in the house stirred. 

I lowered one foot to the floor, then the other. I stood up, listening hard. 
Listening to the two dogs barking. 

And to my horror, I realized that this time the barking wasn’t outside my 
window. 

This time it was coming from inside my house! 

11 

Frantically, I searched for a weapon. Something to protect me from the barking 
dogs. 

I found my aluminum baseball bat in the closet. I gripped it tightly and 
crept across the room to my bedroom door. 

I pushed it open. And listened. 

Yes. 

The barking was definitely coming from inside the house. From the living 
room, I decided. 

I took a deep breath and slipped into the hallway. Where were my parents? 
Their bedroom is directly over the living room on the second floor. They had to 
hear this. 

Why hadn’t they come running out? 

Mickey’s room was on the first floor down the hall from mine. I peered 
down the hall and saw that his bedroom door was closed. 

What’s his problem? I wondered. Where is everyone? 

I crept quietly down the hall, inching my way to the living room. I could 
hear the dogs racing around in there. 

I gasped when I heard a loud crash. 

Something clattered to the floor. Great-grandma’s lamp, I guessed. 

I stared up at the ceiling—to my parents’ bedroom. Were they deaf or 
something? 

Holding the bat in front of me, I jumped into the living room and snapped 
on the ceiling light. 

The dogs were... 

The dogs were... 

NOT THERE! 

The room stood empty. 

“Huh?” I blinked a few times from the sudden brightness of the light, then 
stared around the room. 

No dogs. 

No growling. No barking. 

But, wait! Great-grandma’s lamp lay on its side on the floor. 

I took a step over to the sofa. Something crunched under my bare feet. 
Potato chips? 

Yes. Potato chips. Scattered across the room. 

I spotted the potato chip bag—ripped to shreds on the floor. 

My heart thumped so hard, I thought it might burst out of my chest. 

As I bent to pick up the torn bag, a shadow fell over me. 

I heard heavy breathing. 

And I felt a gust of hot, smelly breath shoot across my neck. 

12 

“Drooper, what are you doing?” 

I straightened up and spun around. 

“Mickey!” 

“That’s my name. Don’t wear it out,” he replied. 

“Mickey! Did you hear them? Did you?” 

Mickey glanced around the room. “Hear who?” he asked. Then, before I 
could answer, he snapped, “Cooper, you jerk, why did you throw potato chips 
around the living room?” 

“The dogs!” I cried. “The dogs did it! Did you hear them?” 

Mickey shook his head. “No way. I didn’t hear anything.” 

I was stunned. “You didn’t hear wild dogs mnning around the room a few 
minutes ago?” 

Mickey rolled his eyes and whistled. “You’re losing it, Cooper. Hearing 
invisible dogs is one thing. But feeding them potato chips? You’re really messed 
up, man.” 

“I didn’t do this!” I said angrily. “I told you. The dogs did.” 

Mickey shook his head. “Just promise me one thing,” he said seriously. 

“What?” I asked. 

“Promise me when school starts next week, you won’t tell anybody you’re 
related to me.” 

I wanted to throw something at him. I wished I had Great-grandma’s lamp 
in my hand, but I didn’t. So I threw what I did have—the empty potato chip bag. 

It flew about three inches, then dropped at my feet. 

“You’re pathetic!” Mickey laughed. “I know why you’re doing this, too. 
You’re trying to make Mom and Dad think the house is haunted. So then they’ll 
move back to Boston, and you can see your dweeby little friends Gary and Todd 
again.” 

He made a face at me. “Dumb, Drooper. Really dumb.” 

He shuffled away, shaking his head. 

Just you wait, Mickey, I thought. I’m going to get even with you. Just you 

wait. 

And I’m going to make everyone believe me about the dogs. I’m going to 
make everyone believe that I’m telling the truth. 

But how? I wondered, gazing around the empty, silent living room. 

How? 

13 

Sunday morning I woke up early as usual. I had only a few more things to 
unpack, and I knew I could finish before breakfast. 

I unrolled my Red Sox poster and tacked it to the wall, over my bed. Same 
place I’d hung it in Boston. 

Then I rummaged through a box, searching for my lucky pair of red socks. 
As I was slipping them on my feet, I heard the doorbell ring. 

“Cooper!” my mother called to me a few seconds later. “There’s someone 
here to see you!” 

Who could it be? I didn’t know anybody here. 

Then I had a thought. Maybe Gary asked his dad to drive him and Todd up 
to Maine to surprise me! 

Wow! What a great surprise! 

I closed the box and charged out of my room, down the hall, and to the 
front door. I was so excited! 

But no Gary and Todd. 

Fergie stared at me from the front doorway. I could see at first glance that 
she was kind of nervous. She kept shifting her weight from one foot to the other. 
And she twirled a lock of her bright red hair between her fingers. 

“Oh. Hi,” I mumbled, unable to hide my disappointment. 

“I need to talk to you,” she said. “Right away.” 

“Okay, sure,” I replied. 

“Not here,” she said, nudging her head toward the den where my mom and 
dad were reading the newspaper. 

I sighed. “Okay, wait a sec.” I ran back to my room and pulled on a pair of 
sneakers. 

“Let’s go out back,” I suggested. She nodded solemnly and followed me 
outside. 

I swung on the tire and listened to Fergie. “It was all your brother’s idea!” 
she blurted out. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“I don’t know why I agreed to do it, but it was really all his idea. Every bit 
of it.” 

“What was?” I asked. 

“Everything I told you yesterday. About your house. And the woods.” 

“You mean they’re not haunted?” I asked, confused. 

Fergie shook her head. “Of course not.” 

“But why did you tell me they were?” I asked. 

“I told you, it was all Mickey’s idea. I met Mickey the day you moved in,” 
Fergie explained. “He told me it would be funny if I played this trick on you.” 

“He what?” I cried. 

“He told me the two of you always played all kinds of tricks on each other,” 
Fergie replied. “He said you would think it was a riot.” 

“A joke?” I asked. “It was all one of Mickey’s jokes?” I couldn’t believe it. 

Fergie bit her bottom lip and nodded. “Mickey said to tell you the woods 
were haunted. He said to tell you the house was haunted, too.” Fergie sighed. 
“So I did it. But when I saw how scared you were, I felt really bad about it. I 
wished I hadn’t listened to your brother.” 

Mickey. That jerk. 

“But how did you know about the dogs?” I asked. 

Fergie stared blankly at me. “Dogs? What dogs?” 

“That’s the word you whispered to me,” I explained. “Dogs.” 

Fergie twisted her face, thinking hard. “No, I don’t remember saying that. 
Are you sure I said ‘dogs’?” 

I nodded. “Definitely. That was all you said. Dogs. And, then, after you ran 
off, two mean-looking black Fabradors chased me through the woods.” 

“Really?” 

I nodded. “They chased me all the way home. Then they just vanished.” 

“Weird,” Fergie mumbled. 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

“Where did you first see the dogs?” Fergie asked me. 

I pointed into the woods. “Back there. Near a stream.” 

“That’s the stream that leads to the Martells’ house,” Fergie said. “They’re 
friends of my parents. They don’t own any dogs, Cooper.” 

I shrugged, then batted a fly that buzzed in my ear. “Well, someone around 
here must have dogs,” I told her. 

“I’m scared of dogs,” Fergie admitted. “I’m glad I didn’t see them 
yesterday.” 

“They weren’t nice dogs,” I muttered. “You wouldn’t like them.” 

“Hey, did you see a big rock in the shape of an arrowhead when you were 
near the stream?” she asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I didn’t.” 

“It’s really cool,” she gushed. “You should check it out. I go there all the 
time. It’s a great rock for climbing.” 

“Let’s check it out now,” I suggested. I still thought the woods were scary 
—haunted or not. But I didn’t feel like hanging around the house. 

I hopped off the tire and followed Fergie into the woods. I spotted a long, 
thick stick and picked it up. “In case the dogs come back,” I told Fergie. 

We walked a little while until we reached the stream. Fergie searched 
around for her rock. 

“I know it’s here somewhere,” she said, turning to me. “I can never—” 

She stopped short when her eyes met mine. 

“Cooper!” she whispered. “What is it?” 

I stumbled backwards. My hand trembled as I pointed to the trees directly 
behind Fergie. 

“Mar—Margaret!” I whispered in terror. “The dogs! Look out! They’re 
coming! They’re coming right at us!” 

14 

Fergie spun around. She let out a frightened cry. 

“Here they come!” I shrieked. 

Fergie froze in terror. “Oh, no! Help me, Cooper! I told you! I’m afraid of 
dogs!” 

“Run!” I shouted at her. “Run!” 

In a flash, Fergie dashed past me. I’ve never seen anyone run so fast. 

She ran about ten steps. Then her hands flew up as she tripped over a rock. 

She uttered a shrill cry of panic and went sprawling on the ground. 

I had to laugh. “Got you back!” I cried gleefully. 

“Huh?” Fergie lifted her head. 

“I got you back,” I repeated. “For playing that mean trick on me. For 
helping Mickey.” 

I watched as the color slowly returned to Fergie’s face. “You scared me to 
death,” she muttered. “How could you play such a horrible joke?” 

“Easy,” I replied, still grinning. 

Fergie growled at me. “I told you, it wasn’t totally my fault. Your brother 
said you played tricks on each other all the time.” Then she stood up and shook 
her head. “That was mean, Cooper. Really mean.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I know. But now we’re even.” 

Fergie brushed some dirt off her jeans and examined a scrape on her elbow. 
“You know, we should both get back at Mickey,” she said. 

“I’ve been thinking about that all morning,” I told her. “And yesterday, too. 
Mickey’s been playing really mean tricks on me since we moved here. And I 
have to get back at him. But it has to be something totally awesome.” 

We walked along the stream a while longer, trying to figure out how to get 
back at Mickey. Then Fergie found the arrowhead rock. 

She climbed up first, and I followed. It was a big, craggy rock, great for 
climbing. 

We hung out on the rock, thinking up ways to get Mickey back. Fergie 
wanted to drag him deep into the woods blindfolded and leave him stranded. But 
I didn’t think that would scare Mickey one bit. 

I jumped off the rock and began circling it. Sometimes I think better on my 

feet. 

On my third trip around, I got my foot caught in a thick, leafy plant. I 
glanced down—and cried out. “Oh, perfect! I’m standing in poison ivy!” 

Fergie laughed. “It only looks like poison ivy,” she assured me. “My 
science teacher checked it out last year. She told us it’s a harmless weed.” 

I smiled a really evil smile. 

“I think I have a great idea. What if we pulled out a bunch of this stuff? 
What if it somehow ended up in Mickey’s bed? Would he freak—or what?” 

“He might,” Fergie agreed, grinning down at me. 

We gathered a bunch of the weeds. They grew all along the stream. So we 
picked some more as we walked slowly back to my house. 

Just past the stream, Fergie showed me a clearing in the trees I hadn’t 
noticed before. A small clearing filled with wildflowers. 

I knew right away Mom would flip out if she saw them. She always bought 
flowers at the Faneuil Hall market back in Boston. I started to pick some for her. 

I reached down for a few pretty violet and yellow flowers when something 
moving through the trees caught my eye. I glanced up just in time to see Mickey 
stagger into the clearing. 

Fergie and I both cried out when we spotted him. 

Mickey’s clothes were ripped and shredded. 

Dark scratches covered his face and arms. And bright red blood trickled 
down his neck. 

“Cooper,” he croaked weakly, barely able to talk. “Cooper—the dogs—” 

Those were the last words he spoke before he crumpled to the ground. 

15 

“Mickey!” I screamed in horror. 

I dropped the wildflowers and weeds and ran to his side. 

Fergie and I knelt down beside him. “Is he okay?” she asked, her voice 
barely above a whisper. 

I leaned over him and, with both hands, tugged on his tattered shirt. But I 
couldn’t pull him up. With each try, his limp body slumped back to the ground. 

“Mickey! Mickey!” I cried his name again and again. “Are you all right? 
The dogs! Did they—?” 

As I leaned in closer, Mickey’s arms shot up and clamped around my neck. 
He yanked me to the ground. Then he jumped up and sat on top of me. 

He was giggling like an idiot. 

“Oh, Mickey! Mickey!” he shrieked in a high voice. “Mickey! Are you all 
right?” 

I started to sputter, but no words came out. 

“What a wimp!” he teased. “Do you have to fall for the fake blood every 
single time?” He let out another long, high-pitched giggle. 

I shut my eyes and prayed that I’d disappear. I couldn’t believe my brother 
had tricked me again. In front of Fergie. 

My face grew hot. “I’ll pound you for this!” I shouted, struggling to push 
him off me. 

“Ooooh! I’m shaking!” Mickey snorted. 

“Don’t you have anything better to do than to try and scare me?” I yelled. 

“I don’t even have to try,” Mickey replied, grinning. 

Fergie stood over us, her arms crossed in front of her. 

“Were you in on this little joke, too?” I demanded angrily. 

“No! No way!” Fergie insisted. 

Mickey pinned my arms to the ground. “Say ‘Uncle’, wimp.” 

I’d never been so embarrassed in my life. 

Never. 

And that includes the time Mickey locked me out of the house in my 
underwear. 

“You’re dead meat!” I shouted in his face. 

“What are you going to do, Drooper? Knock me out with your bouquet of 
violets?” 

He threw his head back and laughed at his stupid joke. Lucky for me, it 
gave me a chance to bite his arm. 

“Ow! You mutant! Look what you did! I’m bleeding!” 

He jumped up and examined the bite mark on his arm. Then he growled at 
me, turned, and trotted away. 

I wanted to chase after him. But Margaret held me back. 

“Let him go,” she said, clutching my shirt. “He’s a creep. Really.” 

Grumbling to myself, I brushed off my clothes. Then I picked up the 
flowers for Mom. I couldn’t face Fergie. 

“Are you going home?” she asked. 

“Uh-huh,” I grunted. 

“Will I see you in school tomorrow?” 

I shrugged. I wished she would leave me alone. I wanted to be by myself. 

I grunted again. I think she got the message. 

“Well, guess I’ll head home now. Don’t worry, Cooper,” she said, starting in 
the direction of her house. “We’ll come up with a plan to get him back. I 
promise.” 

I didn’t answer. 

“See you tomorrow!” she called out, waving. 

I didn’t bother to wave back. I watched her leave. Then I made my way 
over to the stream to take a drink of cold water. The sight of Mickey all bloody 
had made my throat dry. And it was from screaming. 

I leaned over the sparkling, cool water and lowered my hand. I scooped 
some water up to my mouth and drank. 

But when I saw my reflection in the stream, I choked. 

It wasn’t me. 

The face staring back at me in the water was the face of a black dog! 

I jerked my head up. 

No dogs on the shore. 

No dogs anywhere in sight. 

“Whoa!” I cried aloud. 

I leaned over the stream again and peered into the water. 

The dog stared up at me from beneath the surface. 

I raised my head again. No dog on the shore. 

So how could I see a dog’s reflection in the water? 

Once again, I squinted into the clear stream. The dog appeared to ripple 
with the water. 

And as I gaped at the eerie reflection in horror, it pulled back its thin lips 
and bared its ugly yellow teeth in a silent growl. 

16 

I raced home without glancing back. 

I crashed through the front door and charged straight for the bathroom. I 
had to check myself out in the mirror. 

I don’t know what I thought I’d see. 

A dog face staring back at me? 

Even I know how stupid that sounds. 

But I couldn’t explain the dog reflection in the water. I should have seen my 
face in that stream—not the growling face of a black Lab. 

Stepping into the bathroom, I approached the mirror slowly. I peeked in. 
And I saw—my own freckled face. 

Did it make me feel better? 

Not much. 

I didn’t speak to anyone in my family for the rest of the afternoon. And at 
dinnertime, I nibbled a few bites, then asked to be excused. 

“Are you feeling okay, Cooper?” Mom asked, frowning. “Liver and onions 
is your favorite. I’ve never seen you leave liver and onions on your plate.” 

She walked over and felt my forehead. That’s what she always does 
whenever I act a little strange. Leels my forehead. 

“I’m fine, Mom,” I replied. “I’m just not very hungry. That’s all.” 

“Cooper is probably a little nervous about tomorrow. His first day in a new 
school,” Dad said to Mom. He turned to me. “Am I right?” 

“Yeah, that’s it,” I agreed. No sense in bringing up the dogs again. No one 
would believe me, anyway. 

“Aw. Poor little Drooper. Scared of his new school,” Mickey teased. 

Mom and Dad shot Mickey a warning glance. “Mickey—not tonight,” Dad 
muttered. 

I ignored my dumb brother. I climbed up from my chair and headed for my 
room. 

I couldn’t fall asleep that night. Every time I closed my eyes, I saw the face of 
the angry black dog, rippling in the stream. 

I finally dozed off after midnight. 

I awoke to Mom’s impatient cries. “Cooper. Cooper. You’ve overslept. 
Time to get up!” 

I couldn’t believe it. I’m always up early. I never oversleep. 

I’m going to be late for my first day of school! I thought unhappily. And it’s 
all because of those creepy dogs. 

I threw my T-shirt and jeans on and rushed down the hall to the kitchen. No 
time for a big breakfast. I gulped down a glass of milk. Then I opened the fridge 
and reached for the peanut butter and jelly to make a sandwich for lunch. 

As I spread the peanut butter on the bread, I heard whimpering behind me. 

“Cut it out, Mickey,” I said without turning around. 

The whimpering grew louder. 

“Mickey! Quit it! Stop being such a—” 

They sprang out of nowhere. The dogs. 

They were in the kitchen! 

17 

Their jaws hung loose. They drooled hungrily. Thick yellow drool. 

My knees buckled. I clutched for the counter to steady myself. 

Their dark, furry bodies shimmered under the bright kitchen lights. 
Growling, their teeth bared, they stepped side by side away from the wall. 

I moved back slowly. One small step. 

Their dark eyes tracked my move. 

One more step back. Slowly. Then another. 

Their steady gaze followed me. 

The back door stood inches away. If I reached back, I could touch the 
doorknob now. 

I reached back. Slowly. Very slowly. 

My hand fumbled. Then I found it. The small round knob... 

Too late! 

They jumped. 

I screamed as their dark bodies hurtled toward me. 

I shut my eyes. 

I heard the sound of snapping jaws. 

I opened my eyes in time to see one of the dogs snatch my lunch from the 
counter. 

Then they disappeared. 

Through the kitchen door. They dove right through the wooden door. 
Breathing hard, I sank into a kitchen chair. 

I held my head tightly. I shut my eyes and tried to calm myself. 

I had just seen two dogs run right through a door. How could that be? 

Mom raced into the room. Dad followed. 

“Cooper, what’s wrong?” Mom cried. “What was that horrible scream we 
heard?” 

I had to tell them what happened. I had to. This was too weird. Too scary 
and too weird. 

Sol told them the whole story. 

“Two black dogs—they jumped through the wall. Into the kitchen. One of 

them grabbed my lunch. Then they dove through the door.” 

Big mistake. 

Mom and Dad gave me a lecture about the stress of moving. I think I heard 
them mention the word psychiatrist. 

They didn’t believe a word of it. 

I didn’t have the strength to argue. I shuffled out the door and headed for 
school. 

No way I could stop thinking about those dogs. Dogs that only I could see. Dogs 
that stole lunches. Dogs that could walk through doors. 

I didn’t see them again that week. But every morning I’d hear them barking 
somewhere around the house. Nobody else heard them. 

On Friday, I met Fergie after school and we walked home together. She 
talked nonstop about our math teacher, but I wasn’t really paying attention. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about the dogs. 

“What?” I asked Fergie. She’d just asked me something about math 
homework. 

“I said,” she repeated impatiently, “that we can do our math homework 
together this weekend.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah, whatever.” 

Fergie was going to stay at our house Saturday night. Her parents had to go 
to Vermont for the weekend. 

We had become pretty good friends this past week. So had our parents. 
Mom and Dad invited the Fergusons over for dinner on Tuesday, and the 
Fergusons had us over on Wednesday. 

Maybe having Fergie sleep over will be fun, I thought. If I can shut those 
dogs out of my mind. 

“We still have to come up with a trick to play on Mickey,” Fergie pointed 
out. “I’ve been thinking—” 

“Listen, Fergie,” I said, interrupting her. “There’s something I’ve been 
meaning to tell you all week.” 

She waited for me to begin. 

I took a deep breath, then blurted out the whole story. About the dog 
reflection in the stream. And the dogs in the kitchen. 

“I’ve been hearing them all week,” I confessed. “Sometimes outside the 
house, sometimes inside. It’s been a nightmare.” 

Fergie’s jaw dropped open. “How come you didn’t tell me before?” she 
asked. 

I sighed. “Because no one in my family believes me,” I said. “I thought you 
wouldn’t, either.” 

“I believe you, Cooper,” she replied solemnly. 

I smiled. “Thanks, Fergie. That means a lot.” 

Fergie’s expression turned thoughtful. “Well, maybe we’ll both hear them 
on Saturday night. Your parents will have to believe both of us.” 

I nodded. Fergie was right. Mom and Dad couldn’t think the two of us 
needed to see a doctor. I started to feel a little more cheerful. 

“Now about the get-back-at-Mickey plan,” Fergie said. “I have another 
idea.” 

I tried to listen to Fergie’s plan—it had something to do with rats and a rope 
—but I couldn’t concentrate on what she was saying. I could only think about 
the dogs. 

Would they turn up again this weekend? 

18 

I watched each minute tick away on the alarm clock near my bed. Finally— 
midnight. Time to get moving. 

I tiptoed down the hall to the guest room where Fergie slept. I knocked on 
the door. 

“Fergie,” I whispered. “Fergie, get up!” 

She appeared at the door in an instant, fully dressed. “The dogs? Are the 
dogs here?” she asked, eyes wide with fright. 

She seemed really spooked. And she had awful pillow-hair static. 

“No, dope.” I whispered. “It’s time to scare Mickey.” 

Fergie rubbed her eyes. “Oh, yeah, right.” 

Without saying another word, she slid under the bed and came out with a 
shoe box and some string. 

“Let me see it again,” I said eagerly. 

Fergie smiled, then opened the box. Inside sat a huge, hairy, totally gross, 
disgusting black rat. 

A fake, of course. But it looked so real! Real enough to fool another rat. A 
rat like Mickey. 

I lifted the rat from the box and shook it in Fergie’s face. 

She backed away and let out a yelp, even though she knew it was made of 
mbber or something. 

I tied the string around the rat’s neck and waved at Fergie to follow me. We 
crept silently into the hall and headed for Mickey’s room. 

This was going to be totally awesome! I couldn’t wait to see the look on 
Mickey’s face when our hairy rat slithered across his bed! 

We stopped in the hall outside Mickey’s room. His door stood slightly open. 
I poked my head in and checked out his bedroom. 

By the dim light in the hallway, I could see Mickey in bed, all covered up, 
fast asleep. Mickey never sleeps with a pillow. He always tosses it on the floor 
when he climbs into bed. There it was, next to his shoes. 

I stepped back from the door and pulled Fergie aside. 

“Okay, here’s the plan,” I whispered. “When we’re inside the room, go to 
the left. That’s where the closet is. I’ll tiptoe over to the bed and put the rat on 

Mickey. Then I’ll meet you in the closet.” 

“Check,” Fergie whispered solemnly. 

“And, remember,” I warned her, “be quiet!” 

“Check,” Fergie said again. 

With the rat in one hand, I carefully made my way into Mickey’s room. I 
glimpsed Fergie heading left to the closet. I headed right. 

I had nearly reached Mickey’s bed when I heard a loud crack. 

My heart jumped to my throat. I spun around and stared at Fergie in horror. 

I saw instantly what had happened. She had stepped on Mickey’s 
skateboard. 

We both turned to the bed. 

Mickey didn’t move a muscle. 

He hadn’t heard the noise. 

I let out a quiet sigh of relief, then shot Fergie a warning glance. 

She nodded nervously. 

I watched as she opened the closet door and ducked inside. 

I held the rat out in front of me and edged closer to Mickey’s bed. My hand 
shook, but I gripped the hairy creature tightly. 

I stared down at Mickey under the covers. He slept soundly. 

I crept closer. 

Bundled under the blankets, it was impossible to tell where Mickey’s body 
started. I set the rat down gently, near his stomach, I think. 

Then I tiptoed to the closet. Inside, I knelt next to Fergie and gave her a 
thumbs-up sign. 

Operation “Scare Mickey” was in effect. 

And I couldn’t be more excited. 

It served him right. 

I quietly pulled the closet door toward me, leaving it open just a crack. I 
held tightly onto the end of the string. 

“Ready?” I whispered. 

“Ready,” she whispered back. 

“Okay,” I said. “On three. One... two... uh, Fergie, stop kicking me.” 

“I’m not touching you,” she whispered sharply. 

“You are, too. Stop it, okay?” 

“No way. My feet are all the way over here,” Fergie protested. 

“Ow! You kicked me again!” I whispered. 

She raised her voice. “I did not!” 

I clamped my hand over her mouth. 

We both froze. 

I heard breathing. 

Heavy breathing. 

Not my breathing. Not Fergie’s breathing. 

I swallowed hard. 

“F-Fergie,” I stammered. “We’re not alone in here!” 

19 

A low, steady growl proved me right. 

Someone—or something —was hiding in the closet with us. 

We listened to the low growls for another second or two. 

Then we both flew out of the closet, screaming in horror. 

I only made it a few feet. I tripped over Mickey’s skateboard. Went 
sprawling headfirst. Landed flat on my face. 

As I struggled to my feet, I saw a dark figure step out of the closet. 

“You!” I screamed in a hoarse, frightened voice. 

Mickey grinned back at Fergie and me. “Oooohhh! Ooooooohhh! Look at 
me!” he cried. “I’m a killer poodle!” 

Fergie and I stared at him in disbelief. He had been in the closet the entire 

time. 

I dove to the bed and pulled down the blanket. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out when I saw a bunch of rolled up sheets and towels. 
“But how did you know?” Fergie asked him. “How did you know we were 
coming?” 

Mickey flashed us both a smug smirk. “When you showed up this morning 
clutching that dumb box and whispering to Cooper, I knew something was up. 
I’ve been spying on you two jerks all day.” 

“You sneak!” I cried. 

“A sneak? Me?” Mickey replied innocently. “What do you call what you’re 
doing, prowling around my room and hiding in my closet?” 

I was so angry. So disappointed. Our great revenge plan—totally ruined. 

I grabbed Fergie by the arm. “Come on. Let’s get out of here.” 

“That’s right!” Mickey called gleefully after us. “Running away with your 
tails between your legs!” Then he howled and barked some more. 

Great guy—huh? 

Fergie and I sat in the hall outside my room. We had really wanted to give 
Mickey a good scare. So he could see how it felt. 

But we had messed up. Totally. 

“We’ll get him next time,” Fergie offered. “We’ll come up with an even 

better plan. Maybe something with knives and fake blood.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to wait. I wanted to scare Mickey out of his skin 
— tonight! 

Not much chance of that. 

Fergie and I yawned at the same time. Then we both stood up. “Guess we 
should go back to bed. Maybe—” 

“Did you hear that?” I asked, cutting Fergie off. 

She nodded. “Yeah. I hear it. Barking.” 

“That’s not my brother,” I whispered. “It’s definitely the dogs!” 

20 

“I don’t get it!” Fergie cried in a trembling voice. “Where are your parents? 
Where’s Mickey?” 

I led her down the hall, in the direction of the barking. 

“I told you,” I whispered. “They can’t hear the dogs. I don’t know why. No 
one can hear them but us!” 

We turned into the living room and gasped. 

Two sets of red eyes glowed in the dark. 

I reached for Great-grandma’s lamp, but knocked it over. It crashed loudly 
to the floor. 

The dogs barked. 

Fergie clutched my shoulder. Her hand trembled. “Turn on the lights! 
Please!” she pleaded. 

But before I could reach the switch, the lights snapped on. 

We spun around. And there stood Mom on the stairway, glaring down at us. 
“Cooper! Margaret! What on earth are you two doing?” 

“It’s the dogs, Mom!” I cried. “See? They’re—” 

“What dogs?” Mom called. I spun around. 

No glaring red eyes. No dogs. Except for Fergie and me, the room stood 
empty. 

“Wow, your mom sure was upset,” Fergie whispered as we trudged back down 
the hall to our rooms. 

“But now you believe me, right, Fergie?” I asked. “You heard the dogs 
yourself!” 

Fergie nodded. “For sure. There were definitely dogs here.” 

“Go to sleep!” Mom called sternly. “Immediately!” 

“Okay, Mom!” I called back. I turned to Fergie. “We’ll check out the woods 
in the morning,” I told her. “Those dogs have to be somewhere!” 

“Good idea,” Fergie agreed. “See you in the morning.” 

Back in my room, I couldn’t fall asleep. I sat on my bed and tossed a 
baseball into the air. I watched the numbers slowly click by on my alarm clock. 

I thought about the dogs. They were definitely here tonight. Fergie had 
heard them, too. 

But how do they get in and out of my house? I wondered. 

And how do they vanish into thin air like that? 

And why do they keep bothering me? Why? 

I tossed down the baseball and crept into the hall. 

I knocked softly on Fergie’s door. “It’s me. Can I come in?” 

“What’s wrong?” she whispered, opening the door. 

“Listen,” I said. “I don’t think I can wait until tomorrow. Let’s search for 
those dogs now. ” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes thoughtfully. “It—it might be dangerous,” she 
stammered. 

“I don’t care,” I told her. “Let’s go.” 

21 

A few minutes later, Fergie and I skulked around the backyard with our 
flashlights. 

No moon tonight. No stars. A chilly mist hung in the air. 

We both shivered. 

I pointed my flashlight at the ground and searched for paw prints. 

None. As usual. 

“How come they never leave prints?” I muttered under my breath. 

Fergie shrugged, but didn’t answer. I could tell she was as scared as I was. 
She stuck close by my side. 

The beam of my flashlight fell on the jungle gym. As I stared down at the 
ground ahead of me, something suddenly grabbed my ankle. 

“Hey!” I yelled, tumbling in the dirt. 

I twisted and squirmed, trying to break free. “Help!” 

Fergie rushed over to help. Why was she laughing? 

“What a klutz! You’re all tangled up in the lawn sprinkler!” she exclaimed. 

“It’s not funny,” I insisted. I was glad she couldn’t see me blush in the 
darkness. “I could have broken my leg or something!” 

Fergie bent down to help free me. Then she stopped. “Did you hear that?” 
she asked. 

“Hear what?” 

“Listen.” 

We waited silently in the dark. Hardly breathing. 

Then I heard it, too. A soft creaking coming from the house. It sounded like 
an old door swinging open and shut. 

We carefully made our way toward the sound. To my surprise, we found a 
small window low to the ground. I’d never noticed it before. 

The window was open, swinging back and forth, making the creaking noise. 

“It leads to the basement,” I said, poking my head in. “Do you think this is 
how the dogs get into the house?” 

Fergie didn’t answer me. 

“Fergie?” I called. 

No reply. 

A chill of fear shot down my back. 

I spun around. 

In time to see a dark form come charging at me. 

Startled, I stumbled. The back of my head hit the house with a hard thwack. 
The dark creature leaped on top of me. 

Pinned me to the ground. 

A sour smell filled my nostrils as I struggled to get up. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The creature panted. Its jaws opened wide. Hot saliva dripped on to my 

face. 

The big dog held me prisoner. 

What did it plan to do next? 

22 

“Get off me!” I choked out. 

I reached up both hands—and shoved with all my might. 

To my surprise, the big dog toppled off. 

I jumped to my feet, my heart pounding. Spinning around, I saw Fergie. 
Trapped. Backed up against the house by the other dog. 

“Go home!” she cried meekly to the dog. “Go home!” 

The dog didn’t budge. 

I picked up a stick. I waved it furiously in front of me to keep the dogs a 
good distance away. 

As I approached the animals, Fergie shook her arms wildly at them. 

They lowered their heads and growled softly. 

Then, one of them came running at me. The stick didn’t seem to bother him 
at all. 

I lost my balance and crashed into Fergie. 

Both dogs curled their lips into fierce, ugly snarls. 

My legs were shaking so hard, I could barely stand. 

Growling and snapping their jaws, the dogs backed Fergie and me against 
the house. 

“Now what?” Fergie cried, grabbing my arm. 

“G-good question,” I stammered as the dogs lowered their heads and moved 
closer. 

23 

I shut my eyes. 

I had this crazy idea that if I made them disappear, I’d disappear, too. 

Guess what? It didn’t work. 

I felt a sudden burst of hot, sour dog breath on my face. 

Then I felt tugging. On my sweatpants. 

I opened my eyes. The dog pulled furiously at my sweats. Not biting. 
Tugging. 

Fergie appeared as confused as I was. The other dog tugged at the hem of 
her T-shirt. 

“What do they want?” Fergie whispered. 

“I... I... I don’t know,” I answered. “They—they’re not biting or 
attacking!” 

“Cooper, I think they want us to go with them,” Fergie said. 

“That’s crazy!” I cried. The dog tugged harder on my sweatpants. “I saw 
this on a Lassie show once!” 

“I don’t think it’s crazy, Cooper,” Fergie said. “Watch.” She stepped 
forward slowly, and the dog’s tail began to wag. “See? They want us to go with 
them!” 

I hesitated. It seemed ridiculous. 

But when I edged forward, the dog that had been tugging on my pants 
began wagging his tail, too. 

“See?” Fergie whispered. 

Sorry, but I wasn’t buying it. I turned and started to run. 

“Cooper, don’t!” Fergie cried. 

Too late. 

The big creature took off after me. Leaped high. And knocked me to the 
ground. 

When I climbed to my feet, he started tugging again. 

“Come on. Let’s see what they want,” Fergie pleaded with me. “We don’t 
have much of a choice, anyway. They’re not going to leave us alone.” 

We followed the dogs through the woods. They stayed close by, never 

getting too far ahead. And always glancing back. 

I pointed my flashlight along the path. The dim light didn’t help very much 
at all. I had no idea where we were going. All I knew was that it was very dark 
out—and we were headed deeper and deeper into the woods. 

“I hope we can find our way back, ” I muttered to myself. 

Then, without warning, the dogs sped up. Their big paws trod heavily on 
the soft ground. 

A few seconds later, they began barking and scratching wildly at something 
between the trees. 

I lifted my flashlight and aimed it in their direction. 

In the center of a small clearing stood a broken-down wooden shack. The 
dogs clawed at the door. When they had pushed it open, they came back for us. 
They began tugging again, pulling us toward the shack. 

“Wha—what is this place?” I cried. “Where are we?” 

“I don’t know,” Fergie whispered. “I’ve never seen this shack before.” 

The dogs tugged—furiously now. They really wanted us to go in there. 

“What can be inside?” I whispered to Fergie. 

Fergie swallowed hard. “I don’t know,” she whispered back. “But I think 
we’re going to find out!” 

24 

“Fergie, I don’t like this,” I whispered. “Let’s get away from here—fast!” 

I felt the dog clamp its jaw tighter on my ankle. 

Had he understood what I’d said? 

“They’re not going to let us get away,” Fergie said softly. 

Snarling and growling, the dogs backed us up against the door to the shack. 
“Whoa!” I cried out as the dogs leaped at the side of the shack. 

“I don’t believe it!” Fergie screamed. 

The dogs jumped right through the wooden wall. They disappeared inside. 
“That’s impossible!” Fergie cried. 

“Tell that to the dogs,” I murmured. 

I had seen them do it before—in my own kitchen. 

“They’re ghosts or something!” Fergie cried. 

I grabbed her arm. “Let’s get out of here! Whatever happens... we can’t go 
in that shack!” 

We’d taken only a few steps when the dogs came tearing out through the 
shack wall. 

They edged in close, pressing us up against the shack again. Before we 
could struggle or try to get away, the dogs rose up on their hind legs. 

Standing up, they were taller than us! Fergie and I exchanged terrified 
glances. 

The dogs staggered forward. Pressed their front paws against our chests. 
And shoved us backwards into the shack. 

We screamed as we started to fall. 

The shack had no floor. 

We fell, hurtling down. Tumbling as we fell. 

Down, down, down. 

Into a deep, black hole. 

A deep, black hole that didn’t seem to end. 

25 

I landed softly on my feet. I didn’t even feel it. 

Had we fallen into some kind of well? Or a tunnel dug deep under the 
shack? 

I couldn’t tell. 

I took a deep breath and gazed around the heavy blackness. “Fergie—are 
you okay?” I called. My voice came out tiny and shrill. 

“I—I guess,” she replied after a few seconds. “Cooper— look!” 

I started to reply that it was too dark to see anything. But then I glimpsed 
the two pairs of red eyes, glaring at us through the darkness. 

I gasped. 

“Don ’t move! ” instructed a dry whisper of a voice. 

“Who are you?” I managed to choke out. “What do you want?” 

“Why did you dogs bring us here?” Fergie demanded. 

“We are not dogs,” the voice growled. “We are people.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Silence!” the voice commanded. “Silence while you are in the Changing 
Room.” 

“The what?” I cried. 

The red eyes flared. 

“Centuries ago, my friend and I had an evil spell cast upon us,” the voice 
continued, ignoring my question. “The spell forced us to roam these woods as 
dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Too bad,” I muttered. “But what do you want us for?” 

The dogs snickered. It sounded more like dry coughing than laughter. 

“You are in the Changing Room,” the voice told us. “For nearly a hundred 
years, we have tried to get two people in here. And now we have succeeded.” 

“And—?” I demanded. 

“We’re going to change places with you,” the voice said casually. 

“Excuse me?” Fergie cried. “You’re going to what?” 

“We will take your places,” the voice repeated. “And you shall take ours. 
You will be the ghost dogs. You will roam these woods as we did—forever!” 

“No way!” I cried. I wanted to run. 

But where? 

I was surrounded by heavy blackness on all sides. 

“Fergie—” I started. 

But I heard her gasp. And then I began to feel warm. As if someone had 
covered me with a heavy blanket. 

The warmth swept over my body. 

Simmering heat. As if I were in an oven. 

Warmer. Warmer. Until sweat dripped down my face, and I was panting in 
the heat. 

I can’t stand it anymore! I thought. I’m going to melt! 

I opened my mouth to scream. But the sounds that escaped my throat 
weren’t mine. 

In fact, they didn’t sound human at all. 

26 

I opened my eyes to bright sunshine. 

The woods around me appeared fuzzy. I struggled to focus. 

I yawned. Then I stretched my entire body and shook myself awake. 

Yes! That stretch felt good. 

I sniffed the air and shook myself again. Wow! Something smelled 
delicious. 

My stomach growled. I suddenly realized I must be starving. 

Still trying to focus, I took two steps and fell on my face. 

I stood again, feeling unsteady. What’s wrong? I wondered. 

I gazed around the woods. Why were the trees suddenly all black and 
white? Why was the sky gray? The grass gray? 

What had happened to all the color? 

Was this a dream? 

I heard a gruff sound behind me. Someone clearing his throat. 

I turned—and saw a black Labrador. 

I started to cry out—but hoarse barks escaped my throat. 

Startled, I glanced down at my own body. My own fur-covered body. 
“Ohhhh.” I dug my front paws into the dirt. I shook myself hard, trying to shake 
the dog body off. Trying to shake it away so I could see my real body. Cooper’s 
body. 

And as I shook, I jerked my head back. And saw a long, black tail! 

My tail! 

I let out a startled yip. I’m a dog, too, I realized. 

The ghosts in the Changing Room weren’t kidding around. They changed 
places with us. Fergie and I are dogs. 

Fergie whimpered. 

Trembling, we both began to trot, our tails hanging between our legs. 
Fergie’s whimpers turned into mournful howls. 

What was that? Strange! I thought Fergie said something. 

“I did say something,” she insisted. “Well, actually, I thought something. I 
think we can read each other’s thoughts, Cooper.” 

Okay, Fergie, then what am I thinking now? 

“You’re thinking of that leftover fried liver from last night that your mom 
put in the fridge,” Fergie thought. 

That’s right! 

We could read each other’s mind! Cool! 

I licked my lips a few times, thinking about the liver. I loved liver so much, 
Mom made it for me once a week. Man, did I want that liver now! 

Then I remembered I had other things to worry about. 

“Fergie, what are we going to do? We’re dogs!” 

“I can see that, Cooper,” she replied, swatting a fly from behind her floppy, 
black ear. 

“Well, we’ve got to do something!” I cried. “We can’t trot around like this 
forever. Those ghost dogs stole our bodies! They’re probably fooling my parents 
this very minute!” 

Fergie didn’t reply. Instead, she ran around in circles, chasing her tail. 
“Hey! This is fun!” 

“Fergie! Quit messing around! We’re in major trouble!” 

“Okay, okay! I’m sorry! I’m upset about this, too, you know!” 

Fergie dropped to the dirt. She buried her snout in her front paws. Deep in 
thought. “You know what, Cooper?” 

“What?” I asked as I paced back and forth, trying to think of a way to get us 
out of this mess. 

“Your droopy ears look pretty good—now that you’re a dog.” 

“Fergie! Get serious!” I growled. 

Then it hit me. 

“I know!” I cried. “I know what we can do. We have to drag those ghosts 
back to the shack and trade places with them again!” 

“Oh, sure, Cooper. No problem,” Fergie barked. “And how do you suppose 
we do that? Walk up to them and say, ‘Uh, excuse me, but can you come back to 
the shack with us? It’ll only be for a second.’” 

I stared at Fergie. She had become a dog. But her personality hadn’t 
changed one bit! 

“I heard that,” she mumbled. 

I sighed. “Well, do you have a better plan?” I asked, scratching furiously at 
my neck. 

“I’m thinking, I’m thinking,” Fergie answered with a yawn. “I’m really so 

tired. Maybe after a nap—” 

“No! No naps! We have to do something—now! Listen to me. We’ll get my 
parents to help. All we have to do is convince them that we’re the real Cooper 
and Margaret, and that those kids in the house are imposters.” 

“And how are we going to do that?” Fergie asked. 

Good question. Real good question. 

27 

Fergie and I trotted through the woods. I sniffed the ground. Sniffed the weeds. 
So many great smells! 

We stopped at the edge of the woods behind my house. I heard laughing, 
shouting voices. Then I saw my parents. In the backyard. Throwing a Frisbee 
around with Fergie and Cooper! 

Those fakes! 

I growled with anger. 

I bared my teeth. Prepared to attack. 

“Whoa!” Fergie cried. “Cooper, wait! You can’t just barge over there and 
attack them!” 

Fergie was right. That wouldn’t solve anything. 

I watched my dad send the Frisbee flying across the yard. 

I had a strong urge to jump up and go for that Frisbee. 

But I stopped myself. This was no time for playing. 

Then I had an idea. The greatest idea. The idea of a lifetime. 

“Come on!” I urged Fergie. I began loping toward the side of my house. 

“Cooper, where are you going?” she asked. 

I didn’t answer. I stopped outside the wall to Mickey’s room. “This will just 
take a second,” I told Fergie. 

She read my mind. She knew what I planned to do. 

Side by side, we leaped through the wall of the house. 

And burst into Mickey’s room. 

He was standing in his underwear. Leaning over his dresser, sorting out his 
T-shirts. He cried out and spun around as Fergie and I started to growl. 

My brother uttered a short, terrified whimper. He started backing up, his 
eyes wide with fright. 

Fergie and I began barking and jumping up on our hind legs. 

“How—how did you—?” Mickey stammered. 

Those were the only words he could choke out. 

Then he let out another whimper, stumbled past us, and bolted out through 
the bedroom door. “Mommy! Daddy! Help!” I heard him scream. “Mommy! 

Daddy!” 

Fergie and I didn’t want to miss seeing him run through the yard in his 
underwear. We trotted through the wall and watched until he disappeared around 
the garage. 

“Did you see his face?” I yelped happily. “Was that awesome?!” 

“Man, that was excellent!” Fergie cheered. 

“Hey, you two!” a stern voice called. 

I turned around. 

Dad! 

“How did you dogs get in this yard?” my father demanded sharply. “Come 
on. Out! Out!” 

“But, wait! Dad! It’s me, Cooper!” I tried to yell. But all that came out was 
Woof! Woof! Woof! 

“Out! Out!” Dad repeated angrily. 

“Dad! Wait! It’s really me! Listen! You’ve got to listen!” 

“Woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof! Woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof!” 

My father armed himself with a broom and waved it wildly at Fergie and 
me. ♦Out!^ he cried, shaking the broom at us. 

“What’s going on?” Mom called from the doorway. 

“Mom! It’s me. Cooper!” I barked furiously. 

“Oh, Sam. Please get rid of those animals! You know I’m allergic to dogs!” 

“But, Mom!” I cried. “Can’t you tell it’s me?” 

Woof, woof! Woof, woof, woof, woof, woof! 

“Please, Sam! Call the pound! These dogs look dangerous. They might 
have to be put to sleep! Call the pound. They’ll know what to do.” 

I watched in horror as my dad picked up the phone and dialed. 

28 

Fergie and I bolted into the woods as fast as we could. Even as a dog, Fergie ran 
faster than I did. 

We hid among the trees and watched my parents and the fake Cooper and 
Fergie toss the Frisbee around in the backyard. 

The guys from the pound never showed up. But things still looked pretty 
bad. My parents thought we were stray dogs. And I couldn’t tell them who I was. 

All I could do was bark. 

Hey. Wait a minute. Maybe I could do more than bark. 

“Fergie, I have another idea!” I said, wagging my tail. “Follow me!” 

Fergie and I sneaked around the side of the house and stepped through the 
wall into the living room. I sniffed around, searching for a pen and some paper. 

“I’ll write them a note,” I explained to Fergie. “Mom will definitely 
recognize my handwriting.” 

I found a pen lying on the coffee table, next to some notepaper. 

I tried to lift the pen. 

It slipped out from under my paw. I couldn’t wrap my paw around it. 

Fergie tried to help me. She nosed the pen in my direction, but I still 
couldn’t pick it up. 

Impossible. Dogs can’t hold pens. 

I felt so disappointed. I pushed the pen away, then ripped the paper to 
shreds. That’s when my dad burst in. 

“Hey! I thought I told you two dogs to beat it!” my father yelled. 

My mother and the two phonies came running into the room. 

I started barking, trying to communicate with Dad. But that seemed to 
annoy him even more. 

“Stand up on your hind legs!” I instructed Fergie. “Maybe he’ll think we’re 
trying to tell him something!” 

I hopped up, trying to balance on my back legs. But I wasn’t very good at it. 
I mean, give me a break. I’d only been a dog for a few hours. 

I toppled over onto my stomach. 

I must have looked pretty stupid, because everyone started laughing. 

“Weird dogs,” the Cooper imposter said. 

Fergie and I hopped up again and again. But nobody understood what we 
were doing. And after a while, they grew bored with our little act. Dad picked up 
the broom again. 

I probably could have yanked that stupid broom right out of his hands and 
pinned him to the ground. But what would that prove? 

Dad chased Fergie and me out the back door and into the woods. 

“You’re right,” I told her when we were safely hidden by the trees. “We’re 
going to be dogs for the rest of our lives. And not even real dogs. Ghost dogs.” 

“Don’t worry, Cooper,” Fergie replied, reading my mind. “We’ll convince 
them. There’s got to be a way to show them who we are.” 

I sighed, then rolled on to my back. 

If only Gary and Todd were here. They’d know what to do. 

I rolled back again. And, suddenly, I felt hot. Burning hot. I sprang up on all 
fours. 

“What is it?” Fergie cried out. “What’s wrong?” 

I shook violently from head to tail. Out of control. I couldn’t stop shaking. 
Something had taken over my body. 

29 

“Fleas!” I shrieked. 

There must have been thousands of them! Clinging all over my body! And I 
couldn’t reach them. 

“My back!” I cried helplessly. “My back!” 

Fergie lifted her front paws and scratched the part of my back I couldn’t 
reach. 

“Higher,” I pleaded. “Higher. Aaaaahhhhh, that’s it!” 

My ears drooped low, and I sighed with relief. 

Fergie found us a nice spot under a tall birch tree. I stretched out my body 
and rested my face on my paws. Fergie curled up into a tight ball. It was time to 
think up another plan. 

And time to nap. I couldn’t believe how tired I’d suddenly become. 

The day passed slowly. I think we both dozed off once or twice. 

Around lunchtime, we ran to the stream in the woods for water. Some fleas 
still nipped at my skin. And I thought a cool dip in the stream might help. 

We returned to our spot under the shady birch. Now we were both starving. 

“Maybe we can find some scraps of food at my house—in the garbage,” I 
suggested. 

“Yuck! I’m not eating garbage,” Fergie wailed. “No way.” But she knew we 
had no choice. 

We returned to my house and quietly made our way to the side door, where 
Dad stored the garbage pails. 

As we sniffed around for some food, Mickey and my parents opened the 
back door and stepped out into the yard. 

“I’m telling you, Mom!” Mickey cried. “They’re ghost dogs! They walked 
right through my bedroom wall! They’re not normal!” 

“Save your jokes for Cooper,” my father snapped. 

“Hey, Fergie, maybe Mickey can help us,” I suggested, watching my 
brother. “He’s the only one who believes we’re not normal dogs. Maybe we can 
find a way to tell him who we are.” 

Fergie sighed. “For sure,” she said sarcastically. “Then what? Can you see 
your parents’ faces when Mickey tells them the two dogs hanging around their 

house are really Cooper and Margaret Ferguson?” 

I hung my head. Fergie was right. They’d never believe Mickey, either. 

“Well, we have to do something!” I said, scratching behind my ear. “These 
fleas are driving me crazy! I can’t live like this!” 

“Maybe we can get you a flea collar,” Fergie suggested. 

“Oh, right. I’ll just trot into the Main Street drugstore, put five dollars on 
the counter, and ask for a flea collar. Nobody will think that’s weird.” I rolled my 
eyes. 

Fergie snapped at me. “Well, excuse me, Cooper. I was only trying to help!” 

Fergie and I spent the rest of the day snapping at each other, getting on each 
other’s nerves. 

When dinnertime rolled around, my stomach rumbled loudly. Then I 
smelled the most wonderful smell. 

I raised my nose high in the air and sniffed excitedly. 

I’d know that aroma anywhere. 

Liver! The leftover liver from last night! 

“Come on!” I barked to Fergie. “I’ve got to get some of that liver!” 

We trotted over to the back door and peered inside. My whole family had 
gathered around the table, ready to eat. 

“You’re drooling,” Fergie said to me in disgust. “Gross.” 

Like I cared. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the plate of liver Mom carried to the table. I 
watched hungrily as she placed a big slab on my father’s plate. 

Then she served some to Mickey. Mickey seemed edgy, nervous. I hoped he 
was still upset from my little trick this morning. 

Then Mom placed a piece of liver on the phony Cooper’s plate. He jumped 
from his seat. “Yuck!” he cried out in disgust. “I hate liver!” 

Mom’s jaw dropped. “Cooper! What are you saying? You love liver!” 

The phony Cooper began to stutter. 

“Oh, uh, did I say I hated it? Oh, no. I’m, uh, just joking, Mom. I love liver. 
Everyone knows that!” 

Mom stared at him suspiciously. “Really, Cooper. You haven’t been 
yourself all day!” 

My eyes widened. 

This was my chance! 

Now was the perfect time to show Mom he wasn’t himself! He was a total 

phony! 

“I’m going in!” I told Fergie. 

I burst through the kitchen door and headed straight for the plate of liver. 
I’ll show Mom who the real Cooper is, I thought happily. The Cooper who loves 
liver. She’ll know it’s me instantly! 

This has got to work. 

It’s our last chance, I knew. Our only chance. 

30 

Panting excitedly, I charged into the kitchen and leaped up at the table. 

Mom screamed and dropped the plate of liver on the floor. 

In a flash, I bent down and began lapping it up. Delicious! 

“See, Mom? Look, it’s me! Your son, Cooper!” I yelped in between bites. 

“Sam! Do something! That animal is eating our dinner!” 

Huh? Animal? “No, Mom! It’s me! Your son! Look, I love liver!” 

But it was no use. 

All Mom heard was, “Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof! Woof, woof, 
woof, woof! ” 

Dad shoved his chair away from the table and grabbed a newspaper from 
the counter. He rolled it up, then swatted my nose. 

“Ow!” 

That hurt! 

“I’ll see if the line to the pound is still busy,” Mom said, picking up the 
phone. “Try to chase the dogs into the pantry and lock the door. We’ll hold them 
in there until the pound can come get them.” 

The fake Cooper and Margaret helped Dad back us toward the pantry. “Bad 
dogs! Bad!” the phony Margaret shouted. 

“Dad, do you think the pound will use a tranquilizer gun on them?” the 
phony Cooper asked. 

“Maybe,” Dad replied. 

I glanced over at Fergie. 

Tranquilizer guns? No thank you! 

I never ran so fast in all my life. I even ran faster than Fergie. 

“Got any other bright ideas, fleabag?” she asked when we were safely in the 
woods. 

I growled at her and turned away. The sun was setting over the trees. The 
air felt cool. It would be dark soon. 

“And thanks for saving some of that liver for me,” Fergie snapped. “I’m 
hungry, too, you know!” 

I ignored her. 

I gazed longingly through the trees. Through the window of my house as 
Mom and Dad washed the dishes. 

I couldn’t help myself. I felt so bad. I started whimpering. 

If only I could be inside my warm, comfortable house right now. In a short 
while, it would be dark. I didn’t want to spend a night in the woods. 

Think, Cooper! Think! I urged myself. There must be a way to get our 
human bodies back. 

“Whoa! Wait a minute!” I cried. “I just thought of something!” 

Fergie awoke from a nap. “What?” she asked lazily. 

“We’re dogs, right?” 

“Right.” 

“So we should act like dogs!” 

Fergie narrowed her eyes. “Cooper, what are you talking about?” 

I took a deep breath. “Okay, listen,” I explained. “Remember how those 
ghost dogs got us out to the shack?” 

Fergie nodded. 

“That’s what we should do! We should pull those kids back there, the way 
they pulled us! That’s what dogs would do!” 

Fergie raised her head. Her ears perked up. “Not bad! Not bad at all!” 

“We’re dogs,” I continued. “We have sharp teeth, right? Very sharp teeth. 
We’ll drag them into the woods and into the Changing Room—and before you 
know it, we’ll be Cooper and Fergie again!” 

Fergie bounced up and began panting happily and wagging her tail. 
“Excellent!” she cried. 

“Okay, here’s the plan.” With my paw, I drew a diagram in the dirt. “The 
phonies are here, in the den. We’ll walk through the wall and haul them out 
through the kitchen door. It’s okay if Mom and Dad follow. We can outrun 
them.” 

“I’m ready. Let’s do it!” Fergie exclaimed. 

We trotted to the house and pushed through the wall, as planned. 

Inside, the fake Cooper and Fergie were watching MTV on the den TV. We 
burst through the den wall and surprised them. 

“Mom!” the fake Cooper screamed at the top of his lungs. “Dad! Help! It’s 
the dogs!” 

Fergie and I moved in on them, snarling as ferociously as we knew how. 

I clamped on to the fake Cooper’s ankle just as my parents and Mickey 
burst into the room. I motioned to Fergie to get on with it. In a flash, she leaped 
on to the phony Fergie and clamped her jaws around her wrist. 

Then we tugged. 

“Mom! Dad! Help!” the phony Cooper yelled. 

“Mr. Holmes!” the phony Fergie cried. “Do something! They’re attacking 

us!” 

Mom ran for the broom. But before Dad could swing into action, Fergie and 
I had dragged the imposters through the kitchen. 

I caught a glimpse of Mickey as I tugged. He was hiding in the corner, 
shaking all over. 

Too bad I didn’t have time to enjoy that picture. 

We were out the door now. Everything was working perfectly. Fergie and I 
would be back to normal in no time. 

The phonies knew where we were taking them. But there was nothing they 
could do about it. Fergie and I were too strong, too ferocious. 

“Dad! Help!” the fake Cooper cried again. 

“Don’t worry!” Dad called out to him. “The dogs don’t seem to want to hurt 
you! I think they want us to follow them!” 

Way to go, Dad! 

A short while later, I spotted the clearing where the old shack stood. It 
won’t be long now, I thought happily. In a few minutes, Fergie and I will walk 
home with my parents. On two legs. No more fleas. No more food from garbage 
pails. I couldn’t wait! 

We panted wildly as the struggling imposters attempted to break free. But 
Fergie and I held on to them for dear life, tugging them, tugging with all our 
canine strength. 

And, then, finally, we were there. The old shack. We pushed the phonies up 
against the door. 

I released the fake Cooper from my grip for a second. I had no choice. I had 
to scratch a flea. 

The phony tried to make a run for it. 

“Cooper! He’s getting away!” Fergie barked. 

“No way!” I barked back. I bounded off after him and clamped my jaws 
down on the hem of his shirt. Then I dragged him back to the shack. 

The fake Fergie screamed with all her might. “No! No! Not in there again!” 

I glared up at her. 

“Hold on, Margaret,” I heard Mom call. “Don’t be afraid. Let’s see what the 
dogs are trying to show us.” 

It was time. Time to make the switch. 

“Now!” I yelped. 

Fergie and I jumped on the imposters and sent them tumbling into the 
shack. Then we leaped in after them. 

All four of us fell down, down, down. Down into the solid blackness. 

Once again, I felt dizzy and warm. 

Warmer. Warmer. As if the warm blanket were being pulled over me. 

I could feel myself changing. Changing in the darkness, in the sweltering 

heat. 

I gazed above my head. A glowing shadow hovered over me. A shadow 
with tiny red eyes. 

My body shuddered. I began to shake. 

And all at once I knew. Something wasn’t right. 

“Fergie!” I cried out in a harsh whisper. “It’s not working! Something is 
wrong! Something is very wrong!” 

31 

“Cooper!” my mom cried happily, running toward the shack with outstretched 
arms. “Are you okay?” 

“Margaret, what happened in there?” Dad called. “What happened to the 
dogs?” 

“We’re okay,” Margaret muttered. “It’s just an empty shack. That’s all.” 

“I’m going to call the pound again as soon as we get home,” Mom 
announced. “Those dogs shouldn’t be allowed to roam free. They’re dangerous!” 

“Let’s just get out of here, okay, Dad?” Cooper said. 

Fergie nodded in agreement. “We’re okay, Let’s go home.” 

“What an adventure!” Mom sighed. 

“At least it isn’t boring up here in our new home,” Dad added. 

“For sure,” Cooper agreed. 

* * * 

“What happened?” I asked, rubbing my eyes. 

I watched my parents walking away from the shack, their arms around two 

kids. 

“Hey! Those kids!” I cried. “They’re not us!” 

The door to the shack opened, and two black Labs stumbled out in a daze. 
Their eyes met, then they bolted away, barking frantically. 

What’s their problem? I wondered. 

I watched the dogs disappear into the trees. 

What’s going on? I asked myself, totally confused. 

I’m not a kid—and I’m not a dog, either! 

“Hey, Fergie? Fergie?” 

Where was she? 

When she popped up next to me, we both gasped. 

“Oh, no! Please—no! No! No! Noooo!” she wailed. 

Her head cocked to one side, and her little brown nose twitched furiously. 
“Tell me we’re not!” I begged her. “Please, Fergie—tell me we’re not...” 

“We are!” Fergie squeaked. “We... we’re chipmunks !” 

We both squeaked and chittered our surprise. 

Fergie gazed down at her furry little body. “How did this happen, Cooper? 
How did this happen?” 

“The woods are filled with chipmunks,” I sighed. “Two of them must have 
wandered into the Changing Room. And we—” 

“We switched with the chipmunks—not the kids!” Fergie cried. Her bushy 
tail thumped furiously on the ground. 

I examined my tiny black paws. I moved my teeny little fingers. I twitched 
my button nose. 

Cute. I was so cute! 

“Now what?” Fergie wailed. “What do we do now?” 

“Uh... hunt for acorns?” I suggested. 

Fergie’s beady little eyes squinted into mine. “Excuse me?” 

“Let’s hunt for acorns!” I said. “I’m starving!” 
