
Blow : how a smalltown boy made $100 million
with the Medellín cocaine cartel and lost it all
1. Blow : how a smalltown boy made $100 million with the Medellín
cocaine cartel and lost it all
2. Table of Contents
Blow : how a smalltown boy made
$100 million with the Medellín
cocaine cartel and lost it all
Porter, Bruce
This book was produced in EPUB format by the Internet
Archive.
The book pages were scanned and converted to EPUB format
automatically. This process relies on optical character
recognition, and is somewhat susceptible to errors. The book
may not offer the correct reading sequence, and there may be
weird characters, non-words, and incorrect guesses at structure.
Some page numbers and headers or footers may remain from
the scanned page. The process which identifies images might
have found stray marks on the page which are not actually
images from the book. The hidden page numbering which may
be available to your ereader corresponds to the numbered
pages in the print edition, but is not an exact match; page
numbers will increment at the same rate as the corresponding
print edition, but we may have started numbering before the
print book's visible page numbers. The Internet Archive is
working to improve the scanning process and resulting books,
but in the meantime, we hope that this book will be useful to
you.
The Internet Archive was founded in 1996 to build an Internet
library and to promote universal access to all knowledge. The
Archive's purposes include offering permanent access for
researchers, historians, scholars, people with disabilities, and
the general public to historical collections that exist in digital
format. The Internet Archive includes texts, audio, moving
images, and software as well as archived web pages, and
provides specialized services for information access for the
blind and other persons with disabilities.
Created with abbyy2epub (v.1.7.0)
11
-
V7 . r
■
7V\r
O S t X t SL
ISA $20.00
CANADA 826.'
■
Mere is a mesmerizing insider account of thefreewheeling evolution of the
cocaine trade sincethe late 1970s. Using unprecedented eyewitnesrsources,
Bruce Porter's Blow unfolds like a super-charged TV drama—fraught with
intrigue andfilled with riveting details of the high-stakes oper-ations,
volatile affiliations, and deadly dealings inthe lurid world of international
drug smuggling.
George Jung was a high-sk-hool foothall starand local teen idol whose
uneventful upbringing ina middle-class Massachusetts suhurh did not portend his ambitious rise as an international drugkingpin nor his vanguard
position as the gringoconnection trusted by the Colombian Medellincartel to
help infiltrate the burgeoning Americancocaine market.
Arriving in Los Angeles in 1965, Jung imme-diately demonstrated his
penchant for risk-takingand an innovative (if illegal) approach to
businessby establishing a highly sueeessfol hippie dope-smuggling
operation, which entailed flying loads ofmarijuana from the mountains of
Mexico into thedry lakebeds of southern California and dis-tributing them
via connections on both coasts.
Ironically, Jung's golden opportunity came in1974, after an arrest landed
him in a Danbury,Connecticut, prison for a twelve-month stint, for itwas
here that he met Carlos Lehder, a youngColombian car thief who had direct
connections tothe then-fledgling cocaine operation in his nativeland.
Together they hatched one of the most pro-fitable partnerships in recent
history by turningthe smuggling of cocaine, then a scarce luxurycommodity
used mainly by the entertainmentindustry's elite, into a massive and
unimaginablylucrative enterprise—one whose earnings, if legal,would have
ranked the cocaine business as thesixth-largest private enterprise in the
Fortune 300.Through LeKder, Jung won the confidence ofPablo Escobar of
the tightly knit Medellin cartel,whose family intrigues rivaled those of tinMafia.
I l-olll illlll'll Oil ItiK'k
RTvx^i
avjowNiyy WW
jJI^W&j AMcecuiY wp»\ • 7*i> Wj
'M WyW Lull §3 yf^
3 ^ 114 "AT*,
&K-G£i~i&
BOSTONPUBLICLIBRARY
1
BLOW
Jm
For Sara
Its not at all so easy as you fellers think it might be. . . . You'd be
satisfiedwith five grand. But I tell you, if you find something then, you
couldn Vbe dragged away; not even the threat of miserable death could stop
yougetting just ten thousand more. And if you reach fifty, you want to
makeit a hundred, to be safe for the rest of your life. When you finally have
ahundred and fifty, you want two hundred, to make sure, absolutely
sure,that you'll be really on the safe side, come what may.
—B. Traven, The Treasure of the Sierra Madre
z
Prologue (1974) 1
1. Weymouth (1946-1965) 21
2. Manhattan Beach (1967-1968) 44
3. Puerto Vallarta (1968-1970) 62
4. Mazatlan (1970-1973) 835.Danbury(1974-1975) 101
6. Cape Cod (1975-1976) 117
7. Miami (1977) 151
8. Norman Cay (1978) 177
9. Eastham (1978-1980) 196
10. Fort Lauderdale (1985) 242
11. Jacksonville (1987) 279Epilogue 305Acknowledgments 309
Photographs follow page 210.
BLOW
A FVote oim Sources
This story is true. I've reconstructed the events and conversationsin it from
interviews with witnesses and participants whose namesappear in the
acknowledgments at the end of the book. I also drewon the extensive
evidence available from legal sources, includingthe police investigations,
indictments, plea agreements, and/or tri-als of George Jung, Carlos Lehder,
Barry Kane, and Richard Barile.In several instances, I changed the names
of incidental charac-ters whose involvement in one aspect or another of the
drug tradehas escaped the attention of the authorities and the media. In
suchcases, I refer to the characters solely by first name.
"ft
1974
If you are a new inmate only recently sentenced by the courts, this will
probablybe an entirely new experience for you.
—from the Inmate Information Handbook at theFederal Correctional
Institution, Danbury, Connecticut
The quarter-mile-long road into the prison at Danburyseems more like a
driveway into some fancy retreat for big thinkersthan the entrance to a
federal facility for convicted felons. Loftyspruce and elm trees throw
shadows across the road as it winds upfrom the highway. Off in the distance
a man on a tractor is mowingthe meadow, bringing into relief the contours
of the gently slopinghillside. Even when the water tower and the white
concrete build-ings loom into view, there's little about the place that appears
omi-nous. Designed in the Art Deco style of the late 1930s, with round-ed
corners and strong vertical lines in the center, the prison has noguard towers
or search lights up on spires, no fences or razor wiresurrounding the
perimeter. Inside, the men don't live in the steelcages piled high in cell
blocks that you see in prison movies but intheir own seven-by-nine-foot
rooms, each situated off a dayroom orset back from a balcony on the second
floor. They've got real doorsinstead of bars, and real privacy. Each room has
a desk built inunderneath the window so an inmate can write his letters
while gazBl
ing out over the rolling Connecticut countryside. As a place tospend several
years, the quarters might seem a bit confining, butnot to a degree that would
strike any freshman at a New Englandboarding school as particularly
Spartan.
George Jung was bused up to Danbury from New York City bythe Federal
Bureau of Prisons in April of 1974, together with adozen other inmates
from throughout the Northeast. Among otherevents that spring, Saigon lay
under siege by the Viet Cong. PattyHearst had joined forces with her
kidnappers, members the Sym-bionese Liberation Army, and helped them
hold up a bank. Presi-dent Richard Nixon was refusing demands that he
resign fromoffice, because "that would lead to weak and unstable
presidenciesin the future." When George arrived at Danbury, he was thirtyoneyears old. He had shaggy, honey-blond hair and was five feet teninches
tall, with broad, muscular shoulders and a massive chest.He'd been doing
work on that physique ever since junior high,when he started lifting weights
in his bedroom to get himself inshape for the football team by the time he
got to high school. The"Jung" came not from any Chinese ancestors, as
most peopleassumed before they saw him in person. It was Dutch,
pronouncedwith a hard "J". And, indeed, the way his hair was cut, about
twoinches longer than the style popularized by the Beatles, he looked alot
like the famous Dutch boy on the can of paint. His grandfather,Frederick
Jung, a cigar maker, had migrated from Amsterdam in1903 and worked as a
cigar-roller for the J. A. Cigar Company inBoston. His father, also named
Frederick, but called "Fritz" by hismultitude of friends, ran an independent
fuel-oil business for manyyears with contracts to serve apartment buildings
in Boston.George had grown up in the coastal town of Weymouth, Massachusetts, about twenty miles south of Boston, in a house situatedjust
around the corner and up a hill from the Abigail Adams Home-stead,
birthplace of the woman who became wife to the secondpresident of the
United States and mother to the sixth.
The event propelling George toward Danbury had taken placea year and a
half earlier, in late September of 1972, at the bar of thePlayboy Club of
Chicago. At the fateful moment, George was beingmesmerized by a
vibrantly blond Swedish hooker, a dead ringer, hethought, for the movie
actress Britt Ekland. As he was applying thefinishing touches to an
arrangement that would get this lusciouspiece up to his room, two men in
suits approached and asked if he'd
mind stepping outside for a minute. They turned out to be agentsfor the
U.S. Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs.
What they wanted to talk about was the fact that three daysearlier George
had arrived at Union Station from Los Angeleswith two steamer trunks,
each of them packed with 150 kilos ofmarijuana, a total of 660 pounds'
worth. George was delivering thegoods to a well-to-do young man in
Chicago eager to involve him-self in something profitable other than his
father's extensive scrap-metal business. The man had agreed to pay George
$150 a kilo forit, or a total of $45,000, not a small amount in those days,
when abrand new Porsche, now costing as much as $100,000, was goingfor
$8-10,000. From the baggage room in the train station Georgehad arranged
for the trunks to be transferred by two limousines tothe basement of the
Playboy Club, where the manager had beengiven to understand that they
contained a large amount of cameraequipment and that George was an
important figure in the worldof fashion photography. Two days later the
intended customer hadshowed up with a van and a guy to help him, and the
two of themhad carted the pot away. George was now waiting in the bar to
gethis money.
The thrust of George's drug business involved purchasing threeto four
hundred kilos of grass every month or so from small farmersin the Sierra
Madre in Mexico, flying it in to dry lake beds in thedesert country of
Southern California, then trucking the load eastin a rented Winnebago,
where he would sell it to wholesalers inAmherst, Massachusetts, the locus
of four private colleges and alarge state university, with an aggregate
enrollment of some thirtythousand pot-hungry students. Since 1968 George
had made agood living doing this, and he had become familiar with a large
partof America in the process. He was now hoping to add Chicago's
hotspots to his market.
The deal would have gone off fine, if only George's prospectivecustomer
had not, three weeks earlier, tried to sell some heroin toan undercover
policeman. Having unpleasant visions of himselfbehind bars, he had agreed
to keep the authorities apprised of hispot transaction with George, in
exchange for consideration on hissentence. Thus the appearance of these
two federal agents inter-rupting George on this, his night of nights.
Actually, they apolo-gized for arresting him. It was really heroin guys they
wanted, notpot smugglers. Marijuana at the time was coming into such
Blow
widespread use as to approach alcohol and tobacco as drugs of pref-erence
in the United States; and at least some people in the federalgovernment
were urging the authorities to be a little less hystericalabout stamping it out.
A report to the president from the DomesticCouncil's Drug Abuse Task
Force estimated that between 25 and 30million Americans over the age of
eleven—about 20 percent of thepopulation—had smoked pot. And when it
came to how law-enforcement agencies should be allocating their time, the
drug wasrelegated to very low priority—fifth, below heroin,
amphetamines,barbiturates, and cocaine. For that matter, cocaine wasn't
causingmuch of a ripple, either. Where the first three drugs were
deemedhigh on their ability to induce physical or psychological dependence and in the "severity-of-adverse-consequences" category, potand coke
scored a low on both counts.
The debate, of course, had little effect on George's predica-ment; but one
thing he had come to realize in his mere four years asa professional drug
outlaw was that in the criminal justice systemone's situation rarely stays
bleak for very long if one applies some ofthe basic rules of the game. Rule
one: Be very skeptical in generaltoward any advice of your lawyer to the
effect that you should fightthe case and present yourself before the men and
women of thejury. Lawyers earn fees that way, and you earn time,
especially ifyou've been caught as red-handed as George was now. Not
onlywill the jury, without a doubt or a qualm, saw off your nuts with arusty
blade and hand them up to you on a platter, but the exercise isbound to cost
a lot of money fruitlessly spent. Rule two: Plead notguilty at the
arraignment and get bailed out of jail. If necessary, youcan change your plea
later if your lawyer works out something withthe prosecutor. The DA's a
busy person and will cut a deal that'sbetter than anything you'd get from a
trial. But you won't have toworry about any of that, because according to
Rule three, promptlyafter the arraignment, you take off.
Thus, two days after pleading not guilty to a charge of posses-sion of 660
pounds of marijuana with intent to distribute, Georgegot himself bonded out
of the Cook County Jail, said good-bye for-ever to Chicago, boarded a
flight to Los Angeles, and went back towork bringing more loads across the
border. Temporarily, at least,he decided to forgo his dream of midwestern
expansion in favor ofsticking with old customers who were trustworthy and
dependable.
As a federal bond jumper, however, he now had the FBI on his
trail, which meant that more effort would be exerted toward hiscapture than
would be had he skipped out on a state charge, sincestates have little
wherewithal to track people cross-country. Buteven the FBI had to follow
budget priorities. Since bond defaulterswere rated less of a threat than, say,
escapees from federal prisonsor people who were armed and dangerous, the
effort to nabGeorge was limited to sending his file to the FBI office nearest
hishometown and a local agent advised to keep an eye out in case heshowed
up.
"Usually with a fugitive you look for the girlfriend, what is it,'Chercbez la
femme?''" says James J. Trout, then a young FBI agentworking in the
Fugitive Squad in Boston. Trout had been with theBureau for only a year at
the time and had a caseload of forty otherfugitives to track down. "Find the
girlfriend and most of the timeshe'll lead you right to him." George didn't
have a girlfriend; he didhave a sister, Marie, four years older, but she had
married a Ph.D. inchemistry named Otis Godfrey and moved away to
Indiana, whereOtis was a rising star in the research division of Eli Lilly &
Co. Thecouple lived in the suburb of Greenwood, outside Indianapolis, in
aneat little house with trees and a yard. It's safe to say the last thingthey
wanted was a visit from George the jailbird; they'd be sure toinvite the
neighbors over for that one. This left Trout to forage forinformation from
George's parents, Ermine and Fred, who stilllived on "the Circle," as the
area around Abigail Adams's birthplacewas known in Weymouth. So he'd
stop by once in a while to seewhat they had to say, which usually wasn't
much. Whereas Marieliked to phone her mother nearly every day, George
wasn't toogood in the keeping-in-touch department. Indeed, his
parentshadn't seen him face-to-face in nearly two years, since before
hisarrest in Chicago. So when Trout visited to chat on the topic oftheir son's
whereabouts, Fred and Ermine treated him pleasantlyenough, talked with
him and all, but said they couldn't help much.
"I felt sorry for them, which is almost always the case," Troutrecalls. "They
were nice people. The parents are always the oneswho pay for it in the long
run. It's in the newspapers, the neighborsall know, a terrible
embarrassment."
Actually, as Trout thinks back, it was George's mother who wasthe gabby
one. Fred didn't have much to say, at least to Trout. Intruth, the visits
rankled Fred, and he even called a lawyer at onepoint to see about
preventing the agent from coming around, but
Bl
then dropped the matter. Arguing about their son was an old rou-tine for Mr.
and Mrs. Jung. The question of exactly how much theyshould be helping
the police to catch him had opened up anotherunpleasant chapter. Fred also
grumbled to George about the FBIvisits during one of the rare phone calls
his son made from the WestCoast. That's how George learned that Trout had
been upstairslooking around his old room at the front of the house, where
heused to lift weights and tend his fish tank, and where clippings fromthe
Quincy Patriot Ledger about his feats as a halfback for the Wey-mouth High
School Maroons hung on the wall. Also there forTrout to inspect was a
photograph of George down in Mexico, witha wide-brimmed cowboy hat
pulled down to shade his eyes, a longcigar clenched in his mouth, cartridge
belts criss-crossed over hischest, a large revolver stuck in his belt, and a
bottle of tequila in hisfist. He looked like one bad hombre, for sure.
As it happened, in November of 1973, a little over a year afterthe Playboy
Club bust, George flew to Boston to meet with a con-tact he'd developed in
Amherst to firm up a deal that would effect amajor increase in the volume
of his business. The man hadapproached him the previous summer and said
he knew people withtwo twin-engine Cessnas who wanted someone to hook
them upwith a connection in Mexico, to guarantee them an
uninterruptedsupply of marijuana. They would handle the details of
transportingthe stuff into the United States and distributing it thereafter.
AllGeorge would have to do is take care of the Mexican end and loadup the
flights, a proposition that seemed almost too good to betrue. And with the
volume this guy was talking about, it looked likethe operation could net him
something on the order of a million ayear, ten times what he was doing at
the time. Euphoric over thenew possibilities, and realizing it meant he'd be
out of the countryfor a long time, George had decided to drive down to
Weymouthand pay a short visit to his parents.
He knew what risk the venture entailed, which was why he'dtold no one
where he was going. He hadn't even told his parentsthat he was coming by.
It was dark on a Saturday night right afterThanksgiving, about eight o'clock,
when he pulled his rented carinto the wooded area by the Weymouth
Community Church, downthe hill from his parents' house. He cut up
through a thick stand ofspruce that Mr. Stennes, the local clock maker, had
planted in thelate 1950s as a way to earn extra money by selling Christmas
trees.
(The scheme died abruptly a few years after George graduated fromhigh
school when old man Stennes shot and killed his wife aftermistaking her for
an intruder.)
Aided by the dim light of a new moon, George made his waythrough the
trees, approaching the house via the backyard, andknocked on the kitchen
door that opened onto a breezeway leadingto the garage. It was cold. The
door was opened by his father, ashort, balding man, dressed in the khakis
and plaid shirt he alwayswore—typical "dad clothes," as George called
them. Ever since hisstroke fifteen years earlier Fred cried easily over the
things that dis-appointed him in life—mainly George. The tears came now
whenhe saw his son standing there. Then Ermine showed up at the
door,more shocked to see him than glad, it seemed to George,
actingnervous through the whole visit. His father brought him into theliving
room, and the two began making headway into a bottle ofScotch. Fred
asked him how things were going. George talkedabout California, how easy
it was living out there. Ermine kept get-ting up and disappearing into the
couple's downstairs bedroom.
Special Agent Trout remembers the call coming in just beforeten o'clock. A
voice said: "He's in the house right now in Wey-mouth." Hurriedly
corralling two other agents to help out, Troutdrove the half hour it took to
get there and pulled up across thestreet. One agent went around to watch the
back door. Trout andhis partner went up the front walk and looked through
the windowinto the living room. They spotted George sitting on the
couch.Trout began banging on the glass-paned storm door,
announcingloudly that he was with the FBI and demanding that they open
thedoor. He saw George bolt off the couch and disappear from view.He
yelled louder and banged harder, so hard the glass shattered justas Fred was
opening up the inner door. "I ended up cutting myselffairly badly on the
hand," says Trout. "And when we got inside,before we even started
searching the house, the mother insisted onstopping the bleeding and
bandaging me up."
George knew what was up at the first banging and instinctivelyraced
upstairs to his room, thinking that maybe he could do aHuckleberry Finn
out the window to the garage roof, drop to theground as he'd done as a kid,
and take off. He thought fleetinglytoo of his old double-barreled 12-gauge
still stuck in the rafters; heused to bang away with it at the ducks flying
over the marsh downback of the house. The shells were probably still in his
dresser
i; I
drawer. Suddenly his father called up the stairs: "George, this isyour
mother's and my house, and if you're doing what I thinkyou're doing, you'd
better stop right now." In the end, George justcrawled into the back of his
clothes closet, worming through anopening in the eaves into a cubbyhole
where he'd played as a littleboy. Soon he heard footsteps coming up the
stairs. Trout poked hishead into the room and called for George to come
out. There's noneed for anyone to get hurt, he said.
Because no one knew of his plans that night, because he cameinto the house
through the backyard where the neighbors couldn'thave seen him, because
of her edginess and her suspicious move-ments while he was there, George
has always believed that it washis mother who turned him in. Either she
phoned Trout directly orshe gave a prearranged signal for someone else to
make the call. Ifthe latter were true, George suspected the someone else
wouldhave been his father's brother, Uncle George Jung of Melrose.
Aretired U.S. Navy commander and George's namesake, UncleGeorge was
the family patriarch and benefactor; for a number ofreasons he had little use
for his nephew and had treated Georgefrom his late teenage years with an
ill-masked dislike. Georgenever wanted to confront his mother on the
matter. Trout says thevoice he heard that night was male. "It was not the
mother," hesays. "Not directly, no."
George had been processed through Receiving & Dischargeand sitting
alone in a holding cell for about an hour, chewing on adried-up baloney
sandwich, no mayo, when Wong, a trustee fromNew York's Chinatown who
was doing several years on a heroincharge, ushered him into a shower stall,
hosed him down, thenpoofed him all over with delousing powder. From the
supply roomhe issued George a plastic razor, a toothbrush, and a towel, and
aset of regulation prison duds, consisting of khaki hand-me-downsfrom the
U.S. Navy. The shoes were two sizes too big—a far cryfrom the comfort
and suppleness of his five-hundred-dollar BrunoMaglis, and at the first
opportunity George replaced them at thecommissary with a pair of tennis
shoes.
The next day, carrying his bedroll and personal gear in a plasticbucket,
George was taken down to Massachusetts House, a largeopen dormitory
lined with double-decker bunks. Here new inmatesspent two weeks getting
filled in on what to expect from prison life.
George dumped his stuff on an available lower bunk and sat downto
consider his surroundings. The room contained about a hundredmen, some
sleeping on their beds, others playing cards, reading, ortalking in groups, or
watching TV in a glassed-off television room.The Latinos were off by
themselves, as usual, engaged in a game ofdominoes. That pastime
exceedingly irritated the Anglos in theroom, for they kept it up nonstop all
day and up to bedtime, slam-ming the pieces down with a great whack,
accompanying the playwith continuous shouts and whoops.
About an hour later another new inmate walked in. He hadarrived the same
day but on another bus and had spent the night in aholding cell on a
different floor. He was short, about five feet sixinches tall, and looked to be
in his mid-twenties. A Latino of somekind, he was clean-shaven and very
handsome in a sultry way.George was struck by two other things about him.
First, when hecame over to the cot next to George and asked if it was free,
hespoke quite formally and politely, as if he were introducing himselfat a
dinner party. "How do you do?" he said in only slightly accentedEnglish.
"My name is Carlos Lehder." He said he lived in New YorkCity but that his
real home was in Colombia. Carlos also seemedunusually open and
talkative, exuding none of the wariness prisonersinstinctively feel when
encountering an unfamiliar environment."Usually you're a little careful
about who you talk to in the begin-ning," says George. "You don't know
who's who or what's going on.In prison you want to hang back a little, take
your time about whatyou say."
Carlos's friendly manner invited quick intimacy. Right awayGeorge found
himself explaining why he'd been sent to Danbury,all about the farmers in
the hills of Mexico, the California desert,Amherst and the college kids.
Carlos responded that he also was inprison for possession of marijuana—
nothing, to be sure, on thescale of George's operation. In addition, he'd been
charged withtrying to smuggle a stolen automobile over the border from
Detroitinto Windsor, Ontario, whence he'd planned to ship it back
toColombia.
The two spent the next hour, until the public-address systemcalled them to
line up for supper, talking animatedly about theirexperiences in the
marijuana trade, even forming some vague plansfor when they got out.
George had arrived at Danbury with a singlethought in mind—to return to
the smuggling business just as
bloody fast as he could get free. In his mind, the smuggling itselfhad begun
to transcend the material rewards of his trade—themoney and the drugs and
the Porsches and the women. Con-fronting physical danger, often of a high
order, confounding thesystem, defying the straight world, staring down the
terror he feltwell up each time he landed in the desert or risked getting
caught—these were the accomplishments on which his self-esteem had
cometo be pegged. Smuggling itself was the drug now, the
therapeuticactivity that got him through the day. Lacking a load to run
orroutes or schedules to devise, he felt as down and desperate as
analcoholic separated from his booze. Drug smugglers, George likedto say,
shouldn't be sent to prison, they should be carted off todebriefing centers, to
get their brains altered, their obsessions mod-ified. Using prison as a chance
to pay his debt to society and goingstraight thereafter had never entered his
mind. He was looking toDanbury to further in some way the criminal
enterprise that hadbecome his life. "I wanted very badly to make something
out ofbeing there, to bring something back," he says. "I was looking foran
opportunity, and I didn't want to spend all that time and comeaway emptyhanded."
It was then, standing in line early that evening, waiting to getinto the
cafeteria at Danbury, that Carlos looked up at him."George," he said, "do
you know anything about cocaine?"
In the middle of the 1970s there was no such thing as theMedellin cocaine
cartel. At that time, it would have seemed a far-fetched notion that a
handful of small-time thieves and hustlersfrom a city few Americans had
ever heard of high in the Andescould create an enterprise that would
blossom into the most lucra-tive, ruthless, and deadly criminal empire in the
world, responsiblefor the murder in Colombia alone of fifty judges,
including elevenSupreme Court justices, twelve journalists, including the
editor ofBogota's El Espectador, the attorney general, the daughter of
thecountry's president, the head of the national police drug squad,hundreds
of police officers, and uncounted thousands of civilians.In the United States
in the seventies the "drug war" was a politicalcoinage for the effort to
eradicate the use of heroin, whose ravages,while serious enough, confined
themselves largely to ghetto neigh-borhoods of big cities rather than
permeating the society. Therewas no such thing as crack. Where cocaine
was concerned, the 1975
Report to the President from the U.S. Domestic Council's DrugAbuse Task
Force rated the substance "low" for the "size of the coreproblem." It said
further that "as it is currently used [cocaine] doesnot result in serious social
consequences such as crime, hospitalemergency room admissions, or
death." The demand for the drug,dormant since its previous heyday back at
the turn of the centuryand in the Roaring Twenties, emanated from a thin,
rarefied slice ofthe population—rock-and-roll stars, the Pop Art crowd,
Hollywoodluminaries, members of Cafe Society on Manhattan's Upper
EastSide. It dribbled into the country in small quantities, often less thana
kilo at a time, inserted into the anal cavity of a "mule" flying intoMiami
International Airport or secreted in a seaman's bag aboard amerchant ship
bound from Barranquilla, Colombia, to NewOrleans or Houston. In all of
1974, the U.S. Customs Serviceseized only 907 pounds of the drug, a little
over 400 kilos.
No one was predicting that cocaine would begin arriving inquantities so
large it would have to be lugged around in duffel bagsand moved from one
place to another in trucks: 125 tons of it a yearby 1985, according to a
calculation made by Manhattan districtattorney Robert Morgenthau. Or that
the money generated bystreet sales of the drug—all cash-and-carry, no
layaway plans,checks, credit cards, charge accounts, or promissory notes—
wouldmake of the cocaine business one of the industrial colossuses of
theworld. Selling at $100 a gram, for instance—one twenty-eighth ofan
ounce, fifteen to twenty lines' worth, sufficient to induce aheightened sense
of well-being for an evening in a party of four—that 125 tons, cut two,
three, four times by successive dealers,would generate retail revenue
somewhere in the amount of $40 to$50 billion a year. By 1985, close to the
peak year for cocaine use inthe U.S., these earnings would have ranked the
cocaine business asthe sixth-largest private enterprise in the Fortune 500.
GeneralMotors, Exxon, and IBM grossed more money than the
cocainedealers did, but not AT&T, General Electric, Chevron, Sears, Roebuck, Chrysler, Boeing, R. J. R. Reynolds, Procter & Gamble,
DowChemical, U.S. Steel, or the E. I. Du Pont de Nemours Company.
Not quite twenty-five when he entered Danbury in 1974, Car-los Lehder
was the son of an engineer named Wilhelm Lehder, whohad left his native
Germany in the late 1920s, set up a constructionbusiness, and married a
Colombian named Helen Rivas. Theyoungest of three boys and a girl born
to the Lehder family, Carlos
12 Blow
was four years old when his parents divorced—his mother chargingshe'd
been beaten by his father, his father that she'd committedadultery.
Henceforth he was raised by his mother, helping her run asmall rooming
house in the 1950s in Armenia, about 125 milessouth of Medellin, that
catered in part to countrymen of her formerhusband. Conversations that
little Carlos had with the guests notonly helped preserve his fluency in
German but also implanted inhim an admiration for the Third Reich and the
leadership style ofAdolf Hitler, which he later in life synthesized into
"Never give asucker an even break."
Whatever he retained of the Nazi nostrums, Carlos couldn'thelp but have
been exposed to certain other lessons by virtue ofgrowing up in a part of the
country dominated by Medellin. Settledin the early seventeenth century by
Basques from northern Spainand also a number of Sephardic Jews driven
from the country byFerdinand and Isabella, the city sits a mile and a half
above sea levelin a saddle formation of rock among the Cordillera Central
Moun-tains. The temperature averages 72 degrees Fahrenheit year
round,earning Medellin its reputation as "the City of Eternal Spring."From
an incoming airplane the place looks like any other modernmetropolis; the
same glass-sheathed office buildings and hotelsloom up from wide avenues
and tree-lined boulevards; suburbssprawl out into the surrounding pine
forests. As Colombia's centerfor textile manufacturing, the city reigns as its
fashion capital, lend-ing it a certain glitter and style. It is also noted for its
male prosti-tutes, leather boys and drag queens who populate the
districtaround Forty-fifth Street. "If you drop a peso in Medellin, don'tbend
over to pick it up," goes one piece of advice. Economically,many residents
secure an abundant living from the chemical andsteel industries on the city's
outskirts, the gold mines in the hills,and the coffee plantations and cattle
ranches in the outlyingregions. Unemployement, however, lingers at about
35 percent.And for most of the paisas (the name applied to residents of the
sur-rounding province of Antioquia), life more likely promises to
bedesperate and mean.
The two big shantytowns flanking the road to the airport,Comnna
Nororiental and Comuna Nor occidental, are filled with drugs,street crime,
and violence. Like the other depressed barrios in thecity, they teem with
desechables, or "throw-away" kids, left by theirparents to scratch out what
money they can by running basuco, a
smokable form of cocaine, or doing just about any trabajito, or littlejob, for
the drug lords or the death squads or the police. Many endup as sicarios, the
notorious hired assassins of Medellin, whose now-famous specialty is the
asesino de la moto, or motorcycle killing,wherein the driver sidles up to the
victim's car, the kid on the backempties his machine pistol into the interior
of the vehicle, and thetwo take off into the chaos of Medellin traffic.
Indeed, the violencelevel in Medellin seems almost beyond belief, even by
Americanstandards. Much of it is generated by the city's gang wars,
whichmake the counterpart activity in Los Angeles, Chicago, and NewYork
look like some playground imitation. From 1980 to 1990, thenumber of
violent deaths in Medellin rose more than sevenfold,from 730 a year to
5,300. The last figure is startling when one con-siders that it's about twice
the number of homicide deaths in NewYork City, which has six times the
population.
Medellin has always played the loutish, second-city cousin tothe more
refined Bogota, a situation of deemed inferiority that haslong put a chip on
its shoulder. Linguistically, the paisas are thoughtto speak in a crude accent,
jabbering in too fast and unmannerly afashion. Medellin might have three
universities and a botanical gar-den, but little in the category of high
culture. The tastes there areless sophisticated than in the nation's capital, the
family trees not solong, if discernible at all. The sons of Medellin, unlike
those inmiddle-class Bogota, learn early on that the good things in life
arenot bestowed by inheritance; they have to be wrenched from theworld
through ingenuity and pluck. Crime, too, if it comes to that."If you succeed,
send money," Medellin boys are told when they getkicked out of the house
to seek their fortunes. "If you fail, don'tcome home."
The result is a city with a sizable number of hustlers, smugglers,con men,
and wheeler-dealers, ranging from the more pathetic sort,such as the onelegged beggars who flag down pedestrians withgrisly photographs depicting
close-up views of their bodily insults,to the host of pickpockets, sneak
thieves, and sharpies pushingsmuggled TV sets, stereos, appliances,
cigarettes, liquor, and espe-cially emeralds, the national jewel. There is a
proud local legendabout the Medellin cartel kingpin, Pablo Escobar, the son
of asmall-time farmer and a schoolteacher, who by the mid-1980s
wassufficiently wealthy to offer to personally pay off Colombia'snational
debt of $13 billion if the authorities would stop hounding
him. As the story goes, he first made his way in the world by dig-ging up
gravestones, grinding off the inscriptions, and selling themcut-rate to people
in the market for cheap funerals.
In the end, what many paisas want, by foul means or fair, is tomake it
across the Medellin River, the city's social dividing line, tolive in El
Poblado. Here the good life is lived, in a neighborhood ofaugust
boulevards, fine restaurants, expensive boutiques, and housesbuilt on the
Miami model, white stucco with lavish use of marbleand glass. To appear in
El Poblado, ensconced with your Mercedesand your house, dining out at
Kevin's Restaurant on the heights,looking out over the lights of the city—
that was the pinnacle of suc-cess. And to do it suddenly, to one day be on
the streets and thenext checking on the armed guards that patrolled your
little palacebehind a high fence, that was when the people would start
talkingabout you as one of los magicos—the magicians—for the sleight
ofhand you'd pulled off.
Carlos hadn't become quite the magician by the time he landedin Danbury
that spring of 1974, but he'd been working diligently inthat general
direction. When he was a teenager, his mother hadtaken him with her to
New York City, where she set up a life in theborough of Queens. An older
brother, Guillermo, stayed behind torun Autos Lehder, the family-owned
car dealership in Medellin.From what Carlos told fellow inmates, it
specialized in Chevroletsand other American makes, some of which were
acquired and soldlegitimately, but not all. Carlos also boasted that the
dealershipserved as cover for one of Medellin's more lucrative
enterprises,which involved smuggling American-made automobiles into
thecountry without paying the 100 percent import tax on foreign
cars.Colombian car dealers in general felt abused by the tax, since itmeant
they had to find customers able and willing to pay twice whata car sold for
in the U.S., and then hand over the difference to thegovernment. It was
much better to skip the tax by bribing a customsofficial to phony up the
import papers so the duty would appear tohave already been settled. It was
better still to steal the vehicle out-right in America and bribe the Colombian
official. That way the carcould be sold for twice the price.
Stealing cars was the reason, or part of the reason, Carlos endedup in
Danbury. The first time he got caught was at age twenty-twoin Mineola,
Long Island, where he was given probation on aknocked-down charge of
unauthorized possession of a motor vehicle. The following year he was arrested again for stealing a car andtrying to
smuggle it into Windsor, Ontario. He beat that charge byskipping out on his
bail, but was caught once more a year later inMiami, this time for
possession of marijuana. In any case, he wasnow in federal prison, and
scheduled to stay there for some twentymonths, until early in the winter of
1976. This gave him plenty oftime to share his ideas with George about
embarking on anotherline of work.
Chewed in its natural form, like a plug of tobacco, the raw leafof the coca
plant is perfectly capable in its own right of imbuingone's life with a rosier
hue, and in South America it's been quicken-ing the spirits of the native
population for at least four thousandyears. That was the age of a Peruvian
burial mound where archaeol-ogists found a quid of cocaine that some
Indian had given a going-over right before he died back in 2100 B.C. The
practice was alsomemorialized in the stone figures from 600 B.C. in
Colombia's Val-ley of the Statues in San Augustin; the statues' oddly
distendedcheeks put one in mind of an old-time baseball player getting
hismouth around a large chaw of tobacco. Eliciting a commercial-quality
high out of cocaine, however, is much more complicated,nothing like in the
marijuana business, where you strip off a bud,roll it in paper, and you've got
yourself a good smoke. To providecustomers with the form of cocaine they
can smoke or shoot orsnort, the pure cocaine alkaloid has to be chemically
extracted fromthe leaf. This involves putting the plant through an elaborate
indus-trial process requiring logistical skills, technical expertise,
buildingsand equipment, and large financial backing.
While the plants will grow virtually anywhere in the moist trop-ical climate
of the Andes—Peru, Ecuador, Chile, Bolivia, Colom-bia—the really good
stuff, with the highest cocaine alkaloid con-tent—Erythroxylon coca, or the
Huanuco leaf—likes it not so highup, about one to three thousand feet
above sea level. One such areais the heavily forested eastern lowlands of
Bolivia around the city ofSanta Cruz, a remote region with few access roads
and a hundredinches of rainfall a year. In the mid-1970s, during an
economic cri-sis in Bolivia caused by falling demand for tin, the area was
desig-nated by the government as cotton country, and banks were encouraged to lend money to landowners so they could cut down forestsand put
large tracts under cultivation. Unfortunately, at just about
16 Bl
the time the first crops ripened for harvest in 1975, cotton prices onthe
world market also plummeted. The landowners scrambled fran-tically for
some profitable substitute. They found one, and after thefarmers held
discussions with would-be processors in Medellin andCali in Colombia, the
fields that had so recently teemed with cottonboles began to sprout dark
green with the high-octane plants of theHuanuco family.
Viewed as a problem in industrial engineering, the main chal-lenge in
cocaine manufacturing concerns transportation. Not onlyhave few roads
been put through to the growing regions in Boliviaand Peru, but those that
do exist are regularly patrolled by theauthorities and don't do you much
good if your cargo's illegal.Under these conditions, pack animals and
airplanes—llamas, bur-ros, and Cessnas—are relied upon to transport
material via moun-tain trails and jungle landing strips. In leaf form,
however, cocaineis a bulky cargo. Depending on the concentration of the
cocainealkaloid in the leaves, it can take anywhere up to five hundred
kilosof leaves, about what you can grow on an acre and a half of land,
tomake a single kilo of cocaine hydrochloride—the white powder thatgoes
up your nose. For this reason, interim laboratories, some ofthem portable,
are set up close to the growing fields to reduce theleaves down to a cocaine
paste, which can be shipped more easily.
Brewing up a batch of paste involves a several-stage processwherein the
leaves are treated with successive solutions, of lime orpotash, kerosene,
sulfuric acid, then more lime, to begin separatingout the cocaine from the
thirteen other alkaloids in the plant. Theresulting paste consists of a grayish
muck, resembling joint com-pound used in drywall construction, wherein
the bulk of the prod-uct has been reduced by about one-hundredfold, 250
kilos of leavesboiling down to about 2.5 kilos of paste. The cocaine alkaloid
con-tent has also been jacked up considerably, from 1 to 2 percent in
thecoca leaves to 40 to 90 percent in the paste. Known in this form
asbasuco, the paste can be marketed as a nice little drug product initself,
much cheaper than refined cocaine, since it hasn't gonethrough the final
works. This is why it appeals to native Colom-bians, who mix the
concentrate with tobacco and smoke it like ajoint, attaining a high part of
the way toward euphoria.
The leaves have now been reduced enough so that the productcan be easily
flown from the growing fields to the finishing labora-tories in the forests of
western Colombia. Here the paste undergoes
more baths in solutions of kerosene and sulfuric acid, of
potassiumpermanganate and ammonium hydroxide, successive soakings
anddryings, to produce an interim form of cocaine called "base."Although
grayish and gluey like the paste, the base is now 100 per-cent pure cocaine
alkaloid, and very potent. Indeed, the base is sopowerful that before the
discovery of crack, some people—mostnotably the comedian Richard Pryor
—employed a volatile proce-dure involving the use of fire and ether to treat
the cocaine powderimported into the U.S. so as to transform it back into its
prior form,no pun intended, which they could place into a little pipe
andsmoke, or "freebase."
But while base can provide a memorable high, from a marketingstandpoint
it lacks versatility. It won't dissolve in water, so you can'tshoot it. And it
refuses to be absorbed through the mucous mem-branes, so it's no good to
snort. To create the cocaine of song andlegend requires one more operation,
the grand finale. This involvesdissolving the base in ether—seventeen liters
to the kilo is the for-mula—then combining it with acetone and
hydrochloric acid, andonce more allowing it to sit out and dry into a white,
crystallinesubstance. The end result is Colombia's primo export
product,cocaine hydrochloride. When it's pressed into a rocklike form
fortraveling, the material glows with an ethereal opalescence, likesome kind
of gem. At the user end, chopped with a razor blade onthe face of a mirror
and marshaled into inch-long lines of thefamous marching powder, the drug
emerges as a substance that islight, fragile, and flaky, like new-fallen snow.
Listening to Carlos explain some of this, sitting on his bunk inDanbury,
George retained about as much as he had of the chem-lablectures back in
high school, which wasn't a lot. But when Carlos gotto the economic end of
the business, George started paving moreattention. Adding up the cost of
the coca leaves, the chemicals, andthe cheap labor involved, it cost the
processors less than a thousanddollars to produce a kilo of 100 percent pure
cocaine, which theywere selling then for six thousand dollars in Colombia.
If they trans-ported it to Miami, it would go wholesale for between fifty and
sixtythousand dollars a kilo. In 1974 tenured college professors
earnedtwenty thousand dollars a year and houses in the Hamptons went fora
hundred grand. With a few trips to Florida, one could become arich man.
Moving from wholesaling to retailing, the numbers climbed
18 M I <>w
higher still as the quality of the product got worse. Cut a number oftimes by
interim dealers, who would add inert substances to boostthe weight and
maintain their profit margin, the common streetproduct in some cases
would contain no more than 15 or 20 percentcocaine. Dealers found they
often had to add Methedrine to give themix a decent amount of drive. But
for argument's sake, say it was cutonly once or twice, keeping the product
fairly high-grade. Sellingfor one hundred dollars a gram, a thousand grams
to the kilo, withall the deals running smoothly, no glitches along the way,
this meantthe kilo purchased for six thousand in Colombia would
generatestreet sales in America of between two and three hundred
thousanddollars, and even more if you dealt in shoddier merchandise.
By now George's jaw was fairly sagging toward his navel at theprospect of
the profits involved here. But what about the supply? heasked, applying a
dose of skepticism to this otherwise heady sce-nario. He knew from his own
early frustrations in the marijuanabusiness, knocking around Puerto Vallarta
in Mexico searching for apot connection, that sales projections meant
nothing unless youcould lay your hands on the goods. Don't worry, my
friend, Carlostold him; they could get all the cocaine they wanted. He had
severalimportant acquaintances. One of them, named Gustavo Gaviria,was,
like Carlos, in the business of stealing and smuggling cars, butwith a twist.
Gustavo stole the cars and smuggled them into Ecuadorand Peru, where he
sold them to buy coca paste, which he broughtback to Medellin and had
refined into cocaine; it was a good busi-ness, with very low start-up costs.
He was now also getting connec-tions for paste in Bolivia, Carlos had
heard, and making arrange-ments with a number of labs outside Medellin.
This Gustavo was inpartnership with his cousin, a former emerald smuggler
whom peo-ple in Medellin were starting to talk about as a man on the rise.
Car-los had met this guy himself. The name meant nothing to George,no
more than it did to anyone else in the United States at the time.It was only
later that George came to appreciate the value of Carlos'shaving even this
tangential a connection to Pablo Escobar.
As for the demand side, cocaine seemed on the verge of reallytaking off in
the United States. Although it was hardly a mass-market commodity,
interest in it was building fast, particularly onthe West Coast, where rock
stars and movie actors were touting itlike crazy, as if they owned stock in
the company. Coded refer-ences cropped up in songs by Steppenwolf and
the Jefferson AirPrologue (1974) 19
plane. Record producer Phil Spector sent out Christmas cardsthat read: "A
little snow at Xmas time never hurt anyone." PeterFonda and Dennis
Hopper were proselytizing on its behalf, usingit openly at Hollywood
parties. In L.A. it had to be an out-of-itshindig indeed where guests didn't
disappear into the bathroom,emerging with pupils dilated and a lot of
sudden pep. It wouldn'tbe until 1977 that there existed enough national
savvy about thedrug to generate one of the major guffaws in Woody Allen's
AnnieHall, when the Woody Allen character makes a hundred dollars'worth
of cocaine disappear with a badly aimed sneeze. But by1974, bedrock
polling evidence had already suggested the balloonwas about to go up: The
National Household Survey announcedthat 5.4 million Americans over the
age of eighteen had admittedto snorting cocaine at least once.
Alone, however, the Colombians didn't seem quite able toexploit the
potential of this burgeoning market. Not many of themspoke English. They
didn't feel comfortable in America, wheretheir speech and manner of dress
made them stand out; they werewary of foreigners. Their only experience in
the U.S. had been inMiami and New York, both of which had fairly large
communitiesof compatriots to provide them cover. They knew nothing
aboutthe West Coast.
Clearly the need now was for an American connection theColombians
could trust—a facilitator who not only knew how toget the stuff into the
country safely and in much larger amountsthan had been done so far, but
who also had access to a distributionnetwork of reliable individuals through
which the product could besupplied to all the seemingly eager customers.
Here was whereGeorge took over the conversation from Carlos, detailing
his expe-rience in the marijuana business. He told Carlos he could get airplanes, one, two, ten of them, if they wanted. He ran through hislecture on
the dry lake beds. You could reach them just as easilyfrom Colombia, in one
or two jumps, stopping off in Mexico torefuel. He knew all about doing
that. As he saw it, getting cocaineinto the country posed no problem. As far
as the marketing went, atabout the time George was going off to prison he
had noticed thatmany of the dealers who'd been taking his pot had begun to
deal incocaine as a sideline. And the word he'd been hearing was that
theycouldn't get anywhere near as much as they could sell, and whatthey
got was sadly diluted. Nevertheless, the dealers were building
up customers, developing the necessary market knowledge—whatkind of
people wanted it, where they could be found. George toldCarlos he knew a
guy, a hairdresser—never mind his name—whowas plugged in to the
entertainment industry in Los Angeles, whoknew rock stars and movie
starlets. This guy was crying for it, too.No doubt about it, George said; he
could get the connections.
Once they had this thing cranked up, the money pouring inwould make
what George had been taking out of the marijuanatrade look like a kid's
allowance. Say they flew in three hundredkilos of 100 percent pure cocaine
—an astronomical amount at thetime, but if he'd flown in three hundred
keys of pot, why couldn'the just as fucking well fly in the same amount of
coke? That wouldcost them $180,000 in Colombia, and it would wholesale
in theStates for, what, $15 million? Eighteen million? And if they didthat
once a month? What are we talking a year, here? Pick me upoff the floor!
he thought, woozy over the prospect. Maybe once astrong market was
developed, he'd back off it a little, just do thetransportation part—pick it up
at Point A and deliver it to Point B,without having to worry about selling
the stuff. He'd make lessmoney that way, but it would be a lot less risky.
Ninety-five per-cent of how you got your ass caught in the dope business
was byselling to someone you didn't happen to know was working for
thepolice. George didn't need a lecture on that one. So for doing justthe
transportation, they'd charge the Colombians $10,000 a kilo,get some
planes, provide constant service, run a regular airline.Flying in three
hundred kilos a month, even half that amount—let's not be pigs about it—
would come to $18 million dollars ayear.
"Suddenly I knew I had the world by the balls and I just neededa little
patience and I was going to get so fucking rich it was beyondbelief,"
George says. "Have you ever known something like that? Iknew it and I
didn't care what kind of hell I had to go through. Itdidn't matter anymore. It
was mine, all of it, and I couldn't believeit myself. I couldn't believe it—that
here I was, a kid from a fuckingshithole town like Weymouth, smuggling
some lousy marijuana—and I thought that was money!—and all of a sudden
I knew I wasgoing to have millions and millions of dollars. I didn't just get
sentto jail. I got sent a gift! I was thankful they put me there. Really!'Thank
you, federal government. Thank you, fucking FBI. Youdon't know what you
did for me.'"
.X*
ONE
Woyiii€»iith
1946-1965
Cohasset for its BeautyHingham for its PrideIf it weren ''tfor the
Herring,Poor Weymouth would have died.—Old saying
In 1622 A SPLINTER GROUP OF PILGRIMS from the Plymouth
Colonyin Massachusetts journeyed up the coast to Weymouth to try to setup
a trading post, and if they'd only heard about the herring theymight not have
made such a mess of it. As it was, they turned out tobe a pretty sorry crew,
bickering among themselves and stealing cornand other foodstuffs from the
local Wampanoag tribe. In return, theIndians found little reason to help out
the following winter when thePilgrims ran desperately short of food and
ended up either dying ofstarvation or dragging themselves ignominiously
back to Plymouth.A permanent settlement wasn't established in Weymouth
until twoyears later, when people with farming skills, rather than traders,
gaveit a shot, and after no less a person than Miles Standish himself
hadcome up to Weymouth to win over the hearts and minds of
theWampanoags, who had gotten pretty ornery by then.
Standishaccomplished the task in ready fashion by inviting two of the
moreinfluential sachems to be his guests for a nice sit-down lunch, and
when the Indians began to feel a little under the weather—he'd takenthe
precaution of poisoning their food—his men dispatched themwith knives
and axes.
The famous herring that might have saved the settlers migratedin from the
ocean early every summer and swam upstream to theirtraditional spawning
ground in a body of fresh water known asWhitmans Pond. During the
height of the trek, all but killed off inthe early 1900s by industrial
development, Whitmans Pond wouldvirtually boil over with fish, providing
townspeople a nearly effort-less and bountiful harvest. As a little boy,
George could see the pondfrom his bedroom window, and in winter he'd
walk over from thehouse his parents had in a subdivision known as Lake
Shore Parkand go ice skating with his chums.
To the other blue-collar families in the neighborhood, theJungs seemed to
have it pretty good in those years right afterWorld War II. Where most of
the men and some of the womenworked on the assembly line down at the
Procter & Gamble plantor as welders and steamfitters at the Fore River
Shipyard across theriver in Quincy, George's father led a relatively
independent life,servicing heating accounts throughout Boston from his
own truck.The family certainly had money enough. Every other year
Fredbought a brand new car, either a Ford or a Mercury, always theroomiest
model; his wife wore the best of clothes, had a fur coat.
George was too young in those days to help his father on thetruck, so a boy
from the neighborhood, Russell Delorey, who wasnine years older and
would often baby-sit for the Jungs, went alongwith Fred on Saturdays and
school holidays. "In the winter I'd walkover there at six in the morning in
the dark," recalls Russell, whogrew up to become a masonry contractor on
Cape Cod. "He'd startthat big oil truck and I'd climb up and sit in it while it
warmed up.When he finished his breakfast, he'd come out and we'd leave,
andwe wouldn't come home until ten o'clock at night." Fred invariablydrove
the same route, from South Boston to the South End, fromBeacon Hill to
Washington Street, and for Russell the work oftenproved grueling. Hauling
the heavy oil hose over back fences andsometimes a hundred feet up an
alley covered with snow or ice ormud, the boy would often slip and fall.
"Some of the settings werealso a little frightening for a young person,"
Russell says today."There'd be drunks sleeping in the alley, and black
people around,but I never felt threatened because of Fred's ability to
manage
everything, be a friendly person with everybody, no matter who youwere. It
seemed to me that he knew everybody in the city of Boston.Driving home,
he would talk about the merits of a wholesome life,about working hard all
day long. We'd always stop in Quincy on theway and get a large loaf of
Syrian bread to take home. We did thatevery night."
In 1948, when George was six, the Jungs moved up, both geo-graphically
and economically, to a house on Abigail Adams Circle.Laid out as a
subdivision just before the attack on Pearl Harbor, theCircle featured larger,
two-story colonial-style houses, some ofwhich, like the Jungs', occupied the
crown of a hill and looked downover the salt marsh to the Fore River as it
flowed into the sea atWessagussett Bay, site of the original settlement. In
Weymouthterms, the Circle rated as one of the better parts of town. Here
thewomen mostly stayed home all day, and the men wore ties andworked as
managers at General Dynamics in Quincy, or commutedon the South Shore
Railroad to office jobs in Boston. The father ofGeorge's best boyhood
friend, Malcolm MacGregor, had a degreefrom MIT and a prominent job as
a ship surveyor that took the fam-ily overseas for long stretches. Across the
street and three doorsdown lived the Fieldses. Mr. Fields was the president
of a buttoncompany in Boston; his son went off to Colby College. It was in
theFieldses' driveway that George saw his first Porsche.
Financially, the Jungs held their own well enough, but the
newneighborhood was something of a challenge socially. Looking
back,Malcolm MacGregor's mother, Gladys, cannot recall Mr. or Mrs.Jung
ever taking part in the annual Christmas dances that would beheld at the
Community Hall, or showing up for the Fourth of Julypicnics in the
neighborhood. "They never mixed much," she says.Her memory of
George's mother, Ermine, was of a "nice and quietwoman" who worked in
the Ann Taylor shop in nearby Braintree.She was exceptionally pretty. In
her looks and her flowing dress sheresembled the actress Loretta Young; not
by accident, it seemed,"The Loretta Young Show" was a program she never
missed. Mrs.MacGregor recalls George's father as a heavy-set man, with a
ruddycomplexion and always a cigar sticking out the side of his mouth."He
was an ordinary man, a beer drinker," she says. "He'd park hisoil truck in
the family's driveway." And according to RussellDelorey, Fred got just
about as much respect inside the household."I don't believe that Mrs. Jung
or the other family members really
knew what Fred's day was like," says Russell. "I saw it as full,rewarding,
and successful. But I'm afraid that at home he was simplyregarded as an
oilman."
Ermine was an O'Neill from Boston, and judging from her firstimpression
of Fred when the couple met in the 1930s, she had rea-son to expect more
in the way of a future when she married him.For one thing, in the hard
times that characterized the Depression,the heating-oil business seemed safe
economic territory, consider-ing that people would prefer to stint on fancy
clothes and cuts ofmeat long before they'd freeze to death in the harsh New
Englandwinters. For another, Fred seemed to be a man on the move.
Heowned a total of three oil trucks then, large tractor-trailer jobs; hehad
employees working for him and a long list of customers.There's a snapshot
of him taken around then showing a prosperous-looking man in a suit and a
fancy white hat beside a big Packardtouring car. Family legend has it that
Ermine's mother, a stageentertainer named Ethel O'Neill who sang in music
halls of Boston,urged her daughter into the marriage on the grounds that Mr.
Jungwas obviously going places.
Unfortunately for his family, one of the places he was goingfairly regularly
was the Suffolk Down Racetrack. He had a winningstreak at first, but pretty
soon he was losing consistently and in largeenough amounts so that he had
to mortgage his fleet of oil trucks topay mounting debts. He lost the trucks
eventually, and when thewar came, he ended up working at a defense job in
the naval ship-yard in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. Fred recovered a little
of hisoil business after the war, when the family moved to Weymouth.
Heacquired a smaller oil truck and secured a contract with the StetsonOil
Company to take care of a list of customers in Boston. But itwasn't nearly
the same. There was tension in the family. One dayGeorge remembers his
father teaching him the art of poker andhow to handle cards smartly, doing
the one-handed shuffle, thereverse cut, fanning out the deck over the table
surface. George'smother came into the room, grabbed up the deck, and
threw it intothe wastebasket, saying something sharply to the effect that
there'dbe no more of that in this household.
George's uncle, George Jacob Jung—now there was a man forErmine to
admire! Whereas Fred came out of high school at thestart of the Depression
and went right to work, his brother, George,nine years his senior, had gone
off to the Massachusetts Maritime
Academy, enlisted in the navy, and come home after World War II afull
commander. A man of sound financial resources—he held agood-paying
job as an engineer for the state, and his wife, Myrna,worked as a restaurant
manager for Filene's in Boston—UncleGeorge traveled widely and
frequently about the world. The coupleoccupied a substantial gabled
residence on Norman Avenue in Mel-rose, a middle-class suburb located
north of Boston, and consider-ably up the social scale from Weymouth.
George and Myrnaremained childless, but it was to their house that the Jung
familymembers repaired for Sunday dinners, Thanksgiving, and Christ-mas.
Besides Fred and Ermine and their two children, there werethe two Jung
sisters—Auntie Gertrude, a divorcee who was alsochildless, and Aunt
Jenny and her husband, Ray Silva, whose son,Bobby, was George's only
cousin. Bobby Silva went into bankingand eventually became the president
of the Citizens National Bankin Putnam, Connecticut. Starting out,
however, he'd worked at abank in Danbury at the same time Cousin George
happened to bein residence at the federal prison there, a piece of
intelligence hewas undoubtedly not too eager to share with the guys at the
office.
In the house in Melrose, Uncle George's navy dress sword hungover the
fireplace, along with a photo of him in his whites. Therewas a prominent
picture of the battle cruiser he'd served on in thePacific. Making a big deal
out of mixing daiquiris for the ladies,Uncle George would regale the
company with tales of his recenttravel adventures—he journeyed abroad
seventeen times during hislifetime. Or he might talk about the latest charity
drive of theShriners, of which he was a stalwart member, or a
horticulturalaward he'd received for his roses, or the story in the local paper
onthe occasion of his attendance at the Fourth International
RoseConference in London, where Queen Elizabeth had put in
anappearance. Indeed, in Fred's eyes, no less than in Ermine's, Georgehad
always occupied such a commanding position in the family thatwhen his
own son was born on August 6, 1942, after discoveringErmine had told the
hospital the boy was to be named after hisfather, Fred marched down and
had the name on little Frederick'sbirth certificate changed to match that of
his brother. Although hecertainly felt honored at the time, Uncle George
had good reasonlater on, and on more than one occasion, to regret the
gesture. Oneof them occurred at JFK International Airport in New York
City,where, on the way back from Europe, he was detained for an hour
or so by U.S. Customs officials while they investigated as towhether this
sputtering, angry old man was the George Jacob Jungwanted by the FBI for
jumping bail on a drug charge.
For all his wide-ranging interests and exposure to different cul-tures, Uncle
George maintained a fairly stern and unbending out-look on life, a dour
Dutchman to the core. "My brother was whatyou might call a straightdown-the-line kind of a guy," says AuntieGertrude, who also worked at
Filene's, as manager of its beautyshop. "You couldn't really say he had
much of a sense of humor." Onthe occasion when an underling would come
by his office to ask theboss for an approval on some matter, a request for a
raise perhaps,rather than waste words giving a reply, Uncle George liked to
directthe visitor's attention with a wave of his hand toward a sign he
hadprinted up and sitting on the front of his desk. The sign said NO.
When it comes to divining the root causes of antisocial
behavior,criminologists have produced murky speculation at best. With
evenless success have doctors and psychologists been able to predict
withany certainty which little boy will grow up to become a publicenemy.
The most recent edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Man-ual of Mental
Disorders, the DSM Ill-Revised, has nothing to say, forinstance, about what
to watch out for if you're worried your kid is indanger of becoming a drug
smuggler. The "incipient criminality fac-tors" detailed in the DSM are given
to such generality as to forecastthat a rascal like Tom Sawyer would emerge
perforce as a seriousmenace to society.
Whatever the litmus test, little Georgie Jung scored very lowwhen it came
to committing the standard predictive acts: Heshowed no outstanding
propensity for lying in his early years, or forstealing, playing hooky,
vandalizing property, getting into fights,lighting fires, running away from
home, or torturing helpless ani-mals. At about age five he did purloin a
neighbor's pet hamster toprovide it the benefits of living in his own room, a
move his fathercountered by getting a policeman friend to show up in
uniform atthe front door and scare George into taking it back. And he certainly was devilish enough to keep his mother on the run, chasinghim about
the house and poking for him with a broomstick whenhe'd wriggle under a
bed to avoid his comeuppance. There are noreports from family members
about any capital transgression onGeorge's part. He received an honorable
discharge after three years
with the Cub Scouts. He dependably served the Quincy PatriotLedger on
his route every day after school, winging the papers withhis left-hand
sidearm pitch up onto the porches. He went sailing onthe Fore River with
Malcolm MacGregor in a little boat they keptmoored down in back of the
Circle. He dug for clams at Wessagus-sett Beach to earn spending money. A
photograph of him in gradeschool shows a little boy with a carefully
combed shock of hair stick-ing upright over his forehead, and a wide,
impish grin that to onerelative, at least, proved memorably disarming. "As a
little boy hewas a perfect charmer," Auntie Gertrude remembers. "He
wasreally—what can I say?—he could just steal your heart away."
Were he enrolled in elementary school today, his parents mighthave been
counseled to look at the possibility of dyslexia as a factorin his having to
repeat the first grade because of reading problems,or Attention-Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder as an explanation forhis general behavior. Little
Georgie certainly appears to have beenfull-blown hyperactive, at times
difficult to control, even subject tofits and explosions of temper, to the point
where his mother oncefelt the need to consult the family doctor. His advice
was to stick theboy's head under a faucet the next time he had an outburst.
Georgestill remembers with some annoyance the series of duckings
forcedon him after that consultation.
By the time George was entering adolescence, his parents werehaving
serious marital problems. These usually didn't evince them-selves to George
until they'd reached an extreme stage, whenErmine would pack up her
suitcase and leave home. Georgeremembers her walking down to the
bottom of the hill to get thebus for Quincy, and from there the train into
Boston. He would fol-low her down the hill and stand across from the bus
stop by theminister's house shouting out to her to come back. "I didn't
wanther to leave, but I didn't know how to stop her, so I threw rocks ather,"
he says. "Not really rocks, they were stones. But I didn't knowwhat else to
do to make her stay." On these occasions Ermine wouldstay with her
mother, who lived on Commonwealth Avenue inBoston, or go down to
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, where her brother,Jack O'Neill, owned a string of
music stores. During one of hismother's absences, George lived for several
months at the house inMelrose with Uncle George and Aunt Myrna. That
was where hefinally learned his multiplication tables, when he was going
into thefifth grade. As George recalls, "Aunt Myrna sat me down at the
2 8 Blow
kitchen table and said, 'You're not stupid, Georgie. There's no rea-son why
you're failing all the time; you just don't know what disci-pline is.' There
were these two little girls next door that I reallyliked, and she said I was
never going to get to know those girlsunless I learned the times table all the
way up to twelve. And I did. Ilearned it that summer."
George's academic troubles dogged him in one way or anotherall the way
up through high school. By contrast, his older sister,Marie, not only had an
absolutely unblemished scholastic record,with never less than an A in any
course, but would in every schoolshe attended win the unqualified adoration
of her teachers, qualitiesof which her younger brother was never allowed to
remain igno-rant. One of Marie's biggest fans, for instance, was Mary
Toomey,her English teacher at Weymouth High School. At the mere mention of Marie's name Miss Toomey's face still lights up and exudesan almost
beatific glow. "Marie Jung was just beautiful, not in thesense she was all
decorated, but she had a naturally classic face,lovely long eyelashes,
beautiful manners, you could send her any-where, totally trustworthy," Miss
Toomey says. "She really hadeverything—talent, looks, charm, brains. She
was just so good, sucha good person."
Miss Toomey, now retired and living in a cottage near the seain the village
of Eastham on Cape Cod, had taught at the schoolsince the 1940s, when she
also coached some of the athletic teamswhile the males were off at war.
Later on it seemed natural thatshe was the teacher coaches came to when
one of their playersrequired extra tutoring so as not to fall below the C
averageneeded to stay on a team. This was especially true of the
footballcoach, Harry Arlinson, a legend in eastern Massachusetts for
histeams in the 1940s and 1950s, whose record of 135 wins, 17 losses,and 3
ties earned Weymouth High a large picture spread in Lookmagazine in
1953. She recalls that Arlinson would take her asideand say in a nearwhisper, as if engaging in some conspiracy, "Ihave a boy who I can't play
because he can't pass English, andthey're going to give him one last test. . .
."
This meant the boy would become one of Miss Toomey's "spe-cial cases,"
to be given private lessons after school; she'd even searchthe newspaper to
see if there wasn't a Shakespeare play to take himto in Boston. Miss
Toomey also played a large part in choosing thequestions that appeared on
the subsequent test, which may or may
not have been the reason every one of her special cases managed topull
through.
Harry Arlinson had left Weymouth to coach at Tufts Universityseveral
years before young George entered high school in the fall of1958, but the
new head coach, Jack Fisher, picked up on MissToomey's services to keep
his boys qualified for play. Miss Toomeyalready knew all about the Jung
children, however, and the very firstweek of George's high school term, she
took it upon herself to senda note down to have Marie's little brother
brought to her office. "Idon't remember what year that was exactly, but I do
remember call-ing him in and exhorting him to do better now that he was in
highschool. I told him I would spend the time and give him all the helphe
wanted."
George remembers sitting in homeroom that day when theword came down
that Miss Toomey wanted to see him. He was cer-tainly familiar with the
name. "Miss Toomey was everything in ourhouse; everybody loved her,
Marie, my mother especially. And hereI was in high school, and now Miss
Toomey, she was waiting for me."I remember going up to her office on the
third floor, thinking tomyself, 'All right, here comes the bullshit.' I walked
into her classroomand she introduced herself—a round cherub face, a little
overweight,wide in the hips, a flowered dress. 'Oh, you're Marie's brother!
She wassuch a wonderful student. Such a wonderful person. And I've
lookedover your grades in junior high, and I think you can do a lot
better.You're a football player, and Mr. Fisher is my good friend. We
canwork together and I'm going to help you. I'm going to devote all myfree
time to you,' and blah blah blah. I listened through it all, and whenshe was
all finished, I just said to her, 'No you won't, Miss Toomey,'and 'Thank you
anyway, Miss Toomey,' and 'Good-bye, Miss Toomey,'and I walked out."
Marie kept up with Miss Toomey after graduation and downthrough the
years, sending word every Christmas about what herchildren were doing,
detailing the milestones in Otis's career at EliLilly. "She wrote me that Otis
made a big breakthrough in roboticsthat's going to benefit his company
tremendously. And the children,you could easily see Marie in the children.
A son graduated fromWest Point, another son is an attorney, and Karen, I
think, is at Pur-due Engineering School. You could see there was good
stock there.The genes were good." Of George, Miss Toomey heard
nothingafter graduation, not a word for nearly twenty years, until she was
talking one day with her handyman, Paul Deschamps, whose sonwas a
member of the Eastham Police Department. "It was in 1980,1think. Paul
was working at the house one day, and, 'Oh, by the way,'he said, 'there's
been a very big thing happened in Eastham withdrugs. There's this fellow,
actually, the fellow came from Wey-mouth. Did you ever hear of a George
Jung?'"
Luckily for George, the path toward becoming a big man atWeymouth High
was paved most readily not by getting good gradesbut by playing football.
During the team's nine-week schedule,players served as the focus of
attention, not only in the classroomsand corridors of the school, but also
among the townspeople atlarge. Shortly after twelve noon on an autumn
Saturday, by the timethe players had suited up in their maroon-and-gold
uniforms andwere leaving the locker room for the half-mile walk to Legion
Field,the streets of Weymouth would be lined several deep with
peopleready to cheer and clap and wave their banners as the heroesmarched
by, their cleats clattering on the pavement like a companyof horse guards.
Seats were reserved and almost always sold out. Youcouldn't get a parking
space within a mile of the field. The pulse ofthe town mounted feverishly as
the day approached for the pinnacleevent, which occurred at 10:00 A.M. on
Thanksgiving Day as Wey-mouth went up against its arch foe, Brockton, in
a contest thatwould draw a hysterical crowd of more than ten thousand
people."Football back then, it's hard to convey the feeling, but it was
justeverything in Weymouth," says Buzzy Knight, an alumnus wholater
became the school's principal. "On Saturdays, for a homegame, in good
weather, this town simply came to a standstill."
Weymouth's fervid interest in football stemmed partly from thefact that in
the way of local pride it had nothing much else to greatlydistinguish it.
Despite its location on the water and a history thatstretched back to the
Pilgrims, Weymouth emerged in the mid-twentieth century as a drab bluecollar town, made up of a mish-mash of development-style houses, low-end
shopping centers, andlittle of the charming colonial residue found
elsewhere in New Eng-land. Like nearby Brockton, it relied for
employment on deadeningjobs in the shoe factories or work in the shipyard
in Quincy, both ofthem industries that deteriorated after World War II and in
recentyears have become extinct. Populated in large part by the Irish,many
of them first-generation suburbanites who'd fled the Dorch-ester section of
Boston (for years Weymouth was known as the Irish
Riviera), the town had much less social cachet than its three
WASPyneighbors, Hingham, Scituate, and Cohasset, whose high
schoolsmight have stood little chance against Weymouth in football butsent
more than twice the percentage of their graduates to four-yearcolleges. In
1961, the year George graduated, only 108 of the 502graduates in his class
put themselves down in the yearbook as col-lege-bound. More males from
the class enlisted in the armed ser-vices than went on for further schooling.
The Weymouth teams were usually pretty spectacular. HarryArlinson had
coached his boys to seven undefeated seasons, and bythe mid-1950s
Weymouth had become "the terror of the Com-monwealth," as it was put in
Look magazine, a reputation that,despite some stumbles, went
undiminished under his successor,Jack Fisher. In 1956, under Fisher,
Weymouth became the firstschool in Massachusetts history to play an entire
schedule of Class-A teams and still finish undefeated. As half the town still
remem-bers, it creamed Brockton that Thanksgiving 48-6, and at graduation the following June Weymouth sent off players who eventuallystarred at
Brown, Harvard, Princeton, and Columbia, among othercolleges.
Although George, in standard younger-brother fashion, tor-tured the
daylights out of his sister practically up until she lefthome, he and all his
chums regarded her boyfriend, Otis—teamcaptain who later played in the
Orange and Cotton Bowls for Syra-cuse—with uncamouflaged adoration,
and before they got to highschool they hung on his every piece of advice as
to how to preparethemselves to make the big team. In imitation of Otis,
George quitplaying Little League baseball at age thirteen—despite the fact
thatwith his bewildering left-handed sidearm pitch he'd thrown theleague's
first no-hitter—and gave over all his spare time to liftingweights in order to
build up his upper body for the backfield. Hispals quickly followed suit,
and pretty soon all day on Saturdays theguys—George, John Hollander,
Barry Damon—could be found try-ing to pump up their muscles in a
homemade gym set up in thegarage of Mike Grable, who played
quarterback with George atjunior high. Finally getting some payback now
for being Marie'sbrother, George, with his friends in tow, was allowed to go
over andobserve the great Otis himself during his private backyard
practicesessions, where he got himself into shape for smashing through
theopposing line. He would wrap his right arm in padding, lower his
body into a crouch, and charge at full tilt into a telephone pole,striking with
such force that the top of the pole could be seen toshiver, as if the thing had
been rammed by a wrecker's ball.
In the end, thanks to Otis's inspiration, all the effort the boysput into
building up their bodies did not go unrewarded. Georgeand most of his
garage set did indeed succeed in making the varsityteam when they arrived
as sophomores at Weymouth High Schoolin 1958 (in Weymouth the junior
high school went through theninth grade). The fact that George's own
performance on the foot-ball field never quite reached the total triumph he'd
so achinglylonged for had less to do with any lack of ability or preparation
onhis part than with an increasing tendency to behave, particularlywhere
adults were concerned, in a manner that was becoming morenoticeably and
perversely defiant.
Head coach Jack Fisher had developed something of an attitudehimself,
having arrived at the school in the long and heavy shadowof his
predecessor. He had been given to feel from the start thatserious questions
existed as to whether he could measure up to thegreat Arlinson. "Jack
Fisher was very aware that he followed God,"says Buzzy Knight, the
principal. "He was never allowed to forget it;they never let him off the
hook." Arlinson had rarely raised hisvoice, exercising control over the
players by gentle manipulation, byusing the force of his brilliant record to
make them stretch them-selves to their fullest. Fisher, on the other hand,
was excitable andtemperamental, and worst of all where George was
concerned, astrict disciplinarian, who shouted at his players and demanded
theyabide by his rules or face warming the bench. And most of all, in
nosmall part to prove that he stood equal to his predecessor, Fisherwanted
desperately to win.
A wiry man with a shock of white hair and aquiline features,Fisher had
been a notable star himself, as quarterback at FordhamUniversity behind the
original "Seven Blocks of Granite," whichconstituted one of the most
impregnable lines in college-footballhistory. The blocks won their name
from the sportswriters duringthe 1930 season after executing three
successive shutouts overBoston College, Holy Cross, and New York
University, then foot-ball powerhouses, by scores 3-0, 6-0, and 7-0,
respectively. Coachof the famous squad was Frank Cavanaugh, known as
"the IronMajor" for the shrapnel wounds he carried in his head from
WorldWar I, and whose exploits—he went nearly blind from his wounds
in his final coaching days and died in 1933—became the subject of a1943
movie starring Pat O'Brien.
Comporting himself at Weymouth in the take-no-guff style ofthe major,
Fisher succeeded in ruffling feathers his first season bykicking six seniors
off the squad for believing, as he saw it, that hav-ing played under Arlinson
earned them the right to dog it duringdrills. Whether its purpose was to
enforce discipline or just expungethe team of Arlinson worship, the move
didn't go down too well inWeymouth, considering that football was the
town's major socialevent. Fathers not only came down at nights to hang
around watch-ing their sons practice under the lights but would also follow
theplayers back to school and mingle with them in the locker room. "Igot a
lot of phone calls and letters over that one," says Fisher, whohad to finish
out the season with a team composed mostly of sopho-mores. "I remember
we did knock off Brockton that year, though."
By the time George arrived at Weymouth High, Fisher had astate
championship under his belt, thanks in no small part to OtisGodfrey, and
felt assured that his rules were producing results. OnFriday nights, for
instance, he wanted the players to be in bed by10:00 P.M., instead of
staying up late and raising hell, as they hadunder Arlinson. He told them he
didn't want to drive around townand see them hanging out. "I'd tell them,
'Go to a movie or afriend's house, but whatever you do, I want you to get
home earlyand I want you to stay off the street corners.'" Practice sessions
weretightly organized drills, and he demonstrated little shyness
aboutsingling out a player over some transgression and yelling at him
infront of the squad. "I coached hard, but I coached fair," he says. "Iused to
say to them, 'The time for you to start worrying aboutwhether you're
playing is not when I'm yelling at you but when Istop yelling at you,
because then I don't think you're worth it.'"
Needless to say, George didn't respond positively to gettingyelled at or to
Fisher's rules in general. One of these rules requiredsophomores on the
varsity squad to play Saturday mornings on thejunior varsity as well as
show up in the afternoon for the main event.George saw little profit in
doing the JV nonsense, since the gamesdrew a tiny crowd and produced
little in the way of glory. Hethought himself especially abused after the
second varsity gameagainst Medford, when he was put in as a substitute
halfback late inthe contest and smashed across the goal line for a score, his
onlycarry of the afternoon. The following Saturday he decided not to
3 4 Blow
turn out for the JV game. Coach Fisher responded by benching himnot only
for that day's game but for the rest of the season and a goodpart of his junior
year as well.
To compensate partially for his football failure, George won aplace on the
varsity track team as the discus thrower, the same eventin which Otis
Godfrey had set the school's record. Track didn'tcommand anywhere near
the attention everyone paid to football,but George did eventually beat Otis's
toss by seven feet. By hissenior year, George had also inched his way back
into Fisher's goodgraces, enough to become the team's starting right
halfback. Buteven that experience turned sour. He got to carry the ball less
thanhalf as often as the other backs, despite averaging a fairly impressive5.7
yards a carry, the best on the team. And he ended up missing thebig
Thanksgiving game because of a knee injury during a scrim-mage, when he
got decked by his pal John Hollander—which wasprobably just as well,
since Weymouth got killed by Brockton thatyear, 54-0.
Fisher is now eighty-eight years old, but his memory of thatteam remains
sharp, unfortunately so, in his view, because it pro-duced the worst
Weymouth record since World War II. "That's aclass I'd kind of like to
forget," he says. Of George in particular, herecalls a boy with a lot of
natural talent and potential who, for rea-sons that remain a mystery to him,
never fulfilled his early promise."George, well, yes, in junior high he was a
standout. He had all thephysical tools, more so than most young boys. But
something wasgoing on with him, I couldn't understand. His attitude,
something,where he just wasn't with everybody else."
During George's high school years the headlines were begin-ning to reflect
the worrisome kinds of events that would dominatethe coming decade of
the 1960s. The Russians were leap-froggingAmerica in outer space with the
launch of the Sputnik satellites.President Dwight D. Eisenhower was forced
to send in federaltroops to protect black students during desegregation of
the publicschools in Little Rock, Arkansas. Fidel Castro was coming
downfrom the mountains to take over Cuba. That was also when Charlievan
Doren of Columbia University was convicted on perjurycharges for denying
that agents of the NBC-TV quiz show"Twenty-one" had supplied him the
answers. Elvis had arrived, ofcourse, but rock and roll still had to share
slots on the jukebox—five
plays for a quarter—with the likes of "Tom Dooley," "Volare," and"Itsy
Bitsy Teenie Weenie Yellow Polkadot Bikini." The grown-ups,meanwhile,
were trying to figure out the cha-cha.
In Weymouth, the football guys all had their hair cut down atDick's Barber
Shop on Washington Street, known as "Dirty Dick's"for the Playboy
magazines and the more raunchy stuff perusable onthe premises. Most
ordered up crew cuts, which needed constantlaminations from the old wiffle
stick so the hair stood up right.George opted for the cooler, more
sophisticated Peter Gunn style,after the suave TV detective—the hair a little
longer and lying flat-ter than a crew. The girls wore long pleated skirts, and
round-col-lared shirts under their sweaters, and if they were lucky enough
tobe going with someone on the varsity, their boyfriends' maroon andgold
letter jackets with his name embroidered on the right sleeve.Weymouth
being basically a one-class town, social divisions amongteenagers were
fairly narrow and ran pretty much along the lines ofwhat kind of car your
father could afford. Kids in the vocationalhigh school, which was located in
the rear of the regular school,were looked down upon slightly, but if
vocational-program guys likeBarry Damon (carpentry) or Brian Dunbar
(sheet-metal working),played football—Barry at center, Brian in the
backfield—they couldhang out with the other football guys and partake of
all the atten-dant privileges.
Friday nights were party nights. One of the girls invariablyoffered up her
house for a gathering. Armed with beer bought byone of the guys whose
beard was thicker than most, the boys droveover into Johnny's Lane near
the sandpit and drank until half ofthem threw up, which in most cases
required four or five beersapiece. George could usually hold the most, and
Barry Damon,whose snow-white hair earned him the nickname the Great
WhiteRabbit, often barfed first, not necessarily missing his sneakers andthe
shoes of some of the other guys. George had a firm policy ofnever taking
his father's car out on Friday nights.
Saturday night was date night; guys would grab a car, a girl, andhead to the
Weymouth Drive-in for Psycho, or Tammy and the Bache-lor, or Troy
Donahue in A Summer Place. After that it was a race toWeymouth Great
Hill, a 153-foot-high glacial drumlin with roomat the top for fifteen to
twenty cars that provides a spectacular viewover Wessagussett Bay to the
lighted spires of Boston. The moviewould end at about eleven, and the girls
had to be home by mid3 6 B 1
night, which meant the guys inside the cars with the windowssteaming up
fast had less than one hour to devise a strategy thatwould culminate in the
laying of a hand on top of a female breast."Let me tell you, you weren't
going too far in those days," saysGeorge. His regular date, Gerry Lee, rated
high up in the "nicegirl" category, which compelled George to take one or
two othergirls out during the course of a weekend to explore a wider set
ofpossibilities. "Every girl had her standard code. Some of them, ifyou tried
to do anything, they'd start to cry. I liked to try to take outolder girls; they
were a little more, you know, liberal." The sexualrevolution, after all, was a
good five years off, and while fewteenagers in Weymouth at that time gave
any thought to sexuallytransmitted diseases, there was certainly plenty of
anxiety aboutother exigencies. In one notorious incident, a boy at school
had got-ten his girlfriend pregnant his senior year, and the two had to
quitschool and get married, and he joined the navy; their future, for allits
former promise, was now regarded by their friends as a closedbook.
While George failed to become the school's chief football star,he more than
made up for that by his lordship over the social life."George always
managed to have the action rotating around him-self; he was the hub, the
manipulator of the social scene," says JackMcSheffrey, who grew up on the
Circle. "He was the one you calledto find out who was going to drink beer
at the sand pit or who wasgoing into Quincy or to the beach. If you weren't
with him, you hadthe feeling of being left out." After George's mother
changed hersales job from Ann Taylor's in Braintree to Remick's
DepartmentStore in Quincy, more or less the Neiman Marcus of the
SouthShore, George became one of the few kids to have his own chargecard
and a wardrobe that stayed center-front in the style of theday—herringbone
jacket, khaki pants, button-down shirt, crewnecksweater, penny loafers,
Jack Purcell tennis sneakers with the bluestripe across the toe. "I would
kind of emulate the way Georgedressed," recalls Barry Damon. "He always
bought whatever washappening, Harris-tweed coats, saddle shoes;
everything always hadto come from Remick's. He'd look at what I was
wearing and say,'What are you buying that shit for?'"
On the rare Saturday night when they had no dates, George andBarry would
lead a foray up to Great Hill and try to disrupt what-ever activities were
going on by treating the other guys and their
girlfriends to moonshots under the stars. In chemistry class hisjunior year,
George not only tortured the nerdy kid with the thickglasses next to him,
violating his experiment with alien chemicalswhile the boy had gone to the
bathroom, but also went after theteacher himself, a little old man with a
cheap set of false teeth,whose jacket George would burn with acid and
whose examinationshe'd get a girlfriend in the mimeograph office to run off
for him andhis friends. To be sure, the teacher sensed that something was
amisswhen the class screw-ups all scored A's on the test, so he
arbitrarilyissued them D's in the course.
For date purposes, George had access to his father's 1956 Mer-cury
Phaeton. White on top with aqua-blue on the sides, it was oneof the sharper
cars in the group, and George washed it so often thepaint almost came off.
He also had sophisticated taste where musicwas concerned, which made
him stand out in sharp relief from hiscontemporaries. He liked rock and roll
okay, but his real penchantran to Cole Porter, a taste he acquired from his
mother. He alsoraved to his friends about Duke Ellington, Lionel Hampton,
andElla Fitzgerald, about Tommy Dorsey and other bands of the
1940s,along with Ahmad Jamal and the other progressive jazz artists.
Hewent in to Boston to listen to Bob Dylan and Joan Baez in the late1950s,
before they'd even started producing records. "George wasyears ahead of
everyone else in Weymouth," recalls one of his girl-friends. "I'll never
forget it, we were juniors in high school, and hetook me in to see Erroll
Garner at Storyville in Boston—Georgeloved him; he played his records all
the time—and here we are hav-ing cocktails, seventeen years old, doing the
things that people didwhen they were twenty-three or twenty-four."
Jack Kerouac's On the Road was published in 1957, to little fan-fare in
Weymouth, but George read it as soon as he heard about it,along with The
Dhainna Bums. He talked endlessly to his best friend,Malcolm MacGregor,
about Dean Moriarty and the adventures heand his bunch had stumbling
around the country, drinking wine outof jugs, always seeming to be passing
through Denver. George andMalcolm and Jack Leahy read Ernest
Hemingway and idolized JackLondon, the oyster pirate, the gold rusher, the
master of the Snark.They talked of riding freight trains, hitchhiking around
America,going to Alaska and Spain. He and Malcolm sat up nights
plottingabout the trimaran they were going to build and sail around
theworld on. "George had this thing about him that made people just
3 8 Bl
want to be around him; they liked to tell their friends they'd beenwith
George," says Malcolm. "George was always bolder than any-one, always
doing things that were out of the ordinary. He'd do justabout anything if it
would make him different from everybody else."
Ever since his early teenage years George had exhibited a pref-erence for
playing it close to the edge, sometimes literally. At agethirteen, he and his
friends swam regularly in a quarry not far fromhis house, where a forty-foot
cliff loomed above two jagged rockssticking out of the water, one close to
the cliff face, the other aboutten feet out toward the middle of the quarry. To
do the jump youhad to land exactly between the rocks; a little too short or
too farand you had a hard landing. Not many boys besides George triedthat
one very often.
When George got his driver's license at age sixteen, he begantreating the
town as his own personal raceway. In one of his morespectacular accidents,
George was motoring along in his father'sMercury with Barry Damon
during his senior year when a carpulled up close behind him on the twisting
two-lane road that ranby the football stadium at Legion Field. "I could hear
his enginerevving, and he starts to make a move for the outside," says
George."We get up to seventy or eighty, and I'm straddling the white
lineand won't let him get by, and so he tries for the inside, and we'reneck
and neck going around a right-hand curve, and I'm trying toforce my way
back in our lane when suddenly this car comes aroundthe corner right at
me." George jerked the wheel to the right, just intime to avoid a head-on
collision with an elderly couple staring pop-eyed at what they must have
seen as certain death. As it was, hesheared off only the whole side of their
car, doors and fendersincluded, and sent the other dragster smashing into a
fire hydrant.His father's Mercury was now also a total wreck and the road
ahowling litter of car parts, skid marks, gasoline fumes, and the smellof
freshly burnt rubber.
"I've done a lot of thinking about George in recent years, andespecially
since I saw him on TV recently," says his other best pal,Mike Grable, who
as well as being the team quarterback was alsopresident of the senior class.
"And back when we were growing up, Ican't think of anything that
happened in that town you could pointto now and say that's why he turned
out the way he did. The onlything I can say is George just always had what
I would call a casualattitude."
"I think 'risky' is kind of a good word for it," says another girl-friend of that
period. "He was different from everyone else, and Ithink that's what
appealed to me. It did to a lot of the girls. Theywere fascinated with him.
He was good-looking and popular andstrong. And he was someone on the
outs, like a James Dean, butpreppy. He'd have all these loony ideas—he
wanted to go to Tahiti,and he never wanted to, I absolutely remember him
saying to me, 'Iam never going to work for a living.' I remember that as
clear as abell."
Whatever image of himself George was projecting to hisfriends, his own
life at home, from junior high on up, became pro-gressively less happy as
the wrangling between his parents grewmore strident. Today his memories
of that period flow like lava andappear as fresh as if it all had happened just
the other day. "Therewere constant fights in that house. My sister would go
into her bed-room and close the door and read books. At the time I was
youngand wasn't into reading, so I had to listen to it—the same
argument,over and over, my mother saying, 'I could have done better. It
wasmy mother who wanted me to marry you.' But then, what was
thematter? I think. My father took care of the family, he never betrayedthem
or left them. The old man was doing the best he could. Hebought a new car
every two or three years, he paid the bills, therewere plenty of groceries in
the house, he never owed anybody. Hegave you anything he had on the face
of the earth. But he just wasn'twhat she wanted him to be. Because she
loved the violin—we had aStradivarius in the house—and she loved the
theater and the opera.Do you know my grandmother knew Sophie Tucker?
That she oncehad a date with Cy Young? My father, his big day was to
come homeand read the newspaper and have a couple of drinks, smoke a
cigarand watch television. He didn't know anything about the theater
orclassical music."
For purposes of comparison, Ermine would bring up UncleGeorge, as well
as her brother, Uncle Jack O'Neill, also fairly pros-perous, who owned the
music stores down in Baton Rouge. Georgerecalls, "It was, My brother has
this, and Uncle George—it was,Uncle George was better, he had a better
house, the sword over hismantel. We had to go up there every goddamn
Sunday. He was thegod to everyone. At Christmas when Marie was going
to college,he'd give her a present of a little Christmas tree with hundred-dollar bills tied on in bows all over it, for her tuition that year. Then it
would get dark and we'd drive home and the car would be filledwith boxes
and ribbons and presents from Uncle George and mymother going on about
wasn't it all so wonderful and how generoushe was. What he did was
always more than my father gave us onChristmas morning. And how did
that make him feel? He never saidanything. There was nothing to say. I'd be
sitting in the back seatand that's when I began to hate Uncle George, and I
decided in mymind I was going to get that son of a bitch. And I was just a
kid."
George's father was popular enough with his son's friends, couldtalk
football and joke in a manner that didn't put them off, as adultscan do
sometimes when they try to be too chummy. He also struckhis friends as
fairly tolerant of his son when word came back thathe'd gotten into another
scrape. "His father was always very easygo-ing," remembers Grable. "We'd
be out late drinking beer, foolingaround, and the next day he'd say, 'You
guys had a good time lastnight,' and give you a little wink, letting you know
that he knew. Butnever any lecture. My father would have taken my head
off, some ofthe things we did. I think George had a freer hand from his
parentsthan the rest of us had."
In the fall of George's junior year in high school, Fred suffered acerebral
hemorrhage and fell down on the kitchen floor. For a yearhis speech was
severely affected, and soon his oil business died.After that he was never
really his old self, not kidding much any-more, prone to become easily
emotional. He got part-time work asa superintendent in a cemetery, where
he worked out of a littleshack and could be seen trimming around the
headstones with alawn mower and now and then helping to set up a burial
monu-ment. He also worked occasionally sweeping out a
laundromat.George's mother still had her job at Remick's, George
remembers,but things got tight now. Uncle George had to begin helping
thefamily out financially. Uncle George liked to help out members ofthe
family. After his and Fred's father died in 1952, he'd send hismother on
vacations to Boothbay Harbor in Maine. He'd helped hissister, Aunt Jenny,
buy a house. When his nephew Bobby, George'scousin, came home from
being in the army in Germany and startedworking in the banking business,
Uncle George gave him the downpayment for a house for his young family;
young bankers, he felt,shouldn't have to live in an apartment. After Marie
and Otis gotmarried, and Otis started graduate school at Michigan State
Uni-versity, Marie came to Uncle George. She'd been supporting them
with a teaching job, but now she was pregnant and had to quit; theyneeded
help or Otis would have to leave school. "I remember himsaying, 'Otis has
too good a mind to let it go to waste,'" says AuntieGertrude. "And so he
sent the money for tuition."
By the end of his junior year George needed to confront the factthat he was
in serious trouble as far as going to college was con-cerned. Athletic
recruiters from both the University of Mas-sachusetts and Springfield
College, the sports school that he'd longdreamed of attending, had discussed
offering him a scholarship onthe basis of his discus prowess. But he still
had to pass the admis-sions standards when it came to grades, and during
his sophomoreand junior years he'd accumulated a record of six D's and six
C's. Hisonly B was in mechanical drawing.
George wanted so desperately to go on to college that in hissenior year he
made a heroic effort to improve his academic stand-ing. For one, he got
himself into the "general" class in English, anall-boys unit that served as a
refuge for students who had problemswith Miss Toomey and other grammar
hardballers. It was taught byClem Horrigan, a retired naval commander like
Uncle George, butthere the similarity stopped short. Silver-haired, with the
rosy noseof a hearty drinker, Horrigan was plain-spoken in ways not
thencommon in public high schools. He was in the habit, for instance,
ofgiving colleagues the finger when he wished to make a point
duringfaculty meetings, and endearing himself to the guys in his class
byreferring to fellow teachers as "assholes" and "fairies." "Horriganwas not
your traditional-type teacher, but he was very effective,"says Buzzy Knight,
who was on the faculty then. "He had a wonder-ful sense of humor, and in
class he could butter up a story so you'dbe living it rather than just reading
about it."
Horrigan lived in a sea captain's house overlooking WeymouthLanding, and
he encouraged George and Malcolm and Mike Grableand Frank Shea and
the other guys to come by on Friday nights,when he would sip his Scotch,
tell them navy stories, and talk aboutJack London and Ernest Hemingway.
"He was really a wonderfulman," recalls George, who honors few of the
adults he ever knewwith a compliment. "He tried to give you knowledge
without mak-ing you feel insecure about it." In school, his assignments ran
moretoward Nordhoff and Hall than Shakespeare, and "if you wrote
acomposition," says George, "he'd say you had great ideas here, but
4 2 Blow
not much grammar. But that was okay, because when you grow upand
become a writer, they had people to put the grammar in, secre-taries, people
like that."
Whether or not it was Horrigan's approach that lifted George'sspirits,
certainly something made a difference that year, because hisscholastic
record took a big jump upward. Besides the not-too-unrespectable C he
managed to get in physics, he ended up with a Bin English, another B in
economics, and an A in Problems ofDemocracy. In fact, that final spring he
made it to the dean's list,truly a flabbergasting event for any of the faculty
who'd encoun-tered George in the other years. "I remember, Jack Fisher
called mein and said, 'What's this, George, a mistake?' Then he said,
'Youknow, George, have you ever heard the expression a day late and
adollar short?'"
Fisher's assessment, unfortunately, was all too correct, in thatGeorges
smashing finish did not quite obliterate the general dis-malness of his high
school record. His first SAT scores, from thetests he had taken in the spring
of his junior year, were less thanstellar—a total of just over 600, out of a
possible 1,600, on the mathand verbal combined. He did have one more
chance the followingfall to take the SATs again, which is when he thought
of enlistingthe help of his best pal, Malcolm MacGregor. Malcolm had
scored aperfect 1,600 the previous spring, even without much sleep thenight
before, and thought that sufficient to get him into his first-choice college,
which was Worcester Polytechnic Institute. So hehad no reason to take the
tests again. And he didn't—at least notunder his own name. In a fit of illadvised friendship, he agreed togo into the testing room that Saturday
morning in the fall, take theSAT, and forge George's signature. And it could
well have worked.Indeed, Malcolm finished fifteen minutes early, and there
was nochallenge when he left by the outside proctor hired to monitor
theexam, who didn't know George or Malcolm from a Pygmy warrior.But
Malcolm forgot to do one thing. For some reason, possibly aFreudian
explanation, it never occurred to him to lard the test withany purposeful
mistakes, at least enough so George's scores turningup this time at the
Springfield College admissions office wouldn'tadd up to a perfect 1,600.
The unraveling of the scheme occurred swiftly enough. AtSpringfield, the
admissions officer took one look at the thousand-point difference and called
down to Mr. Wallace L. Whittle, then
Weymouth (1946-1965) 43
the principal of Weymouth High School. Whittle knew enoughabout George
to become overwhelmed with doubt concerning thevalidity of the startling
improvement, and called in George and hisparents to wring out the truth. He
also called in Malcolm and hisparents and informed them that he was going
to have to notifyWorcester Tech about their son's lapse of judgment. In the
end Mal-colm's father had to perform fancy feats of influence to keep his
sonfrom getting deleted from the acceptance list. As for George, for allthe
effort he'd put into his courses that year, the principal allowedhim to
graduate on schedule in spite of everything. But college cer-tainly was out,
at least for the next year. And although he listed him-self optimistically in
the 1961 edition of Campus, the school year-book, as heading off into a
career of "business administration,"George's immediate prospects did not
appear too bright.
Uncle George, on hearing about the unfortunate situation, didstep in and
offer to help. For all his faults, his nephew was still fam-ily, after all. In a
telephone call to Fred, he said that as an engineerfor the state of
Massachusetts he was not without influence in cer-tain places, and it might
just be possible to find George employ-ment. He knew some people down
at the Boston Edison powerplant, the one located on the line between
Weymouth and Quincy,and it might be arranged, just might, for George to
get work at theplant as a floor sweeper. Informed of the offer, George
replied to hisfather that he didn't feel of a mind to accept the job. Indeed,
UncleGeorge could take the fucking sweeper job and ram it right up hisass,
was what he could do with it. George would rather go out andsee what he
could pick up on his own.
TWO
frlmiliaaf tamii Boac4i
1967-1968
Yd be safe and warm,If I was in L.A.California Dreamin'on such a winters
day.—The Mamas & the Papas, "California Dreamin'," 1966
From just about anywhere in Manhattan Beach you can lookout between the
houses and see the Pacific Ocean washing up alongthe broad expanse of
sand that runs from one end of town to theother. Some local historians say
the town got its name from a landdeveloper from New York in the first
decade of the twentieth cen-tury who wished to memorialize his hometown;
others believe thatit came from a rich lady of Dutch ancestry in honor of the
fact thather forebears had been in on the deal to buy Manhattan Island
fromthe Indians. Whatever the case, Manhattan, the beach, twenty
milessouthwest of downtown Los Angeles, with a population of
32,500souls, bears as little resemblance to its namesake back East as
anyother coastal city in Southern California. Its soft pastel frame-andstucco houses line a series of terraced streets that work their way upto the
top of a sand hill sitting 245 feet above sea level, allowingeach resident a
wide glimpse of the ocean over a neighboringrooftop. In the early days the
dunes of Manhattan Beach supported
so little vegetation that they'd shift about from the winds. To stabi-lize the
place, ladies from the Neptunian Club took to planting thedunes with mossy
green ice plants that now abound everywhere,thus earning them the name
"moss ladies." During the summer thetown is cooled by the prevailing
westerlies that blow off the waterand in the evening fill the air with the
perfume of hibiscus andnight-blooming jasmine. Most of the time the winds
also manage toblow the looming pall of brownish-yellow smog from the
freewaysback into the inner recesses of Los Angeles proper, leaving the
localatmosphere clear and dry. Considering its location and its weather,the
local chamber of commerce needed little poetic license to pro-mote the
town in its tourist brochure as truly "a little bit of heavenon earth."
As with the neighboring beach towns—El Segundo, Hermosa,Redondo,
Palos Verdes, Santa Monica, Venice, San Pedro—it wasWorld War II that
spurred the real growth in Manhattan Beach,which for the course of the
conflict played host to a pair of eight-inch railroad guns operated a little to
the east of town by the men ofShore Battery E from New Jersey. The guns
created such an uproarduring artillery practice that a warden had to warn
housewivesbeforehand to take their heirloom china down from the display
cab-inets. Since the only local action came on Christmas Eve of 1941,when
a Japanese submarine snuck up the 245-fathom deep Catalinaship channel
and torpedoed a schooner carrying a load of lumber,the boys of Battery E
had a pretty soft billet; and a goodly number,like many other soldiers who
came through the state, decided afterV-J Day that what awaited them back
in New Jersey didn't stack upso well compared to what they'd seen of
California.
Manhattan Beach also stood right next to the burgeoning LosAngeles
International Airport, which meant you could get in andout of the place
quickly. But more to the point, it meant the townserved as home base for
the people who worked out of the airport,notably some one thousand nubile
young airline stewardesses, whoin short order made it into the reigning
party town of the southerncoast. "You've got to remember that in the 1960s
you didn't havethe kind of labor laws you have now, where the stewardesses
can besixty years old and ugly and weigh three hundred pounds," saysFrank
Yamamoto, a Berkeley graduate who in those days ran arestaurant, three
doors up from the beach. "The airlines were aglamorous business. Everyone
who was flying had money, and if you
4 6 BIo w
wanted to work for the airlines, you had to be really good-looking,and you
had to have good boobs."
So from cock's crow to evensong the beach teemed with gor-geous women
stuffed into bikinis of every variety, lying out on thesand, bouncing up and
down around the volleyball nets, eyeing theranks of surfers shooting toward
shore on the eight-foot curlers.Bars and restaurants lined the approach
streets; at night peoplejammed into the Buccaneer or Pancho's or Cisco's, a
large rock-and-roll emporium owned by the Smothers Brothers. After
closingtime the parties came to life in the apartments off the strand
wherethe "stewies" lived three and four together, loaded up with pot andfree
booze from the airlines. On Sunday afternoons the goldenhordes repaired to
an open terrace at Mike's Restaurant at the endof Manhattan Beach
Boulevard to drink beer and dance and watchthe surfers slalom in and out
of the pilings underneath the townpier, while Mike "the Greek" slathered
coats of his special barbecuesauce over the 75-pound lamb turning slowly
on a spit. "I tell you,it was a very hedonistic situation," says Yamamoto,
who eventuallyparlayed his restaurant into a large set of real-estate
holdings."This town was just one big nonstop fucking party all day and
allnight."
George showed up in Manhattan Beach in the summer of 1967,an occasion
he soon regarded as one of the uneclipsable events ofhis life. "Coming from
Weymouth, I thought somebody haddropped me out of an airplane and I'd
landed in paradise," he says.He was twenty-five years old then, and was
distinguished in town byhis broad Boston accent, his great-looking muscles,
and his shaggyhair made blond in the California sun, enhancing his
luminoushazel-green eyes. That was the year when, among other
events,Dustin Hoffman appeared in The Graduate, when the Mamas andthe
Papas came out with "Monday, Monday," and the RollingStones were
singing "Ruby Tuesday." It was the year the jails werebeginning to fill up
with young people protesting against the Viet-nam War, and it was when
Timothy Leary issued his famous call toa Gathering of the Tribes
summoned to San Francisco by AllenGinsberg and Jerry Rubin, which was
to "Turn on to the scene.Tune in to what is happening, and drop out." It was
also the yearGeorge Jung looked at the diminishing legitimate
opportunitiesopen to him in his yearning to acquire wealth and esteem
anddecided the best chance for someone of his talents and brashness lay
somewhere in the upper echelons of the burgeoning marijuanabusiness.
In the six years since he'd graduated high school George hadachieved little
in the way of personal success. Stuck in Weymouth,and needing to earn
money and to find a college that would havehim, he ended up going to work
as a bricklayer's helper for his oldbaby-sitter, Russell Delorey. The work
itself, carrying hods of bricksand mixing mortar, seemed made to order for
George, who couldpick up two 94-pound bags of Portland cement, raise
them over hishead, and if need be, walk around like that all afternoon.
"Georgehad such great strength and endurance for physical work,"
Russellwrote in a little memoir of the period, "that I began to refer to himas
the Crane." George also proved a valuable asset in the area ofcustomer
relations. Once, when Russell found himself gettingstiffed by a contractor
after installing a Tennessee-marble fireplacein one of his houses, he simply
told the contractor that if he didn'tget paid for the fireplace, he would take it
back. "Whereupon I toldGeorge to get the two 16-pound sledgehammers
from my truck,and we proceeded to crash the entire marble fireplace onto
the newhardwood floor. We ruined the living room floor, the walls, the ceiling, the baseboard heating system, and wood trim. The dispute wasfinally
resolved, but the news of our confrontation traveled aroundthe Cape, and
people got the message: Don't attempt holding uppayment on Delorey,
especially when the Crane is available."
In the fall of 1962, after a not-very-taxing review by the admis-sions office,
George began college life as a matriculated freshman atthe University of
Southern Mississippi, located in Hattiesburg, inthe sultry southeastern part
of the state. "The word got around," herecalls, "that this particular college
was a shithole going nowhere,but it was an easy place to get into and that
that's where you couldgo if you were a fuck-up." He started off with mixed
results, but bythe spring, having scored two B's, with an A in Introduction
to Busi-ness, George found himself on the dean's list.
It was the environment at the school that caused George somediscomfort.
The dorms were always oppressively hot and sticky.And one of the
Saturday-night social activities among the fraternityboys was to get blitzed
on beer, take up broom handles and otherkinds of clubs, and proceed down
to the area of town that ran alongthe Bowie River where the black people
lived and engage in the
4 8 Blow
sport known to the locals as "nigger knocking." Growing up inWeymouth,
where there wasn't a single black student in the highschool, George had
little reason to give any thought, one way or theother, to the general racial
situation in the country. But on the oneoccasion at Mississippi when he
went along to watch the fun—swat-ting black people from behind out of the
car window—the spectacleso repelled him that he began sounding off on
the subject aroundthe campus. After all, Jack Kerouac would never have
countenancedanything like that. He noised off so loudly and often enough
thatone night a friendly bartender in a student hangout warned Georgeand
his date to beat it out the back way, because waiting in the frontparking lot
was a crowd of white boys who intended to beat the shitout of him.
He eventually left school, but not because of racial intolerance.Seeking to
augment his funds from bricklaying, he had gotten holdof a corporate
telephone credit card from a friend back in Wey-mouth and began touring
the college dorms selling long-distancephone calls for five dollars apiece to
boys who wanted to talk, some-times for hours, with their girlfriends back
home, a scam thatearned him forty to fifty dollars a night. So the calls
couldn't be eas-ily traced, he warned customers to ring up their girls only at
payphones. But not everyone followed the directions conscientiously,and
pretty soon George got caught. To keep the offended corpora-tion from
pressing charges, his father had to send down somewherearound a thousand
dollars in payback money, which, much to hisembarrassment, Fred had to
get from Uncle George. The schoolsuspended George for six months, which
was why, when the newscame that John F. Kennedy had been shot, George
remembers hewas back on a scaffold, passing bricks up to Russell, who was
finish-ing off an ornamental rim on the top of a chimney in North Weymouth.
George picked up his old ways and his old friends, includingMacGregor,
who much to his parents' annoyance had gotten sus-pended from Worcester
Tech after a drinking incident. Shortlyafterward he and George took a
couple of girls out in a little cherry-red Austin-Healey George had bought
with extra money earnedfrom digging clams off Wessagussett Beach. With
everyone drunkas usual, Malcolm totaled the car by driving it four-square
into therear end of a parked vehicle outside a house in downtown Worcester. One girl suffered a broken arm, and George had his ear nearly
torn off. As the boys were furiously getting rid of the evidence,throwing the
beer cans and bottles over a hedge before the policecould arrive, a middleaged gentleman in a white shirt and tie sud-denly appeared demanding to
know just what the hell was going on.Who was he? George asked
belligerently. "I live here," the manresponded, "and that's my yard where
you're throwing the liquorbottles and beer cans, and this is what's left of my
car you just raninto. That's who I am."
Nothing George or Malcolm did, however, could compare tothe high level
of chaos that attended any appearance on the scene bya boy named Waino
Tuominen, or "Tuna." A former classmate oftheirs at Weymouth High, Tuna
was of Finnish extraction, had ashort, barrellike physique, and possessed a
resilient set of teeth,which he regularly employed for everyone's amusement
in remov-ing the caps off beer bottles. On nearly every occasion George
andhis friends gathered, Tuna could be depended upon to end theevening
with some notable flourish. When the police, following upon complaints
from angry neighbors, would show up to dampen thenoise level at one of
these parties, Tuna would slide into the idlingcruiser while the cops were in
the house and drive it down the roadapiece, then return to the party via
backyards in the neighborhood,forcing the officers to seek help from
headquarters in finding theirlost vehicle. Tuna was rarely seen to have a
date. This was the con-sequence, no doubt, of one of his less resistible
impulses, which wasto drop his pants after a sufficient number of drinks
and as a grandfinale to the evening jump out from somewhere—a curtain,
adoor—with a beer bottle dangling on a string tied to his penis.
Not long after yet another near-fatal accident—a five-car pile-up on the
Southeast Expressway—and with his family's full encour-agement, George
and Tuna, who by now had received his own sus-pension notice from the
University of Colorado for taking off hisclothes in a girls' dormitory,
acquired a 1963 black TR-3 with redupholstery and a white top, jammed
their belongings into the tinytrunk, and in the winter of 1965 set out to see
if living in Californiawould have a positive effect on their lives.
The trip across the country was remarkably free of any run-insor incidents,
and when they got to Long Beach, just outside of LosAngeles, George and
Tuna were put up for a while by George's ex-boss, Russell Delorey. Russell
had put aside his bricklaying business
the year before and with a friend from Weymouth had also jour-neyed to
California, where he was attending Long Beach City Col-lege, taking some
business courses with the hope, unfulfilled as itwould turn out, of getting
into the advertising game.
George soon moved to nearby Belmont Shores, took historyand philosophy
courses at Long Beach City College—more to looklike a student than to be
one—and hung out on the beach, where heran rapidly through dozens of
girlfriends. "The girls were drivingme crazy—they were all over the
beaches, in the supermarket, onthe sidewalks, wearing these little string
bikinis, everywhere youlooked there were asses and tits hanging out. I had
this feeling that Iwanted to make it with every woman that walked the
streets." Exer-cising the social leadership skills he was known for back
home,George soon became king of the beach. At one point he organized
acontest in which the person with the best tan by the end of thesemester
would be crowned with suitable fanfare as King of the SunGods. He
concocted a mixture of iodine and baby oil to enhance hisown tan, and of
course, he won. Weekends, he and Tuna would ven-ture down to Mexico,
often getting into one minor scrape oranother. On one occasion they were
thrown out of a bullfight inMazatlan after George got sick drinking tequila
in the hot sun andthrew up all over the two people sitting in front of him,
who turnedout to be the mayor of the city and his wife.
George's first fling at legitimate entrepreneurship involvedgoing in with a
friend to buy a load of huaraches, the rubber-soledsandals with leather
straps, down in Mexico, and setting up dealer-ships at colleges all across the
country. In exchange for peddling thesandals the students could earn bonus
points toward free vacationsin Tijuana. The scheme languished after they
made the mistake ofseeking help from college administrators, who saw the
business ascounterproductive to their academic mission. Eventually
Georgequit school and got a full-time job with a pile-driving crew fortwelve
dollars an hour plus overtime—good pay in the mid-1960s;the job required
him to sit up in a little crow's nest holding on to thetop of a five-and-a-halfton, one-hundred-foot-high I-beam tosteady it while a giant steam hammer
beat it into the ground. A one-inch miss on the part of the hammer driver,
and George's hands,arms, and maybe some other important parts would
have been onlymemories.
Just about everyone George knew was involved in some way in
"i.
the drug business, as consumers or retailers, and George himselffilled a
steady part of his leisure time smoking dope. As someonewho had never
even smoked cigarettes, he found the crude mari-juana joints so harsh at
first that he had to filter the pot through awater pipe filled with ice cubes
and creme de menthe. He got thehang of it soon enough, however, and
before long he was smoking itevery day. Then, at a wedding reception in
Long Beach, he ran intoa dentist who brought him back to his houseboat—
replete withstained-glass windows and psychedelic posters on the ceiling—
andgave him a tab of LSD.
One hit of "orange sunshine" while sitting on the dentist's couchand George
knew that the sensations he'd been eliciting from potand alcohol were
ragged and paltry compared to what he was nowexperiencing. "Suddenly,"
he says, "I could see with a pill what theDalai Lama sits for ten years in a
cave to find out." The LSD gavehim X-ray vision into his physical
surroundings, and he and Tuna,who took to LSD like a pussy to catnip,
would do things like hangaround the local Baskin-Robbins shop, staring
fixedly into the tubsof different-colored ice cream. More significantly,
George foundthat under the influence he could now chat with God, ask the
Manwhat was in store for the universe. "What it did was to take away
myego. It made me realize the unimportance of the self. I knew whatmy
place was in the universe and that life was eternal, that there wasno such
thing as death, and you would live forever." But for George,the true value
of LSD had to do with sex. "When you had anorgasm on acid, it was like
the whole universe exploding. It wouldtake about forty-five minutes for the
acid to come on, and then youwere in for an eighteen-hour journey, where
the orgasms wereintensified ten times. Ha! You don't think that's a good
time?"
Hot on the trail of love and visions, George began taking acidvirtually every
day and in all forms—little BB-size "barrels," trian-gle-shaped red and pink
"wedges," the stuff known as "white light-ning," which was laced with
Methedrine and came on with theforce of a freight train. The more acid you
dropped, of course, themore risk you ran of embarking on a bad trip. This
happened onceto George in the fall of 1967, after he arrived in Manhattan
Beachand was living with his new girlfriend, Julie, a pretty brunette whoran
a dress boutique in town and whose father owned departmentstores in
Albuquerque and El Paso. George and several others weresitting around
watching the surfers out the window, listening to the
5 2 Blow
new Beatles record, Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, and afterfour
hits of white lightning the music started to blur and whine;George looked
around and noticed that all the people in the roomhad turned into monkeys.
Leaving the apartment to get a little air,shake it off, he went into the streets
of Manhattan Beach to findthat the whole town had been struck by bombs.
It looked likeBerlin at the end of World War II, its buildings with gaping
win-dows and the roofs gone. Everything was frosted over, glazed witha
thin layer of ice, all white. The telephone wires were also coatedin ice and
began to sing with an increasingly unbearable screech,which George
described as the noise of a million telephone conver-sations going all at
once. He lost himself in the back alleys of thetown. A fog descended, and it
seemed like days before he made itback to the apartment. When he got
there, George ran into thebedroom and hid under the covers until the visions
faded away.
Tuna, meanwhile, had developed a nice little business supplyingLSD to a
local chapter of the Hell's Angels and was living with asnake dancer who
kept her boa constrictor in a box in their bed-room. But one day down in
Tijuana Tuna disappeared altogetherduring an acid trip. George had last
seen him walking out of townon the railroad tracks, staring down at the ties,
doing a Dean Mori-arty act from On the Road, heading north toward the
border andnever looking back. The next time George saw him was in
1970back in Weymouth, where he'd gone for a quick visit. There wasTuna,
working on the grounds crew at South Shore Hospital, ridinga mower
around the lawn. "Hello, George," he said, as if three yearshad not gone by.
Tuna was vague about what he'd been doing,George recalls, other than to
say he had only recently emerged fromhis bedroom where he'd locked
himself in for a long time, afraid togo out on the street.
In Manhattan Beach, George rented a house with a front-yardpool, three
blocks up the hill from the beach. On weekends thegang—the women in
long, straight hair and bare feet, dressed inshifts, with flowers painted on
their faces—would get a bag of dope,a jug of wine laced with acid, and
head for the Shrine Auditorium inLos Angeles to hear Country Joe and the
Fish, or up to the Fillmorein San Francisco for Jefferson Airplane concerts,
featuring GraceSlick. Invariably, one of the band members would christen
the show,throwing out handfuls of LSD, like Stardust, into the crowd, creating a pandemonium. For sure, George told himself, not much of
this stuff was going on back in Weymouth. This was the youth ofAmerica
living out the true American Dream, getting all the spiri-tual guidance they
needed from Bob Dylan and effecting anovernight transformation in their
lives. Take Lawrence, a friend ofGeorge's who had arrived in Manhattan
Beach from Baltimore. Oneday Lawrence had been slogging away at his
job as a rag salesman inthe garment business, and the next he'd traded in his
suit and tie fora white robe, had pink flowers plaited into his hair, and
walked thestreets calling people brother, talking about God, feeding
himselfand his Irish Setter on rice balls and processed seaweed.
For a while George fancied putting his own life on the tracktoward
becoming a famous Hollywood star and even began takingacting classes
conducted by the character actor Ed Begley. Georgehad been encouraged in
this by a friend of Lawrence's, another guyout from Baltimore, who was
trying to break into the screenwritingbusiness. His name was Barry
Levinson, which didn't impress any-one at the time, since he hadn't yet
written or directed Diner,Avalon, or Good Morning, Vietnam. George
rented him a room in hishouse, where in the daylight hours Barry sat in
front of the TVwatching sitcoms and soaps, tapping out notes on a portable
type-writer. At night he and George would go to their acting class. Thedrill
was to assume roles of different characters and improvisescenes illustrating
their personalities. George did pretty well as longas he could act gangster
parts or tough guys. One day the instructor,saying George was getting too
narrow and needed to expand hisrepertoire, gave him a part to perform that
put him a little beyondhis range. He was to be a homosexual, going on this
long-distancebus ride, and to show how it would look if he tried to come on
tothat cute guy in the next seat. Well, maybe not acting, Georgethought.
Like a lot of other dope smokers, George had already been dab-bling in the
selling game—buying two bags, smoking up one, sellingthe other for
enough to get two more. Although in the late sixtiespossession of more than
just one marijuana cigarette was classifiedas a felony-level crime in
California, you had to be heavily stupid orpretty unlucky to get busted for
dealing dope in Manhattan Beach.The police department consisted of fewer
than forty men, only oneof them assigned to narcotics. He was a thirty-oneyear-old detec-tive named Fred McKewen, who had no budget for
launching
54 Bl
undercover operations and whose face was known from two hun-dred yards
away by every drug dealer in town. It was a lonely job,McKewen recalls.
"I'd get calls from other police agencies workingcases in the Manhattan
Beach area asking to talk to our narcoticsbureau, and I'd say, 'You are.'"
Considering also that he had a loadof thirty or forty other nondrug cases to
follow, from gas stationrun-outs to murder, it was no wonder Detective
McKewen nevergot a very big handle on what was going on in the
Manhattan Beachdrug scene.
Most of the busts he did manage to log came thanks to the luckhe had
playing a little ruse with parking tickets. When McKewengot the name of a
suspected pot dealer, for instance, from a snitch orfrom the talk on the
street, he would run it through the trafficbureau looking for unpaid tickets.
"In Manhattan Beach the parkingis so bad it's not unusual for people to
have one or two warrantsagainst them, and if you're a lazy-type guy, you
don't pay them. So ifI saw where you had an eleven-dollar warrant, which is
what theywere then, I'd take that and go to your house. I'd knock on
yourdoor and say, 'I'm from the police department, I've got a traffic war-rant
for your arrest, and I'm going to have to take you into custody.'Nine and a
half times out of ten I'd be invited into the house whilewhoever it was went
upstairs to get the money. Now that I'm in thehouse, there was so much
marijuana around it was not unusual forsome to be lying out on the coffee
table. You didn't need a searchwarrant in those days, so literally, if I saw
one marijuana cigarette onthe coffee table, your whole house belonged to
me." When suspectsstarted confessing their sins, Detective McKewen, in
this pre-Miranda era, wasn't obliged to interrupt and advise them that
theyhad a right to get a lawyer before they spilled their guts like this. "Ifyou
were a smart drug dealer, you paid your parking tickets, becausethat's how I
made a lot of cases."
By 1967 marijuana was fairly streaming across the Mexican bor-der into
California, secreted in hollowed-out surfboards, hidden infalse bottoms of
bulk gas tanks, stowed under the floorboards ofVW campers, in the engine
compartments of sailboats. One notablesmuggler even paid people to bring
it over a desert border crossingat night in a caravan of electric golf carts.
But until George enteredthe picture, the pot runs usually involved a lot of
little people bring-ing in small quantities, rather than large shipping
operations. Thebiggest bust McKewen helped make during those days was
a hugely
complicated, multidepartment effort involving only fifty kilos ofpot. It had
been purchased by American smugglers in Tijuana anddriven over the
border at Chula Vista in the trunk of a car bristlingwith fishing poles, spear
guns, and other vacation camouflage.McKewen and the fifty or so other
state and local cops involved inthe operation had planned to follow the car
up to Manhattan Beachto find out how the dope was going to be distributed.
U.S. Customs,in a departure from normal policy, agreed to allow the
shipment togo through the border untouched, but only if the local
policepromised to arrest the smugglers before any of the dope hit thestreet.
Driving up on Route 5, however, the smugglers broke awater hose just
north of San Diego and had to pull over to the sideof the road. Not wanting
to spoil their surveillance plan, the wholecavalcade of about thirty
unmarked police cars drove right by thestalled vehicle, pulled off at the next
exit, and came back going theopposite way, circling their prey like Indians
around a wagon train."We drove around them for three hours before they
finally got thedamn hose fixed," says McKewen.
By late in 1967 George had given up the pile-driving businessand gone into
the pot trade in earnest. On the wholesale market inManhattan Beach he'd
pay sixty dollars for a kilo-size brick, or 2.2pounds, break it into thirty-five
1-ounce bags, and move those onthe street for ten dollars apiece. If he did
10 kilos a month, and per-formed all the chores himself, George could make
a profit of nearlythree thousand dollars, this in the days when fifteen to
twenty thou-sand dollars a year could support a family of four without too
muchscrimping. Through the stewardesses he knew and all the other California friends he'd made during the previous two and a half years,George
soon found he could sell pot as fast as he could wrap it upand move it out.
To expand the business, however, he now had to tiein with bigger suppliers.
"The way I saw it," he says, "being in thedrug business was like being an
executive in any business: If youwanted to climb the ladder, you sought out
people and pursuedthose who were better and bigger than you were, and
you tried toingratiate yourself. Then you find they're not as big as you
thoughtthey were, and so you go beyond them, and before you know
itthey're working for you. Anyway, that's the way I wanted it towork."
The person George needed to get friendly with was an ex-marine-turnedhairdresser by the name of Richard Barile, another
5 6 Bl
refugee from the East and the lynchpin of the local drug culture.Only five
feet two inches tall, with a receding hairline, Richardhad dark eyebrows and
a dense black beard that put one in mind ofthe characters in Planet of the
Apes. He talked rapidly in a clippedConnecticut accent and avoided eye
contact, looking off a lot.Barile was the son of a contractor in Branford,
outside NewHaven. After leaving the Marine Corps, he'd gotten a job as a
con-ductor on the old New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad,which
allowed him to take free train trips across the country dur-ing his vacations.
On one such trip the train eventually stopped atManhattan Beach, where
Barile got off and began looking aroundfor something to do that would keep
him in California. Back homean aunt and a brother-in-law were in the
beauty-parlor business,so he decided to use his benefits under the G.I. Bill
and go to hair-dressing school. After eighteen months of perming women's
hairat a local shop, he opened up a place of his own two blocks up thehill
from the beach, the first unisex hair salon in town. He called itthe Tonsorial
Parlor.
Trained in the art of layering and shaping women's hair, Barilebecame a
huge hit with the guys in Manhattan Beach, since longhair was fast
becoming the style and just about the only way the old-time barbers knew
to attack it was to shear it off. He also providedspecial services to special
customers. For the airline pilots he fash-ioned straight-arrow wigs and tieup jobs so they could keep theirlong hair for the beach parties but tuck it
under their hats to passthe company's grooming inspection. He did the same
for guys in themarijuana trade, who needed to clean up their appearances
beforegoing on a business trip south of the border, where the sight of
longhair and ponytails registered in the minds of the Federales the sameas if
they'd had a sign on them saying ARREST ME.
For Barile, then, drug smuggling turned out to be a naturallycoterminous
extension of the hair game—like the old-time coaldealers who in summer
got into selling ice—and he designed hisshop in a way that seemed to nod
approvingly at the outlaw's way oflife. Paneled in old barn wood and
decorated in a western motif, thewalls were hung with portraits of famous
bandits—Butch Cassidyand the Sundance Kid, Jesse and Frank James, John
Wesley Hardin.The two cutting rooms at the Tonsorial Parlor were closed
off byswinging doors so people in the back could converse without
beingseen from the street. There was a pool table in the front waiting
room and benches out on the sidewalk, both of which invited peopleto
loiter, discuss ideas, make plans.
Pretty soon the activities at the Tonsorial Parlor moved fromthe talking
stage to something more concrete. "At first I'd just bedoing people a favor,
let them use the telephone, give them a placeto hang out, or I'd know
someone who wanted to buy some pot andI'd introduce them," Barile
recalls. "Soon friends would be drop-ping off a couple of kilos of pot, and
I'd hold them for them, andthey'd sell ounces out of the barbershop. Then if
someone needed apilot or a place to stash something, whatever anyone
needed, I hadthe connections, because through the business I knew
everyone andthey trusted me. Before I knew it, I was putting all three
thingstogether. But I was just doing it to be a good Samaritan, I
wasn'tmaking any money. So one day I said, the hell with this, man, Ishould
really get in on the bandwagon here. And I did, and I becamevery
successful at it."
Hearing the talk on the street, of course, Sergeant McKewengot wind that
something was going on with Barile and the TonsorialParlor that didn't have
to do with hair. But never during that period,nor in the decade following,
when Barile would routinely pull offcocaine sales in the millions of dollars,
did McKewen get even closeto making an arrest. "Everyone knew Richard
was involved, but itwas tough to make a case on him," he says. "He was a
very brazenguy, but he was clever. He never got caught because he was
alwayscareful never to be around where the drugs were. They might
havebeen his drugs, but he wasn't the guy standing next to them if therewas
ever a bust."
George first walked into the Tonsorial Parlor for a haircut inAugust of
1967, and Barile remembers the occasion well. "He wasfriendly, looked like
a Robert Redford dude, hair over the collar butnot to the shoulder. 'Hey,
come on, let's take some acid and godown the beach.' That was George. He
brought friends around,they'd sit on the bench outside, just hang out. He
was very friendlybecause of course he knew I had the potential to help him
out."
So it was that George started getting his pot supply directlyfrom Barile—
not directly, actually, because the way Barile set it uphe did everything
through other people. He had someone else rentdifferent stash houses for
him, and when he heard of a load comingin, twenty-five or fifty kilos, he
would arrange to get it delivered toone of his houses. Then, if George
wanted five or ten kilos out of
5 8 B I
that, Richard had someone pick it up from the stash house and meetwith
George to transfer the goods. With his supply assured, Georgenow wanted
to expand his market. He didn't want to keep ouncingthe stuff on the street.
Not only was it bothersome getting togetherall those bags, but to maintain
his profit level he needed to make alot of little sales and deal with a lot of
potheads—not the most dis-creet, levelheaded population group. Word of
his operation couldeasily reach the ears of Sergeant McKewen. Wholesaling
seemed tobe the way to go.
Early in the fall of 1967, fortune struck in the form of George'sold friend
and classmate at Weymouth High School, Frank Shea.Shea and his
girlfriend were on their way back to the University ofMassachusetts from
summer jobs waiting on tables. Visiting Georgeovernight, he noticed a kilo
of grass sitting out in a punch bowl on asideboard in the living room. It was
all broken up, with the junksifted out so that you could just reach in and
make a joint. And thequality struck Frank as better than anything he could
get back East."'Jesus Christ,' he said, 'where'd you get this stuff?'" George
toldhim the price and described how easy it was to get good drugs outhere.
Shea said that back in Amherst, where the market consisted ofstudents from
the University of Massachusetts, Mount Holyoke,Smith, Hampshire, and
Amherst—a group of schools known as theFive-College Consortium—pot
was selling wholesale for more thanthree hundred dollars a kilo, six times
what Richard Barile chargedfor it and nearly as much as George was
turning it over for in retail."When I heard that," George says, "I told Frank,
'Okay, this is it!We're going into business. Big-time!'"
Which was why it seemed an especially cruel turn that at thisjuncture
George should receive notification from Uncle Sam thatfor all his country
had done for him he now had to return the favorby joining the United States
Army. The notice came as a ratherabrupt shock, since George had
heretofore been classified 4-F,thanks to the injury done to his right knee in a
scrimmage justbefore the Brockton game, when he was creamed by John
Hollan-der. Given the exigencies of the Vietnam War, however, the
armyhad since widened its parameters of acceptance; so George mightlimp
a little, but he was going to have to serve the nation in somecapacity.
Making the best of a bad situation, he called around andfound out that
Uncle Jack down in Baton Rouge knew a general inthe National Guard who
could secure George one of the hard-toget slots in the California branch of the Guard. In George's eyes,the Guard
was punishment enough. "One day I'm stoned on LSD,selling dope, going
to the Fillmore, having the time of my life.Then suddenly I'm getting off a
bus at Fort Ord, California, andthese monkeys are yelling and screaming,
'Get your fucking ass inline.' And you go inside this building and the next
thing, there wasno hair."
George submitted to eight weeks of basic training, then eightmore weeks of
advanced infantry training, during which he becamea squad leader, and was
finally mustered out to report once a monthto Guard meetings in Pasadena.
That would have been the end of it,except that shortly afterward his unit got
a call-up notice. Whetherin the army or in the Guard, George was going to
Vietnam. Clearlythe situation now called for some drastic countermeasures.
"When Iheard we'd been called up, I knew I had to do something quick, so
Iwent to see a friend of mine in San Francisco, a hippie lawyer. Hesaid, 'All
right. Get five pounds of pot. Go to the Holiday Inn andcall and tell me
what the room is. The police will come over andbust you. I'll make a phone
call and get you probation, and they'llkick you out of the army.'" And it all
transpired precisely accordingto plan. Several days after his arrest, George
was ordered to come inand see his commanding officer.
"He was sitting there at his desk with a big frown on his face andsaid, 'I'm
sorry to have to tell you this, but I'm getting rid of you.Here's your papers.
It's a general discharge. You've been arrested fordrugs, turn your shit in, we
don't want anything to do with you,you're a disgrace to the unit.'
"I said, 'Gimme those papers. I don't have to turn my shit in. Ialready threw
it all away. I'll see you later.' And I left."
Around this period George had a fortuitous change in girl-friends. At
Cisco's one night he met a remarkably beautiful andwell-endowed young
woman named Annette, who looked like AliMcGraw. She wore loosefitting chamois vests with no bra, display-ing nearly the whole story of her
large-size breasts. Taking her toiVIike the Greek's on Sunday afternoons,
George had a time clearinga path through the gawking clientele to a table.
"When I first sawGeorge, he just mesmerized me," Annette says of her
firstencounter with the incipient drug entrepreneur. "His sad greeneyes, his
eyes were very beautiful, and he had blond hair, not tall,
6 O Blow
but he had really well-developed shoulders. He wore those littlehippie
glasses, round green granny glasses, like John Lennon had.He was like no
one I'd ever met." George talked to her aboutAldous Huxley and Brave New
World (the drug part), and he gaveher his Hermann Hesse and Bob Dylan
lectures, and also her firstacid trip. "And I eventually ended up an extension
of him, lost myidentity. And I think he screwed every girlfriend I had."
Annette worked as a stewardess for Trans-World Airlines andcould carry on
and off the plane any amount of luggage she wantedto, without anyone
batting an eye. Within a month George had puther to work. The first load
consisted of twenty kilos packed into acouple of Samsonite suitcases that
Annette agreed to fly for him toLogan Airport in Boston, where Frank Shea
met the plane andtransported the pot across the state to Amherst in the trunk
of arental car. Business grew in steady fashion; indeed it skyrocketed,and
soon smaller wholesalers were putting in orders for ten and fif-teen kilos at
a time, taking it from the drop point in Amherst up toStowe, Vermont, back
to Cambridge and Boston proper, and out tothe Cape. Before winter was
over, the meager transportation capac-ity of the commercial airlines was
causing a bottleneck in the supplyline. Where's the stuff? people were
shouting to George. When canyou get more?
So George jacked up the scale a peg and began renting out Wm-nebagos for
between $250 and $300 a week, using them to movegreater quantities, up to
125 kilos, or 275 pounds, at once, onmarathon cross-country drives. With a
helper to keep the vehicle onthe road twenty-four hours a day, George could
make the trip inabout sixty hours going flat out—no motels, no showers,
eating inthe cab. To avoid detection in case he got caught for some
trafficviolation, George paid a carpenter in Manhattan Beach—"themagic
carpenter," he dubbed him—to construct a removable ply-wood bulkhead
across the bathtub section in the RVs bathroomcompartment, making the
space look as if it contained only a sink,shower stall, and toilet. George
stored the pot in back of the bulk-head, which he faced with a full-length
mirror. To find the pot, onewould have to know it was there and take apart
the Winnebago toprove it.
Depending on the quality of the marijuana and the prices henegotiated at
both ends, George was taking in anywhere from$10,000 up to $30,000 or so
each trip, which meant that, after payManhattan Beach (1967-1968) 61
ing Richard and his helpers and deducting expenses, he was nettingon
average $5,000 to $10,000 for himself. This was when a brandnew Ford
Thunderbird like the one George was soon squiringAnnette around in cost
only $4,600, when a year at an Ivy Leaguecollege, including room, board,
tuition, and books, cost under$5,000, and when for $50,000 you could pick
up a five-story brown-stone in Manhattan. In addition to raking in the
money, Georgenow was treated as some kind of visiting hero each time the
Win-nebago pulled up in Amherst. While they waited around for
theshipment to get sold, George and Annette and sometimes a smallretinue
of friends would put up at the gracious Lord Jeffrey Inn,order a log fire lit
in their room to take off the chill, and quaffeddrinks down in the bar with
the Amherst alumni. "There weremovie stars, and there were rock stars, so
now we were the potstars," George says. "And we were whacking out the
whole cam-pus."
George kept up this routine for five or six months more, untilMay or so, the
mud season in Amherst, when the spring grass getsthick and the ground
spongy and the lilacs and apple blossomsappear. Then he started making
more calculations concerning thefuture of his booming business. The main
thing he was thinkingnow was, why spend money on the middlemen in
ManhattanBeach—the wholesalers who bought the pot that was shipped
overthe border, the smugglers who did the shipping—when you couldgo
down into Mexico yourself and buy the stuff directly, from thegrowers?
He'd heard prices like twenty-five dollars, fifteen, even tendollars a kilo
down there; he could sell that for three hundred dol-lars in Amherst, net out
the whole difference himself. "We weremaking a lot of money, but I knew
we could make a hell of a lotmore," he says. "So Frank and I started
thinking, why can't we getour own fucking airplane and go down to Mexico
and get it our-selves? Then we can make this into something really good."
It was sometime around then, in early summer 1968, that thepeople in
Manhattan Beach began referring to George Jacob Jungby a title more
befitting a character of his stature, success—andaccent. They started calling
him "Boston George."
rlREE
1968-1970
/ kept telling them, "If we stay together, we'll be like a fist and have power.
Everyman contributes to the fist, and the fist is forever, like a brotherhood."
—George Jung
There were various ways to smuggle marijuana into the Statesfrom Mexico.
The quickest, easiest way, but also the riskiest, wassimply to drive the stuff
across the border hidden somewhere in aVW camper or a pick-up truck.
Boats were pretty good, as long asthey stayed at sea; the difficulty lay in
locating a part of the coastlineto put ashore at that was deserted enough so a
cargo could be dis-charged without attracting attention. The safest method
was just towalk the load in—lugging duffel bags over a desert crossing
point atnight and stashing them on the U.S. side to pick up later with
acamper or jeep. But although this technique served well when a fewpounds
were involved, it required a considerable amount of schlep-ping as the load
approached a half ton or more, which was the scaleGeorge was thinking on.
And it just didn't fit well with those visionsof Hemingway running with the
bulls in Pamplona or Jack Londonshooting down the Whitehorse rapids on
the Yukon. (George hadbeen three or four times up to the Valley of the
Moon, north of SanFrancisco, to see the shell of London's burnt-out house
that Mr.Horrigan used to talk about back in high school.) No, the way to go
here was definitely the air route. George would fly the stuff in byplane, and
he would do it himself.
The choice certainly recommended itself as the best way not toget caught.
Charter companies weren't yet in the habit of askingmany questions about
what the plane might be used for or where itwas going. There were no such
things as AWACs monitoring theskies over the border, and it was easy to
stay below radar range toavoid random detection. Flying was also fast and
efficient: Youcould land at a deserted airstrip or in a field somewhere,
transfer theload to a waiting truck, and be back in the air within minutes.
As George shortly found out, learning to fly was the easiest partof the
scheme. Within a month, after thirty hours of instruction atthe Santa Monica
Airport, George had qualified to fly solo by"VFR," or visual flying rules.
This meant no fancy aeronautics; hecould fly only in the daylight, and could
not do anything thatrequired an instrument rating or knowledge of radar.
He'd learnedjust enough to get a single-engine plane moving fast down the
run-way and into the air, navigate by dead reckoning, put the thing backon
the ground in one piece, and turn off the engine. As for the air-plane, he
planned on chartering a single-engine Piper CherokeeSix. It was known as a
coffin plane, not for the danger it posed butfor its long fuselage and double
garage-style doors that allowed youto load it with bulky cargo, coffins
included, a feature that soonmade it a favorite of marijuana smugglers.
The plan was to fly the pot across the border and land on one ofthe dozen or
so dry lake beds that lay on the desert floor aroundTwentynine Palms, in the
southwest part of California. The lakesmeasure anywhere from two to
fifteen miles long, and except for theforty-mile-long Salton Sea, which is
filled with twenty feet of waterleaching in from the Colorado River, they
haven't been very wetsince the glacier receded ten thousand years ago. At
most they get alittle muddy during the rainy season in the winter months,
when therunoff flows down from the surrounding mountains—albeit
muddyenough so battle tanks from the U.S. Marine base at
TwentyninePalms have been known to roll out on them and get
hopelesslystuck. The rest of the year, when the salt from the runoff dries
outand binds itself with the clay in the soil, the lakes provide a surfacethat
is as smooth as concrete and hard enough to take the weight ofa onehundred-ton space shuttle. Dirt roads come and go in alldirections, and
except for sporadic salt-mining operations, the dry
64 Blow
lake region has about as many people hanging around as does theface of the
moon.
By now George had built up a tight collection of dependablefriends and
operators, a regular little band of beach characters, whofurthered the
enterprise in various capacities. There was his girl-friend, Annette, who
lived with two other women, both namedWendy. All three worked as
stewardesses for United Airlines orTWA and were known to the crowd as
"Annette and the twoWendys." There was Earl "the Pearl," a computer
programmer fora hospital in L.A. who would soon put his organizational
skills touse in the wholesaling end of the business, and "Pogo," a graduateof
USC who had left his job as a stockbroker as well as his wife and ahouse in
Bel Air to embark on the pot trade. Pogo would drive theloads back from
the dry lakes for George; he also served as the radioground controller for
the incoming flights. General chores werehandled by other beach habitues:
Junior, a roustabout who had got-ten George his job on the pile driver; Sam
the bartender, with abandito mustache, who was a friend of Frank Shea's
from Mas-sachusetts; Orlando, the son of a wealthy curtain-rod family in
theMidwest, who had been a door gunner on a helicopter in Vietnam;Randy,
who worked in the oil refinery next door in El Segundo.Along with Frank
Shea, who knew how to fly, the pilots includedGreg from Arizona, who had
flown for the airlines, and Cliff Gut-tersrud, stylish and handsome, the son
of a well-off Chicago familywho paraded around in blue blazers and white
polo shirts andsported a license plate on his Porsche that read FLYBOY.
Then therewas a pilot known as Here-We-Go Bob, for the unnerving habit
hehad of gripping the yoke with feverish intensity as he brought hisplane in
for a landing, announcing in a voice quivering with appre-hension and selfdoubt: "Heeeeeeeere we go!"
Located about halfway down the western coast of Mexico, thecity of Puerto
Vallarta sits at the head of the Bahia de Banderas, aparabola-shaped bay
eighteen miles deep and twelve miles wide,which from an airplane looks as
if God had taken a big bite out ofthe shoreline. Ramon Moreno grew up in
Puerto Vallarta in themid-1950s, when it was just another sleepy coastal
town of cobble-stone streets and modest frame and white-stucco dwellings
pokingout from the jungled foothills of the Sierra Madre looming in
thebackground. Ramon's great-grandfather, a Yaqui Indian, came to
the town in the late 1800s and began growing bananas, corn, andtobacco,
which were shipped out on coastal steamers and sailingvessels. He had been
driven out of Sonora, in the north, when thegovernment confiscated the
Indians' land and turned it over towealthy farmers, leaving them with
nothing to tend but the meanestholdings. Ramon's grandfather become a
well-to-do store owner intown, and his father a schoolmaster and a famous
local soccerplayer. You couldn't get to Puerto Vallarta by automobile until
afterWorld War II, and even then, when Ramon was little, the roadsstopped
short at the rushing waters of the Cuale River, which splitthe town
vertically down the center, spanned only by a pair ofswinging bridges. A
broad jetty, or malecon, ran along the ocean-front, where on Sunday
evenings the young people joined the paseoby the sea, as their elders sat on
the benches watching the ungainlypelicans dive for fish and the large
orange sun disappear slowly intothe Pacific.
Because of its charm, its deserted beaches, and its great marlinfishing, word
started spreading slowly in the late 1950s that PuertoVallarta was an
undiscovered paradise. Americans and Canadiansarrived, hotels started
going up to the north and south, and Ramonjoined the flock of young men
who earned money furnishing ser-vices to the turistas on the beach—selling
souvenir hats, sodas, and acoconut-oil suntan concoction he mixed up at
home. Eventually hisgrandmother staked him to an inboard speedboat,
which he used totake people skin diving and exploring along the coast. One
day in1963 he was hired to provide water-taxi service for an
Americanactress with a sensuous mouth and a raucous laugh, to deliver
herregularly to Mismaloya, a tiny beachfront village south of
town,inaccessible by car, where they were filming Tennessee Williams'sThe
Night of the Iguana. Ramon, of course, had never heard of AvaGardner.
"She would give me a list of the things she wanted on theboat. Always it
was a lot of ice, and plenty of beer, and tequila, andgin—a lot of gin.
Sometimes she would drink it with an olive, ormix the gin and the tequila
and pour it into a coconut with ice andstick in a straw. Sometimes early in
the morning I would take her toan empty beach. She could take her clothes
off and swim and lie onthe sand."
With publicity from the movie, the town quickly became over-run by
tourists and actors from Hollywood. John Huston, themovie's director, built
himself a house just below Mismaloya, still
66 Bl
reachable only by boat. The Oceana Bar in the center of town,whose
windows open out onto the ocean, became the boozy hauntof Richard
Burton and his new wife, Elizabeth Taylor, as well asRobert Mitchum,
Marlon Brando, and his pal John Barrymore, Jr.Peter Fonda and Dennis
Hopper hung out there after making EasyRider; along with Groucho Marx's
son, Fred, whose motorcyclestarred in the movie as Fonda's bike. A
permanent population ofNorth Americans, including Richard and Liz,
settled into a sectionof expensive houses and condominiums overlooking
the center oftown and known as Gringo Gulch. The population of Puerto
Val-larta jumped from 12,500 souls to 82,000, with 200,000
moredescending on the place at the height of the tourist season.
Retired by now from being a beach boy and chauffeur, Ramonwas looking
to get into something substantial. On the beach he hadrun into a wealthy
young man from Mexico City named Sanchez,the son of a Mexican army
general, who owned several sportfisher-men he chartered out for marlin
fishing. As a sideline, Sanchez wasalso helping to fulfill the increasing
demand by Americans for pot,and he needed someone to liaise with the
farmers in the hills, whohad been persuaded by the law of economics to
take a portion oftheir ten-acre plantations of corn and beans and turn it into
a morelucrative tillage. Ramon became his man. Then in his late teens, fluent in English, Ramon wore his hair long, straight down to the cen-ter of his
back. Like other Indians, he possessed a pair of penetrat-ing, heavy-lidded
eyes that betrayed a distant ancestry somewherein East Asia but gave away
little else, a distinct advantage in themarijuana business. Sinewy, tough, and
quick, Ramon had alreadyearned the nickname Garavato. Strictly speaking,
the word trans-lates into "hook" or "sickle," but carries many subtler
meanings,among them a darting movement, a piece of scribble, or an
entwin-ing action—a tree that wraps itself around another tree is called
agaravato. It was Ramon's father's nickname, too, for the way in soc-cer he
seemed to be all over the field at once.
Brought to the New World by the Spaniards in the sixteenthcentury—the
word marijuana comes from the Spanish word for"intoxicant"—the
cannabis plant particularly appreciates life in highmountain valleys because
of its exposure to the sun and the protec-tion from harsh weather afforded
by the surrounding peaks. It likeswarmth and humidity, which Puerto
Vallarta, at 250 miles below theTropic of Cancer, has in abundance the year
round, and in the 1960s
the growers liked the relative secrecy the foothills afforded. Theweather
there also enabled farmers to reap two crops a year: oneharvested in
October, at the end of the rainy season, and the secondin March, which had
to be irrigated in the dry winter months by anetwork of hoses feeding water
to the fields from the springs andstreams higher in the hills. The plantations
were small, a half acre toan acre and a half, tucked away in ravines and at
the back ofcanyons, difficult to find if you didn't know the way. The only
accesswas over a maze of donkey trails that wound through the
mountainvillages, ensuring that snoopers and others who didn't belong
therewere quickly discovered and discouraged from venturing further.
At first the pot farmers of Mexico, faced with little of the com-petition that
came later on from Jamaica, Colombia, and parts ofAsia, carried on their
job pretty crudely by current standards, leav-ing the plants to grow however
they would, expending little effortto thinning them out or providing
fertilizer. In addition, the grow-ers sold the whole plant—flowers, leaves,
seeds, and stems—chopped into bits, pressed into brick-size kilos, and
shipped off toCalifornia. All in all it was a pretty raggedy product,
providing onlya weak buzz, and a harsh smoke in the bargain. Gradually,
however,the pot culture improved. Although the plant will grow
plentifullyalmost anywhere—hence the nickname weed—its quality can
beboosted dramatically through the use of certain cultivation tech-niques.
The most significant one, reportedly developed in the sec-ond millennium
B.C. in India, involves culling all the male plants outof the field before they
have a chance to release their pollen and fer-tilize the females; it's during
this period, while they're waiting to befertilized, that the female plants
achieve the most potency. To snarethe pollen wafting around in the air, they
produce a sticky resincompound in their buds. Once pollination occurs—
they get theirguy, as it were—the girls shut down the factory. For pot
smokers,that's bad, since it's the resin that contains the highest
concentrationof THC, or delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, the element you
need toget good and blasted. In concentrated form, the resin and the
budsbecome hashish. Boiled in solvent and extracted further, the mixtureis
turned into hash oil, the most powerful pot there is, with a THCcontent ten
to one hundred times greater than what's found in ordi-nal*)' marijuana.
This is the stuff that calls forth visions.
Ramon saw it as part of his job to increase awareness among thefarmers
that those female plants had to be kept deprived; that way, he
6 8 Blow
told them, they could charge more for their pot. "If you're a goodfarmer,
you go out every morning and every male plant you spot inthe field you rip
that fucker up," says Ramon, whose English wasrefined in the 1960s and
qualifies as landmark-status hippiespeak, lit-tered with "chicks," "old
ladies," and "bummed out, man." "Thosefuckers sneak in and they hide,
they seem to know when you're look-ing for them, but you see those little
seed buds poking up, and youget that fucker right out of the ground and put
him in a plastic bag,so they won't reseed, and you have more and more. You
have to beon top of it to get good grass."
On his trips into the hills at harvest time, Ramon would travelup alongside
the Cuale River, past its waterfalls and rapids, thenbranch off, following the
trails leading into the farms. He'd bringalong six men to help and a team of
twelve donkeys, spend a daygoing in, a day assembling the load, and a day
coming out. The ani-mals carried fifty to eighty kilos each in burlap bags, a
total of five orsix hundred kilos a trip. The trail was narrow and in many
places ranalong deep ravines. More than once even one of the surefootedburros would go over the edge, Ramon recalls; he would hear
itcrashing down through the forest, then silence, no time to stop andsearch.
Ramon's personal record load on a single trip was five thou-sand kilos,
eleven thousand pounds, which he brought out during aparticularly good
harvest in 1969. It took fifteen days and thirtydonkeys to get the job done.
For premium-grade marijuana, Ramon paid the farmers a highof one
hundred pesos, equivalent to about eight dollars back then,for each kilo.
This added up to a lot of money, compared to thetwelve hundred dollars a
year that a family of six might otherwiseearn off its small holding and a few
animals. With three to four hun-dred marijuana plants to an acre, each plant
producing up to a kiloof pot, and two harvests a year, the farmer could
make with a singleacre of marijuana three to five times what he could on all
ten acresof corn and beans, and still have the corn and beans. For this
reason,Ramon's appearance in the hills above Puerto Vallarta became forthe
campesinos an increasingly significant event. "We'd go to manyfields and
the farmers would say, 'Take my pot, take my pot,'" herecalls. "The farmers
would have their kids and old ladies helpingout. Sometimes the farmer that
had the littlest field had the bestshit, man, because he takes care of it more.
Sometimes they go eveninto the higher places, where there is nobody's land,
although somePuerto Vallarta (1968-1970) 69
times a farmer would go on somebody else's place and there wouldbe a little
discussion over it, you know."
As the marijuana business became large-scale and serious, it wasnot
advisable for a gringo, or a nonindigenous human of any per-suasion, to
wander about up in the hills around Puerto Vallarta. Thefarmers found it
difficult to imagine what a stranger would be doingthere were he not an
informer or someone out to steal their money.And then there were the
banditos to watch for, especially if you werean American. "The
Americans," says Ramon, "sometimes theywould be in town asking for
someone to take them up into the hills,maybe they want to buy something.
They would be taken this wayand that way, and pretty soon they are way,
way up there with alltheir money, away from everything, and all around are
only the ban-ditos. Or you buy something from a farmer in the hills and
they putrocks in it, and you don't know until you get down here, and then
itis too late. One year an Italian who was buying loads had come witha lot
of money, and they took him to one of the fields and buriedhim in the field
and took his money. His mother came down lookingfor him, but it took a
long time. He had to be identified by a den-tist."
Late in the summer of 1968, George arrived in Puerto Vallartaon a
commercial flight with Sam the Bartender and Frank Shea,ready to put their
grand scheme into play. The word had been outin Manhattan Beach about
Puerto Vallarta being the place to getmarijuana in large quantities, but for
all their talk and planning,George and company had almost no idea of how
to make a connec-tion. None of them spoke more than pick-up Spanish.
They knewnothing about the city or where to go. They had no names or
con-tacts to start with. For days that stretched into weeks, they wan-dered
about the beaches and the hotels and bars, chatting upstrangers, leaving
behind veiled queries about whom they might talkto regarding the
possibility of scoring some dope. Sloshed on beerand Cocos Locos, they'd
lie down under the palm trees at night andpass out on a deserted beach, deaf
to the crash of the surf, to rise thenext day in shaken condition and resume
the quest. "There wereAmericans down there, and you could tell what they
were doing,"George says, "but everyone wanted to keep it to himself. No
onewanted to involve us."
The center of the city still retained much of its old charm, par7 O Blow
ticularly in the categories of recreation George liked to pursue. Atfour
o'clock in the afternoon, across the street from the malecon inthe Oceana
Bar, where the old wooden ceiling fans pulled in the seaair through open
windows, he'd meet up with Richard Burton andLiz Taylor. The three
became friendly, putting away large quantitiesof Scotch and ruminating on
the ironies of life as the waves floppedlanguorously along the beach.
George had seen The Night of theIguana several times, putting the
defrocked minister, Shannon, onhis list of icons. Liz would disappear on
shopping trips with her ret-inue of thin-waisted males. "Here comes the
queen with her six lit-tle sissies," Burton would taunt on her return. One
night the threeattended a traveling circus, during which one of the clowns
nearlydrowned when he lay underneath the elephant and was inundatedwith
several gallons of steamy urine. To George's consternation, Lizstepped into
the ring and let the Mexican knife-thrower hurl near-misses all around her
body. Back at the Oceana, when Richard wasoff in the men's room, George
leaned over and kissed Liz on themouth. '"I've always wanted to do that,' I
told her. 'I think you'rethe most beautiful woman in the world.' She said,
'You're cute, butyou don't have what Richard has. And you don't have his
moneyeither.'"
They'd heard the scary stories of Americans rotting in Mexicanjails, so
George and his cohorts were somewhat chary of announc-ing their quest too
openly, lest they fall into the hands of under-cover policemen. "Finally, it
was the fourth week," says George,"and everyone was getting really pissed.
We couldn't find a connec-tion, we were running out of money. They
wanted to go back home.'Fuck this, we can make more doing what we were
doing, it's nevergonna happen.' Then one afternoon we were coming out of
theOceana, and this little yellow VW bug pulls up in front and this girlwith
straight blond hair pokes her head out the window, a hippietype, and says,
'Get in the car, you guys. I know what you're up to.'"
She drove them up into the foothills, where the cobblestonesturned into a
rutty dirt track running past tin-roofed shanties, withnaked children playing
in the street and junk cars sitting underpoinciana trees in the yards.
Eventually she parked, and they walkedup a hillside and through an
archway that opened onto a largestucco villa with jutting balconies and a
red-tiled roof. She left themfor a minute and returned with a couple of
pounds of pot. "It wasbeautiful stuff, I mean like nothing we'd ever seen
before," says
George. "She said she worked for some people who'd been watch-ing us in
town for several days and wanted to see if they could dobusiness." Inside
the house, where it was dark and cool, she intro-duced them to a thin, wiry
young man with long, jet-black hair,whose name was Ramon.
When Sanchez showed up soon thereafter, George told himthey had a plane
and asked if he could provide them with two orthree hundred kilos to fly to
California. "Sanchez said he could getus as much as we could carry away, a
thousand kilos, whatever wecould handle." The deal they worked out was
that George wouldpay $25 dollars a kilo, which because of its high quality
he knew hecould turn over for as much as $150, maybe more, in
ManhattanBeach, and twice that easily if he took it to Amherst. The
expense ofstaying the month in Puerto Vallarta, however, had drained
theirfinances, so Sanchez agreed to front them three hundred kilos, tak-ing
payment only after it was sold. In exchange for the favor,George agreed to
sell an additional hundred kilos for Sanchez him-self at the prevailing price
in the United States. This deal meant notonly that George got the pot for no
money, but since it wasSanchez's load now mixed in with his, in effect he'd
also acquired aMexican partner, created a relationship. "If he was in a
partnershipwith you, he wouldn't fuck you around with the quality or the
deliv-ery or the price."
Sanchez also saw it as a much better way to go. For his own pot,which
George would sell on Sanchez's behalf, and for the pot hesold George, he
would get a total of $37,500, as opposed to the$10,000 from selling the
whole four hundred kilos to Georgestraight out. Ramon would get $2,500 of
this for the trip into thehills, and another $2,500 went to the farmers. Other
expenses cameup, too. But getting along in Mexico was so cheap—the
weekly pay-check, for instance, of a government worker came out to just
over$8—that Sanchez figured he could earn a small fortune here.George
wouldn't do so badly either. Every four-hundred-kilo ship-ment he took to
Amherst netted about $80,000, or nearly twicewhat his gang was doing
buying it through Richard Barile in Man-hattan Beach. If he could do this
once a month, he thought, hecould soon retire.
An elated George flew back to Manhattan Beach to get the air-plane, while
Sam and Frank stayed down to work out the mechanics
7 2 Bl
with Sanchez and Ramon. Moving 880 pounds of anything is not
aninconsequential task, and especially when it had to be done insecrecy.
The city police in Puerto Vallarta, the polkianos, promptedno worry in this
regard, since all they did was direct traffic andenforce local ordinances.
What you watched out for were the Fed-erales, or Federal Judicial Police, a
sort of Mexican FBI, which hadoutposts in all the important cities and acted
as the country's maindope hunters (only later would the Mexican army get
into the act).But in Mexico, as George soon learned, the authorities chose to
dotheir duty or didn't, depending on how much they got paid, whichmeant
that in the marijuana business you always gave some of yourproceeds over
to the Federales. In Puerto Vallarta this meant adeputy chief, who went by
the name of Candy Man, for his readi-ness to take extracurricular pay.
Sanchez gave Candy Man theequivalent of four hundred dollars every time
one of Ramon's don-key trains came down from the hills; in return he
would find policebusiness for his men to attend to in some other part of
town.
The pot was wrapped in one-kilo packages, twenty-five kilos toan army
duffel bag, a total of sixteen bags. The Cherokee could takea lot more
weight, but this was about the bulk limit that would fitinto its cargo space.
The load would be assembled in a shed at theback of Sanchez's house and
be trucked down at night—the policewere paid off, but there was no sense
alerting the whole town—andtransferred to one of Sanchez's sportfishermen
at the marina. Theboat would transport it over water to a lonely spit of land
calledPunta de Mita, on the northern tip of Banderas Bay, eighteen milesout
from Puerto Vallarta. A desolate, wind-swept point of land, withbreakers
piling in over a long stretch of shallows, the point is visiblefrom the city on
a clear day, but when the low-lying fog rolls in, allyou can make out are the
vague peaks of its mountain range ridinglike ghost ships on top of the mist.
The airstrip consisted of a flatpiece of grassland just back from the beach,
which offered plenty oflanding room for a small plane, as long as Ramon
and his men weregiven time to chase out the Brahman bulls that used it for
grazing.The isolated landing strip at Punta de Mita was used also by
thethree other marijuana-smuggling operations in Puerto Vallarta,which
meant that at times it took a little coordination to avoid con-gestion in the
area.
The plan called for George to fly into the commercial airport atPuerto
Vallarta, stay overnight, take off again the next day, land at
—*.
Punta de Mita to pick up the dope, then fly back. Once over theborder in the
United States, he would head for the dry lake beds,where Pogo would be
waiting with a camper truck to unload theplane and drive the pot back to
Manhattan Beach. There it wouldbe repacked into the bathtub compartment
of the Winnebago andtrucked east to the students of the Five-College
Consortium.
There was one complication. The Cherokee's cruising rangewas only about
600 miles, half the distance from Punta de Mita tothe California desert.
Down and back, George needed to refuelsomewhere, and somewhere
secluded, since on its return the planewould be stuffed to the ribs with
marijuana. For this purpose theyfound a rarely used airstrip near the city of
Guaymas, approximatelyhalfway up the coast. It was built on a deserted
marsh a little wayout of town and used mainly for flying out loads of
shrimp, Guay-mas being the shrimp capital of Mexico. On his way down,
Georgewould take along Orlando, the helicopter gunner, and drop him offat
Guaymas, together with twenty or so 5-gallon jerry cans filledwith airplane
fuel. Orlando would hide the fuel, sit tight for a day,and gas George up on
the way back.
Considering the primitive nature of George's flying skills, themost
remarkable feature of that first trip was that he made it alive."Taking off
was easy enough," he recalls of his thirty hours' worthof flying lessons.
"You get it up to speed, pull back on the stick, andyou're gone. And the
flying-around part was no problem either. Youjust have to watch out where
you're going so you don't run into any-thing. The landing, though—that was
where I got a little insecure."Like many lefties, George had minor problems
with hand-eye coor-dination under any circumstance, and more so now that
he had tokeep in mind the several operations needing to be performed
simul-taneously to bring the plane down successfully: adjusting the
fuelmixture, setting the flaps properly, compensating for
crosswinds,keeping the prop at full RPM in case he blew the thing and had
toget airborne again. It had taken quite a few attempts, with theinstructor
aborting a number of landings, before George got any-where near having
the hang of it. On the flight down to Mexico,however, he figured he'd get in
a little practice before having to landthe thing on the floor of an ex-lake in
the middle of the Californiadesert.
The first part of the operation went smoothly enough. Georgelanded okay in
Guaymas, okay again at the airport and on the landing strip at the point, where he took on the four hundred kilos ofmarijuana.
On the trip back, however, heavier by nearly half a tonand coming in to gas
up at Guaymas, he suffered a little equilibriumproblem, wherein the plane
went into what is called a "tipping andtouching" mode—hitting first on one
wheel, then the other, careen-ing down the landing strip like a drunk after
closing time. He man-aged to straighten it out before one of the wings
actually scraped theground, loaded up with more fuel, and at 3:00 P.M. took
off for theborder on the final leg of his journey. After Guaymas, he planned
tohead up the middle of the Gulf of California, cross the borderdirectly over
the city of Mexicali, then change course slightly, head-ing a couple of
points west of due north so as to graze the easternedge of the Salton Sea,
which would be easy to spot in the desert.About halfway up alongside the
sea, he'd head northeast over theChocolate Mountains, toward the pass
between the OrocopiaMountains and the Chuckwallas, go right up the slot
to the Col-orado River aqueduct, follow that along as it wound to the northeast, then look for Granite Pass between the Granite and Ironmountain
ranges, which opens right onto the bed of Danby DryLake. To spot the
lakes, one looked for the whitest and brightestsplashes on the desert floor.
These marked the salt concentrationsthat made a hard surface for smooth
landing. He'd been warned tostay clear of the darker brown areas at the
edge of the lakes, possiblymuddy ground that could grab the wheels and flip
the plane into asomersault. Danby Dry Lake measured about ten miles long
andtwo and a half miles wide and was identifiable by the slight bend toits
shape, looking something like a boiled hot dog. Driving outthere from
Manhattan Beach, Pogo would figure out where thewind was blowing from
and park his truck at a point upwind of astretch long enough to give George
at least three thousand feet oflanding room. After the transfer, while Pogo
headed back to Man-hattan Beach, George would take off a final time and
return theplane to the Santa Monica Airport. That was the plan.
George found Mexicali easily enough—only it turned out to beTijuana. Or
San Diego. Some damn place, but definitely not Mexi-cali, because that
was the Pacific Ocean out there, and according tothe chart Mexicali wasn't
on any fucking ocean. This meant thatthrough some bit of miscalculation or
inattention he'd gotten offcourse, at least a hundred miles west and who
knew how many milesnorth of where he was supposed to be.
Abruptly he banked to the right and headed due east, to thevicinity of the
Salton Sea, to try to get himself oriented. After anhour's flying he found the
sea, but then experienced more confusionlooking for the right mountains to
line up with and the pass he hadto go through. One mountain seemed just
like the next, all of thema mottled brown color with scrubby growth, like a
three-day beard.Flying only at thirty-five hundred feet, he was running into
a dis-couraging amount of turbulence, made worse by the wide wing configuration of the Cherokee. The plane bucked and heaved, buffetedby rising
currents of hot air welling up off the desert floor, hitting aridge line and
tumbling down the other side. "I was bobbing up anddown like a goddamn
cork on the water up there, plus I really hadno fucking idea where I was."
He could see dry lake beds all over,gleaming white against the red rock of
the hills. But which one wasDanby? Where was the Colorado aqueduct, and
the pass?
It was now getting late, the sun slipping fast toward the SierraNevada. Once
it slid behind that mountain wall, it would be as ifsomeone had pulled down
a giant window shade. Sun would still beshining down on the beach bunnies
back at Manhattan Beach, buteast of the Sierra it would soon be as dark as a
malefactor's heart. "Iremember following the ridge of mountains, following
it along,there'd be four or five passes, and I'd take one, and, Jesus Christ,
Ihoped this was the right one. I'd lost a lot of time getting off course.What
scared me most was still being up there after the sun wentdown, because
then it was all over. I was running low on gas. I'd endup crash-landing, or
plowing into the side of some mountain Icouldn't see. In that plane I
discovered what it was like being in astate of total fear—all the things I
didn't know how to do. I thought,'George, you stupid son of a bitch, here's
where you're finally goingto get yourself killed.'"
Finally, coming down through a pass, jagged mountains on bothsides, he
saw another patch of white, another dry lake bed, this onelong and narrow
with a slow curve. It looked about right. There wasa set of salt evaporators
up at the north end—that seemed right—and, by fucking Christ, there was
Pogo down there, his truck sittingup near the top of the lake, flashing his
headlights on and off and onand off, a big piece of something white waving
from the aerial toshow which way the wind was blowing. George banked
right, thenleft to get downwind, and lost most of the memory of what happened next, except that suddenly he felt one of the landing gears
touch down, then the other, both of them now, and he was taxiingup toward
the truck, with Pogo outside the vehicle punching bothfists into the air in
triumph. "I'll never forget what it was like finallygetting on the ground, the
whole trip—it was a dream I had had forall those years. I'd said, 'I'm going
to do this.' And I actually did it.I'd never felt anything like that in my life."
Simultaneously, Georgehad another thought, one that moved him so
strongly he uttered itout loud to himself: "I am never, ever going to do this
shit again."
Early in 1969, after that first trip from Mexico to Massachusetts,the whole
crew—Annette and the two Wendys, Frank and Sam andGeorge, and also
the pilot, Greg, who George determined wouldnow handle the flights into
the dry lake beds—decided to pick upand move the operation down to
Puerto Vallarta, so they could runthe business from the source. On the
beach about a mile north oftown they found a large white villa to rent, with
rooms enough foreveryone. It came with a cook and a gatekeeper to watch
out forstrangers. Hotel construction was going on to the north, butbetween
the house and town was nothing but empty beach linedwith coconut palms,
and a view across the bay to the misty moun-tains of Punta de Mita. Every
five or six weeks now Greg would landthe plane there, then take off with
another load for the happy stu-dents of Amherst.
Life for the inhabitants of the villa assumed the qualities of anendless
holiday. Mexican boys came by every morning to bringthem fresh oysters,
which they laced with salsa picante and combinedwith whatever the cook
was preparing for breakfast, which they ateout on a balcony, watching
waves breaking along the sand. An end-less procession of pelicans drifted
by, gliding just an inch or twoabove the water, supported on a cushion of
warm and humid air.Occasionally one would climb to about fifty feet, then
do an acuteright turn and crash into the ocean with a great splash and racket
tograb a fish. Later in the morning, more Mexican boys would comealong,
leading horses for a ride up the beach, or they would landwith catamarans
to take George and his friends out for a sail.
The women grew especially fond of Pedro, the gatekeeper; theyintroduced
the old man to smoking pot and provided him a pair ofbinoculars to look
through after he got stoned. Another old guy,Wally the Human Fly, age
seventy, lived a couple of villas down thebeach. During his working days
back in Chicago, Wally could
attract quite a crowd when he'd dress up in his cape and tights andscamper
up and down the sides of skyscrapers off Michigan Avenue.Now the women
would fly a white towel off the balcony to signalthat it was okay for Wally
to sneak out on his wife and come overand drink tequila, while Pedro
smoked dope and stared out at theocean through 8 x 50 magnification, the
pelicans winging by.Toward the end of the afternoon, George would leave
the villa toput in an appearance at the Oceana Bar, where Liz and Richard
andother movie people held forth. He befriended the screenwriterJames
Poe, whose film They Shoot Horses, Don V They? had just comeout. Poe
had recently been diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver, andhis doctor had
given him six months to live if he didn't stop drink-ing. To take his mind off
booze, George drove him out to themahogany forests north of town, where
they ate magic mushroomsGeorge had gotten from the Indians, observing
how the mahoganytrees would entwine their branches around one another
as if grap-pling in some arboreal orgy. When they came back to town,
Poetold George he'd like to do that over again—it was more fun thanScotch
and a lot better for his liver.
It was getting well into the summer of 1969, the summer MaryJo Kopechne
went off the bridge at Chappaquiddick, Charles Man-son's followers went
on a murder spree in Beverly Hills, and a hugerock concert was held in a
farmer's field twelve miles northwest ofWoodstock, New York. George was
in the midst of a pot trip, butSam the Bartender attended Woodstock in
bandito mustache, Mex-ican sombrero, and a shawl. He took a load of their
dope along, setup a pot stand in the mud and the rain, and sold out.
On one trip, George, Annette, and Orlando and his girlfriendtook a detour
off Route 90 and stopped in Greenwood, Indiana, justoutside Indianapolis,
to see George's sister and brother-in-law,Marie and Otis. The couple now
had a little baby, Steven, destinedfor law school. They lived in a two-story
white house in a new sub-division, Otis beginning his rise as a research
chemist at Eli Lilly &Co. During supper, Otis and Marie seemed glad
enough to seeGeorge, but Orlando struck them as a little weird, with his
orange-rimmed sunglasses, Jimi Hendrix Afro, and Fu Manchu
mustache."What are you doing with that freak?" Otis asked, taking
Georgeaside. After dinner George asked if they'd like to try some mari-
juana; everyone's doing it, he said. They happened to have some outin the
Winnebago. Marie had never smoked pot but said that some
7 8 Blow
of their friends had tried it. She took a few puffs when they passed itaround,
only to be polite, it seemed to George. Otis also gave it atry, but it made
him feel sick and he disappeared suddenly into thebathroom. That night the
gang stayed in the Winnebago and thenext day they went on their way.
When George got to Amherst, he left the camper there, and heand Annette
rented a car and drove down to Weymouth to see hisparents. It was his first
visit in about two years. His father asked himhow the pile-driving business
was, and George said it was comingalong pretty well. And the classes at
Long Beach City College? Well,actually, he was putting off the college
thing for a while, George said,to see if he could earn a little money. George
took everyone out forsteak and broiled lobster at the Red Coach Grill in
Hingham, wherehis parents liked to go for Sunday dinners. His father
seemed not alittle taken with Annette, dressed demurely now in a shirt dress
butstill causing a few heads to turn at the Red Coach Grill. He calledher
Darlin' and Honey and made over her during dinner. Annettebrought out
snapshots of the villa on the beach in Puerto Vallarta, ofGeorge and the
guys standing in their bathing suits under the palmtrees, of their Mexican
friend Ramon, his hair in a long braid. It wasa great place to spend a
vacation, she told the Jungs.
In the early 1970s the pot business changed dramatically, as mar-ijuana
started arriving in the United States from other countriesbesides Mexico.
The increase in supply created more competitionamong the dealers. Quality
and price began to count. People becamemuch more knowledgeable, and
the market changed from one wherethe seller controlled the action to where
the buyer was now king;there was a lot more scrambling around for
customers now.
One of the major causes of this change, according to MichaelArmstrong, a
drug historian who at the time headed an organizationcalled LEMAR, for
Legalize Marijuana, was President RichardNixon's Operation Intercept. Put
into effect during the summer andfall of 1969, the program was designed
both to reduce pot smugglingout of Mexico and to goad the Mexican
government into adopting amore aggressive stance against the trade, even to
get the Mexicanarmy involved. It was inaugurated with a total sealing-off of
the U.S.border at San Ysidro, just north of Tijuana. Customs
officialsstopped and searched every single vehicle going through. This produced miles of jammed traffic and a great amount of disruption on
the Mexican side. The U.S. Border Patrol also embedded military-style
sensors in the ground all along the southwestern border to tryto detect
crossings at places other than official checkpoints. Opera-tion Intercept
didn't seize pot so much as it began discouraging land-based smuggling
operations. People were now going by sea and tak-ing to the air, as George
had been doing all along. But for a while thecrackdown resulted in a dearth
of Mexican pot, which motivatedwholesalers to seek loads from elsewhere.
Thai stick came heavily onthe market from Thailand, as did Colombian
Gold and Santa MartaRed from Colombia, Panama Red from Panama, and
the dark, pow-erful, resinous Ganja from Jamaica.
Earl the Pearl, who had moved into big-time wholesaling, withdozens of
customers on one side and smugglers on the other, soonhad his business
perking along like a little supermarket. Methodical,well organized, and
meticulous, he had moved his operation out ofManhattan Beach to a
Victorian house overlooking Bodega Bay,north of San Francisco, where he
provided buyers with samples offifteen to twenty varieties, all labeled and
graded according to qual-ity and price. Customers came in, tried them out,
then placed anorder. The increase in competition meant that suppliers like
Georgeno longer called all the shots. They had to develop marketing
skills."Now sometimes, you'd come in with a load, but someone elsemight
come in with a better load, better-quality stuff," says George."Earl would
say he'd still do your load, but the other stuff was goingfirst, customers
wanted that pot more than your pot. So you had towait around. Or you
might decide not to wait and take it East. TheWest Coast was becoming like
a Kmart for drugs. There was somuch of it that it had to be pretty special
stuff to move fast. In theEast they weren't that particular." Even there,
George felt he had togive his customers something different to maintain his
marketshare. In the tourist shops in Puerto Vallarta he bought strings oftiny
blue beads and sprinkled them among his kilos, telling thewholesalers in
Amherst to get out the word that this stuff camestraight from the Indians,
had the beads in it from their secret ritu-als and shit. Soon he was
overhearing students at the bar in the LordJeff raving on about this special
Yaqui Indian pot, the stuff with thebeads. Dynamite grass.
By its very nature, drug smuggling is marked by movementrather than
stasis. Getting the loads from one place to another is
8 0 Blow
how smugglers earn their living. And moving around reduces thechance of
discovery by the police. No one moved farther and fasterthan George's
Yaqui Indian friend, Ramon, who almost overnightwas jerked out of a
landscape of burros and swinging bridges and setdown in a world peopled
by creatures with strange possessions andexotic habits. Although he had
never traveled more than three milesout of town, it now became routine, if
the Rolling Stones were play-ing in Albuquerque, for Ramon and the gang
to charter a plane, flyup there for the concert, have a limo waiting at the
airport. Or theguys would stop off in New York City on the way back
fromAmherst, take Ramon in to get a bite at the Four Seasons, where
thefucking maitre d' had an attitude problem about Hawaiian shirts.He
didn't understand that in California you could get serveddressed as a
Camperdown Elm if you had fifty thousand dollars inyour pocket; he still
brought out jackets for them to put on andmade them wear these stupid little
bow ties.
Or Ramon would board the Winnebago in Manhattan Beach,where it was
80 degrees in the California shade, and when the dooropened in Amherst, at
the Lord Jeff—well, he'd heard about snow,but he'd never seen it. "I never
knew it could be so fucking cold,man. And they have these snowmobiles. I
thought to myself, 'Whatthe fuck is this?' The guy there, one of George's
friends, said, 'Hey,get in one of these babies, Ramon.' So I had mine
cranked up as fastas that fucker would go, and you know how they clean the
roads andthey make the big piles of snow on the side? So I come up to one
ofthese and I think it's just a little hill of snow, so I was flooring it,man, and
suddenly, Bang! I'm in the middle of the fucking road, andthe snowmobile,
she's all wrecked. But the guy just said to getanother one, Ramon. Watch
where you're going."
By 1970 the group seemed to be close to cracking under thegeneral strain.
The first one to go was Sanchez, Ramon's boss, whowent berserk one
afternoon after Annette gave him some LSD.Inspired by visions, Sanchez
barricaded himself with Annette andthe other women inside his house on
the hill, informed them he'dreceived a message that "God is coming to
dinner," and began firingrandom shots out the window with a shotgun to
keep the localpolice at bay. Someone finally summoned Sanchez's father,
the gen-eral, who showed up and took his son off to a mental hospital,
whichmeant that Ramon now had charge of the business.
For Sam the Bartender and Greg, all the money pouring in
Puerto Vallarta (1968-1970) 81
allowed them to fulfill long-harbored fantasies on the Great WhiteHunter
line. Thousands of dollars' worth of expensive gear beganpiling up in the
beach house—Mannlicher Schoenauer huntingrifles from Austria, engraved
Purdy shotguns from England, ther-mal jackets and boots you could do a
moon walk in, the ultimate intents, outdoor cooking gear mail-ordered from
Abercrombie &Fitch, infra-red scopes for night sighting, longbows and
crossbowsfor quiet hunting. They also ordered brochures on expeditions
tothe Northwest, to Alaska, where guides would take them up moun-tains
and into the bush for brown bear, black bear, elk, mountaingoat, Dahl
sheep, moose, mule deer, antelope, and caribou. Theyasked Ramon if he
wanted to come along on a trip to northernMontana to see what was worth
shooting up there. Sure, he said.Montana, why not? Where was that? They
have any armadillos upthere? Ramon's grandmother knew just how to cook
armadillo soyou'd think you were eating roast pork.
"It was in the winter and we got warm clothes and our ownplane and we fly
up somewhere near Canada," Ramon recalls. "Thiskid is waiting for us, a
guide, and he also does the cooking. I have agun, very super-powerful rifle
with a scope. We start walking, thenon horses, then walking, then horses
again, and finally we makecamp, sitting up in the mountains and the snow,
fucking freezinglike a motherfucker, man, so whatever you cook it was
freezing bythe time you get it to your mouth. But the worst was going to
thebathroom. That was bad. You have to take your pants off in themiddle of
the night, it was cold, man, your balls were like pasas,man, you know,
prunes." The guys were going for moose, whichmeant two days more of
trudging through waist-deep snow, uphilland down, until they spotted one
on the side of a mountain and Sambrought it down with a couple of shots.
"But then they couldn'tcarry it back, it was bigger than a cow. So they just
took the hornsand left the rest. They just leave it there. I think, you know,
you killsomething, you eat it, something like that. But they were
measuringthe horns with their rifles so they can nail it to the wall and put
theirrifles on it. They wanted it for that."
Sam and Greg were now thinking of themselves as apart fromthe group,
which disheartened George considerably. He was theone who'd tried to
mold them into a tight band of outlaws. Afterseeing Butch Cassidy and the
Sundance Kid, he'd even christened theirdrug plane The Hole in the Wall
Gang, in honor of Cassidy's outfit.
8 2 HI
But despite his efforts, the organization was fraying at the margins."I kept
telling them, 'If we stay together, we'll be like a fist and havepower. Every
man contributes to the fist, and the fist is forever, likea brotherhood.' That's
the way I felt, even afterward, with Carlos.But I got tired. Everybody was
making money, and the moneychanged everything."
Then their paid-off police honcho, a deputy chief in Puerto Val-larta, got
weird and demanded the guns off the wall. It happenedwhen George and the
other guys were off in Guadalajara on busi-ness, and the women were alone
in the beach house. The deputy, ashort Mexican with close-cropped black
hair and a bushy mustache,had been receiving a handsome retainer from
Sanchez and thenfrom Ramon to make sure the flights went off without
interference.Nevertheless, he showed up one day and made a great to-do
withAnnette and the two Wendys, threatening to arrest them all if theydidn't
give him the hunting rifles. Frightened, the girls handed overthe guns.
George returned from Guadalajara ahead of the othersand invited the deputy
to the villa for a talk. To encourage an opendiscussion, George broke out
the Johnny Walker Black Label he'dhad flown down from Manhattan
Beach, and the two of them pro-ceeded to put away about a bottle apiece.
Based on body volumealone, the deputy stood little chance against George
in this realm.He got himself so cross-eyed drunk that it came as a complete
sur-prise when George suddenly picked him off the chair on the bal-cony,
slammed him against the wall, and pinned him there by hisneck for the time
it took to inform the deputy that he was aninsignificant piece of shit, that he
was going to bring back thosefucking rifles forthwith, and that if he wanted
to keep doing busi-ness and making his money, he was to keep the fuck
away from thehouse and stay the fuck away from the girls. He then carried
thedeputy over to the doorway and threw him down the flight ofwooden
stairs out into the cement courtyard.
But that wasn't how George came to be arrested.
FOUR
1970-1973
If you 're going to make a start, keep on going—if you know what you 're
doing.But if I were you, Yd think it over.
—LOOSELY TRANSLATED FROM A SIGN POSTED ALONGA TRAIL
IN THE SlERRA MADRE
The police deputy, for reasons he kept to himself, chose notto pursue the
matter, and shortly afterward one of his men appearedat the door with Sam
and Greg's guns, and the household heard nomore of it. Nevertheless,
George and Ramon questioned the wis-dom of continuing to use the landing
strip at Punta de Mita. Per-haps it was time to shift the landings to a
different airfield, one faraway, in another state and jurisdiction. Given their
run-in, it mightbe even better to seek out another connection altogether, and
even-tually move the whole operation out of Puerto Vallarta. It was atthis
juncture that Ramon introduced George to a colleague of hisnamed Cosme,
who supplied marijuana out of Mazatlan. Located270 miles up the coast
from Puerto Vallarta and two states away inSinaloa, Mazatlan featured the
same palm-lined beaches and stripsof hotels, but it was three times the size,
a real port city. Most of its290,000 people were packed into a dense urban
section south of thetourist hotels, a maze of red-dirt streets crowded with
squalid one-and two-story brick and cinder-block houses where gringos
rarely
8 4 Blow
ventured. Spanish galleons had put in at Mazatlan four centuriesago and
sailed away laden with gold bullion taken from the minesback in the hills.
Taller than Ramon, with a neatly trimmed mustache, Cosmehad connections
with farmers who grew pot in the Sierra Madreeast of the city. But he was
much more the city boy. Always sharplydressed in a white guayabera shirt
and crisply pressed black slacks,he had light skin and a few more Spaniards
than Indians in hisancestry. Cosme was crazy about hot American cars,
particularly theShelby-designed, four-on-the-floor, fast-backed Mark I
Mustangs,powered by a 429-cubic-inch Cobra engine and dual quad
carbure-tors. The Shelbys hit 60 miles an hour in 6.5 seconds and, laid
downon the red line, could top out at about 140.
George saw here a chance to help Cosme out. He consulted anacquaintance
of his back in Manhattan Beach named Alberto, wholived with his brother
in an apartment directly overlooking thebeach. The brothers had achieved
fame for their weekend parties,where the women danced topless and guests
ladled drinks out of acrystal punch bowl brimming with 200-proof grain
alcohol lacedwith LSD. For George's purposes, the useful thing about
Albertowas that he worked as a sales manager of a car lot owned by
RalphWilliams, then one of the largest dealers in the state, whose
bleatingTV ads were regularly skewered by Johnny Carson. The lot
coveredeight acres, and the sales force ferried customers around in golfcarts
to look at all the cars, among which were a good number ofMark I
Mustangs by Shelby. Furthermore, according to Alberto, theaccountants for
Williams did an inventory of the place only twice ayear, which meant that
during any particular six-month period noone had the slightest idea whether
a certain Shelby was sitting onthe lot waiting for someone to come around
in a golf cart and buy itor was proceeding rapidly along the Avenida del
Mar down inMazatlan, its driver lowering his sunglasses and giving a wave
to thegirls as he thundered on by. Even when the accountants camearound,
Alberto said, the dealership did such a high-volume busi-ness that it was
possible to fiddle the records in such a way as tocover the fact, at least for a
while, that several cars had just uppedand vanished.
Alberto was driven to larceny by his addiction to the dice tablesand the
need to keep himself flush for regular trips to Las Vegas.Thus he agreed
once a month to sell one of the Shelbys for onefifth the sticker price of six thousand dollars, and in the bargain hewould
hand-deliver it to George's place in Manhattan Beach, com-plete with
California registration and ownership papers. In turn,George had Pogo, his
wheel man, drive the vehicle down toMazatlan, where it would be traded to
Cosme for three hundredkilos of marijuana. In this fashion George managed
to turn a twelve-hundred-dollar investment into ninety thousand dollars.
Over timehe became such a good customer that Alberto began urging
biggerdeals on him, using more and more cars. One morning Georgestepped
out his front door to discover that his view of the housesacross the street
was being blocked by an eighty-foot-long, double-decker car carrier loaded
up with eight brand new Shelbys driven byAlberto himself. "Get that
fucking thing out of here, are you crazy?"George yelled at him. "We're
doing this one at a time. That's it!One at a time."
In any event, that was how George's operation changed, in thefall of 1970.
They now trucked the pot from Cosme's farmers nearMazatlan 200 miles up
into the Sierra Madre, to a tiny paved land-ing strip just outside the mining
city of Durango, 6,197 feet abovesea level. This was high-desert country,
filled with mesquite andcactus, land formations carved into mesas and
buttes by centuries ofweather action and erosion, arroyos running down into
flowingriverbeds. For the way in which the terrain resembled parts of
theAmerican West, Durango had gained popularity among
Hollywoodmovie companies, John Wayne's among them, as a location
forshooting westerns on the cheap and avoiding certain U.S. corporatetax
laws. As a result, a portion of George's marijuana-for-a-Mustangloads, the
part he couldn't get into the airplane, often got truckedback across the
border secreted inside movie trailers filled otherwiseby camera equipment.
The drive from Mazatlan to the landing strip just outside ofDurango
involved negotiating one of the more singular engineer-ing phenomena in
the Western Hemisphere, the Mexican moun-tain road. Barren of guardrails,
shoulders, streetlights, and anyother safety features of modern highway
construction, the road toDurango writhes through the mountains like a
serpent in heat.Around its hairpin turns one can expect to confront anything
fromshort-haul Mexican buses, whose drivers whip them into thecurves in a
manner defying the known laws of physics, to anassortment of free-ranging
farm animals, including pigs, donkeys,
86 Bio
cows, chickens, dogs, goats, and occasionally a dour-looking bull.Flowerstrewn crosses dot the roadside to mark the spot wheresome unfortunate
soul, perhaps a little slow to notice his side ofthe road had washed out in a
deluge, had plunged to his death.The scenery almost anywhere in the
mountains can be pretty dis-tracting—lofty peaks all around, waterfalls
cascading down thesides of cliffs, thousand-foot ravines—but the prudent
driverallows it only stolen glances, eyes fixed for signs of danger
ahead.One of the more familiar is PAVTMENTE RESBALOSO,
announcing astretch of very serious potholes, wide and deep enough to be
easilymistaken for an excavation project. There are also little picturesigns
advising drivers that, depending on when God wants it tohappen, at any
minute they can be struck on the roof by a largeboulder and other debris.
Drivers resolve to take the warningsvery seriously every now and then
when they run into an unrulypile of splintered wood and rubble that shortly
before had been arock formation and a tree anchored somewhere on higher
ground.Once having reached Durango, George and his men buried thepot
near the landing strip in a deep hole roofed over by plywoodplanking and
camouflaged with a covering of sod. There it awaitedthe arrival of the The
Hole-in-the-Wall Gang airplane, which thesedays was being piloted in
tenuous fashion by the knight of thewhite-knuckle landing, Here-We-Go
Bob.
The big trouble came in the fall of 1970. It was the time whenrock-and-roll
fans had to adjust to the fact that the Beatles werebreaking up; Jimi Hendrix
and Janis Joplin were both dead of drugoverdoses. The FBI finally nabbed
Angela Davis in a motel room inManhattan, and someone, a farmer most
likely, spotted George'sman Orlando burying a three-hundred-kilo stash of
pot at the northend of the landing strip and phoned this piece of information
in tothe Durango office of the Federal Judicial Police. The call eventu-ally
was patched through to a boyish, clean-shaven officer of theFederales
named Alfonso, who wore heavy, horn-rimmed glassesand combed his hair
back in a D.A., in the manner of Buddy Holly.After listening to the farmer,
and since no one in George's organiza-tion had thought to bribe the police
up there, Alfonso had littlechoice but to perform his duty. Consequently,
when George flew tothe Durango airport on a commercial flight, rented a
car and droveout to the airstrip to dig up the load and get it ready for when
Bobcame in, he found his car being converged upon by police cruisers
staking out the field and himself suddenly very much under arrest.
At the time of George's apprehension, the federal police were,and to only a
slightly lesser extent are still, an extremely powerfulpolitical entity, just
about a law unto themselves. Regarding personswho came into their
custody, they conducted themselves prettymuch as they wanted to, despite
the provision in Article 19 of theMexican federal constitution, which was
written to protect citizensagainst wantonly cruel treatment at the hands of
the police. Thearticle says, in part: "All mistreatment in apprehension or in
prisons,every molestation inflicted without legal motive . . . are
abuseswhich . . . shall be corrected by the laws and repressed by
theauthorities." As Alfonso saw it, he had no end of "legal motive"
herewhere this smart-ass gringo with the big shoulders was
concerned.When he was brought to the police station, George had not
onlyrefused to sign the proffered confession but did so in an
insolentmanner, telling the Federale that he could go fuck himself and suggesting the same for his piss-ant deputies as well. This was an ill-advised
response to the situation, as George shortly found out. Thenext thing he
knew, he was taken to a little room, his clothes werestripped off, and he was
placed in a chair and doused with a bucketof water. One of the policemen
approached him holding in his handa black truncheonlike implement,
eighteen inches long, that turnedout to be an extra-high-voltage cattle prod,
capable of making atwo-thousand-pound bovine creature do an involuntary
tour jete.The deputy poked the thing in the direction of George's
testicles,and when contact was made, an electric shock surged through
hislower region that made George double over in agony and exhale alarge
amount of air.
After the cattle prod incident, George, still naked, was taken toanother room
and shoved inside a little wooden box, called ajoula,which resembled a
doghouse and was constructed so as to force aman inside it to sit in a
severely bent-over position, his head pressedto his knees and his legs
crossed Indian-style. The lid of the box waslocked down tight, so the only
light came in from two air holesabout an inch in diameter. That's how
George spent his firsttwenty-four hours in custody. Late the following day,
stiff and fairlybursting with the desire to modify his behavior toward the
police,he was brought once again into the presence of Alfonso. The Federale said there were two ways to go here. One was for George toexercise
his right under the Mexican constitution, get a lawyer and
88 Blow
challenge the arrest in the courts. Given the backlog in the system,it might
take two or three years for the case to be heard, and since itwas unlikely
that bail would be granted to a foreigner, Georgewould have to spend the
intervening time in jail. The alternativewas: How much money did he think
he could raise to buy himselfout of this mess?
"I did not have a difficult time choosing," George says. "We set-tled on a
figure of fifty thousand American dollars, twenty-five forhim and twentyfive for the federal circuit judge to sign the papers."George told the
Federale it would take a little time, since he had tocall Los Angeles to have
Annette get the money—twenty thousanddollars as a down payment to
show his good faith. She would haveto make contact with a man named
Esposito, a bail bondsman inL.A. whom George knew from the drug
business and who wouldbring the money down to Durango. Esposito had a
cousin who washigh up in the Federales in Mexico City who could vouch
for him toAlfonso. After Annette reached him, Esposito called down and
heand Alfonso had a conversation. "When he hung up, he turned tome and
smiled and said, 'Okay, Jorge. It's gonna be okay. You comeand stay at my
house, with me, until the money comes. I will makeyou comfortable. You
will be my guest.' He also said he was sorryfor all this, and the next time I
wanted to use the airstrip I shouldnotify him in advance. We could work
something out."
Awaiting Esposito, George would go out on the town at nightwith Alfonso's
deputies, hitting the zona, or red-light district, wherethe women did their
business behind partitions of blankets strungup on clotheslines, and for free
if you were a friend of the constabu-lary. In a few days Esposito showed up
with the twenty thousand incash, promising to return a week later with the
balance, and Georgewas coming to regard this business of being in Mexican
police cus-tody as not so terrible, when all was said and done.
But before the final payment was made and the release signed, afederal
prosecutor from Mexico City unexpectedly showed up onthe scene with his
own idea as to how the case was going to be han-dled. It seemed that the
federal authorities, who had been exceed-ingly irritated by Operation
Intercept and the fuss the United Stateswas creating over drug smuggling,
wanted to use this big marijuanabust in Durango as a way to show that
gringo president Nixon withthe nose that looked like a mashed tamak that
the Mexican govern-ment was doing more than it got credit for when it
came to stamping out the international marijuana peril. Instructed to milk the casefor all
the publicity he could get, the prosecutor loaded the threehundred kilos
George had been arrested with into a truck, notifiedthe local newspapers
and the TV people, and drove the pot andGeorge and the arresting police
officers out to the airfield. Therehe piled up the duffel bags in front of the
big hole they'd beenburied in, set George up in front of the bags, positioned
the police-men off to the side pointing at him with their carbines, and told
thepress to fire away. A news photo of the scene ran the next day on
thefront page of the local paper under a blaring headline that read,
NORTE AMERICANO NARCO TRAFICANTE CAPTURADO EN LA
PISTA,pista meaning "airstrip." This interruption of their impending
dealwith George hugely pissed off Alfonso and the judge, as well as
thedeputies, who were to share in the pay-off and muttered to Georgeas
they drove him back from the press conference that they shouldshoot the
son-of-a-bitch prosecutor and bury him in the hole thathad been dug for the
pot.
To everyone's relief, the prosecutor flew back to Mexico Citythe next day.
Nevertheless, he'd kicked up such a fuss with the newsstory that the
Federale determined reluctantly that for form's sakeGeorge would have to
spend time in the state penitenciaria until thething blew over. About three
months should be sufficient, hethought. Then they could get on with the
arrangement.
In its report on the Mexican penal system issued in 1991, Amer-icas Watch,
the organization that monitors human-rights violationsin the Western
Hemisphere, criticized the prisons for being dirtyand overcrowded, for not
providing inmates proper medical care ora well-balanced diet, and for
tolerating a high level of corruptionamong the officials and guards.
"Corruption is an endemic featureof life in Mexican prisons," the report
said. "Prisoners in almost allthe prisons we visited reported that drugs,
alcohol, and heterosexualand homosexual prostitutes are available for a
price. We heard manyaccounts of prisoners paying other prisoners for
protection, andbribing guards for jobs, visiting privileges, food and other
necessi-ties. Corruption seems to be accepted by both officials and
inmatesas an inevitable part of the prison system."
This was all so much for the better, as far as George was con-cerned. In
Mexico, as he found out, the prisons themselves aren'tthe problem, it's
being there without money or friends or influence,
90 Bl
so you can't glom on to the wide array of goods and services that canmake
your stay less arduous, not to say agreeable. Withoutresources, as noted by
Americas Watch, you could be in for a bit oftrouble, especially if you were
an American.
Newly completed that year, the prison sits about a mile out oftown,
encompasses fourteen hectares, or thirty-four and a half acres,surrounded
by a twenty-foot-high granite wall, and holds abouttwelve hundred men,
along with a couple of dozen women housed ina separate unit. The men live
in groups of cells in one of severalunattached buildings, or "houses,"
located inside the wall. The firstinmates George met in his house were two
American schoolteachersfrom Arizona, Terry and Jerome, who had a
harrowing story to tell.Two years before, they said, they and their wives had
been touringthe Sierra Madre in a brand new camper van when they
werestopped by the police. They were beaten up, their wives were
raped,marijuana was planted among their belongings, their van was
stolenby the authorities, and they themselves were thrown in jail.
Theirfamilies back home had only a small amount of money to send
downfor legal help, and in the two years their Mexican lawyers
hadachieved no discernible progress in moving the case toward resolu-tion.
Terry and Jerome now despaired of ever getting out.
George had every good reason to believe this was not the fatethat awaited
him. He'd already cut his deal with Alfonso, whowanted not only to get the
rest of the money but also to explore fur-ther business arrangements that
might be worked out regarding thelanding strip. George had been delivered
to the prison gates by hisnot-terribly-sober claque of Alfonso's deputies,
who said they'd missGeorge's company and would try to make his prison
stay endurable.It happened that they were members of the police baseball
team,which came out to the prison each weekend to play the inmates.
Sothey'd see him that very Saturday, bring plenty of tequila with them,and
some pot, and some girls, too, how would that be eh, SenorJorge?
But even for inmates lacking his connections, life in theDurango prison was
not as onerous or as rigidly monitored as it wasin similar institutions in the
United States. For one thing, inmateswere allowed out of their cells from
six in the morning until seven atnight, when they were free to roam about
the large prison grounds,read books, work for small pay in the prison shops
if they wanted to.You couldn't get out, of course, but despite its wall, the
Durango
prison did not give inmates the feeling they were in a cage. For onlya small
bit of money they could supplement the prison fare withchicken and green
peppers and onions, which they could cook up onhibachis scattered about
the yard and sit and eat with their friends.There was a bodega on the
grounds. Every weekend the inmates'wives and children were allowed in,
and they would bring the mak-ings of family picnics, which they ate at
tables under umbrellas tokeep off the sun. On Saturdays there were ball
games—soccer, base-ball, basketball—and also guitar playing for dancing.
Every threeweeks an inmate could spend all night with his wife in a
privatemotellike unit on the prison grounds. Women inmates with new-
borns could keep their children with them until they are three yearsold. "I'll
take a Mexican prison over an American one any day," saysEllen Lutz,
chief of the Mexican desk of Americas Watch in LosAngeles and the
principal author of its prison study. "They'reloaded with corruption and
violence, but there is a much higherlevel of human dignity allowed the
inmates than in the UnitedStates. In Mexico, you're confined, yes, but
you're not treated likean animal."
What George remembers most about the prison was Sundayafternoons,
approaching five P.M., when the families would have toleave. As he wrote
to Annette: "Sunday afternoons, good-byes aresaid between tears and
kisses, children holding on to their fathers'pant legs. There are sisters and
brothers-in-law, nieces and auntsand uncles. It's sad to see them go, but
they'll be back. I think aboutthis. Mexico, a primitive country, has a more
humane penal systemthan the United States. Why? Monday the place
returns to normal,back to tedium, but you remember the good time you had,
and nowwe can wait for the next one."
George also got busy doing what he was good at, which wasmaking friends
with people who might do him some good. "When Ifirst got there, I asked
these guys Terry and Jerome who runs thingsaround here, and they said,
wait until tomorrow and you'll meethim. This guy ran the baseball team,
and he had all the dope, he hadliquor. In your cell you could build anything
you wanted, and hehad this little stove made out of a ten-gallon oil can; he'd
cut out thebottom and you put charcoal in there. He had guys who
weregofers, who would get him food and cook it. So I met him, heinvited
me over and asked me what I did. I said I was a marijuanasmuggler, and I
could get transportation into the United States.
That was it. Within twenty-four hours, I was the second jefe of theprison,
the assistant gringo boss."
The man who had appointed George his number two wasManuel Perez, a
native of Mazatlan. He had also been sent there formarijuana smuggling,
along with his wife, Martha, who lived over inthe women's unit. Manuel
was getting out in six months, and afterGeorge described his operation, the
two resolved to go into busi-ness together. "The bust had been all over the
papers, the plane andlanding strip and all, and Manuel said he had a bunch
of peopleworking for him, just like Sanchez and Ramon, and he could
getwhatever I wanted. Suddenly here I was all set up again. I oftenthink
about why people down there trusted me, how I got them todo things they'd
never do for other Americans. Why? I think I hadsome kind of presence, the
way I presented it all, and because I hadno fear, and I treated people well. I
loved most of them in Mexico,and I didn't hold it back. I grew to love
Manuel. A lot of Americanscame down there and treated them like they
were shit, second-classpeople, people like Ramon, he was always getting
screwed. But Ireally loved them. I think they saw that. Above everything
else."
In mid-November, after George had been there about threemonths, Alfonso,
faithful to his word, pulled up in a car at theprison gate with the bail
bondsman, Esposito, and Esposito's cousin,the Federale from Mexico City,
and told the warden to bring himout. They took him into Durango, to a
small office up a set of rick-ety back stairs where a circuit judge, an older
man with a suit and agray mustache, was sitting at his desk. "Esposito
handed him thebriefcase," says George. "He opened it, counted the money,
thentook a piece of paper out of his briefcase and a little seal and hestamped
it. 'Jorge, siielto,' he said. 'George is free.' Then he took outsome more
pieces of paper for the warden and stamped them. Wetook them back to the
prison and Alfonso gave them to the warden,and that was it. I was gone.
Alfonso seemed sorry to see me go. Hewanted to talk about forming some
kind of relationship. I told himthat seemed like a good idea and I'd call, but
that was just because Ididn't want to offend him. I already knew where I
was going."
Whereas Ramon was little more than a boy, Manuel was a manin his forties,
and he was connected to the Mexican Mafia inMazatlan. This meant for
George that very serious consequenceswould now attend his failure to
produce whatever he promised. The
deal he worked out with Manuel was that the two would be straightpartners.
Manuel would furnish the pot, and George would trans-port it across the
border, sell it in the United States, and return toMazatlan to split the
proceeds fifty-fifty, minus expenses. Manuel'sfarmers were guarded by
heavily armed members of the Mafia,referred to simply by its initial, Erne,
or "Ehmay," a vast criminalenterprise engaged in the same range of
activities—drugs, gam-bling, extortion—as its Italian counterpart in the
States. The Mafiaruled through fear and intimidation, and in the mountains,
if youwere caught where you shouldn't be, there would be trouble.
Asconnected as he was, Manuel, for instance, never ventured north ofthe
Rio Tomazula, which runs down from up in back of Culiacan,from the
region of the Espinazo del Diablo, or Devil's Backbone.The marijuana
grown in that territory was intended for someoneelse. There used to be a
sign along one of the trails off the Durangoroad, near a place called Buenos
Aires, that, loosely translated, said,"If you're going to make a start, keep on
going—if you know whatyou're doing. But if I were you, I'd think it over."
Right beyond thesign was where the charred bodies of Cosrne and the
Mazatlanpolice chief were found, a couple of years after George had
leftMexico. For some transgression against the Erne, they'd beenburned
alive and left hanging from a tree.
Even by Mafia standards Manuel was a tough customer, someoneGeorge
saw good reason to emulate. About George's height, tall fora Mexican, he
was a classy dresser with a small, neatly clipped mus-tache. He could just
about out-carouse George, a large piece of workfor any healthy man,
especially when it came to downing the CocosLocos that Gordo, the
bartender at the Shrimp Bucket, would whipup—two ounces each of
tequila, vodka, gin, Grenadine, and 150-proof Mexican rum, poured into the
hacked-off shell of a freshcoconut and filled with ice and coconut water.
Manuel was also anexceptional baseball fanatic, and after a night in the bars
and thewhorehouses of Mazatlan he'd be up the next morning to field
thesemi professional baseball team he both owned and pitched for as
asouthpaw sidearmer—the same delivery as George, the WeymouthLittle
Leaguer. After the game he'd take off in his truck to arrangehis business in
the mountains. He had read Hermann Hesse andspoke French and English.
His hand-tooled boots came fromDurango; he wore a broad-brimmed white
Stetson. Except when hepitched ball, he kept an automatic pistol tucked into
his belt under94 Blow
neath his shirt, a small .32 caliber Beretta for in-town occasions, butwhen
he went into the hills, where he didn't mind if people saw thebulge, he
brought his bull-stopping 9-millimeter Llama. LikeManuel, George started
sticking a big pistol in his own belt, a nickel-plated .357 Smith & Wesson.
He smoked long cigars like Manueland bought a big white hat. On one
occasion he posed for a snapshotwith bandoleras filled with cartridges crisscrossed over his chest—that was the big bad bandito that FBI agent Trout
saw in the snapshotin George's bedroom while George was on the run.
Nobody fooledwith Manuel, and he lived long enough to die of cancer in
1982 in ahospital bed in San Diego, California.
Because of the need to pay Manuel his half of every deal, Georgenow
arrived in Mazatlan from Amherst with a considerable amountof cash on
him, sometimes fifty to seventy-five thousand dollars.Carrying all that
money made him more than a little nervous—hehid it in the battery
compartments of large road-service flashlights—and it didn't ease his mind
when Manuel invariably reserved a roomfor him at Rosa's, which was a
combination whorehouse and hotelfour blocks back from the beach. Manuel
had a financial interest inthe place, and it was a favorite haunt of many of
the banditos whenthey came down from the mountains. George would often
have towait there a day or two for Manuel to show up, during which it
didn'tfail to strike him that he was literally sleeping in a den of thieves
andcutthroats. The bandits would show up in the morning and hangaround
in the courtyard, George looking out at them from behind acurtain in his
room. "There would be ten pick-ups out there, with allthese guys with big
mustaches, drinking beer and tequila, with pis-tols in their belts. These guys
were very serious people. Killers.Some of them, just to look at them scared
the shit out of me. Theymade me think of the old story about the swan and
the scorpion.Where the scorpion asks the swan to take him across the river
andthe swan says, are you crazy, you'll sting me in the neck, and I'll bedead.
I wouldn't do that, the scorpion replies, because then we'ddrown and both
be dead. So the swan finally agrees, and they startacross. But in the middle
of the river the scorpion stings him anyway.Why'd you do that? Now we're
going to die, the swan says. And thescorpion answers: Because it's my
nature."
Although flying in and out of the mountain landing strips meantthere was
less chance of getting caught, the runways themselves
were shorter, three thousand feet rather than five thousand, and thejungle
growth at the edges made landing and taking off a little morehair}7, which
was not appreciated by Here-We-Go Bob, who raised aconstant lament over
George's new style of operation. Some of thefields were so closed in by
trees that the planes had to be "slingshot" into the air, a maneuver that
required a half dozen guys tohold on to the tail while the pilot revved the
engine. Then theyreleased their hold of the plane abruptly so it would
catapult for-ward with enough speed to achieve liftoff before exhausting
therunway. Another problem was the general lumpiness of the landingsites,
which were nothing but cornfields, after all. This created adangerous
condition for some of the planes George had been usingthat had tri-cycle
landing gear, with one wheel under the nose andthe other two attached to
the wings. This sort of plane came inhard, nose down, and if it struck a rut
or any kind of a hole, theimpact could shear off the front landing gear.
Much more suitablefor the mountains were any of the "tail-dragger"
models, whichtouched down on the rear wheel first, then settled gently onto
thepair of wheels under the wings, like a duck landing on a pond.
Since Manuel had access to more growers than Ramon did, thenew level of
business demanded more frequent flights, and so Georgeneeded additional
planes and pilots. Rather than cutting other peoplein on the operation, he
began contracting with Cliff Guttersrud backin Manhattan Beach, the
handsome blond pilot with the FLYBOYlicense plates, who supplied him
fliers for a fee. Cliff had his ownLockheed Lodestar, the same twin-tailed
model used to fly IngridBergman away in the farewell scene in Casablanca,
but Guttersruddidn't much fancy taking it into the mountains and setting
down onone of George's cornfield-cum-runways. Indeed, he didn't like to
gethis hands too dirty in any regard, preferring to supervise the
pilotoperation from a distance. He'd fly down to the Mazatlan
airport,dressed in his usual blazer and polo shirt, sometimes bringing
alonghis girlfriend, even his mother and father on one trip, asking Georgeto
show them the sights of the city. Cliff leased the planes for the drugflights
through a dummy corporation in Manhattan Beach, thenchanged the
markings so their origin would be hard to trace. But asGeorge needed more
and more planes—and he now wanted strictlytwin-engine jobs with a
greater range, ones that could reach the drylakes without all the rigmarole
of stopping on the way for refueling—he was suddenly struck with an idea.
96 Bl
"You know what's the easiest thing to steal in the world?" heasked over
lunch not long ago at a harborside restaurant in Ply-mouth, Massachusetts,
looking around to see who was listening, hisvoice dropping to a whisper.
"An airplane," he said. "I can take youaround the country and show you
hundreds of little airports, andyou'd sit in the car all day and no one would
show up. Millions ofdollars' worth of aircraft just sitting there, and nobody
around, noteven a watchman. Sometimes these owners don't fly them
forweeks, so they don't even know they're gone. So, suddenly it cameto me:
Why go through all this insanity of trying to buy and leaseplanes under
phony names or corporations that they could traceeventually anyway, when
we could just take one—get a nice hun-dred-thousand-dollar Beechcraft or
Cessna, twin-engine, with tiptanks and a fourteen- or fifteen-hundred-mile
radius? For free! Wewere breaking the law anyway. So why leave a trail?"
To try out his scheme, on the occasion of his next trip East inthe summer of
1971 George brought along Here-We-Go Bob,rented a car in Amherst, and
the two took a little driving trip out toCape Cod. For two weeks on and off
they monitored the traffic atthe tiny airport in Chatham, a well-to-do town
located at the elbowof the Cape, notable for its nineteenth-century shingled
cottagestrimmed in hazy blue. A few planes used the airport on the weekends, but on weekdays the place was usually deserted, and always soat
night. Landing or taking off after dark, you turned on the runwaylights
yourself by calling in on the proper radio frequency; no air-port personnel
was needed. On the final evening of their vigil,George took along a bolt
puller normally used to remove corrodedfittings from engine blocks and
yanked out the ignition system of asleek twin-engine Cessna with blue
striping. He screwed in a newignition unit, one that had its own key, and
reconnected the wires.Bob fired up the plane, set it loose down the runway,
and they wereoff. It took a day and a half of leisurely flying to cross the
country,stopping at a couple of local airports to gas up. Reaching the
WestCoast, they landed at a little field, Hawthorne Airport, near Man-hattan
Beach, where they stored the plane a few days before Bobmade the run
south. In what became a routine, after using theplanes a few times, George
would park them at the Santa MonicaAirport, tie them down to the tarmac,
and go off to get another one.In this fashion he secured the loan of about
fifteen aircraft from air-ports at Plymouth and at Sandwich and Barnstable
on the Cape,
from one outside Santa Fe, New Mexico, and another near Mam-moth
Lakes in California.
The only drawback to this plan was that there was no way ofknowing if the
borrowed planes had any mechanical problems orhow well they'd been
serviced. "As long as the engine started up, wefigured it was okay," says
George. And it was, at least most of thetime. George did experience a slight
brake problem once with atwin-engine Cessna he'd procured from Santa Fe,
which was beingflown by one of Cliff's rent-a-pilots named Donny. Coming
in tothe dry lakes, both George, who was sitting in the copilot's seat,
andDonny had to stand up heavily on the pedals to bring the plane to ahalt
before it got to the end of the salt flat. Donny argued for leav-ing it there
and driving back with Pogo in the camper, but Georgehad other uses for the
plane and told him to fly them on to SantaMonica. It was a bad mistake.
When they hit the runway at SantaMonica, Donny reversed the props to
slow it down and appliedpressure to the brake pedal, gradually at first, then
with increasingdesperation as he saw his effort producing no discernible
effect."'Georgie, they're gone,' he says, we're whizzing down the runwayat
about a hundred and ten miles an hour and there's nowhere togo—planes
are all lined up to the left of us, incoming traffic on theright. Straight ahead
I could see a big ditch they'd dug for a stormdrain." Before they figured out
what to do, the plane had run out ofrunway and plunged into the ditch,
ramming its nose into the dirtand gravel, its tail jerking up into the air.
The first sound after the crunch was the keening of a siren, thenmen in
silver suits were darting about spewing the area with foam.The police were
reported to be on the way. Oh, great, George wasthinking. "The pilot took
off immediately, just ran away. I'm col-lecting the maps of Mexico and the
lake beds, the guns, the pistols,into a bag and I'm trying to get the hell out
of there also. One of thesilver suits is asking, 'Who the hell are you?
Where's the pilot?' 'Idon't know, I hitched a ride from Santa Fe. Maybe the
pilot's inshock, wandering around somewhere. Why don't you look for him?
I don't feel too well myself, I gotta go and throw up.'" George hob-bled over
to the executive part of the airport, his football knee both-ering him now.
He saw a young woman coming out of the office andgetting into a car. '"I
got an emergency, sweetheart. Do you thinkyou could take me to Manhattan
Beach?' She said she was only driv-ing as far as halfway. 'That's just where
I'm going,' I said. 'Let's go.'"
98 Bl.
Stealing airplanes wasn't the only innovation George brought tothe
smuggling business. He also pioneered the art of the road land-ing. This
practice not only proved useful during the rainy season,June through
October, when the fields turned into mudholes, but italso kept the flights
clear of regular airports. He didn't have toworry about the police, who were
thoroughly paid off. But pressurefrom the Nixon administration to stem the
drug tide continued tomount in the early 1970s, so much that the Mexican
governmenthad gotten the army involved. Military authorities put out the
wordthat money could be earned in exchange for information about any-one
who was landing planes at night or buying gasoline for unclearpurposes. In
this connection, Mexican soldiers came uncomfortablyclose to nabbing
George and Manuel on one occasion, when some-one at the Mazatlan
airport apparently leaked word that a largeamount of airplane fuel and
hand-operated pumps were being trans-ported up into the mountains. They
thanked their escape on the factthat Manuel always had scouts stationed
along the lower trails tomonitor the presence of hostile parties in the area.
Thus, when thearmy actually sent up a troop of men to investigate the
reports,word was rapidly passed on up to the airstrip, just in time for
theplane to get in and out and for the farmers and banditos to fade intothe
jungle. With the soldiers firing away aimlessly into the trees,Manuel led
George down a hidden series of trails back towardMazatlan, spending a
night on the way in the thatched hut of afriendly campesino.
The highway landings obviated the problem of spies, sinceGeorge moved
them around to various roads in the northwesternpart of the country. Greg
was brought in to fly these jobs,because landing an airplane on a strip of
road pocked with pot-holes and barely wide enough for two cars to pass did
not holdmuch appeal for Here-We-Go Bob. The last and the most memorable of the landings occurred right on Route 15, the main high-way from
Mazatlan to Culiacan in late August of 1972, aboutwhen President Nixon
was making a campaign speech in Ken-tucky promising "peace with honor
and not peace with surren-der" in Vietnam. Greg had flown down to the
Mazatlan airport,and George drove him out to inspect the highway. To keep
carsaway during landings, George customarily blocked off the roadwith
vehicles at both ends of a few-thousand-foot length, while acouple of
Manuel's banditos stood around holding guns and starMazatl^n (1970-1973) 99
ing in an unfriendly manner at anyone who approached. Aboutten miles
north of town they found a smooth-enough stretch, butGreg didn't like all
those high-tension power lines strung along-side the northbound lane.
Given the slightest miscalculation onhis part, his wing tip could nick into a
pole or hit a wire. Notingthat the poles were wood, George told him not to
worry aboutthe power lines. They wouldn't be there when Greg came in
forthe landing.
It was a little misty that day, with a light rain falling, whenGeorge and the
bandits pulled up at the landing site with a Win-nebago full of pot. The men
blocked the southern access of theroad, and George stood by the van at the
north. Suddenly, down thehighway came a station wagon. It bore Arizona
plates, a middle-aged man and woman in front and a couple of boys, twelve
or thir-teen years old, in the back, and suitcases strapped on top—an American family on vacation. George, his cowboy hat lowered over oneeye and a
cigar in his mouth, stood in the road and put up his handfor them to stop.
They did as he bade, probably because he was car-rying an M-16
semiautomatic rifle, as well as having a revolvertucked in his belt. "Excuse
me, sir," he said, leaning over to see intothe car. "We're just doing a little
drug operation, and you'll have towait here a minute. Just be patient and you
can go on your way veryshortly, after the plane leaves."
Just then, Greg called in on the radio to say he'd be touchingdown in a few
minutes and remember the power lines, George.With the vacationers staring
in wonder, George ran over to thecamper and withdrew a McCulloch
chainsaw he'd gotten in aMazatlan hardware store, ripped at the starter cord,
and one by onehe lopped off a half-dozen or so of the poles. He made sure
to cutthem on a 45-degree angle, right to left, so they would topple
overaway from the road. Radioed the all-clear, Greg then brought downthe
plane. Quickly the banditos helped load it up, Greg spun thecraft around in
a 180-degree turn, gunned the motor, and took offwhence he came, soon
appearing as just a receding dot in the distantsky.
George waved the station wagon on through before climbinginto the camper
and heading back to town. It was dusk when hereached the city limits, and
strangely dark. For some reason thestreetlamps seemed to be out. Traffic
signals weren't working either.When he got to the bar at the Shrimp Bucket,
the place was illuminated with the eerie glow of candles, and Gordo, the bartender, waspassing
out free Cocos Locos. Gordo said he didn't know what itwas, but something
had happened a little while ago and the lightsdied suddenly, all over. It was
only then that it dawned on George,and was confirmed by a page-one story
the next day in the newspa-pers, that for the sake of providing Greg a safe
place to land he'dsucceeded in knocking out the power to the whole
northern half ofthe city of Mazatlan.
FIVE
l>«illl»lll*>
1974-1975
Nothing was meant to be. Yon are the designer of your life. If you want
some-thing, you can plan and work for it. Nothing is easy, but nothing is
impossibleeither.
—from a plaque outside the counseling center at theFederal Correctional
Institution, Danbury, Connecticut
Only two months elapsed between George's lights-out high-way landing in
Mazatlan and his equally memorable encounter withthe hooker who looked
like Britt Ekland—and his arrest—in theChicago Playboy Club later in the
fall of 1972. It would be stillanother eighteen months, and after the collar
by Agent Trout in hischildhood bedroom, before the federal marshals would
finally getGeorge to a Chicago courtroom to face the music.
Technically, he could have been sentenced to up to five years forthe bail
jumping alone, plus another fifteen on the marijuanacharge. But with his
lawyer's nudging, the hugely overburdenedU.S. attorney's office in Chicago
proved amenable to going alongwith a term of three years. This meant
George would actually doonly twelve months in a federal prison if he
behaved himself, andthat in a low- or medium-security facility, where time
passed moreor less agreeably.
At 6:00 a.m. on March 14, 1974, federal marshals picked him upat the Cook
County Jail and escorted him into the holding pen in the
1 02 Blow
U.S. District Court building, where his lawyer again went over thedeal
worked out with the U.S. attorney and coached George on thelittle speech
he should make before Judge James Austin, who wouldbe presiding. Tell
him you're sorry, the lawyer said. Tell him youmade a mistake and you're
going to change your life. Describe yourplans for the future. Whatever you
tell him, be sure you do it in away that convinces him you're contrite,
repentant. The marshalswho brought George over also tried to be helpful.
This judge was ason of a bitch, but fair, they said. The best way to deal with
him wasnot to give him any shit and not to talk too long.
At midafternoon George finally found himself standing beforethe bench. A
man in his sixties with glasses and a gray, balding headwas looking down at
him in an impassive manner. The assistant U.S.attorney reviewed the case
and said the bond-jumping charge wouldbe dropped and that a term of three
years on the marijuana sale wasacceptable to the U.S. government. George's
lawyer confirmed thearrangement and larded in some details about Mr.
Jung's plans forgoing back to college after prison, taking some business
courses,maybe getting into advertising. The judge then turned his gaze
toGeorge and asked him what he had to say for himself, which waswhen the
whole thing slid off the track.
It was the old problem George had when it came to authorityfigures.
George didn't tell his lawyer, but he had a feeling rightwhen he entered the
courtroom and saw the federal judge sitting upthere that he wasn't going to
do the speech they'd agreed on. "I hadit all planned, what to say, but when I
got in there, something cameover me," he recalls. "Suddenly I got this
feeling, I became veryhostile, because I really didn't believe that what I did
was wrong. Imean I was selling stuff that people wanted, it wasn't hurting
any-one, people were calling it 'God's herb,' and it was all going to belegal
anyway someday." What he actually told the judge was: "YourHonor, I
realize I broke the law, but I want to tell you in all honestythat I don't feel
it's a crime. I think it's foolishness to sentence a manto prison, for what? For
crossing an imaginary line with a bunch ofplants?" George found himself
expressing other general thoughts aswell. He mentioned the Vietnam War,
and something about hownone of the real criminals in the world ever end up
behind bars, alittle distillation from the oral philosophy of Bob Dylan. You
say thatIm an outlaw, you say that Vm a thief. Well, where s the Christmas
din-ner for the people on relief?
There might have been more, but what he remembers next ishis attorney
giving him a stamp on the foot, which the judgecouldn't see, and the eyes of
the court officers lifting up to searchthe ceiling. George remembers Judge
Austin smiling down at himin a way that made him think at first he might
just have pulled it off,said things that had gotten through to the old man.
"That's an inter-esting concept you have, Mr. Jung. Very interesting," he
recalls thejudge saying. "Unfortunately for you, the imaginary line
youcrossed is real, and the plants you brought with you are illegal, andwhat
you did constitutes a crime." And after hearing the speech, hetold George
he just might also have a little attitude problem, in viewof which the judge
didn't think he was of a mind anymore to goalong with the three-year deal.
Mr. Jung was now going away forfour.
As a Level 2 facility—federal prisons are rated on a scale of 1 to6, 6 being
the designation for an end-of-the-line joint, such as theone in Lewisburg,
Pennsylvania, or Marion, Illinois—Danbury wasdesignated as a
"correctional institution" rather than a "peniten-tiary," which meant that its
inmates had been given relatively lowsentences for crimes that entailed no
violence. From a quick look atthe celebrity roster, they also promised to
afford engaging company.George just missed the two Father Berrigans, Dan
and Philip, whohad been released after doing a year each for pouring bottles
ofblood plasma over Selective Service records in Baltimore as aprotest
against the war. But Clifford Irving was around, the authorwho had made
the headlines for his hoax biography of HowardHughes. From the world of
sports came Johnny Sample, the defen-sive back for the New York Jets
whose terrorizing of would-be passreceivers helped his team to victory in
Super Bowl III back in 1969.He was now working off his sentence for
cashing some fifteen thou-sand dollars in stolen U.S. Treasury checks as a
prison recreationaide, laying down the lines for the ball field, making sure
the weightracks were set up properly. Representing the Nixon
administrationwas G. (for George) Gordon Liddy, the unrepentant
Watergatedefendant, who at the time George arrived was awaiting
sentencingon two counts of burglary, two of intercepting oral communications, and one of conspiracy. From his first day, Liddy had made abig hit
with the other inmates for the way he turned prison condi-tions on end and
in general made life more difficult for the adminis1 ()4 15 I o w
tration. In the crowded orientation dorm, for instance, where therewere only
three toilets for one hundred inmates, he succeeded inreserving one for his
exclusive use by putting up a fake memo on thebulletin board informing
inmates about the myriad of ways theycould catch venereal disease, then
posting an official-looking signover one of toilets announcing V.D. ONLY.
Using his knowledge ofsurveillance techniques, he actually managed to bug
the administra-tion's telephone lines and drove the guards crazy by
spreading theword among prisoners about which guards were sneaking
aroundhaving affairs with other guards' wives. He also won a lawsuitagainst
the warden that forced guards to honor due-process rulesbefore putting
prisoners into solitary for disciplinary infractions.George would encounter
Liddy at the weight rack now and then,where he could outpress Liddy by
about twenty-five pounds. Hedetermined against trying to make friends
with him, however, afterLiddy announced one day that in any country given
over to him torun he'd put a quick end to drug smuggling by categorizing
theoffense as a capital crime and doing away with the bastards.
The prison also held an assortment of city and state officialsdoing time on
corruption charges, among them a one-time mayorof Atlantic City and a
former head of the New Jersey State HighwayDepartment, as well as a large
complement of doctors and businessexecutives convicted for variations on
the theme of stealing money.For the untruths he told the Internal Revenue
Service, Old ManGrossinger from the famous Catskill hotel family was
there workingas a gardener, tending the rose beds outside the warden's
office andcomplaining to George that he'd offered to pay the money back
butthat the government would rather see him die in prison.
During their first two weeks at Danbury inmates attended theprison's
orientation program, which consisted of lectures by staffmembers for four
hours every day. Among other objectives, thehandbook said, the program
was geared toward "helping inmatesdevelop a positive and meaningful
attitude toward institutional staff.. . . During this phase, the inmate is
encouraged to take an activeand realistic part in his program planning. He
should express hisneeds as he sees them."
The quality of an inmate's life in prison depends not on what-ever he gets
from the staff but on the bounty of one's fellow prison-ers, who really run
the institution. They operate the laundry, so
they're the ones you see to get pants that fit right and a razor-crispshirt.
They run the kitchen and the dining room, so you go to themif you want a
tender cut of meat, some special piquancy added toyour spaghetti sauce, or
a table over in the corner for you and yourbuddies. They do the clerical
chores in the health service, so they'rethe ones who can provide you a day
off from the work detail, onaccount of the terrible cold you have, the back
acting up again,whatever. Two realities prison shares with the free world,
however,are that there's no such thing as a free lunch, and altruism exists
inpitifully short supply. On the other hand, inmates can nearly alwaysbe
relied upon to deliver on what they promise, as long as they getsomething
in return.
One of the most lucrative of the prison jobs was clerking in thewarden's
office. This was where the files were kept containing inter-esting facts
about fellow inmates that held high value as articles oftrade. The most
salable piece of information was the name of asnitch—someone who had
sold out a former acquaintance inexchange for easy time, and maybe not so
much of it, in one of theless onerous prison settings (Danbury being a prime
example), whilethe buddy he'd done in was languishing less happily, for a
longerperiod, in some other institution. The identity of the snitch, and
thenature of his helpfulness to the authorities, went for a high price
atDanbury—payable in cigarettes, money, friendship, or favors.
Forexample, Inmate A in Danbury has a good friend, Inmate B, doinghard
time somewhere else. The two of them had a relationship onthe outside, and
will again someday. Inmate A would give a lot tofind out the name of the
fucker who turned his friend in.
When George arrived at Danbury, it was his good fortune thatthe chief clerk
in the warden's office was a thirty-three-year-oldman named Arthur Davey.
Just a year older than George, he turnedout to be not only a fellow
marijuana smuggler but also, coinciden-tally, a native of Weymouth,
Massachusetts, whose family hadmoved him away when he was age twelve.
In the course of becom-ing pals, Arthur and George arrived at various ways
to make eachother's life in the prison more pleasant, if not cushy. Raspyvoiced,with a machine-gun delivery and a mania for orderliness, Arthurhad
graduated, class of 1964, from Northeastern University with adegree in
business administration. After school he had spent severalyears in the fueloil business before deciding abruptly to buy a boaton Cape Cod and become
a fisherman. "Codfish don't talk back," he
1 06 Bl
explained. He spent a year or so running after tuna before a
cousinpersuaded him in late 1970 to join him in another seafaring occupation that paid a lot better, which involved steering the boat down toJamaica
in the West Indies and running it back to the States withlarge loads of
marijuana.
After about eighteen months of operations, Arthur was arrestedin 1972 as
part of a major bust by agents of the CIA, the U.S.Bureau of Narcotics, the
FBI, the Jamaican navy, the JamaicanCoast Guard, the Jamaican military
police, and the JamaicanDefense Force, while he was ferrying seven and a
half tons of pot toan eighty-four-foot steel-hulled mother ship sitting six
miles off theJamaican coast. Before facing charges in the United States, he
hadto do his Jamaican time, eight months in a prison just outside
ofKingston. Constructed around the time the Pilgrims were landingat
Plymouth, it contained eight-by-ten-foot stone cells, each with asingle
barred window ten inches square. One of the units had beenreproduced by a
French movie director and set up a hundred feetaway for the filming of
Papillon, about Devil's Island, where it servedas the Dustin Hoffman
character's place of solitary confinement. Inreal life, eleven inmates plus
Arthur were crammed into the samespace, and with the prisonerclassification system being fairly primi-tive, Arthur found himself thrown
together with an interesting arrayof characters. One cell mate was an
eighteen-year-old sugarcaneworker with a barrel chest and a normally
equanimous disposition.While he was cutting cane in the field one day,
something wentawry in his wiring system, and before anyone could
successfullyinterfere, he'd whacked off the heads of seven coworkers with
hismachete. In prison he was known as Time Bomb.
In Danbury George was trying to make friends with a certaininmate who
lived three bunks away from him in the dormitory, anendeavor in which
Arthur would prove of great help. About six feettall and weighing three
hundred pounds, the inmate was known asFat Harry. Harry carried such
bulk—the upper part of his legs con-tained as much mass as some people's
whole bodies—that later, onthe outside, George observed that he had
difficulty inserting himselfbehind the wheel of even a commodious Cadillac
Eldorado. FatHarry was an important member of the Winter Hill Gang
inBoston, a now-extinct organization of Irish-American mobstersheaded by
Howie Winter, which operated out of an auto-body shopin the town of
Somerville. The gang split operations on a territorial
basis with the Italians, including control over the distribution ofevery
cigarette dispenser, jukebox, and pinball machine in theNortheast. Along
with running the book on the South Shore fromBoston to the Cape, Harry
was also an associate in the Teamstersunion. It was some trouble involving
union matters, an accountingproblem, Harry said, that had landed him in
Danbury.
George wanted to get close to Harry, not so much for his con-nections,
although they did come in handy later on, as for the factthat Harry worked
in the prison kitchen, as a baker. This meant heand his friends had access to
steaks, pastrami sandwiches, desserts,anything they wanted, and at almost
any time of day or night.Given the tedium of prison life, what an inmate
gets to eat looms asone of the major preoccupations of the day, and so
George set outto get the inside track on this bonanza. "I'd keep going over
to hisbunk and talking to him, but he'd constantly ignore me, try to getrid of
me. 'I'm reading now, can't you see?' Or he'd get up and talkto someone else
to get away from me. This went on for threeweeks. Then one day he looked
at me and laughed. 'I checked youout,' he said. 'You were driving me
fucking cuckoo, kid. I thoughtyou were a cop they planted in here.'" So
now, at least, Harry didn'tcringe when George came over to chat. He even
gave him some tipson how to be a successful hijacker. Think small, he said.
"Razorblades. Did you ever imagine how many of those little boxes ofrazor
blades fit into a semi? Easy to carry, everybody needs them.We hijack a
truck and there's razor blades, we just take them, leaveeverything else." But
Harry didn't grant him any food privileges,until one day when he asked
George to do him a favor. Georgeknew Arthur in the warden's office; would
he mind asking him tolook up this certain person in the records, see if there
was anythingto indicate whether he'd been sent to Danbury after
cooperatingwith the government? Harry would greatly appreciate knowing
this..Arthur told George this was easy. The jackets of all the snitcheswere
starred with an asterisk—as seemed to be the case with thisguy he was
asking about.
Soon George's life improved considerably. First off, he and.Arthur got
preference getting into the dining hall, which normallyinvolved waiting for
a half hour in line because the room could onlyaccommodate so many at a
time. And once inside, they were treatedwith the same deference as Harry's
pals. "If you worked in thekitchen, your wife might be getting a thousand
dollars a week for
10 8 Blow
you to take care of certain guys," George says. "So when you camealong,
they'd take your plate and bring it over to a different pot andput on the
special stuff." Thursday night was spaghetti night, andwhereas the regular
inmates got the Franco-American treatment,the Italian mob guys, who had
the kitchen jobs, would whip upsome dishes from home just for their
designated friends; they'd takeall day working up the sauce, doing the
sausages and meatballs justright, veal piccata or chicken Parmesan. At
breakfast, the normalcooking style with eggs was to break the yolks and fry
the thing upso it looked as if it had been run over by some vehicle. For
George itcould be eggs Benedict, poached just right with fresh-made hollandaise sauce. He, Arthur, and a British hash importer they likedwho
played classical music in his cell and told the guys all about thehigh life on
the Spanish island of Ibiza, had a table specially reservedfor themselves;
they didn't have to scramble around for seats or sitwith guys who chewed
with their mouths open. On weekends, wheneveryone was out in the yard
on a warm day, the mob guys had thetrustee in charge of driving the prison
garbage to the city dump stopin town and pick up some Smirnoff at fifty
dollars a bottle; theywould mix it with a little orange juice and sit out in
beach chairs,sipping and catching some rays. The time could slide right by
doingit this way.
One thing everyone had to do in prison was work from eight inthe morning
until four in the afternoon. The pay was twenty centsan hour, and the jobs
ranged from swabbing floors to working in theprison factory on a
subcontract Danbury had through the DefenseDepartment to make wiring
harnesses for intercontinental ballisticmissiles, the inmates helping keep
Uncle Sam out front in the coldwar. Thanks to an Italian he'd befriended
through the mob guys inthe kitchen, George got recommended for one of
the plum jobs,which was teaching high school classes for inmates preparing
for theGeneral Equivalency Diploma exam. Inmates lacking high
schooldegrees didn't have to take the classes, but Danbury had a merit system whereby you could earn up to fifty points on your record as away of
showing the parole board you were using the time to enrichyour life. The
GED classes were worth six points. They were also agood deal for inmate
teachers. The school was the only placebesides the warden's office that had
air-conditioning, and you alsogot to schmooze with outside teachers, most
of them female, whowould arrive in the morning with doughnuts and a
cheery smile.
More important, the school happened to be run by George's case-worker,
the one who would watch over his situation and make therecommendations
at his parole hearing. While others had to waitweeks for a half-hour
appointment with their caseworker, Georgecould chat with him anytime he
wanted. "Mainly," he says, "I spentthe time giving him reason to like me a
lot."
And much to his surprise, George found he actually took to theteaching
itself. His first class consisted of twenty-two black pimpsfrom the streets of
New York City, who wound up at Danbury as theresult of an experimental
tactic by the U.S. attorney's office, sinceabandoned, of charging pimps with
income-tax evasion as a way ofcombating prostitution. On racial grounds,
the hustlers were thewrong color for Danbury, since its population of whitecollaroffenders, mob guys, and upper-echelon drug dealers was
mostlywhite. Educationally they were also at a disadvantage, since a majority couldn't read. So before they could learn how to give the correctanswers
on the test, George had to first teach them to read andunderstand the
questions.
From his initial confrontation with the group, this didn't looklike it was
going to be easy. "The first day of school I stood up infront of the class and
told them who I was and what I wanted toteach them and passing the GED
was going to help them get jobson the outside. And they said, Fuck you,
man, we're not listening toany of your bullshit, whitey motherfucker." Now,
normallyGeorge's response would have been to not care whether
theylearned anything or not. But their attitude posed a threat to his
jobsecurity, because if he couldn't get them to do the lessons and takethe
GED, he'd be back in the prison, with no air-conditioning,maybe pushing a
broom. "I knew I had to get them in line, so I said,'Okay. Okay. Any of you
know how to smuggle dope into theUnited States out of South America and
Mexico?' I could tell I hadtheir attention. 'You can make a hell of a lot more
money smugglingthan you can being pimps, I'll tell you. So I'll make a deal
with you.We're not going to tell anyone, but we'll teach a little class in
that,too. I'll teach you everything I know about it, but the deal is thatthen
you have to learn the other bullshit, okay? And get yourGED's. We'll have
smuggling classes for a while, and then we'llhave regular classes.' So they
started asking questions, and I beganabout airplanes and Mexico, the price
structure, how to take amotor home across the border. There are no black
smugglers, I told
1 1 O Blow
them, but we might have twenty new ones right here! I didn't tellthem that
black people wouldn't get too far taking a motor homefull of pot across the
Mexican border. But that was okay. They didn'tknow where Mexico was."
With Professor Jung popping up the flash cards and soundingout the
consonants and vowels phonetically, the class learned slowlyand steadily
how to read and write. And after that they learnedEnglish grammar,
arithmetic, history, and geography—becomingespecially knowledgeable
about the California desert country. "Itturned out that most of them, once
they started studying, did prettywell. We got into areas I enjoyed, like the
Civil War, and certainpresidents I liked. I told them about Teddy Roosevelt
and theRough Riders, how his men were pinned down at the bottom of
SanJuan Hill and he charged up on his horse and got his glasses shotoff. He
put on another pair, and how this inspired his men to chargeup after him. I
told them how Harry Truman was a regular guy, andwasn't from a wealthy
family, that he started out as a haberdasher.And John F. Kennedy, how he
was killed by the oil people and themoney brokers. They were interested in
the slave issue, and I toldthem a great injustice had been done to them, and
how they werestill enslaved. I didn't have to say much on that, of course;
theyalready knew it. But I told them I understood how they felt. I'd beento
school in the South and almost got the shit kicked out of me forstanding up
against the injustice down there. A majority of thembecame very involved
in the class and did fairly well. And when theygot their GED's, there was a
little ceremony. They tried to be coolabout it, but you could see they were
really proud of the diplomas. Itgave you a good feeling."
Along with the celebrities and public officials doing time atDanbury
because of momentary lapses in judgment, the prison con-tained people
with a lot of expertise in criminality—the tenured fac-ulty, if you will, of a
school for scoundrels. They had a lot of goodadvice to impart when it came
to making money doing somethingillegal, and when he wasn't busy
scheming with George, no onetook more advantage of this opportunity than
did George's goodfriend from Colombia, Carlos Lehder. It helped that
Carlos wasfriendly, attractive, and likable, with an ingratiating manner that
wasalmost courtly, and which had he not possessed a foreign accentwould
have earned him a reputation as a weirdo. "He was very
charming," says George. "He would act almost subordinate to you.It was
always, 'You know so much. I respect you so much. I'd reallyappreciate it if
you would share some of your knowledge with me.'He'd befriend people.
Then he'd suck their brains out."
George's friend Arthur, for instance, was planning to get backinto the
fishing business after prison and had brought his charts ofthe waters off
Cape Cod into Danbury with him, along with a set ofparallel rules, a
manual on the tide tables, and a small compass. Car-los soon had him
explaining the arts of navigation, showing him thedifference between true
and magnetic north, showing him how toplot a course and set up a deviation
card for the ship's compass.Arthur spent hours with him, demonstrating
how to locate yourposition off the coast using buoy markers and other
navigationalaids, how to plot out and follow a course by dead reckoning,
work-ing out the time, rate, and distance calculations for, say,
hittingsomewhere along the Florida Keys from the Colombian coast.
Carlos also spent time with Dan Moore, the former president ofthe Surety
Bank and Trust Company of Wakefield, Massachusetts,who had scarpered
with $8.1 million of his institution's assets, andregaled inmates and guards
alike with the travel brochures on placeshe planned to visit after getting out.
Carlos taught him Spanish inreturn for lectures on how the banking system
worked, what trans-actions had to be reported to the government, how to set
upaccounts in offshore institutions and move money around in waysno one
could follow, which banks had the numbered accounts in theCayman
Islands, the Bahamas, the Netherlands Antilles. The Bankof Nova Scotia,
that was a good one, Carlos was told, especially itsbranches in Freeport and
Panama City. "Carlos was mesmerized bypeople who knew about things,
and Danbury was a regular mindfactory," says George. "He never got past
the seventh grade, but ifhe'd gone on to college, he was the kind who'd go
right for his doc-torate." Everything he was told he wrote down on pads of
paper,which he filed away. What he learned about planes and boats andreal
estate and money laundering all went into separate pockets ofone of those
expandable cardboard files you can tie up in a string."He was obsessive
about details that I'd get bored with after a while.All I wanted to know was
that a twin-engine Cessna had a fifteen-hundred-mile range and you could
put tip tanks or saddle tanks onit and it could go so much farther, and you
went from point A topoint B. That was enough for me. Carlos wanted to
know the kind
112 B1
of engine it had, the dimensions of the cargo space, the differentradio
frequencies, the climb ratios, everything."
Carlos talked a lot with a doctor who had owned a string ofnursing homes
in New York State and had been convicted ofdefrauding the government by
charging Medicare for the treatmentof patients who didn't exist except on
his phony rosters. After beingindicted, he fled the United States for Belize,
formerly British Hon-duras, a tiny country in Central America just east of
Guatemala inthe Caribbean. He had spent a couple of years down there,
butfinally grew homesick for his family and agreed to a deal with theU.S.
attorney involving a couple of years in Danbury. Belize waswhat Carlos
wanted to hear about. The doctor told him the countryhad no army and no
extradition treaties with the United States; gov-ernment officials were easy
to bribe, the police rode around on bicy-cles, for God's sake. One use for the
place, Carlos thought, was as away station to that California desert George
was always talkingabout. "But soon, Carlos was having these ideas about
not just usingthe place, but taking it over," George says, "doing it big-time,
over-throwing the government. He wanted to set up gambling casinos,build
condos, a yacht club, build an empire. He talked of making it asafe place for
fugitives. It would be a haven for criminals to come to,where you couldn't
get extradited to the country that was after you.'You're on the run, you can
stay here, you pay us $2 million.' Oncehe got on to that idea, it was all he
talked about; he wouldn't stop."
Carlos modeled his dress and bearing after the tough ex-marineG. Gordon
Liddy. Unlike Carlos, Liddy wasn't very solicitoustoward fellow inmates;
when he talked to people, it was to bark outopinions, not invite a lot of
discussion on the matter. He also stoodout at Danbury for the way he
carried himself about the yard, withhis shoulders erect, immaculately
dressed, even in prison-issue. Hiskhakis were pressed with a crease that
could slice meat, his blackshoes were spit-shined, his chest was always out.
Carlos watchedLiddy and began imitating him—keeping carefully
groomed, hisclothes crisp, strutting around the yard with his file of
informationunder his arm. "Put Carlos and Liddy together, they looked
likethey were about to graduate from Annapolis," says George.
Carlos also pumped George for what he'd read and the thingshe knew. He
was particularly interested in listening to what Georgehad to say about the
philosophy of existentialism and aboutKierkegaard and Nietzsche. George
had read them during a philosDanbury (1974-1975) 113
ophy course at Long Beach City College and, with modificationshere and
there, had adopted existentialism as his own life view. "Ididn't know about
existentialism before Jack Leahy would comehome from college and talk
about it back in Weymouth, but then Istudied it and found out it was simple.
It's free will, I told Carlos.Nobody has the right to tell you what to do or
how to do it, and youdo what you want and you set your own moral
standards, somethingwithin reason, and you take full responsibility for your
acts."George had also studied Machiavelli's The Prince, and was
impressedby what he had written about acquiring power and
manipulatingpeople to achieve your ends. The prison library didn't have a
copy,so he ordered Carlos one from a bookstore in Danbury.
George and Carlos would talk as they walked around the yardafter supper—
they had to be back in their rooms for the eveningcount at nine—and
increasingly, it seemed, as the months wentby, Carlos would raise the topic
of revolution. He spoke of start-ing with Belize and eventually taking over
Colombia. His herowas Che Guevara, who with a shave would be a pretty
close look-alike for Carlos, with his longish locks and penetrating
eyes.Cocaine would be the vehicle to fund this enterprise, Carlos said.It was
the Achilles' heel of America. The gringos were toomorally weak to resist
it. They were going to go for it in a bigway, especially now that the rock
stars and entertainment peoplewere into it. The Americans would do
anything they heard themovie stars did. Carlos also had admiring words to
say aboutAdolf Hitler, how he'd worked out a specific plan for
achievingpower, laid it all out in Mein Kampf, and possessed the strength
ofwill to carry it through.
"I'd listen, but I wasn't very enthusiastic about his political aspi-rations and
all," says George. "Plus what he was saying about Belize,it would only be a
matter of time until the world became aware ofthe arrangement there and
brought an end to it. We didn't needBelize, I told him; Mexico would be
enough. I was only interested inmoving a product people wanted for cash,
not running a country. Iwanted to make as much money as I could in a
couple of years andthen get out of it. Get the motor sailer, go to Ibiza or
maybe Aus-tralia, the Great Barrier Reef. I told him that in my opinion
therewere already enough dictators fucking up the world. Che had cometo a
bad end, dying in the mountains of Bolivia a broken man. I toldCarlos he
should read Che's life story again. All revolutionaries
114 Blow
come to a bad end in one form or another. I'd read history; revolu-tions
never work out. One man's freedom fighter was alwaysanother man's
dictator. I told him he should concentrate on ourfuture smuggling
enterprise. But it was like talking to a deaf person.He'd start going on about
Hitler again. I decided it was best not topursue the subject any further."
For all his tendency toward the grandiose, at 135 pounds Carloswas still a
relative pipsqueak when it came to his general effect."When you first met
him, he looked like just a kid," says Arthur."He may have been twenty-five,
but he looked sixteen, like ateenager. He had protection in prison, because
George stuck withhim, and no one was going to screw around with George.
Otherwisethe black guys would have loved to make a little girl out of
him."George tried to beef Carlos up by taking him out to the weight rack,to
put some bulk into his upper body. George was pressing 240pounds then,
with ten repetitions. Carlos was struggling to get up to150. And one day at
the rack a dispute arose over one of the weights,and an inmate came up and
struck Carlos hard in the face with hisopen hand. "And Carlos didn't do
anything!" recalls George. "Now,in prison, you never do nothing, even if
the guy's Mike Tyson andyou know you're going to get the shit kicked out
of you, you have togo after him. If anybody ever slapped me in the face, I
don't carewho it was, they'd know they'd have to kill me. Otherwise your
lifeis down the toilet. So I told that fucking guy, 'I'm going to hit you inthe
fucking face with this fucking barbell, I'm going to fuck you upbad, you
ever touch him again.' He backed off after that. Yet Icouldn't believe that
here was this big Mafioso Colombian guerrillafighter, always talking about
Che Guevara and taking over coun-tries—and didn't throw a punch!
"But then, I don't know, you look back at it, and in DanburyCarlos knew
just what he was doing. He might have backed downfrom the fight, but he
got exactly what he wanted out of every singleperson in that place. I mean,
I thought I was slick, and here he wasabout to take me on the biggest rollercoaster ride I'd been on in mylife."
It was February 1975, and according to the math of the criminaljustice
system, George's parole hearing was due up shordy; hehoped it would be
the prelude to his release from prison. He'd
Mazatlan, 1970: Georgeand a business colleague.
(Above) Twenty-five years later, areunion with Ramon Moreno at
theOceana Bar in Puerto Vallarta.
Carlos Lehder Rivas, at the controlsand on the rise. (LopeMedina/Sygma)
Barry Kane, a. k. a. the Silver Fox , afterhis arrest in Hyannisport in 1989.
(Steve Heaslip/Cape Cod Times)
A stylish George, taking the air on hisdeck in Eastham, 1978.
George and Richard Barile, ousted in Eastham in 1980.
George Jung, age three, with hismother, Ermine.
The schoolboy with an impishgrin.
Members of the Weymouth I ligh School Varsity Football squad, 1959. Left
toright: Brian Dunbar, Dick Murley, George Jung, Ron DiGravio, Alike
Grable,Jack Fisher (coach), and Barry Damon. {Courtesy of Barry Damon)
Beneath his graduation picture, the yearbooklisted George's credits as
"Football 10, 11, 12;Spring track 10, 11, 12; Winter track 10," andhis career
plans as "Business Administration."
George and a friend dancing at the WeymouthSenior Prom, 1961.
In his country's service—briefly—in1968.
Kristina Jung turning seven in 1985, justafter George's arrest in Fort
Lauderdale.
^ Carlos Lehder at his arrest, February1987. (AP/Wide World Photos)
'mt
4 ^^|
vF« V ' ^^1 bidH^B • 4S ^W \\
ST i <N* , .*&'-''^^ESr ' V( ^^N**
9k s ^ ^
_. ?*
&. L^k r~ WWr F 1
George Jung, private citizen, West Yarmouth, 1993. (Sara Roszak)
(Left and below) Trooper BillyMcGreal, undercover, and atthe award
ceremony for"Trooper of the Year," 1980.(Courtesy of Billy McGreal)
Senor Pablo Escobar Gaviria, El>adrino. {AP/Wide World Photos)
Detective Greg Kridos, undercover in Fort Lauderdale with a wagonload
ofcocaine, 1985. (Courtesy of Foil Lauderdale Police Department)
The haul in the Fort Lauderdale bust. Left to right: Detective Tom
Tiderington,Fort Lauderdale Police Department; Jack Toal, DFA group
supervisor; DetectiveGreg Kridos, Fort Lauderdale P.D.; and Mike
McManus, DEA special agent.{Courtesy of Fort Lauderdale Police
Department)
Danbury (1974-1975) 115
entered Danbury the previous April, having been sentenced to fouryears. He
was eligible for parole after serving a third of that, or six-teen months. He'd
already done more than four months in jails inBoston and Chicago before
arriving at Danbury. So with a favorableruling by the parole board, early
April was when he'd be set free.He'd performed exceptionally as a
schoolteacher, getting all hisclasses through the GED exam successfully.
And during coffeebreaks he'd been assuring his caseworker, that he had a
plan and thedesire to go straight when he got out. He wanted to buy a boat,
hesaid, and go into the fishing business on the Cape, like Arthur.There was
a little money saved up, and his parents would help him.He'd already
screwed his life up enough, and he wanted to start offnew. He was only
thirty-two. It wasn't too late, even to go back andfinish up school, maybe at
the community college on the Cape. Adegree in business administration
wouldn't hurt when it came tomarketing his fish. Don't worry, his
caseworker told him. "He saidhe was behind me one thousand percent."
On the appointed day, George shaved carefully, dressed himselfin a new set
of khakis, and walked down to the little hearing roomnear the warden's
office, where he was ushered in by his caseworker.At the head of the table
sat the two hearing officers. One was akindly looking, middle-aged white
man with glasses, dressed in acheap-looking light-colored suit. The other
one was a thin, baldingblack man, a sharp dresser who struck George as a
lot more savvythan the white guy. During the thirty minutes or so that
George wasin there, the black guy never said a word, never smiled. He was
theone George worried about.
"The white guy starts off, asking me all these questions. How Ifelt about my
crime and the things I did, and I said I realized it waswrong and I had
screwed up my life and I didn't want anything to dowith drugs anymore. He
asked me what I was planning to do now,and I told him about the fishing
boat and the plans I had to get it.He liked that I was going to stay with my
family, not just go off.They wanted to be sure you weren't going to fall into
any bad com-pany. And I told about the college classes. And on and on with
allthe bullshit, and still the black guy hadn't said a word. I was gettingreal
uptight about him. He's just looking at me. I'm thinking tomyself, He knows
what I'm all about. He's going to get me, I know."
"Then the white guy said, 'Okay, George, go on outside and
116 B 1
we'll call you back in a little bit and let you know.' It was a little tor-ment
they do to you. I mean, why can't they just let you know, rightaway? So I
sat on a bench outside the hearing room, while my case-worker was in there
talking to them. And I sat there for twenty min-utes or so, worrying about
my case. Then they called me back in.And the white guy is smiling.
'Congratulations, George, you'regoing home! We hope you'll use this
opportunity to get your life inorder, and that we won't be seeing you back in
a place like this.'
"'Oh, thank you, thank you, I won't let you down, believe me.Thank you for
everything.' And I shook both their hands andturned around and started
walking to the door when the black guyopens his mouth.
"'Hey George,' he said. I turn around and he gives me this bigwink. 'Keep
that fishing boat out of South American waters.'"
Cape C^ocl
1975-1976
Cocaine is for horses, not for men;They say it'll kill you, but they don V say
when.—Traditional blues
On the day he was to be released from Danbury, Georgeoverslept. Fat Harry
came banging on his door after breakfastshouting that they'd been calling
his name over the loudspeaker andto get down to Receiving & Discharge;
his father was there to takehim home.
George could in fact have gotten out two months earlier if he'dgone to a
halfway house in Boston where parolees worked regularjobs during the day
and returned at night, thus acclimating them-selves to the free world
without dying of the shock. But after hisparole hearing George's enthusiasm
for leaving was somewhatdiminished. In prison he was picking up a lot of
useful information,gathering names and numbers, which he noted down in a
blackphone book packed away with his gear. Carlos wouldn't be gettingout
for another six months anyway, and then faced spending addi-tional time in
custody while the Immigration and NaturalizationService, convinced he
was someone America could get on nicelywithout, arranged to deport him
to Colombia.
118 Blow
But what most eroded George's enthusiasm for being releasedwas that as a
condition of his parole he had to live at home with hisparents, at least for
the next year. He'd be back at 30 Abigail AdamsCircle, back in his old room
upstairs with his Little League trophystill sitting on the dresser. No more the
Big Bad Bandito, the neigh-bors would no doubt think; nothing like a taste
of prison to take Mr.Smart-ass down a peg or two. He was also looking at
thirty monthson parole, during which any infraction could send him back to
fin-ish his sentence. A federal parole officer out of Boston would
bestopping by the house every week or so for a talk with his momabout
whether George was behaving himself. It was a teeth-grind-ing prospect.
After Fat Harry's wake-up call, George made his way down towhere Wong,
the Chinese heroin dealer who had dusted Georgewith antilice powder on
his admission, now stood ready to exchangethe prison duds for a nice suit,
compliments of the U.S. Bureau ofPrisons. George glanced at the
government threads, which lookedlike something off the rack at Wal-Mart;
it was gabardine, with afunny weave to it, weird orange with a blue tinge.
He cast a fondthought back to the soft Cabrera jacket he'd been wearing the
dayof his arrest, a luxuriant doeskin that had cost twelve hundred dol-lars at
Neiman Marcus in Dallas, and that was back in 1973. Hethought also of
those five-hundred-dollar Bruno Magli loafers, oftheir wafer-thin leather
that fairly caressed the feet. Thanks, but no,he told Wong. "I told him I
wouldn't wear that thing to a shit fight.Wong also looked disgusted and told
me that's what everyone said.'I don't know why we keep this stuff. No one
ever wants it.'" On theway out, his caseworker shook his hand and told him
to behave him-self. Hey, don't worry on that score, George said, throwing
him onelast promise on the fishing boat. He handed his papers through
aglass partition to the guard, who pressed a button sending the elec-tronic
door sliding back into the wall with a low moan: brooooooo.And George
walked out into the glaring spring sunlight, a freeman—in a manner of
speaking.
George greeted his father with an enthusiastic hug and askedhim to stop at
the first liquor store he saw so he could get a coupleof bottles of champagne
for a little celebration. The trip back pro-ceeded pleasantly enough, Fred
tooling up Route 84 toward Mas-sachusetts, George draining the
champagne while watching theConnecticut hills undulate on by, until they
got to Middletown,
when the Mercury threw a rod and they had to rent a car to getthem home—
not a good omen.
Back home things didn't go too badly for the first few weeks,mostly
because George's friend the Sad-Eyed Lady often stopped bythe house from
her place down on the Cape. Her name was Beth,and George had met her
three years before when he was back Eastwith Annette doing business. She
was forty-three at the time, tenyears his senior, about four feet eight inches
tall and plumpish, adiminutive Mama Cass character dressed in flowing
white muumuuswith Indian-style braids and lots of beads. George had
nicknamedher from the Bob Dylan song "Sad-Eyed Lady of the
Lowlands,"with the line "Your eyes like smoke and your prayers like
rhymes."She called him Kurt Kruger, because that's what she thought
hisname was. It was an alias George had picked up from a Germanmovie
actor and used when he had to be in Massachusetts, once theFBI was after
him. He didn't tell her for two years who he really was.
Beth lived in a large, rambling house in Dennis, presiding over amenage of
children from her broken marriage that resembled theMunster clan, hippie
division. When home from college, her oldestson, Nicky, stayed down in
the basement mixing up batches of crys-tal methamphetamine and putting
together explosive devices heused for blowing up mailboxes outside draftboard offices. The twoyounger children, aged eleven and nine, sat around
smoking pot inthe living room. Upstairs a fifteen-year-old anorexiclookingdaughter named Dulcinea worked on her oil paintings—
mournfullandscapes mostly, along with portraits of stricken children.
Shetook George up there one day to have a look at her artwork andsuddenly
was all over him, kissing and caressing him, working herway down his
body, eventually unhooking his belt, pulling down hiszipper, and honoring
him with a very educated blow job. "Afterthat," George recalls, "she started
acting a little crazy, getting allexcited and talking fast. 'I'm going to take
you out to Provincetownand have some fags fuck you, and I'm going to
watch.' I told her Ididn't really think I could get into that."
Topics of conversation ranged from the passionately loathedRichard Nixon
(Nicky doing his David Frye number complete withthe scowls and
eyebrows) to the Trilateral Commission's plot toseize control of the world's
resources to Beth's theories on reincar-nation, the collective unconscious,
and time travel. After having alittle smoke, she'd tell George he'd been a
Greek warrior in a previ-
1 2 () B 1 O vv
ous life. "She'd ask me to take off my shirt so she could see the bat-tle scars
from the Peloponnesian War. She said I was in the favor ofthe gods, but that
there was an evil force that was totally destructiveand I had to watch out for
that one."
George would perk up, though, when talk turned to the subjectof Nietzsche.
"I'd talk for hours to him about Nietzsche," says Beth,who last saw George
in 1976 and has since moved her family fromthe Cape to Los Angeles.
"Nietzsche argued that a person is a wholething, consisting of light and dark
images. If you try eliminating thedark ones, how do you know that you
might not also be eliminatingsomething that's light, too? They're
intertwined. George was veryenchanted with that part of it, about the
Damons and Angels. Itseemed to provide a perfect rationale for the things
he did. 'They'reboth in there, inside me,' he'd say. 'There's nothing I can do
aboutit. And they're in you, too. I'll show you.' And he'd go right towhere
your devils were and command them to rise. If he said, 'Rise,'they lived. If
you were the slightest bit greedy, he had you in thepalm of his hand. That
was George Jung. That was the secret of hissuccess. I found that out very
painfully."
As George had foreseen only too well back in Danbury, it didn'ttake long
before life with his parents became unendurable. Oversupper at night, his
mother always maneuvered the talk to herfavorite topic, how George had
ruined his life, and theirs too, whilehe was at it. "You're thirty-three years
old and you're a bum," washer main theme. "You're a common criminal.
You've been in prison.You've disgraced us with the neighbors. We can't lift
up our heads.You've thrown your life away. You've never been any good.
Youcan't hold a decent job." George couldn't get away from it by mov-ing
out, because that would get him in trouble with the paroleoffice. Malcolm
MacGregor, Mike Grable, and Barry Damon wereall married and most
raising children—there was nothing in theirlives he could identify with. He
also gave a wide berth to the bigcolonial at the bottom of the hill, where his
high school sweetheart,Gerry Lee, now lived with her husband, John
Hollander, who'dplayed end on the football team. They had two kids now,
and a bigyard with nice woods in the back. George felt like an invisible
man,thrust backward into a former life but lacking the ability to
connectwith anyone who lived there. He snuck around the town, not wanting to be seen. "Here I'd been up in the hills with Manuel and the
*.
Indians, running free for years, making more money than anyone Iever
knew, leading my own life. Suddenly there I am with no car,living with my
parents, going by their rules, sleeping in the bed-room where I was a little
boy, and them yelling at me, even Fredstarted doing it. 'I don't want to catch
you going down to the bot-tom of the hill and start making any trouble,' he
said."
George busied himself reshingling his parents' house and dulybroached the
fishing idea to his parole officer in Boston, a youngwoman named Jo-Anne
Carr, who'd visit the house regularly tocheck on his progress. "My mother
and Jo-Anne got along real well.It was, 'Oh, Jo-Anne, darling, come on in
and have some cake andcoffee.' She was a little lame for a parole officer,
naive to the wholething, and young. Kind of cute face, but heavy in the
legs. I used toplay with her—give her a hug. 'You're not bad-looking, you
know.Maybe we could go out sometime.' I don't think she got asked outon
many dates. 'Oh, George, we're not supposed to do that,' she'dsay."
At Danbury, George had hoped to do his temporary fishing stintwith his
friend Arthur Davey Arthur had a magic touch when itcame to putting his
boat right where the fish were. One time out onthe Georges Bank he landed
such a huge catch that he ran out ofspace in the hold and ordered the crew
out of their bunks so hecould fill them up with haddock and cod. Arthur
wanted George tocome out with him, but their parole officers nixed the
arrangementon the grounds that two ex-convicts couldn't be going into
businesstogether.
George had more than enough money—$50,000 in hundredsstashed in a
safe-deposit box in the Rockland Trust Company inWeymouth. It was all
that remained of the quarter of a million or sofrom his smuggling days,
most of which he'd blown in the last sixmonths before the FBI caught him.
He'd taken one of his girl-friends on a tour of first-class hotels in Santa Fe,
Mammoth Lakes,and other parts of the West. What with the champagne-
and-caviarbreakfasts and the sprees at clothing stores, $200,000 of it disappeared with remarkable speed. He couldn't touch the remainingmoney
unless he could show he'd earned it from some honestendeavor. Clam
digging at Wessagussett Beach wouldn't quite fillthe bill. As it was, his
guilty plea left him owing the IRS $286,000 inspecial taxes the government
imposed on large marijuana seizures.So as long as George continued in the
pose of a law-abiding member of society, the fifty long ones wouldn't do him much good.
In regard to his problem with the IRS, George sought the helpof Fat Harry,
who on his release from Danbury went back to run-ning the book on the
South Shore and living with his wife andmother-in-law in their neatly kept
house near a cemetery just out-side of Boston. Harry advised him to go
down to the Federal Build-ing in Boston and see a certain lady named Mrs.
O'Toole. "Shebrought me up as a kid," he said. "Get a dozen roses and I'll
call andtell her you're coming down. She'll take care of it." George did,
andMrs. O'Toole proved to be an old fan of Harry's. "He's a bad
boysometimes, but I love him anyway," she said. "He told me all aboutyou,
and we can just eliminate this because if you sign a pauper'soath that you
don't have any money, I can take care of it." So oneminute George owed the
federal government $286,000, and thenext, with the stroke of a pen, he
didn't owe it anything at all.
He turned now to establishing himself in the fishing business.The Sad-Eyed
Lady put up ten thousand in cash from her divorcesettlement and signed a
bank note for thirty thousand more, whichwas enough to purchase a slightly
leaky forest-green thirty-eight-foot dragger out of Plymouth Harbor, which
George christened theHunter. The vessel was too small to make the seventymile trip outto the rich fishing grounds of the Georges Banks, where the
seascould get pretty rough in sudden bad weather. On the other hand, itwas
shorter than the sixty-foot length that would have requiredGeorge to hire a
captain with a master's license from the CoastGuard. To take out the Hunter
he had only to know how to read acompass. But there were several catches.
When Beth agreed to putup the money, it was with the understanding that
George was goinginto the fishing business for real, to make money at it. To
do that hehad to work hard, meaning the boat had to put out to fish every
day,weather permitting. He didn't tell Beth, but George didn't quite seethe
venture that way. He viewed the vessel as a sort of Potemkin vil-lage for JoAnne Carr to inspect. He was also silently hoping theboat would put her in
mind to reduce the number of months he'dhave to spend on parole.
To keep the boat going out every day, George hired a captain, aguy he knew
named Gordon, whom George had found selling usedcars on the LincolnMercury lot in Quincy but who harbored greatambitions of making it in the
fishing business. George took onanother acquaintance, named Peter, as a
deck hand. Peter was an
airplane pilot who happened to be visiting from Los Angeles, havingjust
jumped bond on a three-year sentence for marijuana smugglingin
California. He knew all about the dry lake beds. George wantedhim close at
hand—not just for net hauling. Beth complained at firstabout why they
needed to pay an extra hand—it meant less moneyall around, she said. But
George's persuasive charm had not beendiminished at Danbury. "I don't
remember what reason he gave,"she says, "but one of the things about
George was he could get any-body to do anything he wanted. I never saw so
much power in a per-son, so much charisma. He had such great charm,
perfect manners.He'd talk to the waitress or someone in a bookstore,
anyone, and hecould transform them, bring joy into their lives. They were
beam-ing when he left."
Whatever his talents might have won for George in some otherfield, they
certainly availed him of very little in his fishing enter-prise, where he was
dogged by bad luck and inexperience. Not farinto the venture, he and his
crew snagged a sunken wreck of anotherfishing boat and tore their net all to
hell, which cost them severaldays in port. They were hunting in largely
depleted waters, nettingonly five hundred to a thousand pounds' worth a
day, which addedup to only three hundred dollars a week apiece, even going
out allthe time. That winter of 1975-76 it stormed constantly, and got socold
that Plymouth Harbor froze over for the first time in localmemory. Fishing
in the freezing weather was about the least amountof fun George had ever
experienced. After taking in the net on a bigreel, the catch would be
dumped on the deck, to be gutted andsorted in the howling wind, with sleet
or snow icing up the deck.They wore insulated boots and gloves, but water
seeped in and soonnumbed up their fingers and toes. The boat would be
pitching 20 or30 degrees. Fall over the side now, and someone had to do
quickwork to save you from a watery death. It got so miserable that
Peterfinally made the decision to return to California, do his prison time,and
get on with his life; at least he'd be warm. This meant Georgehad to go out
on every trip or leave the boat idle, which would bringboth Beth and JoAnne down on his neck.
Then one foggy day the engine failed as the boat was comingthrough the
Cape Cod Canal, and the current took them in towardthe rocks. George
radioed for help, but the Coast Guard rescue shippassed right by without
seeing them. George became so apoplecticshouting into the transmitter—
We're over here, you fucking assholes!—that the commander in Hyannis later called him in toaccount for his
breach of radio etiquette. Just before disaster struck,the engine somehow
restarted, and they got the boat safely back toport. Subsequent breakdowns,
however, so debilitated their fishingeffort that, in the end, George let the
repo people from the banksimply come and tow the Hunter away, to sell it
for whatever theycould recoup. Beth's ten thousand dollars went down the
drain,along with what remained of her faith in George as a business partner. Shortly after that, word also leaked back to her about some ofthe things
going on between George and her daughter, Dulcinea,the little session with
the art critique not having been the last of it.George wasn't completely
surprised, therefore, when one day inmid-February of 1976 the Sad-Eyed
Lady ordered him to clear thehell out. When he arrived at her house, she
was standing in thedoorway. "She was shrieking, 'You son of a bitch. I've
put a curse onyou that's going to last the rest of your miserable life and
destroyyou.'"
All this sudden misfortune might have weighed heavier onGeorge's mind
had a telegram he'd been waiting for not arrived athis parents' house shortly
after the rupture with Beth. It was fromColombia, the city of Medellin.
WEATHER BEAUTIFUL. PLEASE COMEDOWN, it read. There was a
telephone number he was supposed tocall. And it was signed: YOUR
FRIEND, CARLOS.
For all his bravado back in Danbury, the bragging about his bigcontacts,
George harbored some doubts as to how he was reallygoing to move a load
of coke. Who wanted it? Where were they?During a three-day furlough he'd
taken toward the end of his prisonterm, George had called up Richard
Barile at the Tonsorial Parlor inManhattan Beach to discuss the potential of
the cocaine market inLos Angeles. Richard said he'd like to hear more about
whatGeorge had in mind but remained a little vague about the specifics."He
said it was going on big out there, but he couldn't quote anyprices, just that
if I came out, it could happen. I was just a lousymarijuana smuggler. I don't
think he took me really seriously."
On the Cape there seemed to be hardly any demand at all. Whatcocaine you
could get was of such poor quality, cut so often, that thepreferred drug for
people in the euphoria market seemed to bemethamphetamine, or speed—
especially in the form that Beth's son,Nick, was concocting in the basement.
This was "crystal meth,"
fe
later known as "ice," a smokable crystalline form of metham-phetamine that
produces a high of several hours' duration; it is alsohighly addictive. One
day the previous fall Beth had asked Georgeto deliver a batch of Nick's
product to a guy who'd be waiting in acar down the street from the house in
Dennis. The man turned outto be a gaunt, furtive-looking character in his
late twenties, withdeep-socketed, penetrating eyes, who seemed as jumpy as
a blue jay.Obviously he was on the stuff himself, George thought. From
theway he darted glances around the landscape, you could also spothim as a
drug dealer from a few hundred yards off. George pro-duced the crystal and
the guy turned over a bag containing fifteenthousand dollars in cash. He
went by the name of "Mr. T," and hewas the son of a fairly prosperous
Portuguese fisherman. Georgenoted down his phone number, thinking Mr.
T might prove usefullater on.
During his furlough, George had also called Manuel down inMazatlan to
talk about cocaine, but his former colleague proved farfrom encouraging.
He said, "You're getting into a dangerous game,Jorge, with some dangerous
fucking people. Not like it is in themarijuana business, where we are all
brothers. Why do we not con-tinue the business we were doing? We'll
always be safe, and haveour friendship and enough money. The road you
want to head downleads to self-destruction and evil." George dismissed the
warning asexaggeration; Manuel always did tend to overdramatize things.
With limited phone lines available between the United Statesand Colombia,
it took several frustrating hours for George to getthrough to Carlos. The
number turned out to be that of AutosLehder, the family car business
located in downtown Medellin, andit was Guillermo, Carlos's brother, who
finally answered. Carlos hadgone out, he said. George should call back the
next day. "WhenCarlos and I finally connected, we talked in a very general
way, nospecifics. He said he wanted me to come to Medellin to talk
abouthow things should proceed, that everything down there was just aswe
had discussed. I said give me some time to make arrangementsand I'd let
him know when I was coming."
Only after hanging up did George think that it probablywouldn't be smart to
go down himself, at least not on this trip. Hewas still on probation and
supposed to be staying at home, (jetting afalse passport was no problem, but
what if something happeneddown there, some kind of delay, and Jo-Anne—
her visits always
came on short notice—chose that moment to drop by? It seemedsafer to
send down an emissary, he thought, a go-between. The per-son who came to
mind was Frank Shea, his old childhood friend andcontact at Amherst. He'd
also done some flying for George out ofMazatlan. Frank was back in
Weymouth now, working at the ForeRiver Shipyard. He'd never been
arrested, wasn't on any customschecklist. Frank seemed ideal for the
mission. As a pilot, he had theknowledge to check out possible airfields and
discuss arrangementsfor getting planes loaded up. "Frank was also the kind
of guy who'ddo something, but then go away from it," George says. "And I
didn'twant to involve any more people in this than I had to."
It turned out Frank had just been laid off from work at the ship-yard and
quickly agreed to go. George gave him money for tickets,and in mid-March
he was in Colombia, meeting with Carlos at aranch the family owned a little
way out of town. He called Georgethe next day. "Frank was basically
ecstatic over the phone. He likedCarlos very much, and he was looking at
the coke, saying somethingto the effect that we've really hit the jackpot this
time. I'd really putit together."
Whereas George, however, had anticipated that the flightswould start right
away, the Colombians seemed to want to move alittle more slowly. "I had
sent Frank down there to start the airplanetrips, only Carlos switched it all
around. They had no concept ofairplane flights or major drug loads." Over
the telephone the con-versation had to be circumspect, but it boiled down to
the fact thatthe Colombians also didn't quite trust this gringo friend of
Carlos'syet. To front out a load of kilos, send them up to someone
they'dnever heard of, had no control over, maybe couldn't even find
ifsomething went wrong, that was far too big a gamble. So the deal,Frank
said, was to try a little bit at first, and see where that goes.Then maybe
they'd talk about airplanes.
Frank told George to call Carlos back the next day and settle thedetails
directly with him. This time George went to a pay phone. Itcost eighty
quarters to talk for three minutes to Carlos in Medellin.George was soon
keeping a little Tupperware container under theseat of his car filled with
$100 in coins—and the Drug EnforcementAdministration, the successor to
the U.S. Bureau of Narcotics andDangerous Drugs, was soon pegging
cocaine smugglers by how lowtheir pants were riding, or the little
pocketbooks or satchels they'dhave sitting by the pay phone. Carlos said the
plan was to smuggle
in fifteen kilos. Although certainly not a planeload, fifteen kilosrated as a
significant amount of cocaine back in 1976, $750,000worth, if it could be
moved for, say, $50,000 apiece. If, George wasthinking.
Carlos told George to go out and buy fifteen hard-shell suit-cases,
Samsonites, seven blue and eight red, one for each kilo.Then find two
people to act as couriers, to board a plane with halfthe suitcases and fly
down to the island of Antigua in theCaribbean, one of the Leeward Islands
in the Lesser Antilles, prop-erty of Great Britain. It was a popular resort,
with flights going inand out all the time. The Colombians Carlos was
dealing with hadmade several runs through Antigua and knew the lay of the
landthere. George was instructed to have the couriers check into thehotel,
where Carlos and Frank and an associate of Carlos's namedCesar Toban
would also be staying. After the couriers arrived, Car-los would come to
their room and replace the suitcases taken onthe flight down with ones he'd
brought from Medellin. The newsuitcases would also be blue and red
Samsonites, identical in everyrespect, except that the metal stripping around
the edge that heldin the plastic inner linings on each side would have been
removedand the linings lifted out. Underneath would be laid out a thinlayer
of cocaine, a half kilo on each side, one per suitcase. Carloswanted to hide
only a small amount of cocaine in each, so that withthe plastic liner fitted
back in place and the metal stripping refas-tened with rivets, it would be
difficult, even taking out all theclothes, to see or feel that there was
anything secreted between thetwo layers. Of course, the false-bottom trick
was not exactly astartlingly new ploy; it was well known to customs agents.
The triprequired a certain amount of performance art to attract the inspector's attention away from the luggage. The couriers should bewomen, welltanned, pretty, vacationing-schoolteacher types, witha lot of personality.
Their luggage should be packed to reflect thegreat week they'd had, filled
with resort clothes and souvenirs fromthe islands. Most important, the
couriers should be people who inno way felt frightened or uneasy about
what they were doing. Cus-toms agents possessed deers' noses when it
came to sniffing out aguilty conscience.
George had just the person in mind. Several weeks before, inthe Riverside
Bar in Weymouth, he'd taken up with a very lively,good-looking woman
named Betsy. She was twenty-eight and had
12 8 Blow
jet-black hair, electric-blue eyes, and a light complexion—unmistak-ably
Irish. She was also free, not tied down to a job. Her parents haddied the
year before in a head-on collision at the rotary in Orleans.She'd collected on
both insurance policies, coming out with$300,000, a lot of cash then, along
with their house in Weymouth,which was located, as it happened, on
Whitmans Pond, the oldspawning ground for the famous Weymouth
herring. And, more tothe point, along with her ail-American appearance,
Betsy was akleptomaniac, possessed of rock-steady nerves and a brazen
self-confidence. "I've seen her walk into a jewelry store and just mes-merize
them," George says. "She'd put on a ring or try on a neck-lace, looking right
at the clerk, and then say, 'Well, I'll think it over,'and walk out."
George broached the subject of the Antigua trip with her thesame day he
talked to Carlos. Betsy was sitting on a blanket watch-ing her ten-year-old
daughter, Lisa, playing softball at school. Withher was a friend of Betsy's
named Winny Polly, who by coincidencewas also Frank Shea's girlfriend.
George said he had a surprise forthem. How would they like to have an allexpenses-paid week'svacation in Antigua? They could go down, swim, eat,
stay in a fancyhotel, have a blast—all on him. All they had to do was bring
some-thing back for him, a few suitcases. What was in the suitcases?
Betsywanted to know. "Don't worry about it, it's nothing," George said."Just
drugs."
As it worked out, things couldn't have gone more smoothly.George drove
them to Logan Airport and helped them check thebags through, joking with
the clerk about how women could possi-bly fill up so many suitcases for
just a little vacation. Betsy andWinny flew down to Antigua, checked into
the hotel, and metFrank and Carlos and his friend Cesar who came from a
wealthyColombian family in the coffee business. A couple of days later
theycalled George to say Antigua was a tropical paradise and they
werehaving a terrific time. They'd been renting catamarans, doing thesamba
every night. Betsy especially liked Carlos's friend, Cesar, whowas slim,
bronzed, so gracious, and a great dancer—Was somethinggoing on there?
George wondered, but let it pass. Five days later hegot a call telling him
they were on their way home, and severalhours later they showed up at
Betsy's house having taken a bus downfrom Logan. What about the bags?
George asked. Oh, don't worry,they're safe, Betsy said. They didn't want to
bring eight pieces of
luggage down on the bus, so they'd checked the suitcases into sev-eral
lockers in the bus terminal in Boston.
The bus terminal in Boston? George nearly hit the roof. "I toldthem that
was an insane fucking thing to do. One thing you neverdo in the drug
business, you never, ever want to lose control. Aslong as you're in
possession of it, you always know what's going on.But once you lose sight
of it, you don't know what's happening.Three or four hundred thousand
dollars' worth of cocaine thatbelongs to someone else, that I could get killed
for if it's lost, andthey've left it sitting in the fucking bus terminal?! People
werealways breaking into those things, stealing shit, the police
makingrandom checks."
George took a now-contrite Betsy with him and drove rapidlyinto Boston to
pick up the bags, which were unmolested, it turnedout, and brought them
back to Betsy's bedroom. George took outtheir vacation clothes, and with a
screwdriver pried off the rivetsand lifted out the liners to see what they'd
brought. The cocaine layin the bottom underneath a layer of shelf paper and
stuck down withaluminum duct tape to keep it from shifting position. It was
glisten-ing white and flaky, sprinkled with clusters of crystals, or
rocks,which signaled a high level of purity. After opening up all the suitcases, George repacked the coke into one-pound packages, wrappedthem
with duct tape, then slipped them into heavy, waterproofMylar bags. After
dark he took them outside to a vacant lot belong-ing to the house next door
and stashed them inside one of severaldrainage pipes that lay in the weeds,
abandoned there after someconstruction work. One of the things he'd
learned from the jail-house lawyers at Danbury was to never stash drugs on
your ownproperty. That way, if the load is seized, the police will have a
hardtime proving the stuff belongs to you. The following day, thewomen
flew down to Antigua to pick up the rest.
For his part in arranging the transportation, George was to keepfive kilos
for himself, to sell for whatever he could get. He woulddeliver the
remaining ten kilos in Boston to Cesar Toban, whowould fly up from
Colombia, picking up Carlos's girlfriend on theway, a young CubanAmerican from New York City named JemelNacel, a student at the College
of the City of New York. Theywould call George to arrange the meeting.
While the girls were still down in Antigua, George put a quarterof an ounce
of the cocaine into a plastic bag and drove it to where
The Sad-Eyed Lady's speed dealer, Mr. T, lived in Hyannis. No onewas
home, so he slipped the bag under the rubber mat by the backdoor and
drove back to Betsy's house, a place he was now beginningto call home, at
last out from under the collective thumb of his par-ents. That night George
phoned him up. "I told him to look underthe mat, that he'd find a little
present there. See if he liked it andcall me back."
Mr. T had been dealing dope since 1970, after he got out of theU.S. Navy,
demobilized with some 500,000 other servicemen into ajob market, on the
Cape, at least, that was in a state of collapse. "Ispent six months on
unemployment," Mr. T recalls, "waiting forjobs in lines two blocks long in
the snow and slush in Hyannis,freezing my fucking ass off. So I started
dealing dope. I borrowedtwo hundred dollars from my mother and bought a
pound of pot,and made four hundred dollars' profit and had two ounces to
smokemyself. I said, 'Fuck off, Jack, this is it,' and that's how I began." As
ageneral-assignment drug dealer, never knowing what might comealong,
Mr. T had all the paraphernalia—the scales, the plastic bags,and also a "hot
box," which was used by the police and dealers alikefor testing out the
quality of cocaine, along with certain other drugs.By putting a small amount
of the cocaine onto a two-inch-squarehot plate, then gradually turning up
the heat as measured by a ther-mometer attached to the top of the box, one
can find out what thetemperature is precisely at the moment the crystal
substance on thehot plate begins to melt. Lab-pure cocaine hydrochloride,
without atrace of imperfection—something almost impossible to
achieveunder the conditions in the processing plants in the Colombian jungle—melts at 195 degrees centigrade. The stuff it's cut with—man-nite,
quinine, lactose, or Methedrine—all melt at much lower tem-peratures,
from 105 degrees for quinine, for instance, to 166degrees for mannite.
Street coke that's heavily cut, or stepped-on, inthe parlance of the trade,
might start melting at temperatures in thelow 100s. The high-grade powder
registers in the 160s and upper-170s.
Mr. T placed a smidgen of George's coke on his hot plate andbegan
applying the heat. It got hotter and hotter, and hotter still asthe mercury in
the glass climbed past 165, past 170, past 175. Jesus!Past 180. Past 185.
When the cocaine finally began to dribble offthe hot plate and melt away,
the thermometer had hit a temperatureof 187 degrees.
George got the callback in about fifteen minutes. Mr. T seemedto have
difficulty holding on to his cool. "His voice was higher thanusual and he
said: 'Holy shit, where'd you get this stuff?'"
"That was when I knew we really had something."
After Betsy and Winny returned with the rest of the coke,George started
fronting his share of the kilos to Mr. T, a kilo at atime. Mr. T put on a little
cut, not too much, since they bothwanted to market a premium-grade
product, then packaged it intoone-ounce bags, which he sold to smaller
dealers up and down theCape. As Mr. T got paid, he paid George, at the rate
of $47,000 akilo, more than George had hoped for. George also unloaded a
cou-ple of kilos to a dealer in Cambridge named Louis, an Italianleathergoods importer he'd met at Danbury who had customersthroughout the
Northeast. One way or another, the five kilos van-ished in a week, and
George found himself in possession of$235,000 in cash.
While it was a pretty respectable return on a single run, the$235,000 rated
as pin money compared to the proceeds that wereheading his way in the
not-distant future, when so much greenwould be pouring in that he had to
store it in the hot-air ducts inBetsy's basement, cutting off the heat to parts
of the house so as notto singe his liquid assets. Later on the cash would be
lining the verywalls of his house, dug into the floor of his basement, stuffed
intohollowed-out air-conditioning units. Condensed into denomina-tions of
fifties and one hundreds, however, the quarter million dol-lars fit nicely into
a compartment at the back of the top dresserdrawer in Betsy's bedroom. It
was easier for him to get at that way;he didn't have to keep people waiting
for their money while heexcused himself suddenly to go down to check out
the boiler. Thiswas also when he fell into a habit that lasted the rest of his
cocainedays, of slipping ten grand into the left inside pocket of his
jacketwhenever he had to leave the house. To buy things, sure, but notonly
for that. George had found little else that had ever given him agreater sense
of comfort or made the world seem more secure andwelcoming than just
feeling the presence of that packet of billspressing up next to his heart.
A few days later Jemel and Cesar called from Boston to arrangefor delivery
of the other ten kilos. George met them for lunch at theSheraton Hotel. He
told them to tell Carlos to keep it coming. Itlooked as if he could move a lot
of the product just on the Cape
alone, without even tapping his man in L.A. yet. Then would comethe real
money storm. They told him Carlos would be in touch,gave him a key to
the trunk of their car, and said good-bye. In theparking lot he took two
suitcases containing the kilos out of histrunk, put it in theirs, and drove back
to Weymouth.
Betsy and Winny received fifteen thousand dollars each for theirwork. He'd
never discussed any money with Frank, but on hisreturn to the States he
offered him twenty-five thousand dollars forhis part in the transaction.
Frank wasn't very happy with that.Twenty-five seemed pretty mean, he said,
considering the remuner-ation he could just imagine George was allowing
himself. Georgeinsisted that it was good money for the limited work Frank
haddone, which amounted to not much more than transmitting a cou-ple of
messages, and having a good time in the bargain, all paid for.Frank
grumbled more loudly and kept it up, until one day in the car,driving along
with George, Winny, Betsy, and Betsy's Lhasa apso,Toby, Shea began
whacking the little dog on the head when it gotinto a yapping fit. George
suddenly blew up. He threatened to beatthe shit out of Frank if he touched
the goddamn dog once more,then stopped the car and told him to get the
fuck out anyway, he wastired of all the bitching about the money. Frank
glared at him beforehe got out and stormed off. The two never saw each
other again,which was how George saved twenty-five thousand dollars. But
withFrank out of the picture, he felt the urgent need to find a pilot, tostop
this penny-ante suitcase stuff and start shifting the enterpriseinto a higher
gear.
On July Fourth weekend, 1976, the U.S. Bicentennial celebra-tions were in
full throttle, from atop Mars Hill in Maine, the pointwhere the dawn's early
light first graces the American coast, to thetown of George, in Washington
State, where the locals had baked asixty-square-foot cherry pie. During the
week-long celebration,New York and Boston each played host to the Tall
Ships, the fleet ofsquare-riggers that came from around the world to honor
the occa-sion, among them the steel-hulled Christian Radich from
Norway,with its figurehead of a woman in a full-length blue dress, and
theSangres II from Portugal, whose sails were emblazoned with theMaltese
Cross. Traveling from port to port, the ships cut throughthe Cape Cod Canal
rather than going around the tip at Province-town, and to watch them sail
by, so many yachts and powerboats
had jammed into Buzzards Bay that you could have practicallywalked
across the bay going from deck to deck.
One of these pleasure boats was a thirty-three-foot Egg
Harborsportfisherman belonging to a real estate developer who
specializedin constructing inexpensive houses known as half-Capes (they
hadonly a sleeping loft upstairs instead of the two bedrooms found inthe
traditional Cape). A partner of his, Teddy Fields, was also onboard that day.
So were George and Betsy. Teddy Fields had grownup across the street
from George on the Circle in Weymouth.Teddy's family had money. The
sons were sent off to private col-leges, and it was in their garage that
George first laid eyes on thePorsche. Fields was also one of the few
boyhood friends George hadkept up with after leaving Weymouth, and he
had stayed at Teddy'shouse in Cotuit, a little west of Hyannis, on occasions
when Georgewas down on the Cape on marijuana business. Flush with
proceedsfrom the recent suitcase trip, George had volunteered to bringalong
a dozen bottles of Dom Perignon, some iced caviar, and lob-sters. Besides
helping to honor the country's birthday, George wasthere to ask his friend
Teddy—since he knew everyone on theCape—where he might locate a
trustworthy pilot.
This was how George came to meet Barry Kane. Kane, a lawyer,was the
Chatham town counsel. Prematurely gray, suave-looking,and smoothmannered, he was sometimes referred to as the SilverFox. He'd grown up in
the Jamaica Plain section of Boston undermodest circumstances and had
had to borrow money to attendBoston College Law School, from which he
graduated in 1958.When he arrived on the Cape three years later with his
wife andtheir first baby, he was fourteen thousand dollars in debt and
atnight drove a cab in Boston to make ends meet. The next fifteenyears saw
him prosper from his law practice and from buying andselling real estate
during a time of rapid growth in the area. Alongwith property in Hyannis,
West Harwich, and South Yarmouth onthe Cape, Kane owned a ski place in
Mount Snow, Vermont, a con-dominium in Nassau in the Bahamas, a
Porsche, a Cadillac, and acommodious sailboat. He lived in a rambling
white-clapboard Vic-torian house, circa 1845, on Queen Anne Road, one of
the oldestand most exclusive parts of Chatham. Chatham itself was one of
theoldest and most exclusive towns on the Cape, its main street linedwith
sedate shops and outdoor cafes. The men of the town sportedblue blazers
and yellow trousers, the women wore pastel skirts,
13 4 Blow
clutching tony straw baskets handcrafted on Nantucket at six hun-dred
dollars a pop. Kane's wife, the daughter of William Moloney,M.D., a
professor at the Harvard Medical School, died of an over-dose of sleeping
pills in 1972. Her death, which left Barry with fivechildren to raise, was
ruled as accidental by the coroner, but it cre-ated a bitter dispute in the
family over who was ultimately to blame.At her funeral, according to a real
estate developer friend at thetime, the two sides of the family glared at each
other over the coffin.Dr. Moloney blamed Barry. He said his daughter had
died of a bro-ken heart because of Kane's more or less constant
philandering.
In the late 1960s Kane had taken up flying at the little Chathamairport,
where he kept a twin-engine Cessna 310. In 1975 he'dupgraded his rating to
commercial status, allowing him to carry pas-sengers and cargo, and he
regularly ferried his friends and girl-friends down to the Bahamas. The
developer friend says Kane spenta lot of time in the Bahamas and would
boast about the influentialcontacts he'd made in the islands. He also talked
about the fortunespeople there were making in the humming drug trade,
whose oper-ators used the islands as a stopping-off point for marijuana
andcocaine headed for the United States. "Barry loved money," thefriend
says, "and I think he thought there was a lot of money to bemade there, if
only he could figure a way to break into it." Kanenever told him in so many
words that he wanted to run drugs, butthere were certain things he'd say.
"One time we were on our waydown there, flying over Cape Hatteras off
North Carolina. He waslooking at the air charts, the radar vectors and all,
and he said, 'Youknow, there's a gap between the radar rings right here. You
couldslip in between them, never be detected, and get into the
countryillegally.' The other thing, he asked me once was did I know that
ofall the drugs smuggled into the country and the drug runners oper-ating
that only 5 percent of them ever got arrested?"
Barry also appeared to be in a bit of trouble. The very month hemet George
he was due up before the Massachusetts Board of BarOverseers, the group
that watches over lawyers' ethics, on a com-plaint by one of his clients that
Kane had fleeced him out of propertyhe'd put up as collateral for a loan. A
year later Kane would be pub-licly censored for the incident. But prior to
that, in his testimonybefore the board in July of 1976, he said his real estate
investmentswere in a precarious state and that his law business had actually
lostmoney in the two preceding years. He could use a piece of change.
Two days after their discussion on the boat, Fields accompaniedGeorge to
Barry Kane's law office, located in a shingled cottage on aquiet street on the
outskirts of Chatham. "I admit I felt a littleuptight about walking into a very
prominent lawyer's office and ask-ing if he wanted to smuggle cocaine,"
George says. After the intro-ductions, however, George came directly to the
point. "I told himthere was an opportunity for him to make several million
dollarstax-free. It would involve the use of his airplane. 'If you're not interested,' I said, 'I'll stop right here and walk out and not mention itagain. We'll
both forget this conversation ever took place.'"
"Don't leave, I'm interested," Barry said, hardly waiting forGeorge to finish.
"It's smuggling drugs we're talking about, right?"
"He then went on to tell me he had a place in the Bahamas, thathe knew
certain people down there, Nigel Bowe, a prominentlawyer who would be
helpful, and we could do it like this and he hada plane. . .'."
Kane jumped on the deal so fast it took George aback. He feltcompelled to
give him some kind of warning. "I said, 'Look, you'rea lawyer, this is
against the law, all the penalties. If you say no, I'llwalk out of here right
now and forget the whole thing, we never meteach other. It'll be over.' But
he started quoting me the rangebetween Medellin and the Bahamas as the
crow flies, saying he'dhave to get back to me on the precise mileage, 'But
we can stopovernight at Nassau. I can use the Bahamas as a base, fly the
stuffinto the States from there.' He mentioned somewhere in the Car-olinas.
I was obviously talking to a guy who, if he hadn't actuallydone this before,
had given it an awful lot of thought."
They agreed that Kane would do the runs. That summer hewould have to
work out a way to extend the range of his aircraft andcheck into getting
some additional navigational aids. George busiedhimself with increasing his
financial security with more small-scaletrips, picking up the loads in
Queens, New York, from Jemel, now aregular courier—not quite the
mountain of money he was planningon, but averaging about fifty thousand
dollars a month, enough forstarters. To deliver the goods to Mr. T, he'd buy
thirty-two-ouncejars of Coffee-mate, steam off the paper seal underneath
the cap,and fill them up with cocaine, just a little short of a kilo, then
gluethe seal back on. He'd stick the jar into a bag of groceries, alongwith
Wheaties, Dipsy Doodles, eggs, and a can of Dinty Moore's. Afriend of
Betsy's, Courtney, a welder by trade with a wife and several
13 6 HI
children who earned extra money from George doing drug errands,would
meet George at a bar in Weymouth. George would handover the bag of
groceries, which Courtney took out and put in thetrunk of a car in the
parking lot that had been left there by Mr. T,who would come by later and
drive it off. On one occasion, after aspate of car thefts, two plainclothes
police officers were staking outthe parking lot and saw this guy doing
something funny with a bagof groceries, putting them in the trunk of one
car, getting intoanother one and driving away. When they stopped him,
Courtneystumbled a little at first, but recovered enough to say that this
buddyof his couldn't get off work and had asked him to pick up somethings
at the market, put the stuff in his trunk. Here, see? Wheaties,eggs, Coffeemate. Okay, the policemen said, have a good day.Drive carefully.
By now George felt he'd lived the monk's life long enough andcould begin
slowly unlimbering his talent for spending money. Allfor cash, since he
didn't want any records kept, he bought a snow-white Porsche 924 to
replace the one he'd had in California in hismarijuana days. For the trips to
New York he picked up a FordThunderbird, something more spacious. He
liked the Thunderbirdsbecause they were built on a Lincoln chassis, making
for an easyride, and had a powerful engine, which he fuel-injected by
havingblowers installed in the carburetor. He also bored and stroked
thecylinders to boost the compression ratio. To catch George now, apolice
officer would have to push his usual wreck of a cruiser up tosomewhere
over 140 miles an hour.
From talking to Carlos, which he did now about once a week,George also
saw that occasions were going soon to arise where he'dhave to attend
business meetings outside the country, and for thesehe'd need to equip
himself with false ID. Trips would certainly haveto be made to Medellin.
Already a meeting had been planned forToronto that fall to introduce Carlos
to Barry Kane. Toronto waschosen because Carlos could fly there under his
own name with nolegal problems. Also, according to the wisdom passed on
by jail-house lawyers at Danbury, talking with someone about drug smuggling in a foreign country made you arrest-proof on a conspiracycharge,
since the meetings could not be used as evidence in anAmerican court of
law. This bit of wisdom was dangerously incor-rect, as any criminal lawyer
could have advised. As long as the con-spiring was aimed at breaking laws
in the United States, it could be
carried on inside the dimly lit hut of a fakir on the banks of theGanges and
still be presented to an American jury. Talking inCanada, however, did lay a
veneer of secrecy over their impendingproject, making it distinctly unlikely
anyone would discover that theavailability of high-grade powder on the
East and West coasts wasabout to surge dramatically.
For his phony ID, George relied on the fact that local bureausof vital
statistics, the agencies that issue birth certificates, never inhis experience
bothered to note down alongside the name of some-one who was born
whether that person had also died. To get a birthcertificate, he simply filled
out a form in the name of someone onthe obit pages of the local paper, paid
five dollars—no identificationrequired—and walked out with the document
within fifteen min-utes. From that, he could get everything else he needed
—a voterregistration card, a library card. He'd apply for a Social
Securitycard, telling the lady he'd been working outside the country allthese
years and never had one. When he applied for a driver'slicense, he'd say
he'd lived in London since he was a little boy andhad always used public
transportation. Given the number of timeshe'd taken it, he had the
Massachusetts driving test fairly well mem-orized. George was careful in
applying for a U.S. passport, sinceconceivably one could have been issued
to his namesake before he'dpassed away, and for all George knew, the
normal waiting period oftwo weeks might entail a cross-check of the
records, which wouldreveal that this guy seemed to have changed a lot—
where'd he getall that hair? To cut down the risk, he'd purchase a round-trip
air-plane ticket to London, the flight leaving two days hence. Thenhe'd go
to the passport office with his driver's license and birth cer-tificate. He
would explain that his best friend had announced he wasgetting married in
two days and he had to get a passport quickly sohe could make it to the
ceremony. Seeing the evidence of the air-plane ticket, the agent invariably
would rush it through by the nextday, no problem.
In such a fashion, George raised from the dead DelbertLapham, Brian
Whittaker, and David Mahan. He'd garnish his offi-cial ID's with business
cards, giving himself a variety of occupations.At one point, after Barry
Kane had advised him to launder hismoney by buying gold and silver, he
handed out cards announcinghe was a precious-metals broker. He stayed in
that line of work forquite some time, until, on a flight to Los Angeles one
day, the man
13 8 UIow
next to him said, gee, what a coincidence, he was in the precious-metals
business, too. What did George think of the current market?That's when
George's migraine problem suddenly returned and hebegged off further
conversation. After that, George decided tobecome an out-of-work movie
actor.
That October, Kane landed his Cessna at the Norwood Airportnear
Weymouth to pick up George, and they headed up to Toronto,where they
met Carlos at the Holiday Inn at the airport. Carlosseemed genuinely
excited to see George again, in their first meetingsince April of 1975, a year
and a half before. They gave each othergreat hugs and did a lot of back
thumping. Carlos's face hadmatured, and he was no longer the scrawny kid
he was in prison. Hestill talked rapid-fire, brimming with enthusiasm.
"Bouncing off thewalls" was how George describes him. He was dressed in
a dark suitand tie, still very businesslike in his ways. An attache case
hadreplaced the cardboard file he'd carried around at Danbury fororganizing
the notes he made, the brochures he collected on differ-ent airplanes and
navigational equipment. He got on well withKane, partly because both of
them were detail men, absorbed by thefacts and figures, whereas George
stuck to the big picture. Carlostook elaborate notes as Barry gave him a tour
of the plane andticked off its vital statistics. Fuel capacity for the Cessna
310-R wasjust over two hundred gallons, including what was in the little
tor-pedolike tip tanks attached to the ends of the wings. It could do
165knots. Leaning out the fuel mixture to 65 percent, this meant itcould
cruise an hour on twenty-eight gallons, which gave it a rangeof just over
thirteen hundred miles.
As Carlos had earlier explained, the cocaine would be packagedin kilo-size
bricks, wrapped with cellophane and duct tape, andtwenty-five of these
would be packed into a rubberized sack the sizeof an army duffel bag. The
Cessna had a cargo weight capacity offourteen hundred pounds, but in cubic
feet the space would be verytight. Kane thought if he removed the two
passenger seats, leavingonly those for the pilot and copilot, he could fit in
as many as ten ortwelve duffel bags, as much as 300 kilos' worth, or 660
pounds.
The planned airlift of 100 percent pure coke was a feat thatwould generate
an astounding amount of money, even by today'sstandards. At the going
retail price of $100 a gram, and figuring anaverage cut of just two to one, a
single kilo of imported cokeamounted to three thousand grams of retail
product, which would
bring in $300,000 in sales. This meant Barry's airplane trip wouldproduce
approximately $90 million in eventual revenue. And toGeorge, this was just
the maiden voyage. He was already badgeringCarlos to get his compadres
down there in the forests of Colombiaorganized, so by the time the
machinery was humming in the States,with more planes, more pilots, and
more places to land, they couldaverage a trip like this once a month—why
not?—and bring in morethan $1 billion worth of cocaine a year.
As transporters rather than actual dealers, of course, George andCarlos and
Barry would get to share in only a relatively small por-tion of these sales
figures. This was perfectly okay with George. Ashe often repeated, it was
better to let someone else take the risk,have the headaches selling the stuff;
that's where you got caught. Ofcourse, he himself was wholesaling then,
with Mr. T, but that wasjust to generate the start-up cash. Once things
developed, hewanted to cut that off. He would do the pilots and the
planes,arrange the trips, see to it that the goods were flown safely out
ofColombia and delivered inside the United States to whomever
andwherever the Colombians designated. This service would pay
wellenough. For the first run, Carlos had already gotten his
Colombiancontacts to agree to pay $10,000 a kilo—$3 million. Barry said
hewanted $1.8 million of this. Not only was he doing most of thework, and
doing it with his own plane, but, as he was shortly toexplain, there were
expenses he'd incur, people to hire, officials topay off. For their part,
George and Carlos agreed to split the rest,which added up to $600,000 each,
for essentially making somephone calls and organizing a few meetings.
This was 1976, whenthat sum would buy sixty BMW's down at TransAtlantic Motors inHyannis, when someone with a million dollars could say
legiti-mately that he was independently wealthy. George saw his
motorsailer gliding into view, the beaches and cafes of the Costa del Solfast
taking shape on his horizon.
To get the kilos, Carlos said, Kane would have to fly down to anairstrip
located on a certain ranch owned by an acquaintance of hisoutside
Medellfn. The airstrip was five thousand feet long and hadbeen built for the
planes bringing in coca paste from Bolivia andPeru. Accommodations
would be provided for spending the night,meaning Barry could fly in one
day, load up and take off the next.Carlos would supply him with a
Colombian national who knewwhere the field was and would fly down with
him to help find it.
1 4 O B 1
Regarding the flying part, Kane foresaw a number of interre-lated problems
here, none of which couldn't be solved with carefulplanning and money—
mostly the latter. One way to go was simplyto fly the cocaine straight from
Medellin into somewhere in theUnited States on a straight shot. But the
distance involved was toolong, about fifteen hundred miles to the tip of
Florida, and thenthere would be only a limited number of landing strips to
choosefrom. Florida was also where the DEA expected drugs to come
in.What you wanted to do was to land the plane at someplace in theinterior
of the country, where the authorities didn't know from drugflights. For this
reason, he proposed using the Bahamas, where hehad contacts, as a
transshipment point. He'd fly down to Nassaufrom the Cape. Then, on a
Friday night, the start of the weekendair-traffic jam, he'd file a flight plan
with the tower saying he washeading for one of the other islands, but
instead he would godirectly to Medellin. He'd land, load up the plane, and
return toNassau on Saturday. Kane had a friend in Nassau named
NigelBowe, a lawyer who knew everyone in the Bahamas, from
PrimeMinister Lynden Pindling and the defense minister to the head ofstate
security and all the high police officials. (The file on Bowe'sinvolvement in
the drug trade would soon be filling up severaldrawers in the DEA office in
Miami.) By knowing Bowe and payingsome money, Kane could manage to
park the plane on the runwayin Nassau, leave it there overnight filled with
cocaine, and fly outthe next day. No one would bother it.
Only one hundred eighty miles separate Nassau from the UnitedStates. On
Sunday afternoon Kane would take off amid the hordes ofmom-and-pop
flights headed back to Florida at the end of the week-end. Just as he neared
the coast, he'd make an abrupt right-handturn, drop down to the deck, 100
yards off the ocean, below radarrange, and fly north toward Cape Hatteras,
toward that open win-dow he'd shown his developer pal on the radar maps.
From therehe'd fly inland to the Piedmont area of North Carolina, where
hewould have arranged to land at a private airfield. The duffel bagswould
be transferred from the plane to a vehicle of some kind anddriven down to
George and Carlos in Miami. They would then beresponsible for delivering
the goods to the recipient designated bythe Colombians, and getting paid—
especially getting paid.
The only problem seemed to be the range of Kane's airplane,which, as it
stood now, couldn't quite make it. From Medellin to
Nassau was a little more than thirteen hundred miles as the crowflies—
which meant flying straight over central Cuba, not a goodidea unless you
didn't mind getting shot out of the air. Allowing theplane to circumvent
Cuba, taking it just to the east of the Guanta-namo naval base, would add
over a hundred miles to the run. SoKane needed to expand his plane's fuel
capacity. Drug pilots ofteninstalled "bladder" tanks—inflatable rubberized
tanks fitted into theinterior cargo area—to disguise how far their planes
could really fly;"a little extra for the wife and kids," the expression ran. But
bladdertanks, because they were undetectable from the outside, maskingthe
plane's true range, were against the law. They violated the rulesof the
Federal Aviation Administration that set up strict limits onfuel capacity for
the various types of aircraft, partly to inhibit smug-gling. To add legal range
you had to get special permission, but thenthe narcs would know about it.
But Barry didn't want bladder tanksanyway because they took up too much
space when filled, meaninghe would have to leave some of the cocaine
behind. A better idea, hesaid, was to install saddle tanks, specially built into
the fuselage ofthe aircraft. These were expensive. But not only would they
disguisethe plane's range should some DEA type be snooping around
theairport at Nassau, they also would take up no additional cargoroom.
Kane also said he wanted a marine loran. Developed by the mili-tary and
regarded as a breakthrough in navigational aids, a loran wasan instrument
about the size of a modern lap-top computer thatwould allow him to punch
in the coordinates of the landing stripoutside Medellfn, its latitude and
longitude, and then keep him oncourse once he got in the air. Using radio
beacons as a fix, the lorancould put you down within fifteen feet of
anywhere you wanted togo on the globe—"Find you a toilet seat in
Bogota," as one drugpilot put it. It could even help you land at night, with
just a flash-light to show where the runway turned into jungle. But that's
whythe Colombian was coming along, Carlos reminded him—to showhim
how to get there. The Colombian was okay, Barry said, buthe'd rely on
himself, thanks.
With one thing and another, Kane figured he could get theplane ready for
fifty thousand dollars, up front. No problem, Carlostold him, and promptly
wrote out a check on Barclay's Bank, tocash. The meeting over, Barry
declined the invitation to stay aroundto see the sights of Toronto, have some
fun. Business and pleasure
didn't mix with him, he said. Approximately three hours after he'darrived,
Kane had the plane back in the air and was winging his wayhome to
Chatham.
Back living with Betsy in Weymouth—for parole needs, he stilllisted his
parents' address as his own—George spent that fall feelinggenerally
exuberant over his prospects, even trying in his own fash-ion to patch up
some of the fences he'd smashed. He left an enve-lope at the Sad-Eyed
Lady's with the ten thousand dollars he owedher for the fishing-boat fiasco;
maybe she'd lighten up the curseshe'd put on him. He also tried to get his
father fixed up in a cushypolitical job. Ever since his stroke when George
was a high schooljunior, Fred had been working half-days as groundskeeper
at theMount Hope Cemetery in Weymouth, never feeling great about it.One
night at a bar George ran into a classmate of his from highschool, a
contractor who had gone into politics and got himselfelected as a town
selectman. During the conversation Georgelearned that the job of
commissioner of cemeteries for the town hadcome open, a political plum
that paid pretty well for not a lot ofwork; there was some prestige in it, too.
How much would it take toland that for his old man, George wanted to
know. The selectmanthought twenty thousand would just about do it. He'd
have the cashready tomorrow, George said. "This guy then called up my
fatherand offered him the job. But Fred said he didn't want it. I thinkmaybe
he sensed something was wrong. Fred never took a nickelfrom anybody in
his life without working for it."
Now that he didn't have to live with his mother, George eventried to smooth
things over with Ermine. While his parents wereaway for a week visiting
Marie and Otis in Indiana, he hired Court-ney and his son to gut the family
kitchen and replace all the cabinetsand appliances. They installed walnut
paneling, olive carpeting tomatch the new cabinets, a stainless-steel sink, a
self-cleaning electricoven, and a frost-free refrigerator. When his mother
returned, shetold George she loved it, waxing very enthusiastic even over
thecolor scheme. His father didn't say much directly, but Georgelearned that
he'd resented the intrusion. If Ermine really wantedone, it was his
prerogative to provide her a new kitchen, whicheveryone knew he couldn't
afford. All his father said to George wasthat the kitchen was nice, but he
liked the old refrigerator better.
It was at about this time that Carlos's behavior started becoming
somewhat aberrant; he started screwing up in annoying ways thatthreatened
their impending enterprise. Although it was all George'scontacts they were
now exploiting in their common effort to trans-port the product into the
States and to sell it, George couldn't helpgetting the feeling he was regarded
ever so slightly as the juniorpartner in the arrangement. He still regarded
Carlos as a "brother,"but Carlos wasn't consulting him on every single
matter these days,and he'd begun to lurch about a little recklessly. First, the
$50,000check he'd so blithely written out to Barry Kane bounced. Kane
wassomeone they should avoid irritating at all costs. "Barry called meup
and said, 'Your friend Carlos's credibility on a scale of one to tenjust went
down to minus one.'" George apologized and told him tomeet him at the
Hilltop Steakhouse in Braintree, where he gave himan envelope containing
$25,000. Kane grudgingly accepted thelesser amount, since it just about
covered the loran and the gastanks. After that Carlos got himself arrested
down in Colombia in acar-smuggling incident. This came in the middle of
another suitcasetrip they were running through Caracas, Venezuela, which
had tobe aborted, losing them $400,000 in potential sales and
costingGeorge another $20,000 or so in expenses. All over a car!
Georgewas really pissed at that one.
Then came the little episode with the police dogs, with Carlosrunning for
his life through the snowbound woods of northern Ver-mont.
It began in February of 1977; Carlos had gotten out of jail onthe carsmuggling charge and had called George to meet him at theHoliday Inn in
Toronto—he had news that might cheer George up.There were fifty kilos
waiting at a house in Miami. He wantedGeorge to go down and pick it up
and bring it up north. Carloswould slip over the border into the States and
be waiting for him atthe Hyatt Regency Hotel in Cambridge. They didn't
discuss whatexactly would happen next, but George assumed he'd be paid
withat least five of the kilos to sell through Mr. T and Louis, the
leatherimporter, and install an extra quarter-million in the heating ducts
inBetsy's basement. The new money had a mollifying effect, andGeorge and
Carlos spent a couple of days in Toronto talking overplans. In George's
presence, Carlos made several calls down toColombia, conversing with
someone in obviously deferential tones,the conversation always being a
little one-sided. "Si, padrone. Si, si,padrone,'" Carlos would say. He never
said who was on the line, but
14 4 Blow
George assumed it was the Big Man, the source of the voluminousamount
of product they'd shortly begin winging in.
Life with Carlos proved to be not much fun. He'd come downfrom his hotel
room to eat his meals, but he didn't drink and most ofthe time stayed up
there poring obsessively over the piles of maga-zines and brochures he'd
collect on airplanes and cars and trucks.Or he'd wander around the airport
talking to airplane dealers, stopat Chevrolet lots to look over those infernal
Chevy Blazers hecouldn't get enough of. "Carlos began driving me nuts up
there withthe airplanes and Blazers, talking about the same thing over
andover: 'It's got this range to it and this much cargo space and we canget
this one here, and I've got all the statistics.' 'Look, Carlos,' I'dsay. 'In
America you do business and then you take time out, youlive your life.' He
had a real German mentality." At night Georgehad to go out to the bars by
himself, not that this posed a greathardship. "Canadian women seemed very
loose to me. It was, youtalked to them, you had money and dressed well,
you got laid."
One night, about one or two in the morning, Carlos calledGeorge to his
room. "He was sitting on the bed, and he said, 'Ithink I'm going to marry
Jemel. What do you think about it?' I saidI thought it was a wonderful idea.
She was a beautiful youngwoman, a very nice girl. 'I think you would be a
wonderful couple.'"Carlos meant right away. He immediately called Jemel
in New York,she flew up the next day, and, after getting the blood tests and
thepapers signed, the three drove to the outskirts of Toronto to a jus-tice of
the peace, an elderly man who had a chapel rigged up in apaneled room in
his basement. He put out the bouquet of flowersGeorge had brought on the
makeshift altar, cranked upMendelssohn's "Wedding March" on a record
player, and withGeorge and the justice's wife witnessing the event, Carlos
and Jemeltied the knot. Two hours later the happy couple drove to
Montrealfor their honeymoon, and George flew off to see about picking
upthe cocaine.
Always a little edgy about his phony passport—George, nowbriefly Brian
Whittaker—took the precaution of flying home fromCanada aboard Bar
Harbor Airlines, clearing customs at Bangor,Maine, where travelers weren't
burdened by too much scrutiny."They had a little guy in a red-and-black
checked hunting capwho'd come out and say, 'Everybody here American?
Got anythingto declare? No? Okay. Good-bye."' For the trip to Florida,
how-
ever, George thought it best to travel as a family man. Betsy wouldcome
along as his wife, her daughter, Lisa, as his little girl, andBetsy's friend,
Kathy, a student at Northeastern, to provide addi-tional domestic ambience.
Actually, relations in George's little fam-ily had been slightly strained
recently, it having come out that hissuspicions about Betsy and Carlos's
friend Cesar Toban had beencorrect—she had slept with him on that trip to
Antigua. Georgehardly qualified as Mr. Constancy himself, of course,
having sleptwith Betsy's friend, Kathy, as well as Lorraine, his courier on
theaborted Caracas run, two other women friends he saw in Bostonwhen
business took him there, and, in a moment of real weakness,Courtney's
fifteen-year-old daughter, who confided the matter toBetsy's daughter, who
informed Betsy that George was a childmolester. George had arrived home
that day to find two largegarbage bags lying out in the middle of the
driveway; they con-tained all his clothes, cut up into thin strips. That was
the same dayBetsy chose to tell him about her liaison with Cesar, and
Georgeelected not to make a very big issue of it, considering. As it was
hespent a few days at Teddy Fields's place before an uneasy
peacedescended on his household.
In Miami Beach he put everybody up at the FontainebleauHotel, and while
the females hung out at the pool, George took acab to a complex of garden
apartments about fifteen minutessouth of Miami, where Carlos had said a
guy was waiting with thefifty kilos. He represented himself to the cabbie as
a seashell col-lector from the Cape and told him the duffel bags he was
about tocollect were filled with rare shells from the Caribbean, very fragile. At the given address, George knocked at the door of aground-floor
apartment and told the man who answered thatCarlos had sent him. It's
about time, the guy said in a Spanishaccent; he was very angry, George
sensed. He'd been holding thisstuff for three weeks now. Where the hell had
Carlos been? Theygot the duffel bags from the bedroom, and as they lugged
themoutside the man asked where George's car was. He didn't have acar, he
said, he'd come by the cab over there, at the curb. "Hesaid, 'A cab? Are you
fucking crazy?' But I figured it was in broaddaylight, who'd think you were
doing anything wrong? My phi-losophy was always if you did stuff in the
open, right in front ofpeople, and you looked like whoever you were
supposed to be,you didn't have to worry about anything." The cabbie
opened his
146 Bl
trunk and helped George load in the bags carefully. They're veryexpensive,
George told him, don't slam the lid.
George and his "family" decided to stay on a few days to catchmore of the
Florida sun before heading back to the snow and slushof Massachusetts in
March. For the flight north, he transferred thekilos to four suitcases, which
he stashed in Betsy's basement, unbe-knownst to her, not bothering with
drainage pipes this time sincehe'd be turning them over so quickly to
Carlos. Four days later Car-los called from Canada. Jemel had gone back to
New York, he said,and he wanted to come down to pick up the load. George
said hewould send up Courtney and his daughter in Betsy's Oldsmobile
todrive Carlos from Montreal across the border. A teenage girl andher dad
and her dad's friend—George thought they'd have no trou-ble with customs.
Then two days later, on the night of Saint Patrick's Day, Court-ney's wife
pounded at Betsy's door in a state close to hysteria.Courtney had just called.
There was big trouble at the border.They'd searched the car and found
Carlos's passport and hisColombian money. They were holding Courtney in
custody. Car-los was gone. He'd run into the woods. Courtney said the
policewere chasing him with dogs.
Jesus, Carlos again! George first told her to calm down. Court-ney would be
all right, he assured her. They wouldn't find anythingin the car. George
promised to cover any legal expenses if there wastrouble. "What I'm really
thinking is the police now have Betsy's carwith her address on the
registration. They had the passport of amissing Colombian national who'd
been kicked out of the countryfor drugs. They're starting to put two and two
together, and here Iam sitting with my thumb up my ass and fifty kilos of
cocaine downin the basement." George told Betsy to take care of Courtney's
wife,that he'd be in touch, that he had to go, don't ask where. Within
fiveminutes he had the suitcases packed into the trunk of his Thunder-bird,
tore out of the driveway, and headed for the SoutheastExpressway toward
the Cape. Keeping the needle glued to thespeed limit, he arrived at Teddy
Fields's house in Cotuit, on Nan-tucket Sound, in less than an hour. He
asked Teddy if he could stay afew days and store his suitcases in the attic.
The only person he toldwhere he was was his mother, in case Jo-Anne, the
parole officer,chose this moment to spring a visit.
As it turned out, the customs people released Courtney later
that very day. After calling his house constantly, George finallyreached him
to get a little more of the story. They'd driven downfrom Montreal,
Courtney said, and had planned on crossing theborder into Vermont, just to
the east of Lake Champlain, north ofSt. Albans. Several hundred yards
before the checkpoint, Carlos hadsuddenly panicked and changed the plan.
He told Courtney to stopthe car, he didn't feel confident of making it
through customs. Theroadway there ran through a dense patch of forest, and
Carlos saidhe'd rather cut through the woods and meet Courtney on the
high-way about a mile on the other side of the border. But it was
snowingout, and cold, Courtney said, all Carlos had on were street shoes.
Itwasn't all that far, Carlos said. Don't worry. Promising he'd see himin a bit,
he walked off into the woods.
For reasons Courtney couldn't figure out, maybe just his nervesshowing
through, the inspectors on the U.S. side ordered them outof the car and
proceeded to do a full-scale search. It didn't take longbefore they'd run
across a number of discoveries striking them asexceedingly odd. Courtney's
and his daughter's suitcases seemed inorder, but there was this other
suitcase, filled with a man's clothes.There was a Colombian passport in the
name of a Carlos Lehder,and about twenty thousand dollars in Colombian
currency. Whatthe hell was this all about? Courtney answered that about ten
milesback he'd picked up this hitchhiker, who just before they reachedthe
border asked to be let out of the car and took off into the woods.Courtney
didn't know who the guy was or what he was doing, didn'tcare to get
involved, either. Maybe the guy just forgot his suitcase,or didn't want it,
Courtney said. Didn't want his passport? Forgothis twenty thousand dollars?
About now the teletype came throughwith the information that this Lehder
character was a convictedfelon and had been deported the previous year for
a drug offense.Illegal alien? Drugs? This was when the customs agents put
in a callfor the dogs, Courtney said, and organized a search party to go
intothe woods. He and his daughter were released after about an hour,and
he drove home. That's all he knew.
George waited a couple of days more at Teddy Fields's, checkingin with
Betsy to see if any message had come in from Carlos. Whennothing
happened, he sat down and did some serious thinking. For-get the running
around in the woods like an asshole, Carlos alsoseemed to be in some kind
of deep shit with this kilo deal. If thatColombian down in Florida was
pissed off at having to hold the
14 8 B1.
goods for three extra weeks while Carlos went tripping off on ahoneymoon,
there had to be other people now also waiting aroundeven more pissed off,
other Colombians in Boston or maybe NewYork, the people the kilos were
being delivered to. Carlos was thetransporter. These guys were the owners.
Certainly they'd be just atad anxious to know where over $2 million worth
of cocaine, whole-sale price, had gone to.
"I suddenly saw how this could be great for me, really help meget my foot
in the door," George says. "I mean, here I had morethan $2 million worth of
cocaine. I could have just disappeared withit, especially if Carlos was
arrested, because right now he was theonly one who knew I had it. Just take
off and go to Australia, downto Mexico. How would they ever find me? But
if I was honest aboutit when I didn't have to be honest, then the Colombians
would startseeing me as trustworthy. So, I said, 'You're not just looking at
$2million here. What you're looking at is $200 million!'" Thus it hap-pened
that George resolved to unload the fifty kilos himself, collectthe money,
turn it over to the Colombians, and save the day.
Not only would he save the day, but he figured he'd end up mak-ing a lot
more money on this deal than if Carlos were around. Afterall, he and Carlos
had never discussed what would happen to thekilos once he handed them
over. He'd get paid something for bring-ing them north, but he doubted it
would be more than 10 percent,the five kilos' worth. As it stood now, he
wasn't bound by any agree-ment. He could sell them for whatever he got,
give the Colombianswhatever he considered fair, set his own price
structure. Carlos fucksup, George pulls it off, who's in a position to
quibble?
The only person he knew who could possibly handle such alarge load and
do it fast, before people got really nervous, wasRichard Barile out in
Manhattan Beach. He had kept in touch withRichard, but vaguely, not really
thinking about using him untilthey'd launched the Barry Kane trip. He now
placed a call fromCotuit, and Richard told him things had picked up
considerablysince they'd last discussed the matter. "Things were happening
veryfast out there, he said. People really wanted it. He told me he
wasmoving all he could get his hands on but he just didn't have
enoughsupply. I said, 'Look, Richard, don't ask questions. I've got what
youwant, and I've got a lot of it. I'm on my way out. I want you to meetthe
plane, and I want you to be driving a car that has a big trunk."
When he landed at Los Angeles International Airport, it was
.
Cape Cod (1975-1976) 149
very early in the morning, still dark. Richard was there to meet himin a
Cadillac Eldorado. He remembers that Bob Seger was singing"Night
Moves" on the radio. They drove directly to Richard's housein Redondo
Beach and took the suitcases into one of the bedrooms."He had a hot box in
there to test it out. But when I undid a pack-age, he forgot about it. The
coke was all shiny and flaky, like freshsnow with the moonlight on it. It
doesn't have that gleam anymoreif it's cut. All he had to do was take a little
snort, and he said, 'JesusChrist, this stuff is high-test! Where'd you get it?'
Don't worry, thisis only the beginning, I told him. There was a lot more of
it. I wasgoing to get him thousands of kilos. I was going to fill the
goddamnColiseum with the stuff."
It took Richard five days to unload the fifty kilos. He returnedlate every
night with wads of fifties and one hundreds, whichGeorge counted
methodically and stacked into piles of $10,000,each of which he wrapped
with a rubber band. For security reasons,Richard didn't want George to
leave the house. He'd get him hisnewspapers and some magazines, and
George was free to soak in thehot tub out back, watch TV, look at the moon;
Richard even offeredto get him some women if he wanted, but he had to
stay at thehouse. As long as he kept George's presence secret, Richard
couldmaintain a lock on this veritable fountain of cocaine. Once the
wordgot out, it would be hard to keep the vultures away. The days wentby,
the money came in. By the end of the week it lay all over thewaterbed, all
over the floor, piled up on the dresser, on the chairs,on the night stands,
falling off the TV set—a total of $2.35 million.George had been literally
sleeping and waking up with it for nearlya week now, but the sight of all
that assembled cash still did some-thing funny to his stomach.
Wasting no time, they packed it up as soon as the last hundredwas counted,
fitted it into a couple of aluminum camera cases, andheaded for the airport.
Richard came along on the plane to helpwith the bags, each of which
contained more than a million dollars.During the X-ray session at the
United Airlines check-in gate, thewoman on the security detail took note of
the baggage going by onher screen, told George only slightly under her
breath: "Jeez, youguys have a lot of bread!"
"This about made Richard shit in his pants," George says. "Itold her don't be
too loud about it. We were couriers for a bank andthis was a transfer of
liquid funds."
1 50
Bl
Richard spent most of the six-hour return flight worrying abouthow many
policemen would be waiting for them at Logan Airport.George gave that
some thought himself, until he'd consumed aboutfive little airplane bottles
of Scotch, and the fear faded into the mistof alcohol. They met with no
trouble back in Boston. Once the bagswere packed into the Thunderbird,
Richard shook George's hand,told him Don't be a stranger, now, and headed
back to the WestCoast. George drove down to Cotuit, to Teddy's house,
where hewent up the little ladder to the attic and put the camera cases in
diesame eaves where he'd kept the coke. When Teddy heard about thecases,
he asked if he could go up and open one of them and take alook. Look, yes,
George said.
There had been no word about Carlos. Two days later George'smother
called. "She told me there was a nice young man and hisvery pretty wife
who had come by the house to see me, said theywere good friends of mine.
Very polite, she said. It was, 'Yes, Mrs.Jung. Thank you, Mrs. Jung.'" Which
was the first George heardthat his partner had made it safely through the
woods.
SEVEN
IHiaitii
1977
/ was the one who had the cocaine. There was no getting it except from me.
If Ididn V like you, then Fd stop supplying you and Pd give it to the guy
you wereselling it to. Pretty soon he'd be selling to you and your customers.
So all of asudden, instead of being King Shit, you 're a piece of shit. At one
time I couldmake you and break you.
—Richard Barile, Los Angeles cocaine dealer
The year 1977 proved notable for several reasons in additionto George's
arrival as a key player in the cocaine business. ElvisPresley, age forty-two,
died of heart failure while sitting on the toi-let at Graceland, his estate in
Memphis, Tennessee. Gary Gilmorewas executed in Salt Lake City, Utah,
after urging the firing squad,"Let's do it." The police tracked down David
Berkowitz, the "Son-of-Sam" killer, at his home in Yonkers, New York.
"Well, you've gotme," he told them. Star Wars and Saturday Night Fever
rated as thebig movies that year, with "Roots" breaking all viewing records
onTV. And President Jimmy Carter, sworn into office in January, wasurging
Americans to cut down on their use of gasoline and pledgedhis
administration to respond to the energy crisis with the "moralequivalent of
war."
Talking to Carlos over the telephone, George detected a clearnote of relief
in his voice after he heard that the load had been sold
and the money was safe and sound. George told him he'd decidedthe split
would be $37,000 per kilo for Carlos and the Colombians,which came out
to $1.85 million, with George taking $500,000 forhimself, for all the
worrying and schlepping he'd done. Carlosseemed more than agreeable, and
they arranged to meet at theHyatt Regency in Cambridge, where Carlos and
Jemel were stay-ing, to transfer the proceeds. By the time George arrived at
thehotel, Carlos had regained his old cockiness. Far from apologizingfor the
jeopardy he'd put everyone in, he tossed it off as a splendidadventure.
He told Geroge that after leaving Courtney and the car, Carloshad skirted
the customs checkpoint and was waiting in the trees justoff the road about a
half mile south of the border to be picked up.When Courtney failed to show,
and then when the noise of bayinghounds reached his ears, Carlos guessed
what had happened and ranback into the forest, trying to make his way
south while staying par-allel with the road so as not to become lost. By now
the short north-ern day had given way to night, and it grew much colder, the
snowfalling heavily, which was bad enough for Carlos but which
alsohampered the search party and reduced the dogs' ability to followhis
scent. Pretty soon the barking receded and then died out, and hewas alone in
the forest. For hours, it seemed to him, Carlos stum-bled blindly through the
snow, falling into bogs, the tree branchestearing at his pants and overcoat.
He could no longer detect anyfeeling in his feet. Lacking shelter or any
means of lighting a fire, hebegan seriously to wonder whether he'd survive
the night. Suddenlyhe saw a distant light glimmering through the trees,
which turnedout to be a house alongside the road. Knocking at the door,
heencountered an elderly woman. He told her his car had brokendown a
mile or so back, and asked if he could use her phone to call acab to take him
to the nearest motel. A cab in northern Vermont? Atthis hour? Not likely,
she said. Such a nice young man, why didn'the stay at her house for the
night? She had an extra room. He coulddry out his clothes, she'd give him
something to eat, and he couldsort out things in the morning. Exhausted
from his ordeal, Carloshardly needed persuading. So at about the same time
Courtney wasbeing released from custody at the border, phoning his wife to
passon to George the alarming details of what had occurred, Carlos
wasalready tucked into a safe, warm bed, with a bowl of hot soup underhis
belt and his clothes drying on a radiator. The next day he caught
a bus and made his way down to New York City, where he stayed afew days
with Jemel and called around to find out what might havehappened with
George—and, more importantly, the kilos. When noone at Betsy's house
knew where he'd gone, Carlos set out for Wey-mouth, knowing that he
could be in some serious trouble here if hedidn't recover the load.
For the number of kilos involved, for the rapid turnaround, andfor the
amount of money he brought back, George's trip to theWest Coast had
opened up eyes wide indeed down in Medellin.With one trip he'd found
them probably the most important con-tact they'd had to date, delivered the
goods without a hitch, andalong with the riches, returned with the message
that this was onlythe beginning, that this friend in L.A. was able to handle
all theycould ship. And George had also found them Barry Kane, who atthat
very moment was readying his plane for the task of flying ingreater loads.
"It was obvious from the way Carlos was acting thatsuddenly I was the
prize," George says. "They had been dealingmostly with their own people,
never with gringos before. Theydidn't know things like Hollywood even
existed until I came along.Now they started treating me like the golden
goose."
The Colombians urged George to move down to Miami imme-diately and
wanted to supply him with as much cocaine as theycould—by boat, by
mules, however they could smuggle it in—andhave him transport the loads
to his contact on the West Coast on aregular basis. They planned to start
shipping in May. George wouldbe paid five to ten thousand dollars for
every kilo, and they hoped tobe moving between fifty and a hundred kilos
every week. Then, bythe end of the summer, Kane's operation would be
ready to go.
Late that April Carlos brought his whole family up to the Capefor a visit—
Jemel, his brother Guillermo, and his mother, SenoraRivas, who now
needed a cane to get around with. George put themup at Dunfey's Hotel, the
famous Hyannis hostelry, and squiredthem around for a week to all the
sights. They ate at Baxter's at thesteamship landing, where the ferries left
for Nantucket and Martha'sVineyard, went out to the section of Hyannisport
where you couldpeer over the fence and see some of the houses in the
Kennedy com-pound. They drove to Provincetown, "P-town" to the locals,
whereGeorge introduced them to the New England variety of lobster,
withthe claws, showing how to insert a fork into the tail and lever out
thewhole section in one deft movement. He took them out to Race
Point, to look out over the Atlantic Ocean from atop the three-hun-dredfoot-high bluff he and Malcolm MacGregor used to ride downthe face of in
an aluminum canoe when they were teenagers. On thetrip back he stopped
off at Chatham to show them where Barry Kanelived. The Colombians had
been a little uneasy about Kane in thebeginning, as they were where any
gringos were concerned; and herethey were trusting someone they'd never
dealt with before to take offwith ninety-odd million dollars' worth, retail, of
their cocaine andnot disappear with it into the wild blue. George had eased
theirminds on this score by asking Kane to bring him over to his
house,show him family photos, snapshots of the people near and dear
tohim. As they would soon demonstrate to the world, the Colombianshad
little compunction when it came to dealing harshly with theimmediate
relatives of those who betrayed them, no matter what theage or sex. Kane's
wife had died, George knew, but he did have hisfive children, whose
pictures George demanded to see; he also madea point of learning the
names of the prep schools they attended."Three hundred kilos was an awful
lot of cocaine to trust to astranger," says George. "They wanted some kind
of hook in him."
Predictably, about a week was all Carlos could take of the touristbit, after
which he sent his family back to New York, while he stayedaround planning
things with George and making more of thosedamn visits to local airports.
After leaving the one in Hyannis, Carlosasked George to drive into TransAtlantic Motors, the BMW dealer-ship nearby. He wanted to look over the
cars. "We walked in and thesales manager came over thinking we were your
typical people justbrowsing, and asked if he could help us. Carlos pointed
to a blackone, a 318i, and said he wanted that one, how much was it? They
guysaid something like eleven thousand, and Carlos pulled this brownpaper
bag out of his pocket. 'Here,' he said, and peeled off themoney—he must
have had fifty or sixty thousand in there—and putthe rest back in his
pocket. The guy's teeth almost fell out." As themanager fell all over himself
trying to get the car ready by that after-noon, Carlos asked if there was also
a Datsun dealer in town. Jemelneeded a 280Z to drive. George seized him
by the arm and took himaside, told him to cool it, for Christ's sake. Didn't
he ever learn? "Itold him, 'You're an illegal alien, they've got your passport
sitting atthe border. Don't you think that son of a bitch is going to
rememberthis day the rest of his life? And remember you, too? I mean,
eventhe Kennedys don't walk in and do something like that.'"
Managing to quash at least the Datsun purchase, George tookCarlos the
following day, their last on the Cape, to look at somesummer property for
his mother. They found nothing Carlos liked,and after supper they ended the
day walking along the beach nearthe breakwater in Hyannisport, looking
out into the blackness ofNantucket Sound. Carlos once again expressed his
thanks toGeorge for the way he'd handled the fifty kilos. It would have
beenhis death warrant, for sure, if George had run off with the money,and
he admitted now how worried he'd been. He said George hadproven to be a
true friend, someone Carlos felt he could alwaystrust, and he hoped George
felt the same way toward him. "I toldhim I'd given him my word and that I
considered my handshake andmy word as a sacred bond of honor," George
recalls. "I said that wewere brothers, and would always be brothers and that
I would neverbetray that friendship."
After they'd pledged loyalty to each other, Carlos asked George,Oh, by the
way, who was this friend in L.A., the one he delivered thecoke to, the one
they'd be dealing with now for a while? Georgelooked at Carlos and told
him no soap. He was sorry, but that wasone piece of information, friendship
aside, he intended to keep tohimself. He hoped he understood. Carlos said
yes, he did. He couldrespect that, he said. No problem.
Although the house at 523 North Lucia Street is only one storyhigh, the
people in Redondo Beach have always called it the Castle,because of the
fact that it was constructed of stone instead of theusual stucco or wood, and
because its peaks and arches make it looklike something you'd be more
likely to find in a Bavarian forest thanin a beach town in Southern
California. It was indeed built by aGerman in the late 1920s, a bootlegger,
the story goes. He dug out asecret basement under half the house, accessible
through a trapdoor located inside a closet, and used it for storing the illegal
boozehe ferried in from rumrunners anchored offshore. The house sits
inwhat's known as the Tree section of town, a lush residential area onthe lee
side of the hill that overlooks the ocean. Richard Barile pur-chased the
Castle in 1971 for fifty thousand dollars, putting threethousand down and
financing the balance with a G.I. loan. Alongwith operating the Tonsorial
Parlor in neighboring ManhattanBeach, Richard was half owner at the time
of a popular restaurantjust up the street called the Silo, notable for its
interior paneling of
old barn siding and its menu featuring expensive French food andwines.
Richard bought the Castle for the security it afforded him in histhird, and
most profitable, business, which was drug dealing. Thebackyard of the
Castle, for instance, where George had sat in thehot tub waiting for his
money on that first trip, was sealed frompeering eyes by the thirty-foot wall
of an adjacent apartment build-ing. Across the front ran a wrought-iron
fence, laden with blood-red bougainvillea, and at the gate there was a
buzzer system. Thisprevented Detective Fred McKewen, the local narc who
fruitlesslydogged Richard's trail for years, from walking right up to the
frontdoor and looking through the window to acquire probable cause togive
the place a toss. Photoelectric sensors hidden in the shrubberydetected any
movement on the lawn and announced it loudly, bothin the house and out
on the patio, with blinking lights and ascreeching alarm. "No one had any
reason to ever be in my yard,and if they were, I'd know about it right away,"
says Richard, who atone point augmented the system with a German
shepherd attackdog trained to leap out snarling from behind the house every
timesomeone buzzed at the gate. The animal grew so vicious that itattacked
Richard once, and he got rid of it.
Regarding the quality and volume of the product and the waythe business
ran, Richard divides the history of the Los Angelescocaine scene into
before and after the arrival of George Jung. Inthe early-to-middle 1970s, as
he moved from marijuana intococaine, Richard had dealt mainly in ounces,
not by preference butbecause of the scarcity of the product. He bought from
mules, a lit-tle at a time, a pound here and there, adding a pound more of
cut toearn a profit. By the time it reached him, the cocaine had alreadybeen
stepped on, so with Richard's cut, and subsequent ones addedfurther down
the chain, "the stuff hitting the street was prettybeaten up," he says. It got so
bad that on several occasions he recallsselling an ounce of "cocaine" that
contained only a gram of purecoke, barely a trace. "In the beginning people
out here didn't knowgood cocaine from bad anyway, so it wouldn't matter.
They weredoing it just as a social thing. Pure cocaine didn't come around
untilGeorge and Carlos. And you could instantly tell the difference.
Thisstuff came in a nice solid chunk, right from the factory, direct toyou. It
had an opalescent tinge to it. It glowed a little, like mother-of-pearl. That's
when it really started to become big."
J
As Detective McKewen can readily testify, Richard ran a nearlyseamless
enterprise. Each facet, from receiving to storage to cuttingto delivery, was
intricately thought out, nothing was left vulnerableto chance discovery or
detection by the police, even if they foundsome excuse to pry into his
affairs. Richard knew all about Mc-Kewen's trick involving motor-vehicle
violations, for instance, andwas determined not to give him an edge where
that went. "Richarddrove a little brown Porsche around town and always
made sure hisrecord was clean," McKewen recalls. "I know that because I
fol-lowed that car on a lot of nights. And for years and years, I can't tellyou
how many law-enforcement officers called me from other juris-dictions and
from the feds, and said, 'What do you know aboutRichard Barile? We're
working him.' 'Good luck,' I said."
Richard's success as a cocaine dealer came partly from thelessons he
learned as point man in a U.S. Marine platoon stationedin the Philippines
during the early 1960s. His job had been to helptrain infantrymen in jungle
warfare before they went over to Viet-nam to advise the South Vietnamese
army. "In the Marine Corpsthere were two main things—you had to have
your own shittogether, and you had to be able to count on the other guy.
Other-wise you could easily get killed." The two weeks at a shift he'dspend
in the jungle trained him in the little things that couldaccount for the
difference between life and death—what all the dif-ferent noises meant, the
way shadows fell that could hide an enemysoldier. Much of his sensitivity
to the environment came fromwatching a wizened old man in his late
seventies, a former guerrillawith the HUK, who went out with the group to
show them how toget sustenance off the jungle floor. He taught them how
to locatesnails and pop off the little trap door that hides the meat, how
tofind where the wild rice was growing and boil it up inside of bam-boo
shoots. "We'd be going along and suddenly the old man wouldhear
something and stop in his tracks. He'd go, 'Peep, peeep,peeeeeeeep,' then
walk a little bit and, 'Peeep, peeeeep,' then sud-denly he'd start running like
a son of a bitch and you'd hear a roar-ing of wings, and he'd grab that sucker
with his bare hands—a wildhen—right before it took off."
In his own organization Barile became known as "the LittleGeneral" for the
order he imposed and how quickly he banishedpeople who couldn't operate
up to standard. He regularly swept thecars and houses used by his dealers
with electronic debugging
15 8 Blow
devices to make sure their movements weren't being monitored.
Heconducted surprise inspection visits to wherever they were cuttingthe
coke before moving it out. "This way you'd find that some guyswere real
sloppy. The scales would have coke caked on them, thespoons they used
they never washed. They'd save the plastic bags, ifthere was a little bit of
coke in there, so if they ran short they couldscrape it out to complete an
order. 'Either clean it up or dump itout, screw it,' I'd tell them. Cops come in
and then you don't havetime to wash the spoons or the scale. They find
residue, they canmake an ambient bust. It showed me that somebody wasn't
beingprofessional, and if they weren't professional, I wouldn't do
businesswith them."
When it came to the police, there were three ways to getarrested in the drug
business—by accident, by selling to or buyingfrom an undercover cop, or
by getting ratted on from the inside—and Richard went to great lengths to
obviate all three possibilities.
First, he made sure no loose threads hung out for the police topull on. If
workers showed up high or drunk, they were gone. Notonly would that
screw up their judgment, but in those days a drunk-driving arrest gave the
police wide latitude in searching your car andmaking other intrusions into
your life. An expired driver's licensecould subject a worker to a visit from
Detective McKewen. "If theyhad parking tickets," Barile explained, "I'd
take them down to courtand make sure they paid them." The same for an
expired registra-tion. "Headlights? Taillights? I would tell them that before
anyoneuses their car for anything, they had to make sure everything
wasworking, everything was legal. I found that these were the thingsthat
made all the difference."
The real danger was getting caught red-handed, dealingunknowingly—
buying or selling—with someone working for thepolice. On the buying
part, he had no fear where George or Carloswere concerned, because if any
bust came down on that end, itwould most likely happen immediately, at the
point the planelanded in the States from Colombia. As most large-scale
dealersknew, the DEA maintained a strict bird-in-the-hand policy, one
thatproved a constant annoyance to the agents themselves. They couldnot
allow a load of drugs, once it entered the country, from movingout on the
street—by following a delivery, for instance, from Miamito Los Angeles to
try to catch the West Coast members of the ring.The fear in the DEA was
the agents could screw up along the way
and lose track of the load. In that event, not only would the drugs beout in
the population, but the agency would have lost the goods itneeded to hang
the case on, possibly jeopardizing the whole bust.So it was better to be safe
than sorry. "When the cocaine reachedL.A., I knew everything was secure
up to that point, no cops follow-ing it," Richard says. "My worry was the
other end. Busts usuallycome from the bottom up, not the top down, so
you're not lookingat the guy who's selling it to you. You're looking at your
customers."
For this reason, Richard stayed as far away from the cocaine ashe could.
When it landed in L.A., he would have the load drivendirectly from the
airport to one of several stash pads whose locationhe changed every three
months. Except for recreational use, henever kept a serious amount of
cocaine around the Castle, secretbasement notwithstanding. "Most of your
big dealers, if they hadany brains, all had a stash pad and hired somebody to
sit on it.When you're taking orders, coming in on a beeper, you meet
theperson to discuss it at a restaurant, then you'd tell a runner, some-one
else, to go pick it up here and drop it off there. You never gonear it and you
never touch it."
This still left the problem of his own people: How could hemake sure, if
there was a bust somewhere down the line, that no onehe'd dealt with could
be persuaded to turn him in to save their skin?One precaution Richard took
was to cut the cocaine right away,when it arrived from Miami, rather than
let it go out to any dealeras 100 percent pure. "In those days, because a lot
of the street stuffwas so bad, if you got caught with pure cocaine, the police
wouldthink you were close to Mr. Big, you must be getting it right fromthe
main source. They'd put a lot more pressure on you to give himover. So if
one of your dealers got caught with pure coke, this wouldbe a heavy bust.
The cop would say, 'Look, whoever you got thisfrom you better give him up
or we're going to lean pretty hard onyou.' But if they busted them with coke
that had already been cut,that comes back from the lab, say, only 30 or 50
percent pure, well,that meant whoever you got it from was pretty low down
in thestructure. Things went a lot easier for you. I had to pay a lot of
legalbills, but none of my people ever turned me in."
In addition, he impressed upon his troops never to take chancesthat might
expose them unnecessarily, and to get rid of the evidencefast, even if it
meant losing a lot of Richard's coke. "I'd try to givethem a lot of
confidence. I'd tell them, 'Hey, look, here's three or
1 6 O Blow
four kilos, if you ever have a problem, flush it right down the toilet,you
don't owe me a thing. Just don't get into trouble. You'll alwaysmake money
with me. Just don't do anything stupid. You gotta besafe and cool.' I got that
from the marine corps." For screw-ups, forpeople slow to pay, for those
who committed infractions of the workrules, Richard didn't hesitate to use
the power he held over theirability to succeed or fail in the coke business. "I
was the one whohad the cocaine. There was no getting it except from me. If
I didn'tlike you, then I'd stop supplying you, and I'd give it to the guy
youwere selling it to. Pretty soon he'd be selling to you and your customers. So all of a sudden, instead of being King Shit, you're a pieceof shit.
At one time I could make you and break you."
Picking up kilos at the airport and distributing the tons of blowthat
disappeared up the collective nose of Hollywood, Beverly Hills,and points
all over metropolitan Los Angeles, Richard stood welltoward the top of a
coke empire that reached into the farthest cor-ner of the community—and
where everyone connected with thetrade made a heretofore inconceivable
amount of money. As withany product, the money you made in the cocaine
business dependedon the quality of the goods you sold and how great the
supply anddemand were. Cocaine rarely went on the retail market in its
pureform, since everyone's profits were linked arithmetically to howmuch
the product had been cut. The kind of cuts varied accordingto their
availability.
The cutting agents Richard liked best, because of their similarityto cocaine,
were procaine or lidocaine. These are synthetic deriva-tives of the drug,
commonly obtainable at chemical shops and usedmedically as local
anesthetics. Procaine, for instance, is the same asNovocain—it has the
numbing effect of cocaine but with only atenth the power to generate a
high. Other cuts were neutral whitepowders such as lactose, which is milk
sugar, or mannite, a sweetsubstance taken from plants and used as a mild
diuretic. Quinine wasthe least desirable cut, for the burning sensation it
created in thenose, something dealers often tried to neutralize with a little
dose ofprocaine to numb up the nasal passages. He'd usually cut the
cocaineone to two, putting seventeen ounces of cut into a Pyrex baking
dishtogether with a kilo, or thirty-five ounces, of pure cocaine, ending
upwith a sales product that was 67 percent pure. He'd sift the
mixturethrough a flour sifter, ending up with a fine white powder. Unfortunately, to any reasonably sophisticated customer, the fine powder was
the tip-off that the product had been cut and mixed up again. Purecocaine
arrives as a crystal, not a powder, and the crystals bind withone another to
form little "rocks." The more rocks there are in evi-dence, the purer the
product. So as a marketing ploy, after cuttingthe load, Richard had to "rock
it back up,"' as the expression goes."When they're buying cocaine, what
they're looking for is what'ssolid," he says. "They see a lot of chips, or they
see a solid brick,they're saying to themselves, 'Man, this stuff's pretty
good.'"
To get the solid material back in, Richard would spray the mix-ture with a
solvent—either acetone, which can be bought in anypaint store, or ether,
obtainable from a chemist's shop. The solventwould dissolve the cocaine
crystals, making them bind. Then he'dbake the mixture in an oven. What
emerged was a solid sheet, whichwhen you crumbled it up and bagged it,
contained a lot of rocksagain and looked much more potent than the
powder. As an alterna-tive to the baking method, Richard used an iron press
shaped like ahollowed-out brick, which he'd had fabricated at a local
weldingshop. After spraying a kilo with acetone, he'd double-wrap it
intotwo plastic Baggies, lay it into the press, then fit an iron lid over
it,which he could jack down on the Baggie, applying sixty thousandpounds
of pressure to the inch. After forty-five minutes he openedthe press, and
what emerged was a crystalline brick, the real McCoy,as if straight from
George.
As a big-time wholesaler, Richard had four dealers he suppliedwith up to
five kilos each, sometimes unloading twenty kilos at atime. His mode of
delivery varied, but one method was to buy gro-cery cans of various sizes
from a supermarket supply house, put hiscocaine inside, and seal them up
with a canning machine he boughtfor $125. He'd then buy similar cans in
the supermarket, for prod-ucts like baby formula or powdered soft drinks,
then steam off thelabels and glue them on to his own cans of cocaine. Or
he'd buy 2-pound cans of Maxwell House coffee, take off the top, insert
apound package of cocaine with the coffee, and seal it back up withhis
machine. The cans would be packed away at the stash house, andwhen
orders came in, he'd have the runner deliver, say, three 16-ounce cans of
Similac or raspberry Kool-Ade to wherever the dealerwanted. On some
occasions the dealer might meet the runner insidethe supermarket, throw a
couple of cans of Richard's special blendof Maxwell House into his own
shopping cart, and check them outthrough the cashier.
162 Blow
The price of the consumer product depended on many things,including the
relationship between the buyer and seller, the quantityof goods involved,
and, most important, the degree to which youexposed yourself to arrest.
Ounce for ounce, on a unit-price basis,the richest rewards went to those
lowest on the ladder, the streetdealers, the guys most likely to sell a gram of
coke mistakenly to thepolice. Considering the number of people involved
and the fact thatnothing ever got written down—not to mention that people
rou-tinely lied a lot—no one, the police included, has ever assembledthe
exact sales figures from any particular load, top to bottom. Butusing the
fifty kilos George first delivered that March, and theprices generally
obtaining during that period, it's possible at least toapproach an appreciation
of the kind of money that could be made.
George sold the 50 kilos of pure cocaine for $47,000 each andwent back to
the East Coast carrying $2.35 million. Richard's mem-ory of that first deal
has faded to a degree, but if he followed hisstandard procedure, he'd have
cut the 50 kilos with 25 kilos of pro-caine or mannite, giving himself 75
kilos of product, which hewould unload to his four dealers for $42,000
each. Net profit forhim: $800,000. The dealers Richard sold to cut the load
again by 50percent, meaning that collectively, they now had 112.5 kilos
ofproduct to sell. These guys sold ounces, not kilos, to dealers lowerdown,
and charged $1,200 each. So if they bought the 75 kilos in cutform from
Richard for a total of $3,150 million, made it into 112.5kilos or nearly
4,000 ounces, and retailed this for a total of $4,725million, the profit split
among the four of them came to $1,575 mil-lion.
Last came the gram dealers, the workhorses of the trade, whosold directly
to the public. These guys were the most known on thestreet, the most
caught, and the most likely to do time—and most ofthem had never heard
of Richard Barile. Figuring that each of thembought an average of ten
ounces at a time, this meant that it tooksome four hundred sales people to
get rid of one load. The streetdealers didn't cut the product any further
because they didn't haveto. They could make a profit with what they had,
buying the tenounces for $12,000 and gramming them out, 28 grams to the
ounce,selling for $100 a gram, for a gross of $28,000 each. If all the
gramdealers found customers for their goods, this meant that the fifty-kilo
delivery, the one flown to California while Carlos was makinghis way down
from the woods of northern Vermont, would have
retailed for a total of $11.2 million. If each street customer boughtjust one
gram each, about twenty lines' worth, went to a party andshared it with two
friends—moderate users who would take a hit anhour and make it last
through the night—this would mean that atotal of 336,000 people in the
greater Los Angeles area, a popula-tion group the size of Buffalo, Toledo,
or Omaha, would have hadtheir lives altered in some major or minor way,
thanks to a singletrip west by Boston George.
In early May 1977, when George flew down from the Cape toFlorida to set
up life with Carlos and Jemel, he discovered veryquickly how far away this
new scale of business would take him fromhis home turf. Demographically,
in a city with a population that was25 percent black and 56 percent Latino,
the Anglos in Miami nowqualified as the smallest minority. The first place
they found to livein was a rundown motel Carlos knew about, located just
off theTamiami Trail in the heart of Little Havana, an area whose people,for
all George comprehended of them, might just as well have comefrom
Uranus. Not only had his meager facility in Spanish lan-guished from lack
of use since his Mexico days, but making sense ofthe world into which he'd
been thrust, a volatile mix of Colombiansand Cubans, was like picking
one's way through an emotional mine-field, comprised as it was of a tangle
of subsurface alliances, long-smoldering feuds and resentments, and
remembrances of love andfidelity betrayed, all of it overlaid by the politics
of the cocaine busi-ness, which were about as honorable as a knife in the
ribs. What'smore, this motel Carlos had chosen for setting up the
operationturned out to be a "regular shithole," in George's opinion. "Prostitutes were coming and going at all hours, you could see drug
dealsobviously going down in the rooms. I was the only gringo livingwith
all these Latinos. And he was going to bring loads of cocaine inand out of
this place? It was like going down on your knees and beg-ging to be
arrested." In short order, George demanded they get thehell out of Little
Havana altogether, which was why the three ofthem, less than a week after
he'd arrived, were tooling over theMacArthur Causeway in Carlos's little
black BMW to check outplaces to stay in Miami Beach. If his whole
business was dealingwith the Colombians and the Cubans, he jolly well
wasn't going tolive with them, too.
You get no view of the beach in Miami Beach, at least not by
1 64
Blow
driving down Collins Avenue, the main drag, since the sea is
prettythoroughly blocked off by high-rise hotels and apartment houses.The
older resorts adhere to the Moroccan fantasy, constructed ofstucco with
Arabesque facades and painted in pinks and pale greens.The more modern
ones—the Eden Roc, the Doral, the Castle, LasVillas in the Sky—are
sheathed in glass, and a few are gussied upwith fairly ridiculous-looking
Victorian porches and balconies run-ning thirty-odd stories up the front and
back. Coming onto theFountainebleau, still the Queen of the Beach, you're
hit with a gianttrompe l'oeil mural that introduces a view of the place
through aRoman arch, decorated with a behemoth race of maidens
balancingvases on their heads. In Miami, you don't get noticed by being
sub-tle. I. Magnin, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Neiman Marcus rule
themercantile roost.
After investigating a few possibilities, they settled on the OceanPavilion at
Fifty-sixth Street. Eighteen stories high, sporting anorange and blue motif,
the hotel/condominium was owned by a mannamed Harvey Weinberg from
Rockaway Beach in New York City,who had followed his father into the
hotel trade and had been doingbusiness in Miami Beach since the days of
Benny Siegel—"They callhim Bugsy now, but no one called him Bugsy
then," he says. "Atleast we didn't." That was before Senator Estes Kefauver
shut downMiami's wide-open gambling operations in the early 1950s and
themob changed its venue to Las Vegas, and the big resort hotelsstarted
going up on former oceanfront estates owned by the Fire-stones and other
upper-class families. By the time George and Car-los arrived at the Beach,
Miami's heyday as a resort capital had comeand gone. Jet airplanes had
opened up the Caribbean and Hawaii tofun-seekers. Those who used to
come down just for a holiday weremoving to Miami to live, and the hotels
were hastening to convertthemselves into condo apartments so as not to go
bankrupt. Latinand Canadian money was helping to keep the place solvent.
"Everyresort has built in its own downfall, because sooner or later
itbecomes so popular it's no longer chic," says Weinberg, who soldoff the
Pavilion once but then had to take it back when its buyerscouldn't make a
go of it. "I mean, in Europe people don't go to St.Tropez anymore, or Nice
or Cannes. They go to places likeRapallo, newer resorts. And that's what
happened here."
For what George and Carlos wanted, the Pavilion was just aboutperfect. It
had an underground parking garage, which would allow
them to drive the goods right into the building without having tounload out
front. There was a service elevator connected to thegarage, so they could
bring the load from the car straight up to thefloor without walking through
the lobby. Visitors could drop bywithout announcing the fact to the world.
They rented one apart-ment for the three of them. It had a big central living
room, twobedrooms at opposite ends, and a kitchen, so they could cook
andlive up there and not have to mingle much with the guests. This
wasmore like it, George remembers thinking as he stood out on theirtenthfloor balcony having a Scotch. The apartment faced west, outacross
Biscayne Bay, where toward evening the office towers ofMiami were
brought into glowing relief by the setting sun. Theview also took in Indian
Creek, the inland waterway that ran along-side Collins Avenue, servicing
the Spanish-style villas on the stripbetween the creek and the bay.
Powerboats sat tied up at backyarddocks. Here and there a cigarette boat
was suspended on a set ofdavits, kept nice and waxed so it would move
faster over the water.One didn't see too many of those babies back on the
more sedateCape. The faster ones got up to seventy knots, with a roar
comingout of the manifold like a 707 taking off ten feet over your
head.George was going to look into getting one for himself, just as soonas
things got organized.
George soon found life with the happy couple even more vexingthan with
Carlos himself. For one thing, although they had a well-equipped kitchen,
Jemel had no clear idea how to cook, try as shedid. Unloading the bags
from her first shopping trip, for instance,she put the eggs in the freezer,
because that's where she thoughtthey belonged. To celebrate their arrival
that night, she prepared acandlelight dinner featuring three prime sirloin
steaks, which shehad neglected to take out of the broiler until they looked
like thesoles of burnt-up fishing boots, smelling about the same.
Georgetook everyone out for dinner to keep the peace. The usual period
ofadjustment for newlyweds was taking more than its usual toll. Onone
occasion George returned from an errand to find the place awreck—several
chairs and the standing lamps were all smashed, thecouch overturned. He
found Carlos out on the balcony lookingheavily displeased, while Jemel
whimpered in the bedroom. Whathe finally got out of Jemel, because Carlos
refused to talk, was thatin an ill-advised moment of honesty she'd confessed
to him oncehaving had a brief love affair with another woman, competition
from a quarter that Mr. Latin Machismo had found difficult toaccommodate.
After that incident, Jemel would go out to eat with George tocomplain that
Carlos was becoming boring, that all he wanted totalk about, even to her,
was the airplane thing. Not like George, shesaid. He talked about interesting
things. "I didn't like that either,"says George, who was far from a natural in
the role of marriagecounselor. "The last thing I wanted was for her to come
on to me,because with Carlos getting so crazy, that would have ended
every-thing. I mean she was very pretty, very tempting. So I had to struggle pretty hard to keep up a wall between us."
At first George attributed Carlos's insistence that the three ofthem stay
together to his paranoia, to the scare thrown into himwhen he lost track of
those fifty kilos. Later on, though, he sus-pected it had more to do with the
question Carlos had raised walk-ing on the beach back on the Cape, about
George's "friend in L.A."To his deepening annoyance, Carlos had raised the
subject a coupleof times since. If they were really partners, friends,
brothers, what-ever, he said, why couldn't he know who this guy was?
Maybe hethought that by living with George he could get the name by
osmo-sis, overhear a phone call or catch a number. But George was determined to play this one very close. Richard Barile was his lone ace inthe
hole, at least until he got well established with the Colombians.If they knew
the contact he was selling to, why would they need himanymore? They'd
sell it direct to Richard, save on the commission.As the loads increased, this
could mean millions and millions. Whygive this to George if they didn't
have to?
And for that matter, George didn't trust Richard all that mucheither, which
is why he'd given him Carlos's first name only. IfRichard found out where
George was getting the stuff, whywouldn't he deal direct, too? By cutting
out the middleman, hecould get the loads cheaper and make more money on
his end. Afterall, this was no longer the marijuana business, with the God's
herband the brotherhood of the weed stuff. In the cocaine trade
paranoiastruck deep and permeated the atmosphere, all with good reason.
SoGeorge made sure never to call Richard from the apartment, and hedidn't
tell Richard where he was getting the goods from, or evenwhere he was
living, other than south Florida somewhere. When hewanted to reach
George, all Richard had was the phone number ofan answering service in
Miami. That was it. "Bob Dylan said, 'If you
live outside the law, you have to be honest.' But I found that withthe people
you dealt with in the cocaine business, it didn't reallypay."
To George's great relief, two weeks later the word came that thetrips to L.A.
were set to recommence. Carlos was told by his con-tacts that sufficient
loads were being smuggled into Miami—onboats and aboard Avianca, the
Colombian national airline—to sup-port regular flights, and the first load,
twenty-five kilos, would beready to go the following day. It arrived right on
schedule, and forthe next several weeks the routine rarely changed. Twice a
week aFord Econoline van carrying three Colombians pulled into
theparking garage underneath the Pavilion. They opened up the slid-ing
doors, lifted out two shopping carts containing grocery bags,and two of
them pushed the carts into the elevator. The third fol-lowed behind, holding
on to something under his coat. At George'sfloor they wheeled the carts
down to the room. The kilos in thegrocery bags would be wrapped in duct
tape and marked with sym-bols representing their various owners—either
people back inMedellin who'd arranged transportation for their loads or
people inMiami who'd bought the kilos back in Colombia and were
resellingthem in the States. Some were marked "Willie" or "Viejo"
whichmeant "old man." Some had O's on them, with X's through the middle. Others, many of them, were marked with a P or an E.
In the bedroom George and Carlos wrapped the kilos again indouble layers
of shelving paper to reduce the chance that their scentcould be picked up by
drug dogs—not really a big worry then—andrepacked them into four
Samsonite suitcases, six or seven kilos ineach. George, meanwhile, had
called Lorraine, his courier on theCaracas trip, to come down to help, and
the two of them carried thebags down to a cab out in front of the building,
drove to the airport,and checked the bags on the 11:00 P.M. United flight
for Los Ange-les. Lorraine was outfitted usually in a conservative dress or
businesssuit and George in a camel-hair blazer and white turtleneck;
theymade a nice-looking young couple.
Richard would be waiting in L.A. and drive George and thebags—Lorraine
would get the return flight back—to anotherunderground garage, this one
under Richard's stash house, at thetime an eleven-story condo at 531 Ocean
Plaza, on the Esplanade inRedondo Beach, just a few blocks away from the
Castle. Georgehung out in a top-floor suite, exchanging his view of
Biscayne Bay
168 Blow
for a sweeping panorama of the Pacific Ocean, the beach, theRedondo pier,
and the Portofino marina. In two or three daysRichard would get rid of the
kilos, replacing them with $1,175,000in cash, which George packed into a
carry-on camera case, smallenough to fit into the overhead compartment on
the plane, andreturned to Miami. For the first few trips George earned
$10,000 akilo for his service, meaning half a million for the two 25-kilo
tripshe averaged each week. The rest went to Carlos and he didn't knowwho
else, whoever had owned the coke, George didn't know this inthe
beginning. As for his own money piling up, at first he had notime to do
anything with it other than stick it up on the closet shelfin his room at the
Pavilion, telling Carlos to keep an eye on it. Afterthe first couple of weeks
he managed to get Courtney to come downto Miami and take it back up
north. Put it in a safe-deposit box, heasked him, or bury it in a hole, take
some out for his wife and fivekids, just do something with it. When he got a
minute, he'd comeup and sort it all out.
As word of the trips pervaded the Colombian community, moreand more
drug dealers began scurrying to queue up—contractingfor loads in
Medellin, arranging to have them smuggled into Miami,putting them into
the pipeline that George—they called himJorge—this gringo friend of
Carlos's, had running to the WestCoast. George was now spending twentyfive hours a week in air-planes or waiting in airports. Adding on the twoday turn-aroundtime in Redondo, this meant that back in Miami he hardly
had timeto sleep before being sent on another run. "I didn't know where
Iwas half the time," he says. "I'd fall asleep in the plane and wake upin my
seat not knowing whether it was the money I had with me orthe cocaine, or
which airport I was landing at." He soon com-pounded his confusion with
his efforts to stay on top of things,which involved vacuuming a lot of the
product he was delivering toRichard up his own nose—giving Carlos
something to grouse toGeorge about. Carlos called cocaine "poison" and
had never evensampled it. He didn't indulge in anything of a mind-altering
nature,at most taking a glass of beer if everyone around him had succumbed to getting stoned or plastered. He especially disapproved ofmixing
it with business. How could George possibly do coke whilehe was working?
he remonstrated. But out on the West Coast, withRichard still keeping the
lid on the operation, not letting George goout and blow off steam with his
old buddies in Manhattan Beach,
there was nothing to do. Nothing, that is, except for the other wayhe knew
how to recreate, which was to have sex. Which he did moreor less
constantly.
In L.A. the escort services all had listings in the telephone direc-tory, and as
soon as Richard would leave the condo to begin unload-ing the kilos,
George was on the horn dialing in his order. Managersof the services were a
good deal more motherly toward their womenthan is generally supposed in
the prostitution field, and would checkwith the main desk after George had
called to see whether he was alegitimate guest. And they'd call again after
the woman arrived, tomake sure she wasn't being chased around the room
by Bluebeardor Dracula. The rates ranged from $150 to $250 an hour,
startingwith your common blow job and moving up to acts requiring artifice and physical endurance. "But when they got here," says George,"I'd
have about $10,000 worth of coke piled high in a dish on thetable, and once
they saw all the blow, that was it. They'd call backthe agency, tell them they
were going off duty. I'd have them for aslong as I wanted."
Coming right off the plane, he usually put in an order for twowomen at a
time, one black and one white, to come over and dofriendly things to him
simultaneously, nothing that he had torespond to very strenuously. After
that he'd put in for the special-order stuff, requiring equipment and some
technical skill. Therewere women of various nationalities—Chinese,
Japanese, Filipino,Vietnamese, Scandinavian, German, Mexican, Middle
Eastern, EastIndian. The "American" girls came in any of the fantasy styles
cur-rent in the 1970s, from a Raquel Welch or Farah Fawcett down to
ademure Audrey Hepburn. "Sometimes I'd say I'd want a girl whowas into
bondage and S and M. But nothing too heavy. I didn't wantsome maniac
showing up. If you get handcuffed to the bed and yougot a lunatic in your
room, you're in for some trouble." He knewthat Richard, for instance, had a
number of friends who liked topatronize some of the more serious sex
emporiums in L.A., wherethere were medieval dungeons complete with
implements of tor-ture. George saw pictures of the places and thought he'd
pass. "Iwasn't really into big-time pain."
About twenty minutes after he'd placed his order, the woman, inher late
teens or early twenties, would appear at George's door,dressed in a skirt and
top or blue jeans and a T-shirt, normal streetclothes, carrying a large
shoulder bag. She'd disappear into the bed1 7 O Bl
room and in a few minutes call to George that she was ready. Whenhe
peeked in, she'd be dressed in standard sex-shop sportif—stilettoheels, three
or four inches high, net stockings attached to a garterbelt suspended from a
black leather corset. No top. Her breastswould be bare, thrust up and out by
the corset, a spiked leather col-lar would be fastened around her neck, and
her face would be set ina stern expression. George would take off his
clothes and lie face-down on the bed, where she'd manacle him to the
headboard usingregulation police cuffs and secure his feet to the bottom of
the bedwith pieces of rope. With George thus laid out, she'd give his rumpa
good going over with her riding crop, or sometimes it was a cat-o'-nine-tails
or a bullwhip, whatever the agency had in the supplycloset. She'd give him
a dozen or so good cracks with that, not.enough to raise any welts, but
enough so he knew he'd been a badboy and had to be disciplined. He'd
moan sometimes, to show her itwas all having some effect. After that she'd
untie him, then fit himout with a cock ring, which she would tighten up at
the base with acouple of plastic clips so he couldn't ejaculate, at least not
easily.Rigged out like that, maybe also a little fried on coke, George
couldsometimes deploy himself up to two hours at a time. "I don't think
Ican describe what it felt like," he says. "Different, is all I can thinkof. One
thing, though, is after all that I started looking at normalsex as pretty
boring."
Afterward he'd take the women out for dinner at the upper-deckrestaurant in
the Portofino marina nearby, looking out over theyachts and sportfishermen
anchored in the slips. "Most of themwere pretty normal people, doing it to
earn money so they could dosomething else with their lives, like acting or
going to college. Somewere housewives who were bored. They'd have to
get up and leavesuddenly to pick up their kids at school." There was only
one he stillremembers, a tall auburn-haired graduate student at UCLA
whomhe'd ordered back a few times, who said she was working toward
hermaster's degree in abnormal psychology. "What she liked was tospank,"
he says.
For all the cash he was funneling into their pockets back inMiami, George
became a regular local hero among the Colombians.Everyone wanted
Carlos to introduce them to this Jorge fromBoston, wanted him to do loads
for them. One night Jemel tookGeorge and Carlos to a party at the house of
a cousin of hers,Martha Hoyos. It was a scene that George soon came to
appreciate
as typically Colombian. Martha's husband, Humberto, was formerlya bank
president in Medellin, now involved in some way not imme-diately clear to
George in the cocaine business. Handsome in theGilbert Roland mold, he
had standard Colombian features—palewhite skin, a large supply of dark
wavy hair, and a small mustache.He dressed immaculately, in a white
guayabera shirt, black slacks,and one of a hundred pairs of soft Italian shoes
he kept in his closet.He wore gold chains, a diamond ring on his little
finger, and duringparties, a wafer-thin Piaget watch, which he changed to a
more mas-culine Rolex on workdays. Their house in Coral Gables was a
largetwo-story Spanish job, stucco with a red tiled roof, formerly occu-pied
by Esther Williams, the aquatic movie star. Out back, anOlympic-sized
swimming pool served as the centerpiece of an elab-orate patio. Ferraris,
Lamborghinis, and Cadillac Eldorados werelined up out front. About a
hundred guests were wandering about,including children, the little boys
looking like nightclub emcees,dressed up in white jackets and black bow
ties, their sisters in stifflycrinolined dresses. The wives fairly dripped with
gold, emeralds,and diamonds, some almost bent low by their effort to
dazzle. Themen played poker at tables set out on the patio, or they
competed ina gambling game that involved pitching quarters
simultaneouslyinto the swimming pool, two men playing at a time. The
trick wasto throw the coin so it hit flat and sank slowly in a sashaying
fashion.The one whose quarter reached bottom first lost the game,
meaninghe had to turn over the keys to his car—his Maserati,
Mercedes,whatever—to the winner. A lot of men were also snorting coke,
dis-creetly, in a little anteroom off the dining room, but not their wives.As
George would learn, that was one item on a long list of no-nosfor
Colombian women.
At one point Humberto, his brother, and some other Colom-bians got
George alone in one of the bedrooms and started pump-ing him. They asked
if he could help them line up airplanes forflights to Medellin. They asked if
he could set them up with otheroutlets for cocaine besides the one in Los
Angeles. "They werearound me like flies—We can do this. We can do that.
They allwanted to hook in. But I told them, Look, I was partners with Carlos, that he and I were together. They'd have to deal through him ifthey
wanted to deal with me." Carlos soon got wind of the bedroomsession and
came in to get George away from these guys. But themore George got to
know this cousin-in-law of Jemel's, the more he
17 2 Blow
liked him. Unlike many of the Colombians, who crowed about howbig they
were in the business, claiming to know important people,Humberto
exhibited no braggadocio. "It was the opposite withHumberto," George
recalls. "He was a lot more than he everappeared to be. He was a very smart
man, so smart he didn't wantanyone to really know how powerful and
important he was. Hewould always send me other people who'd say the
kilos belonged tothem. 'Georgie, I'm turning you on to my friend. He's got
some-thing for you.' Then I'd find out eventually it was really
Humberto'sload." George didn't know it until later, but Humberto's kilos
werethe ones marked with the code names Willie and Viejo. Humbertohad
also arranged the import of other kilos on behalf of a goodfriend of his back
in Medellin—the P and the E kilos. Carlos wasn'tthe only one who knew
this Pablo Escobar.
In July, with the pressure mounting to sell more and more, thepace picked
up, the loads doubled, and the stress level mounted.George was now
transporting up to fifty kilos a trip, as many as onehundred kilos a week—
too many suitcases to take aboard commer-cial flights, so he started
chartering Learjets, for ten thousand dol-lars each way. Courtney had come
down to help out Lorraine. TheLear landed them at the executive-airlines
section of the small SantaMonica airport, where the pilot would phone
ahead to have a limowaiting to take George and the load to Richard's condo.
"I learnedan important thing then, that when you fly around in a
Learjet,nobody ever questions you. They don't know who you are,
andthey're afraid to ask. They just look in awe. You get out of the
plane,you're wearing a cashmere jacket and an ascot, and there's a
limowaiting for you—well, here's just one more multimillionaire. It's,'Yes,
sir,' and 'No, sir. Thank you, sir. Good-bye, sir.' You could besmuggling a
nuclear warhead and they wouldn't dare stop you."
Riding in the jet was practically the only time George couldsleep or have
any peace and quiet. Once on the ground, he was sub-ject to constant
pressure to keep in motion, because only whenGeorge was on the move did
people make any money. "It began tobe an absolute nightmare—the money,
the cocaine, everyone want-ing more and more and more. The airports, the
airplanes, all thesneaking around you had to do." He needed the cocaine to
keep upthe pace, but it made him so edgy and paranoid that when he transported the money from Richard's condo to the Santa Monica air-port, he
imagined that he was being followed by the police or by
people out to steal his camera cases. He'd check in and out of two orthree
hotels on the way, entering through the front and leavingfrom the garage, to
satisfy himself he'd lost the phantoms hethought were on his trail.
The money itself, the staggering amount of it, also got everyonejust a little
unhinged. On each trip back he was now transportingmore than $2 million,
almost $5 million in a week. It had to becounted, recounted, stacked,
wrapped, packaged, taken to Miami,unwrapped, recounted, packed up
again. In the Redondo Beachcondo George generally waited until the cash
had all accumulatedbefore doing the big count. He put it off for as long as
he could,because it was serious work that went on for hours. He'd stack
thehundreds and fifties into piles of $10,000 each, two to four incheshigh,
writing the amount on the top bill with a yellow magicmarker. The twenties
he put in stacks of five thousand dollars sothey'd fit into the camera cases.
In the beginning he did it all metic-ulously, counting each stack once, then
getting someone else to do itagain. Richard would come over to the condo
with his retinue tohelp. "He always had all these young girls around him,
'little surferhoodsies,' I'd call them. They'd be running around the condo
half-naked in their bikini bottoms, drinking champagne, doing coke.When I
brought out the coke, it was sex city, and the money count-ing got a little,
what you would call casual. It reached a point wherewe'd count and count
and then snort some coke and count somemore, until finally I'd say, 'Fuck it,
that's enough! That's about right.Let's go.' I'd get in the Learjet with the
suitcases and deliver themoney to the Colombians who would come by the
Ocean Pavilion.Sometimes it was, 'Here. Here's two and a half million
dollars, andmaybe it's fifty thousand off the number, I don't know.' And
nobodywould care. It was just, 'When can you leave and bring back
somemore?'"
George's personal assets were now accruing into such a largewad as to
present a serious storage problem. When the deliveries hitone hundred kilos
a week, the Colombians cut his commission backto $5,000 a kilo—they
didn't want him making more than theydid—but this still added up to half a
million a week, which by thebeginning of August gave him a total of nearly
$6 million, in cash.Forget spending it, or washing it, he could barely figure
out whereto put it. For one thing, it was heavy. As people in the cocaine
busi-ness soon discovered, $1 million dollars in hundreds weighs exactly
174 Bl
20.4 pounds, double that if it's in fifties. George's stash, half infifties, half in
hundreds, tipped the scales at about 180 pounds,which meant that George's
liquid capital now outweighed him by 5pounds, and he was tending a little
to pork these days. And it had alot of bulk to it. In fresh, crisp hundreddollar bills, $6 million in asingle stack runs 21.5 feet high, about as tall as a
two-story house; infifties it's over 43 feet high. In other words, it's not
something thatyou shove under the mattress when you hear a knock at the
door.
What George needed to hide his growing mound of money inwas a house,
and it had to be back on the Cape, away from theColombians and the
frazzling life in Miami. Betsy's house was nolonger available, their romance
having fallen victim to George'snewfound reliance on the escort services.
He'd dropped by to breakit off with her during a trip north in early July.
Finding her out, he'dleft a note on the kitchen table along with twenty
thousand dollarsin cash and the keys to his Thunderbird, packed his clothes
and left.As a location for his own stash house, he looked in the town
ofWellfleet, toward the end of the Cape and not as crowded as Hyan-nis. He
told the real estate lady he wanted something on the water,with hot-air heat,
if possible; it helped his sinuses.
The place she found was a large three-story cottage with weath-ered
shingles and a big screened-in porch overlooking Cape CodBay. He hired
his man Courtney, the welder by trade, regularly tocourier the cash up from
Miami and to construct additional heatingducts to nowhere in the basement
at Wellfleet as a repository for thecash. George came up once or twice to
check on things and transfersome of his pile to the Rockland Trust
Company in Weymouth,where he got his father to cosign for a couple of
safe-depositboxes—the big ones, with the large drawers. By now, Fred
haddecided not to ask any questions about his son's financial success.
With his money safe, at least temporarily, George threw himselfback into
the plane trips and the preparations for Barry Kane's firstrun. So
preoccupied was he in these matters that when a letterarrived from Jo-Anne
Carr, forwarded to him by his mother, it cameas a small shock for him to
realize that he was still, despite it all, onparole. In recent months, his
obligation to report on his activitieshad been reduced to sending in a
monthly form attesting to the factthat he still resided at Abigail Adams
Circle and was still employedin the fishing business, earning an income
George put down asthree hundred dollars a week. No foreign travel, no
associating with
Miami (1977) 175
people who had criminal backgrounds, no taking drugs. In her let-ter, JoAnne praised him for his successful effort at staying out oftrouble and his
commendable progress toward rehabilitating him-self, in consideration of
which she had therefore recommendedreleasing him from his parole
obligations ahead of schedule. All thebest, she said, for a happy and
prosperous future.
Somewhere around this time George suffered a serious lapse injudgment
and decided to introduce Carlos to Richard after all. Car-los's insistence that
the meeting take place had eventually wornGeorge down. Carlos had
argued that since he had introducedGeorge to everyone he knew, he now
had a right to meet this guy.And if George refused to tell him Richard's
name, this must meanhe didn't trust him, and if that was the case, how could
Carlos con-tinue to trust George? George liked to say they were
brothers,didn't he? Was this acting brotherly? He badgered George constantly. In addition, George's coke intake had escalated to the pointwhere it
was seriously clouding his judgment. He was up to four andfive grams a
day during the trips to and from L.A., whereas thepharmacology textbooks
commonly put the toxicity level for normalpeople at 1.4 grams. Finally,
there was the money: There was just somuch of it lying around, what
possible difference could it makewhether he introduced them or not? In two
years, George figured,he'd have $50 million dollars and get out of the
business for good,convert some of his fantasies into reality. "Even if it
wasn't $50 mil-lion, if it was only $20 million cash, you can do anything
you wantthe rest of your life, put it into securities, make 12 or 15
percentinterest. When you've got that kind of cash, they'll give you thatkind
of interest. At that time Mexico was giving in bonds somethinglike 18
percent. Or the Mediterranean. This was not a vague plan ofmine. I was
going to do this thing with Carlos for a year or two, andI was getting out,
because I didn't want to go back to jail, because Iknew if you played this
game, there were only two results—jail ordeath. So it was the motor sailer
and be happy and drink the bestwines and eat cheese and gamble in Monte
Carlo, go to HongKong. Not in my wildest dreams did I think he would stab
me in theback."
The occasion for the introduction was a party in late July in theuppermiddle-class community of Palos Verdes, at a sprawlinghouse rented by
Nick Hunter, an electronics-store owner and oneof Richard's major dealers.
There was a pool out back. Guests
1 76
Bl
included the usual mix of rock artists and movie people, a lot ofHunter's
high-end customers. About a pound of cocaine was piledup on a mirror
sitting on a coffee table in the living room, there forthe taking. Topless
women were serving the drinks and bands werespelling each other so no
one would have to endure more than aminute or so free of rock and roll.
George was staying at the Castlewith Richard that weekend, and he had
invited Carlos to fly out forthe party. After all the build-up, the meeting
itself proved anticli-mactic. George went with Richard to pick Carlos up at
the airport.The two shook hands, and that was about it. Indeed, they seemed
alittle awkward with each other. Richard offered Carlos a snort, andto
George's surprise Carlos took it. But whereas it usually broughtpeople out
of themselves, the coke only made Carlos seem quieterand more
withdrawn. At the party, George noticed that Carlostalked mostly to the
host, Nick Hunter, while sipping his mineralwater. A crowd gathered
around this exotic foreigner, but Carlosseemed pained by the attention. A
couple of hours later he wentback to his hotel and the next day returned to
Miami.
EIGHT
X«»iriii«t it Csty
1978
I said, "Carlos, I hope you never betray me." He saidhe never would. And
he almost started to cry.
—George Jung
In the cruising guide to the Bahamas, yachtsmen desirous ofputting into
Norman Cay for the night are warned that during cer-tain months of the
year, if you anchor in the large protected lagoonat the northern end of the
island, it's not a great idea to dive in for aswim before lunch because you
might get seriously eaten by a ham-merhead shark. The sharks are born in
the lagoon and return thereevery year to fulfill their instinct to copulate and
perpetuate thespecies. Whether drawn by a fondly recalled feature of the
place orreacting to a compass in their brains that homes in on some magnetic force in the bedrock underneath the island, as scientists
morecommonly believe, they leave the lagoon as small fry and
reappearwhen they're ten feet long and in such numbers as to blacken
thewaters with their presence. Hammerheads aside, in all the other categories Norman Cay rates as being as close to paradise as any of theother
seven hundred islands that make up the Bahamas. Shaped inthe form of a
giant fishhook, with the barbed end curving aroundthe shark lagoon and the
shank consisting of a blindingly whitebeach a little over four miles long, the
island lies at the head of the
17 8 HI
Exuma chain, an easy day's sail southeast of Nassau. Sparsely popu-lated,
Norman Cay possesses a harbor famous throughout theBahamas for
providing a haven from sudden tropical storms. A vir-gin coral reef eleven
miles long and filled with tropical fish andwondrous underwater vegetation
is situated just offshore. Outbeyond the reef is the Exuma Sound, a
thousand-foot-deep trenchin the ocean that produces some of the best biggame fishing in theCaribbean.
In the 1960s, hoping to exploit its commercial potential, a landdeveloper
from Ohio constructed a modest twelve-unit hotel andrestaurant there,
along with a three-thousand-foot airstrip and amarina with an L-shaped
dock. The venture languished after theBahamas gained its independence
from Great Britain and investorsbecame jittery over what sort of business
climate would be fosteredby the new, all-black government. The island was
then sold to agroup of New York and Canadian businessmen, who by the
late1970s were still looking for someone to sink big money into theplace.
In addition to sharks, Norman Cay has provided a refuge overthe years for
marine denizens of another variety, namely smugglersand sea pirates. It was
named for a minor English pirate, and in theseventeenth century, it served
Blackbeard and Henry Morgan as alaunching point for their plundering. In
the 1920s it was used as away station for bootleggers running rum from the
West Indies tothe Florida coast, which lies 210 miles away, barely an hour's
trip byairplane. There's no customs post on the island, or police presenceof
any kind. At night and in bad weather, airplanes can find thelanding strip at
Norman by locking on to the powerful radio beaconat Nassau International
Airport, just twenty minutes away. And dur-ing the period in question there
was the powerful advantage of whatwas referred to euphemistically as "the
Bahamian way of life."Loosely translated, this meant that under the
government of PrimeMinister Lynden O. Pindling just about anything you
might con-ceivably want in the Bahamas was up for sale, be it the courtesy
ofample warning should the national police, for form's sake, decide
toconduct a raid on your premises, or protection from any interfer-ence in
your privately constituted affairs by any representative of aforeign power,
especially including agents of the United StatesDrug Enforcement
Administration.
The hospitality of the Bahamian government in regard to the
drug business had been widely known among smugglers since thelate
1960s, which was why during the summer of 1977, while Georgewas doing
the red-eye runs to the West Coast, Carlos Lehder hadgone out scouting the
region to find the kind of island empire he'ddreamed about ever since
Danbury. On Norman Cay he immedi-ately began negotiations with its
corporate owners to buy a largeamount of acreage on the southern end,
which included the hotel,the airstrip, and the marina, with the stated object
of developing theproperty. Carlos told them how he'd like to extend the
airstrip athousand feet or so, dredge the harbor, and expand the hotel,
maybealso build a gambling casino. All this appealed to the owners,
sincethey intended to retain a few building lots, which couldn't help
butappreciate should Norman become a resort.
What Carlos neglected to tell them, of course, was that attract-ing tourists
wasn't what he had in mind. As he related to George,the deeper docking
facilities could be used for landing freighters—vessels with real carrying
capacity, their holds fairly bursting withduffel bags of cocaine. From the
dock he'd move the coke to air-plane hangars he intended to construct along
the runway, and fly itout on cargo planes, up to the DC-3s he could bring in
once theairstrip had been extended. The hotel would be outfitted to
housethe kind of staff you'd need to keep a place like this humming—people to unload the ships, load up the planes, and keep everyone
fed,entertained, and stimulated.
In the eyes of people back in Medellfn, Carlos had by nowproved his worth.
Thanks largely to George's series of runs to theWest Coast, the processors
had convinced themselves Carlos wasthe man with the right ideas and the
right contacts, the one whocould put the cocaine business on the track
toward achieving itsultimate market potential. This was no piddling 100- or
200-kilooperation he envisioned anymore. Carlos was talking jumbo
loads:500 kilos at a time, 750 kilos, 1,000 kilos at a time now—more thana
ton of 100 percent pure product going in and out on each trip,with a trip a
week or more. He was planning to have a veritable bliz-zard of blow—
billions and billions of dollars' worth—headedtoward the United States.
Look, he told George, they'd alwaystalked about cranking this thing up,
right? Well, now he was readyto launch their little operation into stellar
orbit.
"He was totally obsessed with this island thing and owning itand having an
empire," says George. "It was all he could talk about,
i so in
he wouldn't listen to anything else. And we started to have big fightsabout
it. I basically thought it was ridiculous to do this. Even if hecould buy off
officials in the Bahamas, to entrench himself and fightthe governments of
the world, saying 'Here I am, I've got my ownlittle island. Fuck everybody,
this is my drug-transport business,come and get me.' I told him, 'Are you
shittin' me? If the UnitedStates government finds out who you are and
where you are andyou're breaking the law, I mean, we took down Japan,
Germany, andItaly. You don't think they can't take down Carlos Lehder on
Nor-man Cay?'"
George tried to bring Carlos back to the original plan they'dtalked about
back at Danbury: bringing the loads across the borderthrough different
access points, some through Mexico into Califor-nia, others into Louisiana,
Florida, and other southern states. "Theislands were fine, but my plan was
to keep moving, keep changing,be secretive, be light on our feet. Nobody
knows what you're doingor where you are or who you are, and as long as
they don't knowwho you are, they can't get you." In conversations about
their busi-ness, George and Carlos had already begun referring to
themselvesas "the company," which they thought of as also including Humberto, this Pablo Escobar down in Medellin, whom George hadn'tmet yet,
Barry Kane, and a few others. "It wasn't called the 'Cartel'then, it was la
compama," says George. "My job was to get the pilotsand the planes and
arrange the landings and be like the vice-presi-dent of the American end of
things. Carlos would handle the liai-son in Colombia, arrange for the
shipments. That was the originalconcept."
Trying to rein in Carlos after he settled on Norman Cay,though, was like
trying to keep a horse in check with a piece ofstring. In conversations with
George, he was soon beyond Normanand into more expansive schemes,
much grander designs of what hecould do with the cocaine profits. "'Money
is power,' he said, and hewas going to have an unlimited amount of money,"
George recalls."He wanted to use it to liberate the people of Colombia. He
saidthat something like 87 percent of all the arable land was owned by12
percent of the people. You had women sitting on church stepspurposely
crippling their own children to make them sympatheticbeggars. He wanted
to take over the country and give the peopleback their land. I asked him if
he'd ever seen the movie The Adven-turers, based on the Harold Robbins
novel. Ernest Borgnine was in
it. It's about a country in South America where this guy forms a rev-olution
in the hills and finally he comes down and takes over thepalace and he's
holding a gun to the head off/ presidente, who's a cor-rupt son of a bitch but
tells him, 'Go ahead, shoot me and take thischair, because you will become
what I am.' I told Carlos that powercorrupted people and he would
eventually become the man hehated."
But George had never stood up terribly well to an assault ofCarlos's
revolutionary rhetoric, and as he'd done back at Danbury,he simply gave up
protesting after a while and let the little Colom-bian keep the floor. "When a
twenty-eight-year-old kid tells youhe's going to take over a country, what do
you say to him? And Imean, what did I really care, anyway? I wanted one
thing. I wantedthe cocaine and I wanted the money. That's all. Carlos's
scheme wasforever, he was in for the whole show. I figured I wasn't going
tostay around long enough to see the last act."
It wasn't long after these conversations that George began get-ting the
message, indistinct at first, that there were about to besome management
shifts in the corporate structure of la compania. Itwas nothing as dramatic as
losing the corner office or executive din-ing-room privileges, yet he felt in
all the transactions now going onbetween Miami and L.A. that in some way
he was being left out ofthe loop. For one thing, by the end of the summer
Carlos's attentionwas clearly shifting from Miami to the islands. He still had
to be inMiami occasionally, if only to deal with his own cash supply (a
prob-lem he solved by secreting the money inside the body panels ofChevy
Blazers and shipped them down to his contacts in Medellin).But his main
time these days was taken up with plans and negotia-tions in the Bahamas
that seemed to require almost no consultationwith George. For another, the
coke George now took West wasturning out to be second-class stuff, cut
with quinine, the clumsiestof adulterating agents. Richard could no longer
move the loads fortop dollar, which meant he greeted George less
enthusiastically, andsent him back with less take-home pay. When
confronted about thedeteriorating quality of the product, Carlos would tell
George towait for the next batch. But then that wouldn't be much
better.What was going on here? "I'd go out to L.A. with twenty-five orfifty
kilos, and Richard would say it was cut and he didn't have totake this shit,
and I'd have to almost beg him. Then he'd say, 'Allright, I'll take it,' but like
it was a big favor. And here we had been
18 2 B1
the best of friends. It didn't take any genius to start thinking that hewas
getting stuff from some other source and that I'd better make amove here or
I was done dealing."
George's worries were put on hold for a few weeks when BarryKane
suddenly called to say he was finally ready to make the tworuns,
transporting 250 kilos each, back to back. He drove over tothe Pavilion and
picked up George and Carlos in his rangy four-door convertible Lincoln
Continental, a vintage model from theearly 1960s that had the doors
opening out as on a cabinet andbecame a hit among oil sheikhs and Latin
dictators. Carlos the carbuff seemed very impressed. To discuss final plans,
Barry drovethem to the Castaways Motel in south Miami Beach, whose bar
wasconstructed underneath a swimming pool to give an underwaterview of
all the women in their bikinis cavorting in the water like aschool of guppies.
The delivery they were embarking on was a little more prob-lematical than
any they'd tried; before, George simply took the kilosout to someone he
knew and handed the money over to the Colom-bians on his return. There
was more cash involved here: The trans-portation fee for the two trips came
to $5 million—$3 million forKane and $1 million each for George and
Carlos. More to thepoint, this was the first time they'd be dealing with
Colombiansthey didn't know personally, and also the first time the money
andthe cocaine would be brought together in the same place, a notori-ously
precarious situation in the drug business. When the moneycame in close
proximity to the kilos, it seemed to raise the greedlevel of the Colombians
to such irresistible heights—here was achance to put their hands on the
coke and all the money, double theprofit—that the guns would come out
from underneath the jackets,a lot of bodies left around for the police to sort
out. In this particu-lar instance, the likelihood of such a thing happening
seemed prettyremote. After all, the coke belonged to people in Medellin
whowere using George's group to fly it in to their own people in theStates.
The only thing they could recoup in a rip-off was the $5-million
transportation cost. Since they needed Kane to keep flying,it was definitely
not in their interest to take a short-term profit andlose the long-term asset.
Still, you never knew. Some Colombianwith a wild hair up his ass, a notterribly-future-oriented guy,maybe hyped up on coke, might decide to make
a play for the jack-pot, just go ahead and grab it all, blow the people away
and face the
consequences later. Miami was still three years away from hitting itspeak in
the category of drug killings, which by 1980 were increasingat a fairly
astounding rate. But there had been enough headlines inthe newspaper to
make George announce that he intended to bringalong a gun, and he
advised Kane to do the same.
George possessed a nickel-plated Smith & Wesson .357 Mag-num revolver
with walnut grips, which he kept in a holster clippedon to his belt on his
right hip so he could reach across and whip itout with his left hand should
the fateful moment arrive. He'dbought it from his friend Mr. T, the drug
dealer up in Hyannis whomoonlighted as an armorer and gunsmith.
Whatever the require-ment, Mr. T could thread a muzzle so as to fit on a
silencer, file offserial numbers, convert a semiautomatic into a burp gun,
and makeother alterations required in the drug business, down to sawing
offthe barrels of a 12-gauge shotgun if what you needed was a roomcleaner.
The .357 was loaded with 158-grain super-high-velocityhollow points that
achieved 1,500-foot seconds at the muzzle andslammed into the target with
700-foot pounds of energy, comparedto a puny 179 pounds for the standardissue .38 revolver carried atthe time by most police departments. Many of
the Colombians pre-ferred one or another of the 9-millimeter machine
pistols, theAmerican-made Mach 10 or the Israeli Uzi, the latter having
fewerworking parts and regarded as more reliable. These could be concealed under one's coat, the clips were easy to get in and out, andthey
kicked off a lot of rounds in a hurry, 600 to 800 a minute. Butwhat George
prized about the .357 was that it was a regular canon,the force of the thing
capable of driving a slug through an engineblock and knocking a 200-pound
man off his feet on the other side.He'd never actually shot it at anyone so
far, and he'd been shot athimself only once, in that raid on the marijuana
field aboveMazatlan by the Federales, who banged away uselessly at
Manueland George as they scooted down through the jungle. To confirmjust
what the .357 could do, George drove out into the Evergladesone afternoon
and set up some watermelons in the woods, and witha single shot each he
vaporized them, one after the other, into a mistof pink and green. That
seemed about enough to handle the job.
Several days later Kane flew down as planned to the designatedranch
outside Medellin. With him was a Colombian gofer suppliedby Carlos to
help him find the right place. Kane liked to keep thedetails of his flights to
himself, so all George knew was that every184 Bl
thing went as planned and Kane flew back from Colombia throughthe
Bahamas, then to his secret landing place somewhere in NorthCarolina.
There he put half the load, 125 kilos, into the trunks oftwo used cars he'd
bought off a lot with phony papers and had themdriven to the parking lot
outside a little bachelor's-pad condo-minium he owned off Route 1 just
north of Fort Lauderdale, aforty-five-minute drive north of Miami. At the
appointed time, fourColombians showed up at Barry's apartment and he
gave them thekeys to one of the cars. The deal was that the Colombians
woulddrive off with half the load one day and pay nothing. They
wouldreturn the next day with full payment in order to get the other
half.This way, if for some reason they took off with 125 of kilos,
theremaining 125 would more than compensate for the loss.
When the four returned the next day, they carried two largesuitcases, each
containing $1.25 million. It took about an hour tocount the whole amount.
The Colombians sat around and drankbeer and watched. Three of them
wore guayabera shirts, andGeorge could see bulges at their waistbands. A
fourth had on a suitjacket, concealing something with more firepower,
Georgeassumed. George and Barry counted the money twice, riffingthrough
the bundles of $10,000, all new bills. Everything beingdeemed in order,
Kane took out the keys to the second car, and withGeorge and Carlos very
alert now, taking in every little move by theColombians—right here was
when it would happen—one of theColombians took the keys in his hand,
the four backed slowly out ofthe room, the door closed, was locked, and the
deal was done.
"The whole thing was pretty heavy," says George, "but when itwas over, I
walked out of there with a little click in my heels, abright smile on my
face." The second such exchange occurred inthe same manner one week
later, George having done another runto L.A. in the interim. And Courtney
came down to relieve him ofthe accumulated proceeds, advising George
that with all this damnmoney he needed to fit in a couple more ducts back
in the house atWellfleet, where there was now upward of $10 million.
Not long after the Kane run, Carlos urged George to comedown to the
Bahamas and see for himself what the excitement wasabout at Norman Cay.
George flew to Nassau, where Carlos pickedhim up at the airport, and the
two chartered a sportfisherman andheaded for the island. The boat run took
less than two hours; it wasa typically gorgeous Bahamas day, the sun
penetrating the turquoise
waters so one could see down to the coral reefs and the bright sandybottom.
As they approached the island, they could make out thehotel up by the
airstrip, and also the little yacht club overlookingthe marina. Standing on
dock to greet them was a stocky man in hisfifties, about George's height. He
wore cut-offs and dark sunglassesand had a large belly, black bushy hair,
and a beard. Suspended fromhis neck was a pair of binoculars, which he
kept trained on the hori-zon of the surrounding ocean. They landed and tied
up, and Carlosintroduced George to Robert Vesco—"Call me Bobby," he
toldGeorge—the arch-swindler who had fled the United States duringthe
Nixon years after defrauding investors of some $224 million(and also
illegally donating $200,000 to the president's re-electioncampaign).
Vesco owned his own island, Cistern Cay, about ten miles southof Norman.
Carlos had run into him while looking for an island tobuy, and after they'd
talked a bit, Vesco had said straight out that hewanted to invest in the
cocaine business and help bankroll Carlos'splans for Norman. He said he
knew just about everyone in theBahamas who could help you or hurt you,
depending on whetherthey were sufficiently paid off. "Carlos was really
enthralled withthe guy, how he'd stolen all this money and gotten away with
it,"George says. "The thing he liked best was that the United
Statesgovernment couldn't touch him. He'd fucked the U.S.A. and
gottenaway with it." The three repaired to the bar in the little yacht club,
arounded structure with glass facade resembling an airport lounge,and
ordered Bloody Marys. They were the only ones in the place.Vesco grilled
George a little, asking how he'd operated in the mari-juana business, what
the demand for coke was like on the WestCoast. He expressed interest in
hearing about prison life at Danburyand the inmates there, especially the
bank embezzler from Wake-field, Massachusetts, and the Medicaid doctor
who'd fled to Belize."At one point Vesco went into the men's room, and
Carlos leanedover and sort of whispered, 'This guy is getting us the prime
minis-ter of the Bahamas.'"
The island has but one road, which runs from the airport downthe shank of
the fishhook and around to the tip of its barb, along-side the lagoon filled
with sharks. The rest of the day they drovearound the island in a jeep, Vesco
still looking all over through hisglasses. Carlos showed George a house
known as the Volcano forits cone-shaped roof. He was negotiating to buy it
from a man
186 HI
named Beckwith, a part owner of Ocean World in Fort Lauderdale.There
were just three of four other private houses constructed inlittle copses of
pine trees to preserve their privacy. "He talked aboutbuying up all the
houses and getting rid of the people. 'If they don'twant to leave, they'll be
sorry they didn't,' he'd say. 'We'll get rid ofthem one way or another, maybe
permanently if necessary.' Herewas this passive little guy in Danbury who
could get pushed aroundat the weight rack, and all of a sudden he's talking
about exterminat-ing people. He suddenly seemed to have all this newfound
power,believing he could pay off the prime minister and do any
goddamnthing he wanted. I said okay, not knowing what to say. It was obvious to me I was dealing with a very changed man."
After about four hours, the two said good-bye to Vesco—he'dcome over in
his own eighty-foot cruiser—and ran on back to Nassau.That night at the
Holiday Inn lounge, sitting in peacock chairs havingdrinks amid the
bamboo, George described to Carlos how Richardhad been getting pretty
cocky lately, acting very much as if he wasgetting his supply of cocaine
from someone else, as much as tellingGeorge he could go fuck himself with
his kilos. Don't worry aboutRichard, Carlos said. The runs to the West
Coast were going to bepenny-ante stuff anyway pretty soon. Norman Cay
was the future, hesaid, and don't worry about that either. George was going
to be in thecommand structure here; he could count on it. But Carlos had
toleave Miami for a while now, he said. He needed to be out here to
getthings organized, make some trips back to Medellfn. Until then,George
should deal as best as he could with Humberto, get the kilosfrom him, and
see what Richard would be willing to take. It may be alittle dry for a while,
but big things lay ahead. George recalls therebeing a silence in the
conversation after that. And then, "I said, 'Car-los, I hope you never betray
me.' He said he never would. And healmost started to cry. He said he would
never do that. 'I hope younever do that, because we're brothers. I don't
believe you would everhurt me.' And he said he never would. But I knew at
the time that itwas over. He couldn't lie to me, and that's why he nearly
cried. I thinkhe was hurt, too, because I think he did love me."
Her name was Mirtha Calderon. She was Cuban, twenty-fouryears old in
the summer of 1977, with penetrating brown eyes, blackhair, and a soft,
seductive voice, until she got angry, and then itcould shatter a display case
filled with crystal, the case included. She
had fair skin, an inheritance from her Castilian ancestors. Hermother, Clara
Luz (Clear Light), had been married several times;her father had served as
an officer in the army of General FulgencioBatista. After Castro came to
power, Clara Luz brought her twodaughters, Mirtha and Martha, to the
United States, to Chicago,where she met an Italian named DiNicola who
had been connectedto the mob and could regale his family with tales of Al
Capone. In1968, when Mirtha was fifteen, she married a soldier returning
fromVietnam, and she had a child named Clarie. A divorce soon fol-lowed,
and Mirtha moved to New York City, where she found officework in the
firm of a jewelry broker and resided in a modest base-ment apartment. She
liked to shop for trendy clothes, and at nightshe hit the Manhattan discos
then catching on, where she danced toDonna Summer records and the
soundtrack for Saturday NightFever. Her office salary provided her basic
needs, but she didn't haveto worry much about money because her family
possessed impor-tant connections. The previous spring a cousin on her
mother's side,Jemel Nacel, had married Carlos Lehder. Her sister, Martha,
wasmarried to Humberto Hoyos, a close associate of Pablo Escobar.Mirtha
herself was also engaged to remarry, very advantageously, toan
acquaintance of Carlos Lehder named Cesar Toban, the scion ofa wealthy
Colombian coffee family, the same Cesar Toban of thesuitcase trips to
Antigua. Mirtha's stepfather, the former mobster,had expressed great
enthusiasm over the alliance, and a big weddingwas being planned, but he
never got to see it. He died in May of1977, and shortly thereafter the
engagement was called off whenMirtha fell in love with another man.
Humberto and Martha maintained a large apartment off Cen-tral Park West
in Manhattan, right next to the Dakota, where JohnLennon would be
assassinated in 1980. Along with moving kilos tothe West Coast, Humberto
controlled a certain portion of thelucrative market for the product on the
Upper East Side. One daythat summer of 1977 he was expecting a certain
visitor from Miami,who was going to drop off a small amount of money,
about$100,000, for three kilos Humberto had sent out on consignment
toL.A. The man was on his way to Cape Cod with some kilos of hisown to
unload and needed to be picked up at the Airway MotorLodge at La
Guardia Airport and brought to the West Side apart-ment. Humberto
couldn't make it and asked Martha to go instead,and she asked her sister to
come along for company.
18 8 Blow
"You had heard rumors about this man they referred to as 'theGringo' or 'the
Americano,'" she recalls. "At that time all the Latinswere very tight and
nobody else was allowed in, he was the only one.My sister said they knew
this man from Miami. So we went up tothe hotel room and he was there
with another woman, named Lor-raine, who was carrying stuff for him. She
opened the door. He wasstanding back in the living room, and he just had
this look. He hadon a tan suit, with these hazel eyes, shaggy blond hair.
Very good-looking. Very well dressed. He could do this thing with his eyes.
Allof a sudden they were like stars—this twinkle there, this spark. I
stillremember that look. 'What is this?' I said to myself. 'What is this?'"
What George recalls of the meeting was giving Mirtha hispatented onceover and being impressed. "I was talking to Marthaduring the ride to the
apartment but looking at Mirtha," he says."She had a good body, her breasts
weren't too big, but she was wear-ing a mini-skirt and you could see she had
good legs. Legs were whatI liked." At the Hoyoses' apartment they had
drinks and dinner,talked a lot, and George asked Lorraine if she wouldn't
mind takingthe kilos the rest of the way on her own and dropping them off
atMr. T's. He wanted to stay in New York and get better acquainted.
Mirtha and George talked all night. During the 1960s she hadpainted
flowers on her face, demonstrated in Chicago against thewar and in support
of the Chicago Seven. George detailed his expe-riences with LSD, his trips
to Jefferson Airplane concerts at theFillmore. She particularly wanted to
hear what it was like the decadebefore in Haight-Ashbury. He also ran
down some of his own politi-cal philosophy, threw in his Bob Dylan set
piece, although he was alittle rusty on that since switching into the cocaine
business—Mr.Tambourine Man didn't figure too highly in the Colombians'
viewof things. "We talked until late and everyone had gone to bed,"
herecalls. "She wanted to take me to show me her apartment. On theway we
ran out of gas. We finally got gas, but it was late and I wastired so I said,
'Let's check into this hotel. I'm not going to sleepwith you, we'll get two
beds, you sleep in one and I'll sleep in theother.' So we did that, and I'm
lying there for about fifteen minutestrying to sleep, when she said, 'Well,
would you like to come overhere?' 'No, I'm tired,' I said. That kind of
freaked her out. I alwaysthought reverse psychology worked the best in
these situations."
Humberto was furious at first. What business did she havegoing out with
this American, given her engagement to Cesar? He
was yelling at her in the bedroom and George thought he heard aslap.
"Humberto could throw pretty good temper tantrums. Theywere over pretty
quickly, but he'd break up some furniture first, but,shit, they all did, the
whole family, and all the women—Martha,Mirtha, and their mother—they
drove him truly nuts. WhenMartha got angry, whoooh, you didn't want to be
anywhere near theplace. One day she got mad at him and faked that she'd
drownedherself in the East River. She left a suicide note and Humberto
washysterical, crying, he had all these people looking for her, evencalled
the police out. All the time she was hiding out. She'd justwanted to torture
him. He used to tell me, 'Georgie, don't ever getmarried, you'll never stop
regretting it. They're all witch-bitches,believe me. You don't know it now,
but you'll find out.'"
The flap about Mirtha's night out blew over quickly enough, butshe
canceled her marriage to Cesar shortly afterward, a payback thatprovided
secret satisfaction for George, considering Betsy's flingwith the guy in
Antigua. And the new romance blossomed apace."What I liked most was
that George had class, the way he walkedand talked, reading Shakespeare
and all those books. He knew aboutvan Gogh and Picasso, he gave me a
book about Dali. And just theway he conducted himself, you could see it.
He was very elegant inhis manners—your all-American gringo. The Latin
women lovedAmerican men, because they're not with the machismo.
They'revery mellow. They help the wives do the dishes, take care of
thekids. The Latin men, all they think about is, okay, they have a wife,but
she's a slave. Not George."
By the end of the summer Mirtha had been up to Weymouth tomeet
George's parents, gotten the tour of his old room, been toldhow he'd crawl
out the window at night when he was a little boy. Shepeered into the
cubbyhole under the eaves, heard what he felt likewhen Agent Trout came
to catch him. In Miami Beach they put up atthe Castaways. He was relieved
for an excuse to get away from Car-los and Jemel, and at night they'd have
romantic dinners brought upto the room, served under candlelight. "He
taught me how to drinkthe best wines, like Chateau Rothschild, Dom
Perignon champagne,eat lobster," she says. "When we were alone, he'd tell
me about theother women he'd loved, but he would say, 'I love you now.'
And thenhe would stand up in front of me and start singing, 'You Make
MeFeel Like Dancing,' and do it, I mean start dancing. And singing. I lewas
very romantic. He made me feel so young."
19() Blow
And George liked Mirtha, too, at least well enough. To be sure,her limited
education and her narrow upbringing in Chicago hadproduced gaps in her
knowledge about the world that occasionallyproved fairly stunning. When
later that year they rented a beachhouse on the Cape, for instance, George
announced over lunch oneday that he was going to perform a little trick
involving the ocean.He was going to command it to move back from the
beach. Laterthat day, he told her, by the time Mirtha had come back from
ashopping trip to Hyannis, the water level would be thirty feet shortof
where it was now. He went down and stuck a stick in the sand soshe could
see the difference. Mirtha just laughed—another ofGeorge's jokes. But
when she returned five hours later and checkedwhere the stick was, just to
make sure, she saw that, My God, he'ddone it! No, no, George explained,
it's the tide. It went out whileyou were gone.
The tide? said Mirtha.
He did, however, enjoy her companionship in the evenings andthe fact that
she loved and admired him. She also provided an audi-ence to whom he
could unburden himself, a human refuge at theend of a day or a trip.
Besides all that, Mirtha brought a distinctasset to the relationship, one that
appreciated considerably inGeorge's mind the more he saw himself being
isolated by Carlosfrom the enterprise now picking up speed in the Bahamas.
It wasone thing for George to make runs to the West Coast and bringback a
lot of money and make the Colombians rich. For this theyappreciated and
trusted him. But he was still a gringo, still not oneof them, not someone
they would bring into their inner circle andlet him listen to the important
discussions. George could neverchange his country or ethnic background.
The only thing that couldalter George in the perception of the Colombians
was his becominga member of the family, especially a family that had
important con-nections down in Medellm. So here it was, staring him right
in theface. Carlos or no Carlos, Humberto Hoyos in his own right was
apowerful player in the cocaine game. George and Humberto gotalong fine
and liked each other well, which was good for Georgeand got him a lot of
kilos to sell. Clara Luz, Mirtha's mother, wasalso stuck on George, liked to
tell him about the family history inCuba and Chicago and to tip him off to
things she heard were goingon in the business. Still, friendship was one
thing; it would be somuch better to have firm family ties, to be a son-in-law,
a brotherin-law. Clearly, the right thing to do here where Mirtha was con-cerned was
to make her an honest woman. He was going to marrythe girl.
Well, not marry, exactly. As his various girlfriends knew toowell, from
junior high school days on up, George suffered from aconstitutional
incapacity to maintain a monogamous relationship.Put plainly, he was a
hopelessly compulsive fornicator, to the degreethat occasionally even he
had to stand aside from himself and stareback in wonder. As for actual
marriage, to tie himself legally to a per-son for the rest of his life flew
directly in the face of all his dreams,of the Costa del Sol, of the cafes in
Ibiza, of the women—especiallythe latter, the countless, unending supply of
women. Actual mar-riage seemed too much to ask of himself, even under
these oppor-tune circumstances. But, despite his reservations, when
Mirtharaised the subject, he told her he just might entertain the
possibility.Someday, maybe. "I really can't remember exactly what I told
her,"George says. "I promised her I'd think about it, or I said we'd
getmarried eventually. I was doing a lot of cocaine in that period,
andsometimes I'd say things that didn't stay with me very long. But Iknew
the Colombians were definitely big into families, into respect-ing the
family, even though the guys screwed around a lot. Theywere also big into
the Catholic church and christening children. Sobeing married meant I
would be solidified within the family. As faras I was concerned, it was a
very advantageous thing to do."
George eventually told Mirtha that if she really wanted to getmarried, they
could act the part; they could pretend. So that fall hechartered a Learjet and
took her on a vacation to Quebec City,where he got them a room in the
venerable Chateau Frontenac, onthe bluff overlooking the St. Lawrence
River. And on their returnMirtha announced to her friends and family in
New York andMiami that, yes, she and George had just done a wild, crazy
thing.They'd eloped and gotten married up in Canada. He'd given her aring,
a coral-and-turquoise job she'd picked out herself. And she'dbought George
one, too, a ruby set in gold, a stone the Colombianscalled sangre de pichon,
or "blood of the pigeon." For whatever dif-ference it made, in Mirtha's
social life and George's business, theyhenceforth presented themselves as
Mr. and Mrs. Jung, husbandand wife.
At first the liaison with the Hoyoses and the everyday demandsof the
cocaine business took George's mind off worrying about his
19 2 Blow
prospects for the future. Through Humberto, he was given a newwholesaler to supply in Manhattan. Richard was still there on theWest
Coast, not as big as before and still getting uppity, but stillwilling to move
kilos. George also had a good contact in Ann Arbor,Michigan, from his
marijuana days, and he resurrected his relation-ship with Earl the Pearl,
now a prime cocaine wholesaler through-out Marin County, a solid market
area with good growth potential.And, of course, there was Mr. T back on
the Cape, as well as hisdealer in Cambridge.
George also had to begin giving some attention to all the mil-lions in cash
clogging the heating system in Wellfleet. At one pointBarry Kane had
talked to him about putting his money into gold cer-tificates in Switzerland.
Not only could this be done quietly, but goldwas going crazy during that
period, at one point getting up over sixhundred dollars an ounce. The idea
was to transport the money tothe Bahamas, deposit it in one of the offshore
banks, such as the Nas-sau branch of the Bank of Nova Scotia—an
institution that had comea long way since its founding as a repository for
the hard-earned sav-ings of Scotch-Irish fishermen—and purchase the
certificatesthrough the bank by wire. Or wire the money from the Bahamas
intoa numbered account in Switzerland, or the Bank of Nova Scotiabranch
in Panama City. But Kane these days seemed to be driftinginto Carlos's
circles, and George felt a little uneasy about carting allhis money down to
Nassau.
What's more, with his "marriage" to Mirtha he seemed to haveincluded a
family that was developing considerable financial needs.There was Clarie,
her daughter from her first marriage, and her step-brother, Armando, who
repaired cars in his backyard in Miami andseemed more adept at spending
money—George's mosdy—than mak-ing it. His mother-in-law, Clara Luz,
lost no time in declaring depen-dent status for herself, exchanging her
residence in the Hoyoses'apartment for one with George and Mirtha, in a
house she got Georgeto rent for them all near Barry Kane's condo north of
Fort Lauderdale.And Mirtha herself was proving no slouch when it came to
contribut-ing to the profits of the shopping malls. All in all, George
thought,he'd better hold off transferring the cash out of the country just yet.
Itlooked like he'd find sufficient use for it close to home.
After a few months, though, it was obvious that his unhappinessover Carlos
wasn't going to disappear. Getting his kilos from Hum-berto meant George
had to work in the capacity of a dealer, selling
them to small-timers around the country, somthing he dislikedintensely. He
now had to load up the door panels of a Jeep Cherokeewith ten or fifteen
kilos and schlep them out to his contact in AnnArbor, a guy who sold hot
tubs by day and at night attended the busi-ness school at the University of
Michigan. Another customer was awould-be writer living in a shack lit by
kerosene lamps in the woodsnear Buffalo, New York, who peddled kilos to
finance his novel.There was also a black record-store owner in New York
City, the onlyperson of his race George ever encountered in the drug trade,
whomade George bring the goods to a drop-off point in an industrial areaof
Livingston, New Jersey. "To me, it was all degrading, like goingfrom being
Lee Iacocca to being a used-car salesman. I hated it," saysGeorge. Not only
was he making less than a tenth of his formerincome—barely a hundred
thousand dollars a month—but the workput him at considerable risk. "It
was a lot of exposure for not muchmoney. You'd never know if the guy you
were dealing with had gottenarrested and they'd let him out on bail so he
could set you up."
Transportation—that was George's baby, and the best way tostay clear of
the law. But Carlos seemed to have a lock on that endright now. Carlos!
He'd hear things from Humberto about what washappening on Norman Cay,
and he didn't like any of it. In the lastconversation he'd had with Carlos, the
deal was that George wouldbe called down when things got cooking. Well,
they were obviouslycooking up a storm, and George's phone hadn't rung at
all. Carlosdid indeed buy the house, the Volcano, paid $190,000 cash for
it,the story being that he'd given the owner a suitcase full of moneycounted
so casually that there was $8,000 too much. He'd also, asplanned, picked up
a 165-acre parcel, including the airstrip, hotel,and marina, from the
investing company in New York, again forcash, $875,000, George later
heard. A couple of dozen employeeswere now working on Norman Cay,
building the hangars and somekennels near the runway for guard dogs.
There were rumors thatCarlos had hired a couple of high-tech bodyguards
trained at a spe-cial security school in Stuttgart, Germany. He'd heard that
Kanehad made some more flights down to Medellin that George cer-tainly
hadn't been consulted on, even though he regarded Kane ashis own recruit.
He'd heard that even Frank Shea, his former boy-hood pal, the one he'd
gotten to help Carlos bring in the earlyloads, and his girlfriend Winny, were
working on Norman Cay. Andaccording to Humberto, the loads were
certainly starting to come in
19 4 HI
and go out with considerably frequency. Carlos now had a fleet ofthree
large boats, a fifty-one-foot powerboat, a cruiser ninety feetlong, as well as
all manner of airplanes.
In the middle of this, Richard Barile finally just shut Georgedown, said he
was getting about as much as he could handle fromCarlos, with whom he
now had a regular relationship, and thatGeorge would have to take his kilos
elsewhere. "I blew up at himand said, 'Listen, I set you up in this business,
and then you fuckedme over and went behind my back.' He said, 'Well,
that's business.George, I can't help it.' And I said, 'Well, I'm telling you now
thateventually some form of revenge is going to take place. I'm notgoing to
stand for this.' 'It's not my problem,' he said. 'It's Carlos'sproblem. It's
between you and Carlos.'"
George was now going to parties with the Colombians, wherehe'd be the
only gringo, and the subject of Carlos invariably cameup. The men would
talk about it in their groups, the women intheirs—how well Carlos was
doing, how big he was getting, howGeorge had been screwed over, how
he'd been responsible for Car-los's success, and now look at the way he was
getting treated. "ThenMirtha would start talking about it around the house,
so I couldn'tget away from it. They wouldn't stop talking about it or let me
for-get it. I mean, I had this dream here, and Carlos had stolen mydream.
Now no one would let me get on with my life." This wenton until early in
1978, at which point George called up Carlos at theHoliday Inn in Nassau,
where he stayed when not on his island, andsaid he was coming down to
settle the situation.
After landing at the airport and taking a cab to the hotel,George called
Carlos in his room, and Carlos told him he'd meethim in the lounge. Carlos
showed up in about five minutes, ordereda beer, and this time there was no
obfuscating. George was out, asfar as the Norman Cay operation went. "He
said there was room foronly one persoh to run the operation and that was
going to be him.He said, 'It's my world, my empire, and I have to run it.' He
said itwasn't the end of the world for me, that I wasn't going to go
brokewith Humberto." While Carlos was talking, George noticed twofairly
large individuals enter the lounge and seat themselves at thenext table. One
was blond, wearing a polo shirt and khaki shorts, theother had dark hair and
a bushy beard. Both were over six feet tallwith thick necks and ballooning
biceps; they looked like profes-sional athletes in a sport with a lot of body
contact. They sat there
Norman Cay (1978) 195
keeping George and Carlos under surveillance, until George startedgetting
loud, causing some heads to turn in the bar, at which pointthey rose to their
feet.
"Instead of being humble," George recalls, "and humiliatingmyself like the
last time, hoping he would come back to me, I sud-denly realized that he
was never coming back, and I just crossedover the line and had no fear, no
insecurity. My anger just seemed toencompass my whole life. 'So I'm
fucked, is that it?' I told him. Isaid, 'Well I'm fucking tired of getting fucked
around like this. I'min with some pretty heavy-weight people in Boston that
you'regoing to find out about. You're going to pay for this, you and
Barileand everyone."' In the middle of his speech, George suddenlybecame
aware that the two big guys were looming over the table,and Carlos
interrupted him to say he wanted George to meet a cou-ple of his
employees, come all the way from Germany. This wasHeinrich, he said,
gesturing toward the one with the beard. Theblonde was named Manfred.
Why didn't George just lower his voicea little bit, not attract so much
attention. This was a public place.They could talk about this like gentlemen.
"By this time I was toopissed to talk about anything anymore and got up
and said, 'You'renot going to get away with this. There are going to be
reprisals forthis. This is not the end of it.' And I walked out, got a cab to the
air-port, and flew home."
It was right after this confrontation that George received thepresent. They
were all having dinner at Humberto's apartment inManhattan, and George
was describing his meeting with Carlos, theGerman bodyguards, the threats
he'd made. At this point, an elderlywoman whom George understood to be
an aunt of Humberto's,reached into her purse and took out something folded
in a piece oflinen cloth, which she placed on the table in front of
everyone.Here, take this, she told George. When he unwrapped it, he saw
itwas an ice pick. "She told me, 'My late husband said to always carrythis
for protection. The hole is so small a person doesn't bleed. Ifyou don't get
him now, everyone will look down on you.' I took theice pick and said I'd
think about what she said, and I put it in mybriefcase. I didn't tell her, but I
knew I wasn't going to kill anyonewith a fucking ice pick. If I was going to
get someone, I was going toshoot him."
NINE
1978-1980
We are finally alone this morning. He's having coffee on the deck and
lookingout at the bay. I love his blond hair. When he looks into my eyes I
feel his love.He tells me he loves me and that he is happy for the first time
in his life.
—FROM MlRTHA'S DIARY, SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 1978
Since George was away on business, Teddy Fields offered totake Mirtha
around to the real estate dealers to look for a housethey could live in on the
Cape. She rented the place in Eastham on agray day late in the fall of 1977.
Built to a modern design, withsharp angles, an open deck, and weathered
shingles and trim, it saton a seventy-five-foot-high bluff offering a
spectacular view outover Cape Cod Bay. A set of rickety stairs led down to
a stretch ofsand, which was known as First Encounter Beach. The
encounterhad occurred in 1620 after a party of Pilgrims stole a cache of
cornfrom the Indians up in Truro and had to fight off a band of pissed-off
Wampanoags who attacked them when the Mayflower put in totake on
water. Eastham lies between the ocean and the bay justbeyond the bend in
the Cape, where it turns sharply north andheads up toward Provincetown.
Besides its beach, the town isknown to historians for its wind-driven grist
mill, built in 1793 andstill turning strong, and also for the three original
Mayflower passen-gers buried in its cemetery. From George's house on the
bluff you
■
Eastham (1978-1980) 197
could make out the lighthouse on Race Point at the tip of the Cape.But the
best show came from due west across the bay late in the day,when the
sinking sun spread the entire horizon with a ruddy orangeglow.
George wasn't much of a local-history buff, but he liked theview and
listening to the gentle lapping of the waves. The houseitself seemed
perfectly designed and located for his line of business.Its shingle-covered
chimney, built to disguise the flue for the base-ment oil burner, provided an
ideal stash for the three hundred or sokilos he often needed to hide
temporarily while the load was still intransit. The approach to the house was
difficult to find, located sev-eral miles from Route 6, the main highway on
the Cape, on a twist-ing series of back roads. A loft area over the kitchen,
normallyreserved for little Clarie's playroom, had a vertical dormer that
gaveGeorge a commanding view over all the access roads. At his backwas
the sea. All in all, it was in a strong defensive position, not aneasy place to
approach without being seen. The situation of theplace proved its value not
many months hence when three Colom-bians with whom George had had a
grave misunderstanding calleddown from Logan Airport and wanted him to
come up and meetthem—to discuss the problem, they said—at what he
knew was adeserted stretch of waterfront just south of Boston. If they were
thathot to see him, George suggested they drive down to Eastham.He'd set
up a little reception committee in the window in Clarie'splayroom, her
dollhouse and the stuffed animals shoved over to oneside so he could sit
there in comfort while he leveled on theapproaches to the house with a
civilian version of the army M-16that Mr. T had fixed up for him, its breech
mechanism altered so asto fire on full automatic. Come on down, he told
them. No oneshowed.
Mirtha knew he planned to stay for a while when, a week or soafter settling
in, he rented a jackhammer and cut a three-foot-square hole in the concrete
floor under the 250-gallon oil-storagetank in the basement. George wanted
it to be large enough to storeS3 million in cash. He put a steel plate over the
hole, then replacedthe oil tank on top of the plate. To get at the money, he'd
raise thetank off the plate with a come-along winch suspended from a
pipeattached to the overhead beams. "Otherwise," he says, "you lookedin
there you'd never dream you were staring at more money thanmost people
earn in three or four lifetimes."
198 B 1
The house had a lot of space—three bedrooms, plus a maid'squarters
downstairs next to the garage, along with two sleepinglofts. But George's
family had already begun to grow. Along withMirtha's relatives, there was
now Uncle Jack O'Neill, from BatonRouge, Louisiana, his mother's only
sibling, who decided in hisearly seventies to give up the music stores he
owned in Louisiana,divorce his wife of forty years, and come up north and
join hisnephew in the cocaine business. An old-fashioned Irish dandy,
whoin his younger years trimmed his mustache pencil-thin, wore a diamond pinky ring, and manicured his nails, Jack came from the musi-cal side
of the family. He'd studied at the New England Conserva-tory of Music and
played piano in concerts and in nightclubs, at onepoint for Gordon and
Sheila MacRae. A cousin, Don O'Neill, had aradio program out of Chicago.
His mother, Ethel O'Neill, George'sgrandmother, was the one who had sung
in music halls in Boston.George remembered visiting Uncle Jack's house in
Baton Rouge asa boy. "I always loved him," George says. "He was a big
gambler,played cards and billiards, also a golfer. He'd bring me along out
onthe golf course, and when they reached the green they'd putt for
athousand dollars a shot. He'd say to me, 'Georgie, this guy loves tolose
money. Watch this.' And when the other guy was ready toshoot, Jack would
unloosen his false teeth and have them fall outright on the green. The guy
lost all his concentration."
Jack was soon helping George regain his big-time status bycoming up with
new smuggling schemes. The two of them flewdown to Bay Saint Louis on
the Gulf of Mexico, just over the Mis-sissippi line from New Orleans,
where Jack knew the manager of acountry club/condo complex, a whole
community on the water,complete with its own stores, golf course—and
landing strip. WhenJack came north, he brought along some old friends, a
newly retiredcouple in their late sixties. Wilmer had operated a rental-car
agencyin Baton Rouge, and he and his wife were looking for something
tooccupy their declining years. "'Wilmer, he'll do anything,'Jack toldme. So
I soon had him and his wife running suitcase trips down toCaracas, staying
in good hotels, flying first-class. They brought intwo loads worth about one
and a half million. They said they'dnever had so much excitement in their
life. Wilmer asked me if Iknew anyone else they could do trips for."
As Mirtha remembers them, the early days in Eastham providedher and
George happy times, almost all the way through 1978. She
spent a lot of money on a decorator to fix the place to her liking.She chose
an orange shag carpet for the living room and orangedrapes for the
windows and across the sliding glass doors in front, acombination that
made the place seem to burst into flame whenexposed to the sunsets. She
couldn't find any furniture to her tasteon the Cape, so she ordered the living
room and bedroom sets, abamboo and rattan motif, from a store in Baton
Rouge when theywere down on a visit. "I was used to living in a house with
all Frenchprovincial, like a museum, with chandeliers and marble tables,
andsilver. But it wasn't me. I was very down-to-earth."
Life settled in. "In the evenings we'd sit out on the deck, look-ing out onto
the bay. He would read and was relaxed. He felt goodbecause he had
accomplished what he'd wanted to do. He was doingwhat he knew best and
was truly happy, especially after he foundsome new pilots. He'd always
wear white, white and beige. A jacketwith this little silk scarf. I'd buy him
light blue shirts that looked sogood with his hazel eyes. He'd have his
cognac, the Remy Martin.We talked about how we'd stay on the Cape, and I
was going to playmusic, and he was going to write his book, about his life.
This wasthe dream we were going to live."
They also shared a few secrets in the safe house in Wellfleet.That place also
looked out over the bay, had a wide, screened-inporch in front, and a large
attic room on the third floor that Georgeand Mirtha made over into their
special fantasy place. Other thanCourtney, who had brought the money
there from Florida, no oneknew about the Wellfleet house, not Mr. T or
Teddy Fields, and notthe Colombians. Even his brother-in-law Humberto
had only thetelephone number of Wellfleet, not the address. On the days
hecouldn't reach George in Eastham he'd try this other number,always
getting Mirtha on the phone, who'd invariably tell him thatGeorge wasn't
available just then; he was tied up. Not always tiedup, actually. And some
days he wasn't even George. He would trans-form himself into "Georgette,"
someone Humberto would probablynot have recognized very readily
because of the makeup—lipstick,eye shadow, the blond wig, and because of
the brassiere he wore,and the woman's panties. "I would more or less pick
out what Ithought would look good on him," says Mirtha, who got the stuff
ata department store in Hyannis. "It was very hard, because basicallyhe was
so big, I mean huge shoulders. He was a very hard person toshop for."
2(H) l!low
Georgette's main assignment was to do the housework, per-forming the
chores dressed in a scanty hostess apron and her econ-omy-size ladies'
underwear. Her lipstick was a neon pink, royal bluerimmed her eyes, and
her wig was cut in a Dutch-boy style thathung down toward her shoulders.
Georgette would run the vacuumcleaner busily around the room, bending
over to jab it under thesofa, making sure not to miss those corners—
surprising, how muchsand gets into the hard-to-reach places with a house at
the shore.She'd give the books a once-over with her dust cloth, climbing
ontoa stool and reaching up on her tippy toes to get the top of the
chinacabinet. The cleaning done, she'd set out places for dinner, forks onthe
left, knives on the right—had to get it right or "Mistress Mirth,"the stern
one who ran the household, would get upset and do some-thing to Georgette
that might smart. Goodness knows, Mistress washard to please. In short
order Georgette would find herself told togo upstairs to the big bed in the
attic, where she was made to liedown on her back with her hands and feet
tied. Mistress Mirth gotthe hang of it as she went along. "At first I would tie
him up withropes, but he would say, 'Look,' and I would walk back into
theroom thinking he was all tied up, and he'd be loose, standing
there,saying, 'I told you you didn't tie me right.' So then I began to
getserious." On a trip to visit her sister in New York City, Mirthastopped in
at the Pleasure Chest, a sex shop in Greenwich Village,and bought a variety
of equipment—chains and handcuffs, leatherstraps, dog collars and leashes,
a selection of whips. Back on theCape she created a little outfit of her own,
fashioned from a pictureshe'd cut out of a skin magazine and taken to a
tailor in Province-town she'd heard felt comfortable with such requests.
The Provincetown tailor made several versions for her, onewhite, one red,
and one black, all consisting of a leather corsetextending from her breasts to
her crotch, held together by stringsthat laced up the front. She also ordered
up leather bikinis to gowith each set. Back in the attic, she'd put on her stuff
and firmlyaffix Georgette to the bed, make her into the slave of
MistressMirth. If Georgette wanted a snort of coke, she'd have to beg for
it.The same for when she wanted a meal, and sometimes, if Georgettehadn't
done a good job downstairs or had said something naughty,she might go a
whole day without food, be left up there for hoursand hours while Mistress
Mirth stayed downstairs entering the day'sevents into her Kahlil Gibran
diary, in which each week was headlined with some piece of wisdom from The Prophet.
"George always wanted me to do more, saying I wasn't meanenough, so I'd
constantly have to be thinking up things." She keptGeorgette fairly well
shaved in the lower regions, lathering theGillette Foamy all over the place,
and using the occasion to carveher initials just above the pubic area with a
razor blade. She'd allowhim to come downstairs where she'd have a fire
going in the fire-place and handcuff him to a rocking chair. Or she'd fasten
on hisdog collar and a leash and lead him around the house on all
fours,once threatening to take him out on the street like that if he
didn'tbehave. She also thought of putting clothespins on his nipples, mak-
ing him endure that for four or five days. On one occasion whenMirtha
returned to Eastham and he stayed on at Wellfleet, he calledher up to leave
a breathy message on the answering machine: "Thisis your slave Georgette
calling to tell you I'm taking the clothespinsoff. They're painful. Perhaps
when we meet again you can extendthe time period. Good-bye."
Early in 1978 the activities at Wellfleet had to be suspendedshortly after Mr.
and Mrs. Jung discovered they were going to haveto accommodate a new
member of the household, due to arrive thefirst week in August. Mirtha
heard the news first from her doctor,and she rushed home to tell George. "I
didn't want another child,really. I had Clarie. But he wanted one of his own.
Oh, he definitelydid. But I didn't know if he could handle it. When I told
him, hehugged me and kissed me and said that's wonderful, he was
reallyexcited, and Jack was excited, too. They started to take care of me.'Sit
down.' And, 'You've got to eat this and that.' I remember howpleased he
was. It was like a fresh start."
Actually, before this moment George couldn't have given lessthought to
children, and especially to whether he might want one ofhis own. "The kind
of life I'd led, raising a family, that stuff, thesubject had never come up," he
says. "The way I thought, adventur-ers don't have time for children and
dogs and cats. None of my girl-friends were interested in any of that. And
the people I'd known inCalifornia, they might have had a dog, but that was
it. I'd alwaysassumed Mirtha was on the pill. But then I found out she
wasn't."Nevertheless, now that the event was at hand, he decided thatmaybe
it wouldn't be so bad. The baby would be a boy—there wasnever a question
in his mind about that—and he'd name him afterhis own father, Christian
Frederick Jung. As the date got closer, he
■
202 Blow
helped Mirtha shop for baby things and get the little room ready."He'd go to
the store with me, and everything we picked out wasblue. Blue blankets, Tshirts with little blue borders on them. A lit-tle blue rattle. He bought the
first stuffed toy the baby had. It was ateddy bear, really cute, with a little T-
shirt that said 'Hug me.'"From Mirtha's diary entry for Thursday, May 4,
1978:
George has found another pilot and we're getting ready to leave forNorfolk
in a few days. George buys me ice cream, our craving. We botheat it in the
middle of the night. He likes coffee. I love chocolate. Wewere sharing this
craving together. They say that men don't becomepregnant. They do. I want
this baby and he wants this baby, too. Heplaced his hands and felt the baby
move today. He was in a trance afterthat. It's funny to see this mafioso man
when it comes to expecting. Wehad a good day.
Whatever his feelings toward the blessed event, George's bestday that
spring was the one when he once again found a pilot andwas back in the
transportation business for the first time since theKane flights nine months
earlier. The source was a publicationcalled Trade-a-Plane, a periodical that
serious smugglers rarelymissed. He'd answered an ad for a de Havilland
Dove, the Britishversion of the DC-3, which was for sale by a pilot named
Hank,who operated out of the airport in Norfolk, Virginia. "I called theguy
and said I was in the real estate development business and hisplane sounded
like what I wanted. He said to come on down, hiswife would pick me up
and bring me out to his hangar. I flew downand she showed up in a station
wagon, three or four kids in the back.We drive over there, and here's this
guy Hank, swigging from a bot-tle of tequila and sitting in the middle of all
these airplanes. Whenwe're alone he says, 'Who're you shittin'? No real
estate developerwants a goddamn plane this big. You're a smuggler.'
"'You're goddamn right I am,' I said, 'And so are you, you moth-erfucker.'
And that's how we got started."
For years Hank had augmented his salary as a Pan Am pilot byflying pot
out of Colombia and Mexico, and at about the timeGeorge happened along
he'd been considering moving into a moreprofitable product line. In the
years between 1978 and 1980 thingsbegan cooking over a high flame in the
cocaine business. Coca pastewas flooding into the processing plants in
Medellin and Cali, flown
in from the three thousand-odd landing strips in the Alto Benigrowing
region of Bolivia, trucked up the Pan American Highwayfrom Peru and
Ecuador, landed from coastal freighters putting in atthe Colombian port of
Buenaventura and little coastal villages allalong the Pacific, most of them
reachable only by donkey trails.When Hank started making flights for
George, he reported backthat the airstrips he was directed to outside of
Medellin and up nearBarranquilla in the north were like miniature O'Hares
in Chicago,with so many aircraft coming and going that the planes had to
circlearound for a while until they found a moment clear for a landing.
Atnight the fields would be outlined by piles of burning automobiletires,
which lit up the forest region like dozens of primitive encamp-ments. Pilots
would sometimes get confused and land at the wrongstrip, then have to take
off again and hopscotch to the next set ofsignal fires. In these go-go years
of the trade, efforts to interdict theflights by federal and local police
agencies in the United States werehaphazard at best. Total seizures of
cocaine by the DEA in 1980amounted to only 2,590 pounds, equivalent to
less than five of BarryKane's planeloads. And it was not until 1982 that the
Reagan admin-istration declared its much vaunted war on drugs, with Vice
Presi-dent George Bush the general in charge.
Meanwhile, with the word out about the huge profits beingmade in the
American market, Colombians were pouring into theStates with the avidity
of miners on the scent of a gold strike. Theprocessors from Medellin
controlled sales in Florida and most otherareas of the country, which
accounted for about 70 percent of thebusiness; the balance, which went
largely to New York City, wasgiven over to traffickers from the Cali region,
in the south. Thecocaine lords weren't widely known as the "Medellin
cartel" untilaround 1985, the year they made the covers of Time and
Newsweek;but by the turn of the decade they had already formed the
manufac-turing end into a smooth-running industrial enterprise.
On the board of directors, as it were, was Pablo Escobar, whoranked as first
among equals and had charge over most of the pro-duction facilities. With
him sat the Ochoa clan from up north inBarranquilla. Unlike most of the
others in the trade, who came fromuncertain backgrounds—Pablo was part
Lebanese, for instance—the Ochoas were an old family, proud of their roots
in northernSpain. The patriarch, Don Fabio Ochoa, was an obese man
withcourtly manners who often dressed completely in white, from shoes
2 O 4 Blow
to hat, invested in Picasso paintings, and devoted much of his timeto the
family's bullfighting interests and raising walking horses. DonFabio had
three sons, all active in the business, foremost of whomwas Jorge Luis
Ochoa Vasquez, or El Gordo, "the Fat Man." Shortand stocky, clean-shaven
with a pudding face, Jorge worked in thesales end of the company,
coordinating much of the distribution inthe southern United States. In his
spare time he collected classicHarley-Davidsons and helped run the family's
Hacienda Veracruz, avast holding outside Barranquilla that, like Pablo's
place outsideMedellin, contained a private zoo with animals brought over
fromAfrica. Also on the board was Jose Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha,known
as "the Mexican," who owned large tracts of forestland andoversaw the
transport of the coca paste from the farms to the facto-ries, now and then
helping Pablo on the enforcing end. And thenCarlos, of course, figured in
overseas transportation. Carlos hadbegun building his own hacienda,
complete with zoo, down inArmenia, to the south of Medellin.
Hundreds of others worked at high levels of the trade, buyingkilos in
Colombia, combining them with other loads for shipmentto the States, or
arranging for transportation on their own, if theyhad the bulk to make it pay.
Whatever arrangement they workedout in their native land, they had a
frantic need these days for air-planes and pilots, and for people they could
trust who could put thetrips together. In this part of the enterprise the
Colombians clothedevery piece of the deal in a cloak of secrecy; they had
nothing tolearn from the Byzantines when it came to the arts of
deception.Most of the Colombians who sought out George and his
airplanescame through Humberto—or George thought they did. But
henever knew if Humberto was sending the Colombians as a service
tothem, for which Humberto got paid, or if the kilos these peoplewanted
George to fly into the country really belonged to them or toHumberto, who
might have been masking the fact for some reason.Or was Humberto
possibly agenting the whole operation on behalfof his friend Pablo Escobar,
and this was Pablo's personal cocaine?George suspected all of the above
held true at one time or another,but he didn't know which it was, and he
didn't much care, as long asthe Colombians came.
"Humberto was now calling up constantly," George recalls,"saying he's got
this guy and that guy, they want to move three hun-dred kilos, five hundred
kilos. He'd call and say, 'Can you get me
2 05
two planes by tomorrow? This guy has a thousand kilos.' I'd say,'Hey, slow
down here, will you?' But I'd get them. Because by thenit was snowballing.
Everyone had started to do it. I was meeting tendifferent Colombians a
week. They all had kilos to bring in. Theyall needed airplanes."
It soon became clear that George couldn't run the business outof Eastham,
and so he had Clara Luz rent another house for thefamily on the inland
waterway in Pompano Beach, just north of FortLauderdale. He liked Fort
Lauderdale because it had two airports, alot of good restaurants, the Bahia
Mar Yacht Basin, the lushly deco-rated Pier Sixty Six Resort and Marina.
Living there also distancedhim from the Colombian stomping ground in
Miami, giving him alittle peace and quiet when he wanted it. Yet getting to
a businessmeeting in Coconut Grove or Little Havana or Coral
Gablesinvolved just a short hop down 1-95.
Hank did six trips for George in rapid succession, carrying threehundred
kilos each time, for a total of nearly two tons. Georgecharged the
Colombians the usual $10,000 a kilo, split it down themiddle with Hank,
and in about four months they were each betteroff by some $9 million. The
operation won no prizes for sophistica-tion. Figuring that the police in
Norfolk, Virginia, weren't exactlyturning over every rock looking for
cocaine smugglers, they simplyflew the loads in at night, straight from
Colombia to the Norfolkairport. Once on the ground, the plane would taxi
to a dark end ofthe runway and pause there so the kilos could be thrown out
toGeorge's guys waiting in the bushes, then taxi over to check in at theU.S.
Customs shed. The kilos would be trucked down to a stashapartment in
Miami and negotiations would be initiated with theColombians for
transferring the goods in return for payment for thetrip.
When George sent word that the load had arrived, he'd be pro-vided with
the address of a house in Miami where the cocaineshould be delivered.
Usually it was located in a quiet middle-classarea of Little Havana and
occupied by Colombians trying to blendin with the socioeconomic mien of
the neighborhood. At one pointa trafficker even went so far as to print up a
set of instructions forhow these operators should act, a sort of Emily Post
guide for thecocaine trade. According to one of the pamphlets confiscated
duringa DFA bust in the 1980s, the house should have an attached twocargarage and the people living there be a couple, thirty-something,
206 Blow
with children. The man should leave in the morning carrying anattache
case, dressed for going to the office. "Try to imitate anAmerican in all his
habits," it said, "like mow the lawn, wash the car,etc." The couples were
warned "not to have any extravagant socialevents at the house, but [they]
may have an occasional barbecue,inviting trusted relatives. It is
recommended that every occupanthave a well-maintained dog. Preferably a
Great Dane."
George would drop off half the load at the house, wait until itwas in turn
unloaded to wholesalers, then demand his fee for theplane trip before
delivering the rest—again, holding on to the sec-ond half as collateral
against their disappearing without paying thefreight. When the Colombians
showed up with the money andGeorge showed up with the coke, George
would bring along abodyguard. George employed several over the years,
but easily themost formidable was Richard Starkland, alias "Bird," from
Natick,Massachusetts. A former air-force ground crewman who saw
servicein Vietnam, Bird was built like a piece of earth-moving equip-ment
—six feet six inches tall, 260 pounds, with a broad, slightly pit-ted face and
a big bushy beard. A fisherman by trade, Bird got hisname several years
earlier when he and a confederate were surprisedby the game warden while
tonging for clams in illegal waters. Hispal was caught, but Starkland took
off by land and succeeded in out-running the marshal, even with three
bushels of clams slung over hisback. "Tell that big bird running over the
marshes that he hasn'tseen the last of me," the marshal told Starkland's
accomplice, andthe name stuck. George met Bird in jail in Massachusetts
followinghis early pot bust, and the two became pals. Bird had been
arresteddown near Yuma, Arizona, in connection with a purchase he'd
madeof thirty-five hundred pounds of marijuana from the mayor of
SanLuis, Mexico, right across the border. He carried the whole load onhis
back, two hundred pounds a trip, through the Colorado River toa location
on the U.S. side in the Yuma Desert. He then returnedeast and paid two
gofers from Framingham to go down in a jeep,pick up the pot, and bring it
back. "I told them right where it was,that there were only two trees in the
state of Arizona, and this wasnext to one of them, but they still couldn't find
it." Bird went downand found it himself, unfortunately at the same time as
did agentsfrom the U.S. Border Patrol, and so the Bird was in the bag.
For his bodyguard duty he charged George $5,000 an appear-ance, plus the
cost of his hardware, which consisted of a short-barreled .357 iVIagnum Smith & Wesson State Trooper, and also a Colt.45
automatic—not the erratic army model, but one of the GoldCup competition
series, capable of putting five slugs into a circlethe size of a quarter at
twenty paces. He'd arm the clip with mercuryloads, which were hollowpoint bullets bored out and filled withmercury and sealed over with wax.
One hit anywhere in the upperbody with this mother and half a man's back
would be oozing downthe wallpaper. When the Colombians arrived, Bird
would monitortheir entrance into the apartment and then, while the coke
wasbeing inspected and the money counted, stand next to the door, hisback
to the wall, not say anything, and stare. "They'd feel you outwith their eyes,
so you'd never want to look down and you'd neverwant to blink," he says.
Bird made about eight appearances forGeorge, supervising the orderly
transference of somewhere in thevicinity of three tons of cocaine and $10
million to $15 million incash—no problem.
After his last trip for George, Hank and his Dove hired out onanother job
and disappeared altogether. He gave no warning toGeorge, left his wife and
children, just vanished. George figured heeither crashed his plane or made
cocaine connections on his ownand set up another life. With his string of
Colombians to satisfy,however, George now needed another pilot, another
plane, andanother piece of luck. He had a chance meeting with the man
whoowned the house in Eastham, an Italian contractor named DinoViprini.
Dino dropped by one day because Mirtha had complainedthat their
refrigerator, a brand-new Hotpoint, wasn't getting coldenough. Dino had
never met George before this, but he'd heardstories. "I started talking to this
Italian guy," recalls George. "Andhe says, 'Ya know, I know what you're
doin'.'
"'What are you talking about, What I'm doin'?'
'"Come on,' he says, 'Come on. Guy comes in here, throwsmoney and cash
around, pays the rent in cash. You know, I got anairplane. I know some
people in Florida, too.'
"I said, 'Is that right, Dino?'
"And he says, 'Yeah, that's right,' and I said, 'Let's talk somemore.
It turned out that, like Hank, Dino had also been a pot smug-gler, bringing
tons of it in by boat from Jamaica to the Cordage Pierin Plymouth I larbor,
just a few hundred yards from the crowds oftourists who stand around
staring at what's left of Plymouth Rock.
2()8 Blow
Dino told George he knew a wealthy developer in Palm Beach andalso a
pilot who'd been flying pot into Texas and guns back intoSouth America.
Both of these guys were named Ralph—Big Ralphand Little Ralph. Dino
said that Big Ralph, the developer, was look-ing to make a large investment
of money and time and effort in thecocaine business. One thing led to
another, and soon George wasgoing down to Palm Beach for a visit. "At the
time, he was marriedto a wealthy woman and living in this $5 million estate
on thewater," George says. "I'd call his house and his wife would say,
'Letme see, the Lamborghini's here, so's the Ferrari. Let me check withthe
maid whether he's at the polo club'—he was a member of thePalm Beach
Polo Club—or he'd be hanging out by his stables onthe estate."
Rather than chartering planes, Big Ralph suggested they go intogether to
buy one of their own and just hire the pilots. They chosea $1.2 million
Cessna Conquest, a nine-passenger twin-engine tur-boprop. By taking out
the seats they could fill the cargo area withjust over a ton of cocaine. The
Conquest had a speed of nearly 400miles an hour and a range of 2,300
miles, meaning you could fly backfrom Colombia and go deep into the
States without refueling.Because its turbo engines needed less oxygen than
those on a straightprop job, the Conquest could fly in thinner atmosphere,
up around30,000 feet, almost beyond the view of groundlings, and its
steepclimb ratio enabled it to land and take off on the proverbial dime.The
plane also had the advantage over a full jet in that its propsallowed it to
operate in heavy atmosphere as well as thin, so it couldget right down on
the deck, sneak underneath any radar surveillance,and come nipping into
U.S. airspace fifty feet above the wave tops.
In the import company they formed, George was vice presidentin charge of
sales, arranging the trips, ensuring the planes had a loadto bring back,
collecting payment for the job. The two Ralphs ranthe operation itself, hired
the pilots, made sure the flights got offthe ground on schedule, came back
in good order. Operating insuch perfect symbiosis, they began flying
regularly out of FortLauderdale Executive Airfield, and returning to tiny
strips in theEverglades, North Florida, Alabama, and the Carolinas. From
therethey would truck the product back to Miami, where George turnedit
over to the Colombians. "All of a sudden I didn't give a shit aboutCarlos
Lehder anymore," he says. "I was married to the Colom-bians, and I had the
two Ralphs, with all the equipment and wherewithal. I was running with all these people, the flights going in andout.
Barry Kane and his little shitbox of an airplane! Doing littlepiss-ant trips! I
wouldn't even talk about less than 1 million, 2 mil-lion, 3 million a run
anymore. This was the dream I had had, righthere. And it was all
happening. What did I care about Carlos now? Iwas becoming as big a
cocaine king as he was."
George was acting pretty royally in the consumption category aswell, with
Mirtha keeping him company most of the way. He'd beenusing cocaine
more or less regularly since late 1976, after the suit-case runs to Antigua,
but these days his intake moved toward a levelthat, had the category
existed, might have qualified him for a placein the Guinness Book of World
Records. When it comes to snortingcoke, of course, establishing any level
of use as "average" seems afairly fruitless enterprise, considering how the
drug tends toencourage the pursuit of extremes. Nevertheless, as calibrated
inseveral academic studies of the subject, the standard hit for
someonecharacterized as a regular but moderate user is usually figured at
acouple of lines, one to a nostril, each line about an eighth of an inchwide
by an inch long, containing fifty to a hundred milligrams ofcocaine, done
two or three times during an evening, maybe once ortwice a week. This
cocaine would most likely have been cut, so it'sfar from pure, not like the
stuff to which George had access.Although snorting is the most socially
acceptable form of intake, thenasal membranes offer one of the slower
routes to the brain, sincethe coke must travel all through the secondary
circulatory system toget there, arriving badly diluted in the bargain.
Much faster is what Sigmund Freud, Sherlock Holmes, andJohn Belushi
enjoyed doing, which was to dissolve the cocaine inwater and shoot up
intravenously (Belushi's fatal shot had a dash ofheroin in it, making it
what's known as a speedball). "In my lastsevere depression I took coca
again," Freud wrote back in 1884,"and a small dose lifted me to the heights
in a wonderful fashion. Iam just busy collecting the literature for a song of
praise to thismagical substance." Shot directly into a vein, the coke takes
just twominutes to impress itself on the brain cells, and maintains its
effectfor ten or fifteen minutes. In solution form, the coke contains
morewallop than when snorted, and can create sensations that, as
Freudobserved when he stayed up one night monitoring the habit of afriend,
proved to be more than mildly disconcerting. The friend,
2 1 O li I ovv
whose name was von Fleischl, had been trying to cure his morphinehabit
with cocaine. One night he suffered a paranoid reaction and,with Freud at
his side, began hallucinating that monsters were try-ing to get at him and
insects were gnawing at his skin. More or lesspromptly after that, Freud
decided he'd better knock it off.
The fastest route to a high, one that didn't make its appearancein the United
States until around 1986, and then mostly in cities onthe East Coast, is to
cook up the cocaine into crack and smoke it in alittle pipe. The kernel of
crack doesn't stay lit very well, so you haveto keep firing it up with a butane
lighter, hence the telltale burn scaron the outer edge of a crack addict's
thumb. After a hit on the crackpipe, the rush comes on in only ten seconds
and envelops the mindwith the intensity of a fierce squall at sea. Three or
four minuteslater, it tails off, vanishing as rapidly as it appeared, to be
replacedby a sharp psychological crash and an agonizing hunger for more.
When snorted, the only way George did it, coke takes a littlelonger to
produce an effect, four to five minutes from nose to neu-ron. But the
euphoria lasts longer, from fifteen minutes to half anhour, at which point the
good feelings inevitably start turning sourand the high takes a downhill
slide, reaching its half-life—the pointwhen the half drug has been
eliminated from the body—in forty-five minutes to an hour after the hit.
That's when you want to checkinto the coatroom or the John to do it again;
and this goes on maybefive times a night, so that you can knock off a fifth
of a gram, half agram if you're a fairly heavy user, or a whole gram if you're
near togoing over the edge. When the crash would come for George,
thefeelings he missed most were the sense of possessing total controlover
his environment, of having a heightened sensitivity to things—"when you're
having a conversation with someone and you knowwhat they're going to say
before they say it"—feeling magnificentlysuperior to the other people in the
room, of being a superman, aperson whom no one can touch and no one can
bring down.
By his own account, between 1978 and 1980, his years of heavi-est use,
George averaged about five grams a day, between 100 and150 lines, five
thousand milligrams. This was his maintenance dose.Some days he'd be up
to ten, even twelve or fifteen grams, and herecalls on at least one occasion
making a whole ounce—twenty-eight grams—disappear in a period of
eighteen hours. "I justseemed to have this tremendous capacity for coke,"
he says. "I nevermet anyone who could snort more coke at a sitting than I
could. You
put ten grams in front of me, and I could go through that stuff inten
minutes. One of the Colombians, Victor, would come up toEastham and
we'd do two or three grams and he'd have his head inthe toilet. I'd do it with
Mr. T, and after nine or ten lines hewouldn't know where he was."
After a while, snorting lines or doing little coke spoons got inthe way of
George's travel schedule—he was always on airplanes orin cars, going or
coming—so he took to filling up a Tylenol bottlewith a few ounces, which
he would pop into his shirt pocket. Whenhe wanted a hit, he'd uncap it and
insert a straw, not even taking thebottle out of his pocket, and a constant
flow of coke would be vacu-umed into his nose. Mirtha recalls that at
parties in Miami with theColombians, "the coke would be out on the table
on a silver platterand the men would be doing these little lines, maybe
taking just ahit with their spoons. George would measure out a line
twelveinches long, run up the whole thing with his nose, and in one hit
itwould all be gone, like that." The Colombians would say thatGeorge didn't
do your normal lines, he did boulevards. "Mr. 1-95,"they called him, in
reference to the endless string of white lines thatmark the lanes on the
interstate.
Averaging 5 grams a day, throwing in a few extra for the binges,this added
up to somewhere around 6,000 grams, or 13.2 pounds of100 percent pure
cocaine that he visited on his brain cells from 1978to the end of 1980. Cut
and sold on the street, the amount wouldhave cost close to $2 million. But
the financial consequences of hishabit paled alongside what it did to his
personality and the generalpace of his life.
The effect cocaine has on the brain is essentially to make thebillions of
neurons "talk" to each other, and in turn send out mes-sages to the various
parts of the body telling them how to act andfeel. A brain cell, cell 1, say,
normally communicates in an orderlyfashion by firing off a
neurotransmitter containing its message intothe space between cell 1 and
cell 2, known as the synapse. There themessage from cell 1 is picked up by
cell 2 through its receptor,whereupon cell 1 terminates the transmission by
cleaning theremains of the neurotransmitter out of the synaptic space and
get-ting off the line, as it were. It does this by employing a
mechanismknown as "reuptake." The conversation having stopped, cell 2
canreact to the message without getting confused by any static residue.One
of the most important effects of cocaine is to cause the neurons
2 12 \i I ow
to fire off their neurotransmitters into the synaptic space, willy-nilly,
shooting out one impulse after the other and creating a lot ofgeneral chatter
in the head. Another thing it does is to block thereuptake mechanism, which
prevents cell 1 from clearing its formermessage out of the synaptic space
before issuing a new one. Thismeans that for the duration cocaine is present
in the brain the cellsnever stop talking, the general effect of which is like a
party tele-phone line with billions of customers, all blabbing at once, and
noone will shut up, and you have to do what everyone says, and do itnow.
Among the messages that come across loud and clear is the onethat gears up
the body to cope with an emergency—adrenalineshoots into the system, the
pupils dilate, and the heart rate acceler-ates, pumping blood to the muscles.
The senses go on high alert,the need for sleep and food gets suppressed, the
energy level soars.For the same reason the Indians in the Andes could run
twice as farwhen they chewed coca leaves, George Jung could stay up for
fourand five days at a time with no sleep, talking incessantly, makingdeals,
doing business, fast-forwarding his life in general until itresembled the
action in single-reel film from the 1920s. This wasespecially evident to
anyone having the misfortune of being presentwhen he was behind the
wheel of a car. Once, when he was driving aColombian visitor from the
house at Eastham to the airport inHyannis, George informed his alarmed
passenger that he'd drophim off at the rotary by the air terminal, but that he
was in too big ahurry to stop the car. "I told him, 'Look, I'm really rushed, I
haven'tgot the time to stop, but I'll slow down a little. You'll just have
tojump.' It took two times going around that rotary, but he did it." Asa
driver, George had been a public menace ever since his teenagedays, but on
coke he gave "speed demon" a new dimension of mean-ing. After midnight
one night, trying to get to the Cape to supervisea money delivery, he drove
his Thunderbird from the center ofBoston to the Sagamore Bridge, fiftyfour miles, in the space oftwenty-five minutes, and this included negotiating
two cloverleafs.
Coke also intruded into most aspects of George's home life atEastham,
where Mirtha would try to keep up with George, at leastpart of the way;
Clarie would sometimes wake up wondering whyher mother was running
the vacuum cleaner around at three or fourin the morning. George liked to
take Clarie off to her fourth-gradeclass at the Eastham elementary school,
and on more than one occasion he ended up in some confrontation with a teacher or the prin-cipal, on
whom George would unload the brunt of his own teachingphilosophy from
the pimp classes at Danbury. "Going to school inthe car, I'd be having a
little pick-me-up out of the Tylenol bottle,and Clarie would ask what I was
doing. 'It's my medicine, Clarie.The doctors say I have to have this all the
time.'" Arriving at theschool at 8:00 A.M., he'd storm in with his sunglasses
on, a silk scarf,leather jacket, his Porsche burbling to itself outside in a noparkingspot, whereupon he would discharge himself of some opinions
toanyone in sight, then tear off. "I remember Clarie looking at meonce and
saying, 'Why can't you just be like the rest of the dads?' Iknew she was
mortified a lot, but I couldn't stop."
That summer, however, he decided abruptly that maybe he'dbeen doing too
much coke after all and resolved to tail off some onthe grammage. The
occasion came six days before his thirty-sixthbirthday, on the same day his
child was born, when George suffereda heart attack. He'd already
experienced some physical conse-quences from the drug, one of them a
subspecies of cocaine psy-chosis that had to do with what the medical
books call "tactile hallu-cinations"—thinking things are crawling on your
skin. This comesabout because the same neurotransmitters that fool you
into believ-ing you're physically invincible, sexually irresistible, and
intellectu-ally formidable, not to mention the life of the party, can also
causeyou to lose touch with reality in negative ways as well. You begin
tosuffer symptoms of paranoid schizophrenia, thinking people areafter you,
that there's stuff on you that shouldn't be there. WhatGeorge felt was an
unbearable burning sensation in his feet. Hethought his soles were peeling
off, that he'd been walking on a bedof coals, like some Indian fakir, only not
because he wanted to. Adoctor he saw couldn't figure it out, probably
because Georgeneglected to tell him about his coke habit. Walking being
toopainful, George stayed in bed, and he also stopped snorting coke,since
getting high while lying on your back isn't much fun. Absti-nence, it turned
out, was the cure, and eventually the sensation wentaway.
Late in July, with the baby's arrival drawing nigh, Clara Luz hadthe family
move to the Pompano Beach house so Mirtha could givebirth in Cedars of
Lebanon hospital in Miami, where they had goodCuban doctors. Mirtha s
water broke early in the morning a few daysafter they arrived, and George
found himself barreling down 1-95,
his wife beside him growing steadily more panicked, telling him tohurry or
she'd have it by the roadside. George had thought to get alittle blasted on
coke before they left in order to speed passage of thebirthing experience—
and in Miami he became disoriented andcouldn't find the hospital. Finally
he flagged down a cabbie and gavehim two hundred dollars to lead the way.
The cab prompdy pulled aU-turn over the median strip, and George
followed suit in the bigThunderbird, which took the divider by leaping
about a foot into theair, causing Mirtha s head to smash into the roof, not
doing wondersfor her emotional state. They reached the hospital with plenty
oftime, it turned out, since the baby didn't arrive until that evening—agirl.
She was named Kristina Sunshine Jung, the first name becauseit resembled
Christian, George's father's name, the second to honorthe fact that she'd
been born in the Sunshine State. The initialglimpse George and Clara Luz
got of her was through the little win-dow in the nursery, and at first George
wasn't too impressed. "Youlook at them and to me they all looked the same,
like wizened littlemidgets. But Clara Luz was going, 'Oh, she's beautiful,
she's so won-derful.' 'Okay,' I said. 'Now, let's go home.'"
He felt the pain right after he got in the car and was putting itinto drive. It
hit him in the chest, with the force of a sledgehammer.More pain began
shooting up and down both arms, and he startedsweating profusely and
growing faint. Clara Luz took his pulse,which was racing wildly, and
quickly got him into the emergencyroom, where the doctor informed him
he'd had a violent heartattack. He laid George out on a gurney, plugged him
into an EKGmonitor, and gave him a shot to calm the heart muscle. "You
justabout blew up the machine. You've got to tell me what you've
beendoing," George recalls him saying. "I said that I'd probably done
anounce' of cocaine in the last fifteen hours. He looked at me as if Iwas
fucking insane." Cocaine heart attacks arrive compliments ofanother
neurotransmitter—norepinephrine—which pumps stimu-lating signals into
the heart muscle. These cause the muscle notonly to work extra hard but to
go into overtime, so that it fails totake the usual rest periods, during which
it normally gets replen-ished with blood and oxygen, enabling it to continue
to work. Thesledgehammer blow George felt to his chest was, in effect, his
heartmuscle crying out for more oxygen. After the shot slowed down
hisheart, and after lying there for a couple of hours, George felt considerably better, and during a moment when the doctor was other-
wise engaged, he walked out of the emergency room, got into hiscar, and
drove home.
As it turned out, the heart attack wasn't the half of it. Somethingmuch
worse, in terms of family relations, happened the followingday, when
George found himself so hung over from the cocainebinge that he couldn't
get out of bed to make the little champagnepour the hospital gave for the
new daddies coming in to see theirwives and babies. "I never heard the end
of that one," he says."Mirtha got hysterical about it, crying, shouting, going
on abouthow I was the only father who wasn't there. She'd bring it up
laterover and over, when we'd argue—'You rotten son of a bitch,
youcouldn't even get to the hospital when your daughter was born.'
Youknow how women can throw in your face what you did ten yearsago.
They'll go back twenty if it's good enough. They've got every-thing
categorized in their minds, all the dates and times, every fuck-up you ever
made. Mirtha was so pissed she didn't even want to hearabout the heart
attack."
For a while, after the baby came home, George actually man-aged to cut
back a little on his habit, and happy times resumed inthe Jung household.
George would get up in the middle of the nightto feed Kristina her bottle or
change her diaper. He'd sit by herhigh chair spooning in the baby food, play
with her down on thebeach, or take her on a walk with him in the stroller
when he wentto the convenience store a couple of miles away on Route 6 to
useits pay phone to call down to Colombia. He was so attentive that,when
Kristina started to talk, it was George she'd ask for if she wokeup at night.
"La leche, poppi. La leche," she'd say. "It was all new forGeorge, and I
think that was one of the times he was very happy,"Mirtha says. "I would go
to sleep and he would stay up and watchthe baby, hour after hour. The baby
was so fragile he didn't wantClarie to carry her, he thought that she'd drop
her. Everybody wasexcited. And it was a good time, a happy time. It was
really a happyrime."
With the money pouring in like a veritable deluge, George hadto give
serious thought these days to what to do with it all. He cer-tainly couldn't
start blowing millions of dollars, buying yachts andhouses, without drawing
attention from the IRS or any number ofpolice agencies who would want to
know where it had come from.Now that he was a full-fledged family man,
with a wife, two chil2 16 Blow
dren, and a mother-in-law, not to mention Mirtha's brother andUncle Jack,
along with a live-in nanny to take care of the childrenand two houses to
keep up, it didn't seem quite the right moment totake off for the Great
Barrier Reef or find a permanent seat at thatcafe in Ibiza. There was now
somewhere around $30 million stashedat Wellfleet, with a few more sitting
underneath the oil burner atEastham. He kept the presence of most of it a
secret, even fromMirtha, or rather, especially from Mirtha, since everything
thatreached Mirtha's ears went directly to Martha, and pretty soonevery
Colombian in the business would be expressing interest inthose heating
ducts. For walking-around money, he maintained ageneral fund in a bureau
drawer in the bedroom, replenishing itregularly. "Everybody could have
money anytime they wanted, likea candy store," he says. "Jack and his
friend Wilmer, all they had todo was go to the bureau drawer, or Mirtha,
when she wanted to goto the mall, just take out a handful."
When Mirtha would be down in Florida, he'd also secretemoney throughout
the structure of the house. He had a carpentercome in to refit the medicine
cabinet in the bathroom so it could bepulled out easily, if you knew the
trick, and behind it mounds ofcash could be stuffed in between the studs in
the wall. He unfas-tened part of the living room paneling and put money in
there, fit-ting the pieces back together with a hidden metal clamp. Over
theclamp he hung up a framed print he'd always liked, Andrew
Wyeth'sChristina's World. And every month now he began hiring a Learjet
totake several million from Wellfleet down to Big Ralph in PalmBeach,
who was transporting cash to various accounts in the Bank ofNova Scotia
branches in the Cayman Islands and Panama City. Inreturn for their
discretion when it came to accommodating peoplebringing in suitcases of
cash, the offshore banks began exacting a 1percent "counting fee" from the
drug traffickers, which provided agood piece of change in addition to the
usual profits from lendingthe money out at interest. Once it was in the
offshore bank, the cashcould then be transferred secretly by wire to
anywhere in the world,even back into the United States, a factor that was
contributing inno small way to the construction boom in Miami and
elsewhere inFlorida.
George thought vaguely about eventually moving his share toSwitzerland,
but right now he was content to let Big Ralph handlethings. He seemed to
have the right contacts, and George had little
time to make any complicated decisions himself. After each tripRalph
simply gave him a receipt from the bank confirming thedeposit, with a
seven-digit number on it representing his growingaccount. He stored the
receipts in the safe under the oil burner atEastham. At night he liked to sit
out on the deck, watching themoon reflecting off the water, drinking his
Remy Martin and think-ing about his life and what he'd done and where
he'd been, abouthis nest egg, all safe, sound, and secret. When he took it all
outsomeday, wouldn't that be a kick?
Of course, George was blowing a lot of the money too, the hellwith the IRS.
He bought the Eastham house outright, paying DinoViprini $185,000 in
cash and closing the deal with a handshake, notbothering with any legal
folderol such as getting a deed. Clara Luzwanted to go on a nice long trip to
Europe, so George sent her.Were the commercial flights to Florida too much
of a hassle forMirtha? He would send her down on a Learjet. There were
the cars,always three or four up at Eastham, plus a couple parked in
Florida.George had a Porsche 924, now a burnt umber one, as well as
histurbo-charged Carrera, the stand-by Thunderbirds, 75s and 76s,BMWs, a
couple of Mercedes Benzes, and a Ferrari. He had totrade in the Ferrari
after the Japanese came out with a lookalikemodel. "I didn't want to go
around and have people think I wasdriving a fucking Datsun," he says. For
her casual trips around theCape, when she didn't feel like ordering a limo,
Mirtha had a brightsilver Oldsmobile Toronado, which she'd tear off in up
the dirt roadin back of the house, leaving sand and rocks flying in her
wake."The Silver Bullet's on the move," the neighbors would say.
Georgealso tried once more to give his parents a present, arriving at
theirhouse one day with a brand new Ford Country Squire stationwagon.
They never used it. After it sat in their garage for sixmonths, he went up to
Weymouth and took it back.
The normal household expenses ran about sixty thousand dol-lars a week,
what with keeping the bureau drawer up to the markand feeding Mirtha's
addiction to the malls. Out in Provincetown,the general business confidence
along the main drag rose apprecia-bly whenever Mirtha and her girlfriends
from New York and Miamihove into sight. George was never exactly a
clotheshorse, but he didhis part, buying dozens of expensive leather jackets,
five-hundred-dollar silk shirts, and his favorite Bruno Magli loafers, now up
totwelve hundred dollars a pair. "I didn't really like to shop for things,
2 18 It low
so I'd do it all at once," he says. "I'd go into Neiman Marcus inMiami and
tell them I wanted that and I wanted that and that, andI'd take off my clothes
and say, 'Here, throw these away,' and put onthe new stuff and tell them to
deliver all the rest and walk out." Onone occasion he had a tailor in Fort
Lauderdale line his blue jeanswith silk because they felt so good that way.
And he ordered a halfdozen pairs of cashmere pants. Cashmere pants, sir?
"The guy saidhe'd never heard of anyone wearing cashmere pants, but when
Istarted peeling off the hundreds, he started seeing what a good ideait was
after all."
George also gave money away, just dropped it on people. Hewould send
people like Courtney on simple errands and pay themfive or ten thousand
dollars for a day's work. He invariably pickedup checks for elaborate meals,
spent fifteen hundred or two thou-sand dollars on a bottle of wine—Chateau
Lafite-Rothschild—andput visitors up at resort hotels on the Cape. And he'd
throw parties,usually down on the beach at Eastham, having grown less
secretivethese days about where he lived. He'd have parties in honor of
theColombians sometimes, and sometimes for his new batch
ofacquaintances in Boston—Mayor Kevin White and his wifeKathryn
would show up, along with a lot of expensive lawyers. Heordered caterers
to set up tents on the sand, and brought in four-piece combos to play Cole
Porter, or rock bands for Mirtha. He'dhave whole canoes sitting out on the
beach filled with shrimp andlobster tails and Beluga caviar. There'd be
twenty cases or so ofDom Perignon champagne, limousines and expensive
cars cloggingthe roads to the house. At one party, a noted mob lawyer
fromBoston pulled George aside and told him: "You know what all thisis,
George? It's a goddamn accident waiting to happen. You're theking in his
castle here, with all the little serfs watching you andwondering who the
fuck is this guy and what is he doing? Why don'tyou just put out a big neon
sign, make it easier for cops? Because,sure as hell, you're gonna get busted
in this house. Why don't youstay down in Fort Lauderdale, where you blend
in better?"
That fall of 1978 was particularly memorable in George's life fortwo
important events, one of them being a trip he took with hismother and
father on a Sunday afternoon up to Wakefield, to pay alast visit to his ailing
grandmother, Nana Jung, before she died.Uncle George was going to be
there, too; it would be the first timeGeorge would see him since graduating
from high school and getting offered the sweeper's job down at the Boston Edison plant inQuincy.
George stopped off in Weymouth to pick up his parentsand drove them up
in a brand new Lincoln Continental he'd rentedfor the occasion. He was
dressed in a sharp-looking blue blazer withbrass buttons and his special
cashmere pants, and had on a Rolexwatch with clusters of diamonds in it,
worth about eleven grand,which Humberto had given him as a birthday
present. Also a Guccitie, which Aunt Myrna commented on right away
when she openedthe door. Aunt Jenny and Uncle Ray Silva, the parents of
George'scousin Bobby, the bank president, were there. Also
AuntieGertrude, who ran the beauty parlor in Filene's. And of courseUncle
George, who strode across the carpet to give Ermine a kiss,shake Fred's
hand, and notice that George was puffing on a littleDutch cigar, one of the
Schimmelpfennigs that came in the tin.
"The first thing he said to me was, 'There will be no smoking inthis house.'
And I said, 'Oh, yeah? Is that right!' and I kept right onsmoking. Aunt
iVlyrna came rushing over and said, 'Oh, Georgie,don't mind him, he's a
senile old fool. I want you to sit down and tellme all about Danbury.'" So
George got on the couch and told themstories about G. Gordon Liddy and
the Wakefield bank president.Aunt Myrna asked him what he was doing
with himself these days.And before George could come up with something
—the precious-metals business or investment counseling, bring out one of
hisphony business cards—his mother piped up and told everyone that,Oh,
George was doing very well. He was in real estate developmentnow.
Obviously miffed at the attention being awarded his good-for-nothing
nephew, Uncle George grabbed Fred's arm. '"Come on,Fred,' he said. 'You
and I'll go in and watch the game.' He neversaid another word the rest of the
afternoon. That's how I could tellthat I got him that day."
The other thing that happened that fall was that Georgedecided to check in
at the home office, to fly down to Medellfn andpay his respects to the man
whom the Colombians, in their pen-chant for emulating the Italian Mafia,
had begun referring to as ElPadrino, or "the Godfather"—Senor Pablo
Escobar Gaviria.
That first time, George went alone to see Pablo. Mirtha had thenew baby to
take care of, of course, but besides that, the Colom-bians weren't too keen
on having women around when business gotdiscussed. There were a lot of
things they didn't like the women
2 2() Bl
doing with them. "At the parties you'd never see the men talking tothe
women, if there were any other men there," says Mirtha."Except for
George, of course. He'd talk with the men, but he likedtalking to the
women, too. The women would stay over by them-selves and talk about the
things their men had bought them, theircars and jewelry. They'd talk about
their men, their personalitiesand the things they did to them when they were
mean." With theColombians, at least those in the cocaine culture, it was a
commonpractice for many of the men to go off on weekends to see their
mis-tresses and girlfriends, returning to their wives and children onSunday,
in time for mass, which they rarely missed. Humberto,much more the
homebody, was particularly religious and would askGeorge and Mirtha to
accompany him and his family to churchsometimes. George would sit next
to him, hearing him praying outloud for the success of the impending trip,
beseeching God to letnothing go wrong with bringing in the next load.
"But even though the men were often gone, they'd hire guys tospy on us,"
says Mirtha. "They'd watch the homes, watch theirapartments. They'd
report back to him everything she did that day,who she saw or who she was
seen with in public. The women gotvery crazy—paranoid—especially the
ones who were foolingaround, because the men could be very cruel." At the
parties featur-ing coke, which could go on for days, the men snorted out in
theopen, but the women were expected to do it on the sly, slipping intothe
powder room for a couple of lines. And when the business dis-cussions
began, the women automatically left the room. "Thewomen would be
around, but they weren't actually allowed in onthe planning of things,
because the Colombians never really trustedwomen. They felt vulnerable.
They always felt the women are theones who are going to go squealing on
them. And they resented me,because I would make sure to be there. I
thought George and I wereone, and I would stay and be quiet and listen to
what was going on.George knew Spanish well enough to say what he
wanted, but hedidn't really know the language. He couldn't tell how they'd
saythings that meant something else because of the tone of voice theyused. I
wanted to protect him. There was no way I was going toallow them to,
excuse my vocabulary, fuck him over. No way."
As arranged by Humberto, the plan was for George to spend thenight at the
Intercontinental Hotel and be taken by Carlos'sbrother, Guillermo, out to
Escobar's ranch the following day. Along
with cementing his relationship with Pablo, George also had apolitical
agenda in mind. "Escobar knew I'd been feuding with Car-los, after all, and
there'd been threats. Now here I was coming downalone to Medellfn, into
his own backyard. I wanted to show that Iwasn't afraid of Carlos. I felt like
it was taking a hell of a chance, butthat it would solidify my status. And I
guess I wanted to get back myrespect, too."
George found flying into Medellfn an interesting experience,since the plane
had to circle round and round in order to descendlow enough into the bowl
formed by the surrounding mountains soit could land. Located on a hill
about fifteen minutes out of town,the Intercontinental is the most exclusive
hotel in Medellfn, with alavish bar by the pool, tennis courts, and its own
riding stable. Thenext morning Guillermo picked George up in—what else?
—aChevy Blazer, and off they went on the ninety-minute drive toEscobar's
seven-thousand-acre Hacienda los Napoles. The cardrove through the soonto-be famous gate at the ranch, topped withits Piper Cub airplane—one of
the planes Pablo had used in theearly days to fly in coca paste from Bolivia
—over the arch. The carwas stopped by bodyguards with side arms, some
carrying M-16s,and escorted down a long dirt driveway to the house, which
was asprawling one-story affair, about fifteen rooms, with a tiled
roof.George was told to wait in the living room, which was floored in ared
mosaic tile and filled with Spanish-looking furniture, mostly
oakupholstered in cowhide. There was no glass in the windows, since
itnever got very cold in this part of the Andes. Several pictures ofPele, the
soccer hero, adorned the walls, reminding visitors thatEscobar supported
several soccer teams in Antioqufa Province.Soon George was ushered down
a hallway and into Pablo's office.Escobar stood up in back of his large oak
desk when George enteredthe room. He was about George's height, tall for a
Colombian, withdark wavy hair and a slightly cheeky face, and when he
came outfrom behind the desk to shake hands, George saw he wore snakeskin cowboy boots fitted with solid gold tips.
Pablo's English was about as good as George's Spanish, and sothe two
stumbled through the conversation in both languages. "I [etold me it was a
pleasure to meet me and that he'd heard a lot aboutme. 'And now you are
here,' he said. 'We can do a lot together. Youhave the planes and the pilots
and I will take you and show youwhere they will land and where they will
stay. I will personally
2 2 2 B 1
supervise it and make them feel very comfortable.' He said that Iwould stay
the night in his own house. And he asked me if I wouldlike some perico,
which means 'the bird that talks a lot.' And I saidyes, I would very much,
and he reaches into a drawer and takes outthis big fucking rock of cocaine
and slams it down on the table. I'dnever seen anything like it, it was as big
as a softball, and he took amachete and hacked it in half. It was pure
cocaine, even better thanthe stuff we had handled, tinged blue, like the
inside of a cave linedwith ice. He chopped some up into a little pile and he
handed it tome and I sniffed it and said, 'Mz/y btieno, si, amigo.' We each
had acouple of large hits from his spoon. I got the feeling he was trying
tosee if I became insecure after doing the drug. 'Tu quieres mdsV hesaid
—'Did I want more?' And I said I 'quiero mucho mas,' and helaughed, iMuy
bien. Ha ha ha.' He said he liked me and that I was a'good gringo.' He said
he knew of the feud with Carlos and said itwas lun problema,' and that he
felt Carlos had wronged me, but thathe couldn't take sides. He said he
respected me for coming downhere."
Pablo then took George around in a jeep to see the spread. Thetour included
the stables where he kept Arabian horses, a miniaturebull ring, about fifty
yards across, with seats for two to three hun-dred spectators. He had a
helicopter pad, with a Huey 500 parked toone side. The landing strip was
paved, about a hundred yards wideand nearly a mile long. Sheds were built
in under the trees as tem-porary storage for some of the cocaine. Fiftygallon drums of 80- to100-octane aviation fuel, or avgas, were stacked
everywhere, alongwith electric fuel pumps and generators. He also had a
powerfulradio transmitter, capable of reaching all the way into the
UnitedStates. Everywhere were men with guns. "He said everything
wasprotected here, the police were taken care of, that they wouldn'tdare
come near the place. They really didn't have a choice. Theyearned almost
nothing for pay, and here they were asked, 'Do youwant to make $250,000
and have a ranch for your family?' And ifthey didn't want that, it was, 'Do
you want to be dead?'"
Staying over at the ranch proved fairly uneventful. After a lot ofGlenlivet
Scotch and a supper of rice and beans and a Colombianstew called san
cocho, made of beef and carrots and potatoes, Georgeand Pablo and a half
dozen others adjourned to one of the bed-rooms, where Pablo put on a
Betamax cassette of the movie Patton,starring George C. Scott, in English.
George had already seen it,
but it was Pablo's favorite movie, a taste he shared with the formergringo
presidente, Richard Nixon, and he watched it at least once aweek. After the
first run-through, he asked George if he wanted tosee it again. George
begged off, said it had been a long day and thathe'd just as soon get some
sleep.
The next day, before Guillermo arrived to drive him back,George and Pablo
were walking over by the landing pad with someColombians, including an
interpreter assigned to George, whenthey heard the thwacking noise of a
helicopter. Soon a small Bellmodel appeared over the jungle canopy and
settled into a landing.In the cab beside the pilot were two other Colombians,
one of themin handcuffs and not appearing terribly happy to be there.
Theinterpreter told George the man was a police informer and to standback
a little. Pablo barked an order and the man was brought overto him, hanging
his head. Pablo then yelled a lot of things at him, ofwhich George caught
only a few, all of them negative. "I heard rata,which I knew was 'rat,' and he
called him a maleton, which was a'bad' something, maybe just a general son
of a bitch, and also cabron,and that means someone who allows another
man to make love tohis wife but doesn't do anything about it. It also means
'faggot.'" Itgrew quiet all of a sudden, and in a move that seemed
prearranged,someone handed Pablo a large automatic pistol that looked
toGeorge like a U.S. Army Colt .45. With no further ado, standingabout five
feet away from the informer, Pablo casually raised thepistol and shot him
square in the chest. The force of the impacthurled him backward to the
ground, where he quivered a little andthen lay still. This was the first person
George had observed beingshot to death, and he recalls spending the
moment trying to com-pose his facial expression into some kind of
appropriate response. "Imean, in their eyes I was supposed to be this big
fucking Americangangster, and they were all these really macho guys,
acting casualabout it, so I was trying to be casual, too. Inside, I'm thinking,
'Holyshit! I'm glad he doesn't think I'm a maleton."'
The interpreter explained to George that the dead man,although a stool
pigeon, had actually acted very courageously. Ithad been his choice to come
out there to the ranch instead of flee-ing Medellin, or seeking the protection
of the police. Had he run,he knew they would almost certainly have come
after his wife andchildren. Such a serious offense against Pablo could not be
allowedto go unpunished. So in what must have been a stark moment, the
2 24 Blow
man had chosen to sacrifice his own life for those of his family.
While the body was being dragged away, Pablo came over toshake George's
hand and tell him good-bye. He made no referenceto the killing and instead
said that right around the corner from theIntercontinental Hotel was the best
steak house in all of Medellfn."He said you could get chateaubriand there
that you could cut witha fork, and that I shouldn't fly back to the States
without tastingwhat a Colombian steak could really be like."
It was after returning from Medellfn that George had his firstrun-in with
one of the Miami Colombians, a situation that threat-ened to erupt into
serious hostilities. The issue arose with a protegeof Humberto's named
Victor, who wanted to contract with him for aload to be flown in and also to
front a number of kilos for George tosell directly on his behalf. Now that he
was back in transportation,George didn't like playing the role of dealer
anymore, but he per-formed the service now and then, moving the kilos
through Mr. Tor his contact in Ann Arbor, strictly as a favor, to maintain
good PRwith the clientele. He got Barry Kane to do the flight. Kane hadalso
fallen out with Carlos in the past year and was available now forother
missions. The load was 250 kilos, for which George chargedVictor $3,000
instead of $10,000, the balance going to Kane, whohad his own plane and
did nearly all the work. Victor also handedGeorge 25 kilos to sell, which
would net him another $250,000 incommissions, meaning the whole
transaction added up to an evenmillion, his customary minimum. He stayed
up in Eastham duringthe actual flight and got the call up there that the
"marriage" hadbeen performed with the "children"—Colombian code for
report-ing a successful trip—after which Kane drove the kilos to Florida
toexchange them for the transportation fee. It was there that thingsgot off
the track.
s Kane received payment from Victor for his own work, butinstead of
holding on to part of the shipment until he got George'smoney as well, he
accepted the promise that Victor would take careof that part himself. It was
a big mistake. When George called downthe next day to inquire as to the
whereabouts of his $750,000, Victortold him that, well, he didn't have it yet
and that George would haveto wait until the kilos were moved on the street.
Fine, said George,only in the interim he'd just hold on to Victor's twentyfive kilos ascollateral, and if his payment didn't arrive very soon, he
planned to
sell them and keep all the money for himself. And, quite frankly,now that
he'd given it a second's thought, he was going to do thatanyway, since
Victor was being such an asshole, not playing accord-ing to the rules. "We
then had a little conversation in which Victorsaid I couldn't do that, and I
said, 'Fuck you, Victor, I already have.You're really a stupid son of a bitch
to pull this when I've got allyour stuff. I'll see ya later.' And I hung up. In a
little while Hum-berto called to tell me that Victor was very angry and said
he wasgoing to kill me. I told him, 'Good. Come ahead. My gun's righthere.'
And that's when the war started."
It was getting on toward December—which was when some ofVictor's
friends flew up to Logan Airport that time and called downto Eastham for
George—and Clara Luz, who never liked beingnorth in the winter, wanted
everyone to go down to the house inPompano Beach for Christmas. George
agreed to change the fam-ily's venue, but since this would take him pretty
far off his turf, heresolved to hire a little assistance in this matter with
Victor. "Itwasn't just going to be Victor who was coming after me, by
himself.It would be maybe half a dozen of them with machine guns.
Peoplewere getting shot in broad daylight all over Florida, in restaurants,in
parking lots. We'd go to the Colombians' houses and the conver-sation was
constantly about, 'Well, so-and-so got it yesterday,' and'They just shot soand-so.' It was getting to be open warfare downthere." George put in a call
to a well-known mob lawyer he knew inBoston. The man had made quite a
bit on the side investing in a fewof George's trips, providing cash up front
for planes and otherexpenses. Like any good investment broker, George
never liked tosink his own money into a deal when he could use someone
else's;he could make just about as much that way, with no loss involved ifit
fell through. "I told him, 'I'm in a little trouble and I need somehelp.' The
lawyer suggested a guy he knew named Hubert, a blackman in his late
thirties. Normally he was a pimp, but he hired outfor jobs like this. He told
me I could trust him and that he'd do whatI needed. Hubert would also bring
along his two sons, in their teensor early twenties. 'If the shit hits the fan,
this guy is a very seriousplayer,' he said."
Despite the protection it would afford him, George's plan fortaking on some
backup didn't go over very well in the household.For one thing, the security
detail was likely to draw more thancasual attention in their exclusive
neighborhood of Pompano Beach,
2 2 6 H I ow
where Mirtha was still trying to make friends with the neighborsand the
only visible black people were the ones doing lawn work orwheeling
around other people's children. "I still loved George, butit was starting not
to be the way I thought it was going to happen,"she says. "What we had
talked about was he would retire and wewere going to buy his sailboat and
live on the Cape and write hisbook. Now, I mean, come on! Here we're
living in Pompano Beachin a very nice area, and he's bringing like three
black people down,running around with machine guns in our house. I mean
what kindof a Christmas is that? And why do they have machine guns?
Because we were good people? No. Because someone was threaten-ing to
blow us up! What kind of enjoyment was that?"
For her part, Clara Luz was also upset, not so much because ofthe enforcers
—after all, she had always urged George to kick ass alittle harder than he
was inclined to. It was their skin color; ClaraLuz just wasn't a big fan of
black people. She hadn't even liked theblack maids they'd been getting to
take care of Kristina and Clarieand to clean the house. Mirtha went through
dozens of them.They'd always ended up quitting because of some run-in
with hermother, George remembers. "I mean, they would be hired originally to watch the kids, but she'd have them in the back of the
houseworking in some room moving boxes and furniture around,
likemoving men, no air-conditioning, sweat pouring off them, andClara Luz
would never be happy about what they did. She'd alwayscomplain about
them. Mirtha also played a role in this because shekept hiring new ones and
they'd always be black, and so Clara Luzwas constantly going crazy."
Hubert and his sons showed up in a cab from the airport onChristmas Eve
day, looking not as George had expected. Hubertwas a slender guy, a little
darker than cafe au lait, with a close-cropped Afro and dressed in a
conservative dark suit, more BrooksBrothers than pimp attire. He spoke in
soft tones, and his two boys,younger copies of their dad, leaped to respond
to his slightest com-mand. In view of the firepower they brought along—
two handgunseach, a revolver and an automatic, three Mach-10 machine
pistols,and a couple of M-16s, fully automatic—Hubert had chartered
aplane for the flight down. They were put up in one of the guestrooms, and
when on duty one of the sons sat in a car out front witha Mach-10, the other
in the back patio with the M-16. The day afterChristmas, however, Hubert
determined that the house just wasn't
safe—it was too open in the back, people could just come throughthe
hedges and blast away—and so George packed up everything,along with
the Christmas tree and all the decorations, the presents,including a huge
four-foot-high lion he'd bought for Kristina, andthey moved the whole troop
down to two suites at the Pier Sixty Sixon the inland waterway in Fort
Lauderdale proper. The move was alittle expensive—five hundred dollars
each for the two suites, on topof Hubert's five-thousand-a-day fee, but it
provided much moresecurity and was also good in regard to Clara Luz's
color-conscious-ness, since Hubert and the sons could stay in the adjoining
roomand call up room service for their meals; they all didn't have to
livewith one another. With his new privacy, Hubert felt it was okay tobring
down a girlfriend from Boston, who turned out to be a whitewoman. Clara
Luz was scandalized all over again.
That New Year's Eve George was determined to emerge fromhis room and
take his family down to the hotel's Crystal Ballroom tocelebrate. His current
difficulties aside, it had been a banner year inthe cocaine business, and he
felt confident that a lot more good for-tune lay ahead. A twenty-piece
orchestra had been brought on forthe occasion, and an elaborate champagne
breakfast was planned forsometime after midnight. Mirtha and Clara Luz
got dressed up inspecial gowns for the occasion, and George invited Hubert
and hisgirlfriend to join the party. They all went down at about ten
o'clock,just as the festivities were heating up. The band played mostly
Latinjazz rhythms, George doing his turn out on the floor with
Mirtha,trying bravely to keep up with Hubert's moves. The
champagneflowed, and shortly after midnight, when the band had slowed
thetempo a little and was playing "Moon River" or something like
that,Hubert stood up from his chair, walked around the table, and
askedClara Luz if he might have this dance. "I thought she would shit
herpants, the expression on her face," George says. "But she did it.Clara
Luz danced with Hubert." And a few days later Humbertocalled, and the
storm with Victor blew out to sea.
1 lumberto said he wanted to meet with George at the house inPompano
Beach, alone; he asked him to leave Hubert and his boysback at the hotel.
He had something to tell him. "I got there first,and Humberto arrived with
Martha, in his Cadillac—he had a yel-low Eldorado with a sunroof. Martha
hugged me, and she came intothe house with us to be an interpreter, since
Humberto's Englishwasn't that great. I gave him a drink, and pretty soon he
said,
2 2 8 Blow
'Georgie, I have to tell you this. Those kilos you took from Victor.They
weren't Victor's kilos. They were my kilos. But keep them,Georgie. It's all
over. My kilos, not Victor's. But it's all right.'" It wasthen that George
understood why Victor had felt safe grabbing the$750,000 he owed for the
airplane trip: The twenty-five kilosGeorge was holding weren't Victor's to
lose. And tricky Humberto,trying to conceal the fact that they really
belonged to him, hadfinally outsmarted himself here. "So I laughed, and
Humbertolaughed. 'Ha ha ha, ha ha ha.' We had a couple more drinks,
andthen we never talked about it again. Except that six months
laterHumberto told me Victor had got himself shot. 'Victor, no more,'he
said. He'd apparently tried to pull the same kind of shit withsomeone else
that he'd tried with me, only this time he was dead."
Nineteen-seventy-nine was the year that Margaret Thatcherfirst became the
prime minister of the United Kingdom, that theSandinistas deposed General
Anastasio Somoza Debayle and tookover in Nicaragua, and that the
adherents of Ayatollah RuhollaKhomeini, ten months after the shah of Iran
announced he wasleaving on a "vacation," made hostages of the United
StatesEmbassy staff in Teheran. On the home front, Hollywood came
outwith Apocalypse Now, and Americans had their first encounter withthe
possibility of nuclear disaster when a leak developed in the elec-trical
generating plant at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania. Theyear also marked
the last time Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Mas-sachusetts would attempt
to capture the Democratic nomination forpresident of the United States.
For George, the hurt, anger, and humiliation left over from hislast encounter
with Carlos in the Holiday Inn lounge in Nassau hadstill refused to go
away. Clara Luz had been right. Forget the loadshe was bringing in and the
money he was making, the "Carlosthing," as it became known among
George's friends and associates,had become psychological baggage he
couldn't seem to jettison. Heand Mirtha had moved into an even nicer house
in Pompano Beach,this one on the Intracoastal Waterway. It had a little
dock out back,and George bought himself a cigarette boat, which he'd bomb
off inwith Mirtha to eat dinner at one of the canalside restaurants alongthe
waterway. But at the parties with the Colombians he stillcouldn't escape
hearing what a success Carlos was and how indis-pensable his
transportation business had become to Pablo Escobar
and the Ochoas. George would remind them that he'd just beendown to
Medellin himself to see Pablo; that showed he wasn't afraidof Carlos. But
after several go-rounds, the trip lost its power toimpress. "Carlos was on my
mind every day. Even if I wanted to gethim off, everywhere we went, I'd
still be introduced as the guy whostarted him out. It began to drive me out
of my mind, everyone talk-ing about how much money he was making at
Norman Cay."
By now the word had gotten out to the yachting community inthe Bahamas
that something nefarious was going on at the cay andto give it a lot of sea
room. As George heard about it at the parties,Carlos had turned the place
into something out of Ian Fleming, likethe sinister island hideout of Dr. No.
A boat had been found drift-ing off its shore with blood splattered all over
the cabin but no oneon board. Yachtsmen would tell of being swooped
down upon by ahelicopter as they neared the island, and having someone
yell atthem over its loudspeaker to clear out fast. Carlos had bought athirtyseven-foot red racing Scarab capable of doing upward of sixtyknots, which
his German bodyguards would take out on patrol,waving their guns at
sportfishermen that came in too close. Ahouseboat had been hauled up atop
the highest knoll on the islandso lookouts could search the horizon for
intruders. In one notableincident, the CBS anchorman Walter Cronkite, an
accomplishedblue-water sailor, put into the little harbor at Norman Cay to
topoff his water tanks and was told unceremoniously to beat it.Although
he'd failed to buy up every house on the island, Carloshad made good his
boast to George and frightened the few privatehomeowners left into staying
away from the place, putting theirplans for vacations in the Bahamas on
hold for a while. Flights werelanding and taking off almost around the
clock, and the airstrip wasguarded by some twenty Dobermans, which were
kept in pens alongits fringe, the bodyguards regularly patrolling up and
down the loneroad in their jeeps. George also heard stories about wild sex
partiesgoing on in Carlos's house, the Volcano. Hookers were importedfrom
Nassau and Freeport to entertain the resident staff, runningnaked all over,
Carlos himself having taken recently to smokingbasiuo, getting stoned a lot,
zoning out on John Lennon's "Imagine"and "Helter Skelter" by the Beatles.
A lot of automatic weapon firewas reported at night, the result of an
undisciplined guard forceshooting at shadows in the trees.
Carlos's success had unhinged George to the degree that he now
imagined people were talking about it even if they weren't, thinkingthey,
too, were about to stab him in the back. So at the parties he'draise the
subject himself; blitzed on coke, he'd grab hold of peopleto rail on about his
old buddy, routinely threatening to kill him, toput out a hit on him and blow
the fucker away, the ungrateful littlecocksucker. People would try to edge
out of the room when he'd getgoing on this. Among the gatherings ruined
by his tirades was a din-ner party Mirtha threw in Pompano Beach for their
little circle offriends. Martha and Humberto came. The Mejias were
there,Arturo and his girlfriend, also a woman in the trade, powerful in
herown right, known as the Woman of the Alhajas, or Jewels, for theway
she dripped with emeralds and diamonds and gold. And therewas
Hernando, nicknamed the Old Man, for his seniority in thebusiness.
Hernando lived in Hialeah and was known for stashingguns in every room
in his house. They'd be stuffed under cushionson the couch, hidden behind
the curtains. In his sauna out back hekept a gun in the pocket of his
bathrobe, hanging on a hook. Thesauna was famous in the Colombian
community for the fact that,like roaches in a Roach Motel, certain people
had checked into theplace but never checked out. "When somebody did
anything toHernando, all he did was invite them over to go into the sauna,
andthat would be the end of it," recalls Mirtha. "Give them some coke,turn
on the dry heat, and, 'Boom.' They'd be done."
For her dinner party, Mirtha had her mother get up a bigshrimp dish, put
fresh roses and white snowballs on the piano.George brought out the Chivas
Regal and the Remy Martin, andFrank Sinatra alternated with Colombian
music on the stereo. "Wewere having cocktails and entertaining like normal
human beings,when George says, 'I think what this party needs is a little
liveningup. I'm going to bring out the coke.'" Soon the dinner was
sittingcold and forgotten on the table, arguments were bursting out.Martha
began weeping. Humberto, who couldn't do much cokewithout it making
him sick, threw up in the Florida room. It wasnow after midnight, and the
men were wondering how they couldditch their wives and go out on the
town. "George is now com-pletely out of his mind and starts getting nasty,
telling everybodyoff. 'When you people want something, it's Mr. Georgie
this, andMr. Georgie that. You're all sons of bitches, you know that?
You'veall taken from me,' and on and on. Pretty soon everyone left,
andGeorge left with them. And that was the party."
Whether it came from George's threats getting back to Carlosor from
something else he'd done, pretty soon it was obvious thatsomeone wanted to
shut George up permanently. First there wasthe business with the nursemaid
Mirtha had hired to stay up inEastham with the children. One day when he
was down in Pom-pano Beach George got a phone call from the woman
saying threeLatin-looking guys had shown up at the house looking for him,
andshe saw they all had guns. He'd have to get a new nursemaid; shequit.
After that, there was the warning from Humberto, who saidhe'd heard that
Carlos had become sick of all the mouthing off andthat there was talk of a
hit having been put out. Maybe it was true,maybe it wasn't, but George
should watch himself. Which proved tobe good advice about a week later,
on a day George had drivendown to see Humberto in a condo he had in
Kendall, south ofMiami, and parked his car against a curb outside. When he
cameout, he found he'd been hemmed in on three sides. At first hethought
this was possibly a ploy, to keep him standing there longenough to furnish
someone with an easy target. A little VW blockedhim in the rear, which he
resolved to just push out of the way andget the hell out of there. He got in
his car and started the motor,then changed his mind. On second thought,
he'd just better run forit. "I don't know why it was, but this feeling came
over me andsomething said, ''Get out of this fucking carV I leaped out and
ran asfast as I could, and about fifty feet away the goddamn thingexploded.
I looked back and it was all on fire. People were runningover to see what
happened." After he got back to Pompano Beachand collected himself,
George figured the device must have beentripped by a timer set to go off a
certain number of seconds afterhe'd opened the door and gotten into the
front seat. But however itworked, the explosion finally did it for George.
No more talk. Nowhe definitely had to do something about Carlos.
Because it would enhance his rep with the Colombians, Georgedetermined
to do the hit right on Norman Cay. "I wanted to gethim where he lived," he
says. "That was the only way to do it,because it would show everybody
that, well, Carlos had his body-guards and everything, but I went right there
and took him out inhis own backyard." One day that spring he flew out to
the Bahamasto do some research. He learned from contacts in Nassau that
theGermans were in the habit of flying in often in the evening to gam-ble
and partake of the nightlife, leaving Carlos out on the island
alone, with just a few Colombians to maintain security. Then hechartered a
sportfisherman and went out to Norman Cay himself,anchoring about a half
mile off the island pretending to fish, watch-ing the routine of the place for
a day and into the night. From whathe'd seen, George thought the best way
was to approach the islandin a Zodiac pontoon boat with an outboard motor,
land it on therocky shore near the Volcano, and do it.
Not alone, of course. As he'd threatened Carlos in their lastmeeting, George
knew there were people in Boston who could helpwith this kind of
operation. To find some, he put in a call to his oldpal from Danbury, Fat
Harry of the Winter Hill Gang. Harry saidhe'd bring him up to the autobody shop in Somerville that servedas the gang's headquarters and
introduce him around, let Georgeexplain his needs.
"They had an office in the back of the shop, and I brought alonga chart of
the island, all the information," says George. "They toldme they'd make the
arrangements, that it wouldn't really be a prob-lem. There were some exVietnam guys, two were Rangers, that'dbeen in the mob and came back to
Boston after the war." But itwouldn't be cheap, getting down to the island
and all, and alsobecause some of the materiel they needed was expensive.
They'dlike, for instance, to find some percussion grenades, to throw a
littleconfusion into the island population. It would be handy also if
theycould get their hands on a bazooka, what with the guards
runningaround in the jeep. The price would be $250,000, with $125,000
upfront, nonreturnable no matter what happened, and the rest after-ward,
plus expenses, which might run another $50,000 or $100,000.Fine, George
said, and a couple of days later he delivered the downpayment. "I also said
that if this worked, I'd cut them in on some ofthe transportation stuff. They
seemed to like this. They said theyhad control of the Norwood airport, and
we could land loads there,no problem. Big things could happen. Actually, I
wasn't really goingto cut them in on that because I knew they were all
fucking cut-throats and I didn't want to be around them, always watching
yourback. This mob lawyer friend of mine had told me, 'George,
you'replaying with some really sick, dangerous people here. You can't
trustthese kinds of people, ever.'"
As it turned out, the affair cost him heavily, in other ways as wellas
financially. Somehow Humberto got wind of the plans for the hit,and
George soon received a fairly frantic call to come to his New
York apartment to talk. More like listen, really, while Humberto
gothysterical. "Everyone was there, including Martha, Mirtha, andClara
Luz, and it went on for hours," George says. '"You can't dothis, Georgie.
You can't do this.' He was pacing up and down theliving room, throwing his
hands in the air. 'It's going to cause bigwars in the families. Please don't!
You can have anything you want,all the kilos. I'll get more people for you.'"
Others disagreed. '"Killhim!'" he recalls one of the women shouting. "'If
you don't kill himnow, it will be too late, and you will be nothing.''
"And she was right. I knew inside that if I gave in, I was fucked.He'd
fucked me over, this Latin kid, and I didn't do anything aboutit, like
somebody in the school yard who hits you in the face or takesyour lunch
money and you don't do anything about it. What are youconsidered to be? If
one guy can do it to you and get away with it,they'll all do it to you. Then
you're done in crime. So why didn't Ido it? Because Humberto begged me
not to. He said they'd all bekilled—him, Martha, Mirtha. There'd be great
retribution. Hisfamily would be wiped out down in Colombia, we'd all get it
uphere. There would be endless war, and they'd all blame me for
beingresponsible. They didn't care how I felt. They cared about that Car-los
was making money for all of them, and this would fuck up every-thing bigtime.
"So what could I do? I said, Okay. Fuck it. I've got more moneythan I know
what to do with anyway. Why do I need all this? Whyput everyone through
it? But personally, I felt it would never be thesame again."
In late summer of 1980, nearly a year and a half after he abortedthe hit on
Carlos—and just as his lawyer friend from Boston hadwarned him
concerning those big parties and his high style of liv-ing—George finally
succeeded in attracting the attention of thepolice. Ironically, the situation
arose after he'd turned over a newleaf in regard to the spending, toned
things down an octave or two.For instance, Mirtha had found another house
she liked—a$500,000 modernistic place with an elaborate Japanese garden,
alsooverlooking the water—but George had said no, it was too ostentatious. He cut out the shopping sprees, closed down the candy storein the
bureau drawer in the bedroom. The money coming in fromthe trips he was
sending right down to his numbered bank accountin Panama, leaving just
enough around the house to keep them
2 3 4 Blow
afloat. "I started making out that I was almost broke, on the edge allthe
time, so no one would know how much I really had," he says.
He also began securing money for the runs, the up-front cashneeded for the
cars and trucks and manpower, by hitting up outsideinvestors on the Cape
and in Boston, rather than raiding his ownstash. Many of these individuals
were high-living criminal defenseattorneys who fed their big spending
habits by bankrolling theirclients. They'd often cover themselves by
drawing up legitimateloan agreements, spelling out how they were lending
this money toa client with the understanding it would be used for starting up
awholesale fish business or investing in a Dunkin' Donuts franchise.How
could they possibly know the funds would be spent on smug-gling a
controlled substance over the border? In addition to puttingtheir own money
into cocaine runs, the lawyers would serve as bro-kers for a deal, pooling
together smaller sums from their friends andcolleagues—the orthodontist
who lived next door, say, who had fiftythousand dollars he could afford to
drop on a high-risk venture inhopes of doubling his money overnight. And
not just once. Often,George says, the lawyers would insist on bankrolling a
series of tripsso as to ensure themselves a long-term relationship. "They'd
say,'I'll loan you the money, but I want to be in on three trips, do itthree
times with you. You need me now, but if you're successful, youwon't need
me after the first time. So if I get you this money, I wantto be in on two
more.' This was good for me, because having aninvestor was like insurance
money. If something happens and thetrip goes down, he knows he's not
going to get anything, becausethat's the deal. If it's successful, I don't make
quite so much, but if itgets busted, I don't lose anything either."
It was a local who got on to George, an Eastham cop namedWynn
Deschamps. His father did yard work for Miss Toomey,George's old high
school teacher, who had a summer place there.Deschamps had heard all the
talk, starting back in 1979, about thebig bashes and the fancy cars that
clogged Bayberry Lane, the littledirt road that ran in back of George's
house. It made him wonderhow George earned his living. And George
himself, through hisdriving habits, had done little to mask his presence from
the policeall up and down the Cape—for the number of speeding tickets
he'dgotten, the drift turns and the 180s he'd practice in the Porsche outthere
on Route 6. As with most small police departments, however,the Eastham
force had little resources of its own for following up on
Deschamps's suspicions. What they customarily did in theseinstances was
to call for assistance from the Massachusetts StatePolice, which was why
on August 2, 1980, Trooper William G.McGreal latched on to the case of
George Jung.
At the time, the state police had just fifteen officers concentrat-ing on
narcotics, only five of whom, like Billy McGreal, worked asundercover
specialists. Considering that his normally neat appear-ance—close-cropped
hair, conservative clothes—made him lookabout two days out of the police
academy, he'd taken pains to dressdown for the job. He'd grown a scraggly
beard, let his hair sproutinto a minor Afro, had an ear pierced. He drove
around in an old-model Lincoln Continental, maintained in cherry condition
—notexactly your run-of-the-mill surveillance vehicle. To further cloudhis
image, he kept company with a large disheveled German shep-herd named
Paco. He'd inherited Paco from another undercovercop whose assignment
had ended but who couldn't bring the crea-ture home with him because it
struck terror into the heart of hiswife's Chihuahua.
McGreal had planned to spend that weekend relaxing down onthe Cape, at a
summer cottage in West Dennis he shared with otherguys on the state police
force, when he got the call from his bosssaying there was an Eastham cop
who'd requested a little specializedhelp, and Billy was the one he wanted to
send. His boss said hedidn't expect much to come of it, but he'd appreciate
Billy doingthis favor because it would help out relations with the locals.
Nor-mally the job would have gone to a senior undercover cop namedPaul
Gregory. But Gregory knew George Jung. He'd played foot-ball with him
back at Central Junior High School in Weymouth,and he couldn't be sure
that George hadn't heard he'd gone on tobecome a trooper. So he passed the
case on to Billy. "The boss saidEastham had a guy they wanted us to take a
peek at that theythought was up to no good, supposed to be a big drug
smugglerfrom the West Coast," Billy recalls. "He said, 'You're not going
toactually meet the guy, just get a six-pack of beer and a newspaperand
hang around his beach. Let the locals meet you, jerk themaround for a
couple of hours, then say until we get an informant onthe guy there's
nothing we can do. It's easy overtime.'"
After checking in with Deschamps, McGreal drove over to Bay-berry Lane,
took a cooler of beer out of the car, and made his waydown to the beach,
stretched out on a blanket to catch a few rays. It
2 3 6 B 1
was about one in the afternoon. Two hours passed, during whichhe'd struck
up a conversation with an attractive young woman whohad come down to
the beach from the house next to the Jungs. "Shedidn't know much about
this guy, but she was kind of cute, and I'msingle, so I'm thinking if I don't
meet this big dope dealer, I'll atleast get a date out of it. While I'm thinking
this, suddenly he comesout on his deck at the top of the stairs. I only had a
description ofhim from Eastham. Blond hair, looks like a leftover hippie
fromCalifornia. And I hear this voice, 'Hey, you! You down there!' I fig-ure
he's going to chase me off his beach. 'Hey, do me a favor, willyou? Would
you pull in my catamaran there? The tide's coming in, Idon't want it to drift
away.' 'Hey, sure,' I said. 'No problem.'"
McGreal stayed through a couple more beers, then made hisway up the
stairs to George's house to ask if he could use the bath-room. Be my guest,
George told him. "He says his name is GeorgeJung, and I say I'm Bill
Sullivan. 'What're you doing around here?'he asks. Now, I never expected
even to meet him, so now I've got tothink quick. I'd been undercover for
two years, and I knew I had tocome up with something logical, some reason
why a young guywould want to come down to a private beach and sit by
himself. 'Ijust have to be alone,' I told him. And he asks me what
happened,and I said, 'You don't want to hear this, but my wife just got killed
ina car accident.' And I started breaking down. 'God! Bill, this isawful.
Mirtha! Come quick!' He tells me to sit down and he goes toget me a drink.
'Mirtha, this is our new friend, Bill Sullivan. Hiswife just got killed in a car
accident.' And she asked me if I wantedto stay for dinner. I'm saying to
myself, No, this is going much tooquick. I mean, why would I want to stay
for dinner at somestranger's house? Normally you'd wait a few days so as
not to looklike you're latching on to him too fast. So, I said, 'Thanks, but,
no,I've gotta go.' But I ask them if it would be okay if I parked my carout
front tomorrow and came back to use their beach. 'Anythingyou want,' they
said."
When McGreal returned the next day, George told him his carwas being
fixed; would Billy mind driving him up to the conve-nience store to get
some groceries? On the way, McGreal toldGeorge he was staying down in
West Dennis, that he'd moved inwith some guys for the time being. "You try
to keep your story asclose to real as possible. Use your real first name,
where you reallylive. If I tell him I live in Harwich, and after a few drinks I
switch it
to West Dennis, they're going to say, 'Wait a minute.' After theerrand, we're
sitting out talking on the deck when suddenly Georgesays to me, 'You son
of a bitch, I know what you're up to!' And ofcourse I'm thinking he's on to
me. Holy shit, here I am in a bathingsuit, no gun, all alone. There's no
backup. But then he's, 'You're afucking dope dealer, aren't you! And you
know what? So am I!' I say,'No, no. I'm not a dope dealer. I mean, I do some
credit cards, somesmall stuff, larceny, but, hey, no.' He told me, 'Bullshit,'
and thenwent on about how he'd gone through five or ten million dollars
inthe last year or so and how he'd snorted about a half million dollars'worth
of cocaine himself. He told me he could make me a verywealthy man, and
he goes on bragging about it all, and before Iknow it, I'm his goddamn aidede-camp."
Gofer was more like it. But if McGreal felt momentarily liketurning
cartwheels over his good fortune, bringing this bust in tohome base was
going to involve a considerable amount of work, andof a nature he hadn't
figured on. George had Billy driving him allover the Cape, doing errands
here and there, taking him ten times aday up to make calls to Miami and
Colombia at the pay phone onthe corner, running into the store to get him
change. He chauf-feured Mirtha to the malls, took her and the children to
appoint-ments, did chores around the house. Occasionally he would have
todeal with the residue from one or another of George's escapades.On one
excursion to a pharmacy in Orleans, George and Billy werestanding by the
car while Mirtha went in to get a prescription, whenout of nowhere a couple
of guys approach George and the one hold-ing the baseball bat starts yelling
curses at him and swinging away inwhat Billy interpreted as an unprovoked
attack. As it turned out,during one of his cocaine and alcohol episodes a few
days earlier,George had encountered the bat wielder and his wife at the
counterof a local grocery store and elbowed them both aside so he couldpay
for his cigarettes and get on his way, threatening to beat the shitout of the
guy and telling his wife she could go fuck herself, whichshe probably had
to since she looked like a pig. The guy had goneout and gotten a friend and
the two of them had been looking forGeorge ever since. As Billy wrote it up
later in his report:
I his officer attempted to disarm the subject who was swinging the
batwildly. YMien this failed, this officer utilized the motor vehicle
andchased the subject into a shop. Mirtha came out of the pharmacy at
thistime and the three of us left the area. A short time later while traveling
2 3 8 Blow
on Route 6 in Eastham this officer was stopped by two officers of
theEastham P.D. Subsequently two officers from Orleans P.D. arrived.
Weexplained the situation to them and this officer was arrested for assaultby
means of a deadly weapon, i.e. the car. This officer was transportedto
Orleans where he was printed, mugged, made use of the phone andplaced in
a cell. About fifteen minutes after being placed in a cell, thebondsman
arrived and this officer was released on $5 personal recog-nizance. Upon
release from custody I rejoined George and Mirtha inthe parking lot.
Billy says George told him not to worry about it, that he'd gethim one of the
mob lawyers from Boston who'd continue the caseinto the next millennium,
until it died of everyone's indifference.
As close as he got to George, however, McGreal still had noth-ing he could
use as the basis for a bust. There was no sign of anycocaine in the house.
Plenty of plans got discussed, for cocaine trips,for marijuana trips—
including one being developed by a boat cap-tain Billy was introduced to
who planned to bring in twenty tons ofpot aboard a scalloper and off-load it
into a ten-wheel dump truckfilled with gravel as a cover. But the only actual
illegality he'd wit-nessed was the assault with the car, for which he himself
had beenarrested.
Then on August 12 George and Mirtha left for Miami, expect-ing to
continue on for an extended visit to Colombia, to see this fel-low George
knew who had a big ranch. They told Billy to take careof the house while
they were gone and gave him a written list of twodozen or so chores—be
sure to water and prune the plants, let in thecarpenter to fix the screens, rent
a pair of Winnebagos for a trans-portation job George had in mind, call up
Mirtha's mother in Pom-pano Beach every day to check on how the children
were doing, geta hold of four handguns George had promised someone.
They left anumber in Medellin to call if he had to get in touch. "Ask
whoeveranswers for 'Mr. Georgie.'" He also should call up AERO
magazine,a publication for flying enthusiasts, and get the details about
thispiece of property they were advertising: "Country escape,
privatemountain lake, 21 miles from Hancock, N.Y. Immaculate 2-
storylodge, tastefully furnished, 200-foot lake front, 3 boats, 2600
ft.airstrip." George wanted him to find out if the airstrip was dirt orpaved.
They were gone for two months, and when Billy met them atLogan Airport
in mid-October, they had some people with them
he'd never seen before. There was a cousin of Mirtha's, along withher
boyfriend. There was also a short guy with a receding hairlineand a beard,
whom George introduced as his "ex-partner from LosAngeles," name of
Richard Barile. George said Richard had flownup in a private plane after
seeing his father in Connecticut andwould fly on down to the Cape, while
Billy drove everyone in thecar. They'd collect Richard at the Hyannis
airport and continue outto Eastham for a celebration that night. The trip to
Colombia hadbeen very successful, and George told Billy he'd brought
along a lit-tle blow for the party—not much, about two-thirds of a
pound.Hearing this, Billy felt his eyes widen and joy leap into his heart.
"Inthis area, the biggest amount of cocaine we'd been seeing had
beenmaybe a pound here and a pound there. There had recently been
amassacre in Boston, people shot, over just a pound and a half ofcoke and
thirty-five thousand dollars in cash. So this was no smallamount."
As for how to proceed from here, the state police, like mostpolice agencies,
had a strict policy of "buy-or-bust." This meantthat if you came upon
someone in possession of drugs, the only wayyou could overlook the
offense was to try to use the person to wormfurther into the organization,
and to buy up the load right then,with money from the department budget.
If you couldn't do that,then you had to make an arrest on the spot—it was
one or the other."We had to do something," Billy says. "The amount of
cocainehere, we're talking then about twenty-two thousand dollars on
thestreet, and there's no way we had that kind of money. Even the
DEAwasn't coming up with that much at the time. So it was obvious thebust
had to go down that night."
After excusing himself to visit the bathroom—to call his depart-ment and
alert them to get things ready—Billy drove George,Mirtha, and her cousin
down to the Cape, stopping off at the Hyan-nis airport to pick up Barile.
Billy went into the lounge to get him,and when they greeted each other
again, Richard shook his hand,and somehow his arm brushed against the
gun Billy had stuck in hispants underneath his shirt. Richard stiffened at the
discovery butsaid nothing. Out at the car, however, Billy saw him
whisperingfrantically to George. And he heard George tell him: "Of
coursehe's got a gun! He's my bodyguard."
By now, Billy was no longer alone. He'd been accompanied onthe drive to
the Cape by at least ten state troopers driving in
2 40 Bl
unmarked cars ahead of and behind them. They picked up anotherten or so
cops in Eastham, which meant that when the party gotinto full swing out on
Bayberry Lane, upward of twenty police offi-cers were crouching in the
bushes, hunkered down by the beach, orplastered up against the walls of
neighboring houses, their pistolsand shotguns drawn and ready, waiting for
Billy to give the word tocharge in. "But I hadn't actually seen the cocaine
yet, and wecouldn't do anything until I knew exactly where it was." Billy
hadbrought along two bottles of champagne to contribute to the party,which
he'd put in the trunk of the car. The signal for the bust tocommence was
when Billy went out to get the bottles, hoisted oneover each shoulder, and
headed back into the house. From thatmoment, the guys would wait five
minutes, to give McGreal time tolocate all the people inside and prevent
anyone from slipping outunnoticed, and then they'd pile in. The only thing
that made Billynervous was Barile. George's assurance aside, Richard had
seemedjumpy ever since discovering that Billy had a gun. And on the
driveout to Eastham, Richard had mentioned pointedly to Billy that
he'dhandle whatever security problems there were himself, with
thismachine gun he'd brought along in his suitcase.
At last George produced the coke. It had been in a package inhis flight bag,
and he set the whole amount, eleven ounces, right outon the table. After
huffing up a huge sample for himself, he invitedeveryone to jump in.
"When I saw that, I said, 'Well, George, I'vegot a surprise for you, too,' and
I went out to get the champagnefrom the trunk." By the time he returned
with the bottles, peoplewere already getting pretty speedy, but for Billy the
next five min-utes seemed fairly to crawl. Finally, the time was up. But no
guys.Then seven minutes, eight minutes went by. "George and the oth-ers
are all coked out, Barile is getting more and more fidgety. Hestarts saying,
'I'm getting my machine gun out and spray the beachout there. I don't like
the sound of things.' And he was right. I couldhear the guys rustling around
myself. What the fuck were they wait-ing for?" Finally, McGreal could
stand it no longer, and at what helater noted down as precisely 2:10 A.M.
on October 14, the trooperpulled out his gun and pointed it at Barile. "I
yelled, 'Freeze, statepolice. Don V anybody move. You 're all under arrest.'
But nothing hap-pened! Mirtha comes over to me and pushes the gun away
and says,'Oh, come on, Billy, cut the shit.' They didn't believe me! George
isjust snorting away, having a great old time, not paying any attention
Eastham (1978-1980) 241
at all. Just then, thank God, 'Wild Bill' Shaughnessy, I think it was,comes
crashing right through the screen, guys are suddenly runningup from the
basement, people charging in from the deck, everyone'sshouting and
yelling, pointing their guns, putting people down ontheir faces. That
basically cemented in their minds who we were."
George, too, remembers that night in some detail, but not quiteas distinctly
as McGreal. "I was pretty fried at the time, and it took awhile for it to dawn
on me what was happening. I was thinking itwas such a little bit of coke,
how could you possibly get arrested forthat? They didn't know it, but there
was fifty kilos in the chimneyand three hundred thousand in cash behind the
medicine cabinet.Except then I saw the cops lifting Kristina out of the crib.
That'swhen it finally got to me, when I started to get upset. I mean, at
twoyears old. The baby's first bust."
■^oi*t- Lauderdale
1985
Whether you 're the bad guys or the good guys, you both have the same
goal in anycocaine deal, and that is to get through it alive.
—Detective Sergeant Greg Kridos, Organized Crime Division,Narcotics
Intelligence, Fort Lauderdale Police Department
Had the amount of cocalne they caught him with in East-ham weighed just
four ounces less, George might have been right inthinking nothing terribly
serious would happen to him. Unfortu-nately, it exceeded the eight ounces
specified in a strict new mini-mum-sentencing statute signed into law only
months earlier byGovernor Michael Dukakis, and suddenly George was
staringstraight at a mandatory prison sentence of ten years, with no possibility of parole. Once he was apprised of the situation, very littledoubt
remained in George's mind as to his next move. As soon as alawyer from
Boston bailed him, Mirtha, and the baby out of theBarnstable County House
of Corrections, George signed an affi-davit assuming the entire blame for
bringing in the coke that night,which effectively exonerated everyone else
caught in the raid. Hesaid the others didn't know about the coke. This
gesture extendedeven to Richard Barile, whom George had befriended
again severalmonths earlier. Barile, too, had been aced out by Carlos, who
hadgone behind his back as well as George's to sell loads directly to
Richard's main dealer, Nick Hunter, the one who had given theparty for
Carlos on his first trip to L.A. The second thing Georgedid was to have
Clara Luz clear out the Pompano Beach house andcome up and take baby
Kristina back down with her and little Clarieto a rented house in Miami.
Lastly, he made a cash withdrawal from all the hidey-holes inthe Eastham
house. He winched up the oil burner in the basement,cleaned out the wall
behind the Andrew Wyeth and the studs inback of the trick bathroom
medicine cabinet. Other than a smalltravel bag for the money, they didn't
pack any clothes or otherthings for fear of alerting anyone who might be
monitoring thehouse, and on the morning he was scheduled to be rearraignedbefore superior court on his indictment, George and Mirtha
droveup to Weymouth in his Thunderbird to tell his parents he'd begoing
away for a little while.
For Fred and Ermine, who were now in their mid-to-late sixties,the recent
events in George's life had given them a wearying senseof deja vu,
intruding in their own lives in a way that was difficult toendure. Once again
it had been all over the TV; friends and neigh-bors had watched their son
being led off to court in handcuffs. Sto-ries on the bust had run in the
papers, telling how the police hadstormed this "posh North Eastham beach
house" that had turnedout to be a drug den. There was no mention of Billy's
role in any ofthis, but Wynn Deschamps was being extensively quoted,
makingsure the world knew the bust "was the result of an
investigationstarted by Eastham police."
The visit to Abigail Adams Circle didn't last long. George toldhis parents he
wasn't going to show up for his hearing that day; hefeared that the court,
knowing about his skipping out in Chicago,might refuse him bail altogether,
and then he'd be seriously stuck.The only choice that lay open to him, he
said, was to run awayagain. "Fred looked at me, and he said, 'I'm sorry, but
this is theend. Your mother and I just don't want you to come back. We
justcan't take it anymore. We're too old. We love you. Good luck, andgoodbye.' There was really nothing left to say. What could I say?And so I just
said, 'Okay then. Good-bye.' And we left." Georgenever saw his parents
again.
The last time George had lived as a wanted man, he'd beenyoung, free of
ties, highly mobile—not approaching forty andencumbered by a wife and
two children, one of whom had to be put
2 44 Bl
in school. And as she shortly brought home to him, Mirtha didn'ttake very
naturally to life on the lam. The first thing they did uponarriving in Miami
was to alter their looks and identity. Mirtha dyedher jet-black hair deep red
and told the people she met that hername was Francesca. George took
scissors to his own shaggy hairand dyed it black. He took on the name of
David Mahan, givingnew life to a long-dead guy whose name he'd gotten
out of the obitfiles up in Hingham. Clarie was put into a school near Clara
Luz'shouse, under her mother's maiden name. Through contacts amongthe
Colombians they found a safe apartment to rent in a mostlyHaitian
neighborhood, not a great location to Mirtha's way ofthinking, considering
that the ghetto neighborhood of Liberty City,which lay just a few blocks to
the west, had exploded in a deadlyantiwhite riot just six months earlier, its
commercial strips stilllargely burned out. "The place was a real dump, and
we were totallyisolated," she recalls. "We could see my mother because the
policedidn't know where she lived. But it was horrible—the fact thatyou're
not even able to use your own name, knowing you couldn'ttalk to a lot of
people because you're hot. When you're hot, no onewants to deal with you.
Nobody wants anything to do with you,because they think you'll bring the
heat down on them. We had toleave absolutely everything behind—my
bamboo living room set,my bedroom set, my plants. I'd loved my plants,
and the fish tank,my tropical fish, the Black Lace angels, the Angelicas.
Eastham wasour home. I loved it there."
Mirtha tried to ease her distress by seeking out the counsel of apriest
practiced in the healing arts of Santeria, the mystical religionprevalent
among several immigrant groups from the Caribbean."He said the reason all
this had happened to us is we'd neglectedthe saints; that was why there were
these, like, repercussions withthe law," she says. "So he was going to work
some kind of a ritual, theway he said it, 'to put the man to the side.'" Despite
his considerablemisgivings about it all, George went along with Mirtha for
the firstsession, more or less to humor her. "We arrived at this guy's
house.He's dressed in a flowing white robe, and he has these pigeons in
acage. He takes out three of them and circles them one at a timearound our
heads. He said it was supposed to collect all the bad shitthat had been
happening to us and fly out the door with it. Well, helet loose the first one,
and it took right off into the sky. The samething happened with the second
one. But the third one divebombed right into the side of my car and knocked itself out. We allkind of
looked at each other and I'm thinking, Uh-oh."
After that one Mirtha tried something with a pumpkin, but itdidn't work out
much better. It was late one afternoon while Georgewas out taking Kristina
for a walk and after Mirtha had gotten along way into a bottle of Jamaican
rum, from which she was seekingcomfort pretty regularly these days. "We
had the top floor of thisapartment along a hallway on the outside of the
building with a lit-tle table out there, and that's where the priest told me to
set it up,"she recalls. The pumpkin was about twelve inches in diameter.
Fol-lowing the priest's instructions, she'd scraped out all the seeds andstuff
from inside and filled it with about a pound of honey mixedwith water and
different types of oil she'd gotten at a neighborhoodbotdnica, where they
sold curative herbs and sex potions. "I wasn'treally into this kind of thing,
but I knew that the forces were againstus and that I wasn't in tune with my
spiritual being during thisperiod we're talking about here. And also I was
pretty drunk."
As she'd been instructed, Mirtha put on a white gown and set upa candle on
the table, and then she knelt down and prayed to thepumpkin. "I said a lot
of different prayers, for helping us, for pro-tecting us, hoping this situation
would be solved, to guard us againstthe evil forces of the law. But that night
I got really mad at thepumpkin. We went out to a Latin nightclub called
Harlow's andGeorge got into a big fight with some people, there was
shootingoutside, I don't remember any of it too well, but it was a mess. I
wasreally outraged after the prayers and things, so afterwards when Igot
home and there's the pumpkin sitting there looking at me, I takeit and just
smash it down the stairs, all in pieces. But later I felt thatthat was a mistake.
I feel now it did something to hurt the spell,because things started getting
worse."
That Christmas they moved down to a rented house in Home-stead, bought
Kristina a Husky puppy for a present, and tried torestore some order to their
lives—an entirely fruitless endeavor, asit turned out. Tortured by the pain
that snorting coke was causinghis feet, George had some success these days
in once again reducinghis consumption. But whatever that might have done
to bring peaceand quiet to the household was overshadowed by Mirtha's
increas-ing alcohol binges, and also a new habit she'd acquired from
herLatin girlfriends: smoking crack. "It was a different rush, muchfaster, so
much you almost think you're going to have a heart
2 46 Blow
attack," Mirtha recalls. "It only lasted a few minutes, which is whyyou'd
smoke so much of it. But a lot of people got into it becausethey didn't want
to wreck their noses." Smoking crack and drinkingrum didn't much improve
Mirtha's capacity for running a tight ship.One night she fell asleep with a
candle flickering next to her. It setthe curtains on fire, and George woke up
in a room filled withsmoke and flames and barely got everyone out of the
house alive.They lost their house and all their clothes in the fire, along
withwhatever other possessions they'd accumulated since
abandoningEastham.
What also went up in flames was that little box in which Georgehad kept
the receipts for his numbered bank account down inPanama City. Did he
need to actually produce the receipts to with-draw his money? His
experience had been that banks just wanted toknow you were really who
you said you were, and they'd give you anew bank book. Big Ralph had
been handling all his bank business;he'd have to get a hold of him now to
set his mind at rest that therewasn't going to be an unhappy ending. But
alas, Big Ralph was busyat the moment, having gotten busted during a foulup with one ofthe runs, in which the Cessna Conquest was confiscated by
the fed-eral government.
To tide himself over during this dry period, George found him-self another
plane and a pilot, and Humberto set him up to trans-port five hundred of
Pablo's kilos from a mountain landing striplying between Medellin and
coastal Barranquilla. With a passportmade out to the erstwhile David
Mahan, George flew down on acommercial flight to inspect the landing
field and was driven intothe mountains by two of Pablo's Colombians,
along with an inter-preter for George and a young woman whom everyone
was appar-ently supposed to share to ease the rigors of traveling on the
moun-tain road. Whether it was because George, now middle-aged,
hadsimply grown too old for this stuff or because he was just grumpyover
the uncertainty of his present situation, that trip turned out tobe more than a
little unnerving. "We're eight thousand feet up inthe mountains on some
goddamn dirt road six feet wide and they'reall smoking basnco and drinking
rum, speeding down these roadsthat were twisting all over the place, and
I'm looking down intothese gorges. There were no guardrails. They're
passing the pipearound and pawing at the girl, grabbing her tits and kissing
her andlaughing, the car's weaving all over. I'm thinking pretty soon I'm a
dead man here. When we got to Barranquilla, I jumped out of thecar at a
stoplight and ran into the first bar I saw. 'Please, Mr.Georgie, come with us,'
and I'm telling them, 'You motherfuckersget away from me, I'm staying
right here and having a few drinksbefore we go any farther.'"
The ride to Barranquilla was quickly outclassed by what tran-spired next,
another sample of how Pablo Escobar imposed orderover his empire. "The
interpreter who'd come with us from Medel-lin, he was paid by Pablo just to
make the trip, but he took me asideand said he wanted me to meet some
people who had some dopetoo. We went to this apartment building in
Barranquilla, and therewere these guys who said they also had kilos. 'We
want you to movethem for us, too. Nothing is to be said to anybody about
this, andwe can make some real money.' I just listened and didn't say anything, but I was thinking to myself, 'I'm not going for any of thisbullshit. I'm
not crossing Pablo or any other motherfucker downhere.' I told them I'd
think about it, but I had to get back to thehotel. The interpreter said to go
ahead and that he'd be alongshortly.
"When I got back to the hotel room, there were four of Pablo'speople there,
and I told them exactly what was going down, that Iwas just down here to
do my job and didn't want to get mixed up inanything. They said, 'Don't
worry about it, Mr. Georgie, we'll takecare of it.'" A few minutes later
George sauntered out on the bal-cony, which was ten floors up and had a
sweeping view of the cityand out to the sea beyond. By happenstance he
saw the interpreterdown below park his car in the lot and saunter into the
lobby. A fewmoments later he knocked at the door. "They opened the door
andlet him in, two guys on each side of him, and it happened so fast
hedidn't know what hit him. They grabbed him by the arms and ranhim
across the room without saying a word—I don't think his feeteven touched
the carpet—and they ushered him right off the fuck-ing balcony. He was
gone! The whole thing took about two seconds.He landed in the parking lot
not far from his car. I looked over anda little crowd was gathering. I mean, I
thought they might do some-thing to him, but do it later, for Christ's sake,
up in the mountains,not kill him right in the fucking hotel, while I'm right
there doing ajob, in broad daylight, in the middle of Barranquilla, a big
beachresort town, just throw the fucker right off the balcony! I said,
'Uh,well, I think I have to be getting back to the States now. I've got
248 Bl
something really important I have to do. I'll get back to you fuckingguys
later.'"
And he would have, too, to complete the run, if an event hadn'tinterceded
that abruptly changed George's plans for a long time tocome. The event was
a fight with Mirtha, one of a series of battlesbetween them that during their
days of being wanted in Miamievened out into continuous warfare. They
had "horrendous fights,"George recalls. "We were arguing all the time, and
because thehouses next door in Homestead were only thirty feet away,
theneighbors would always end up calling the police. We'd argue
overmoney, over her smoking crack. She'd go on about why we had toleave
the Cape, the beautiful house we'd lost. I mean, suddenly sheloved the
Cape. When she was there, it was too lonely, she alwayswanted to be in
Miami or New York. And when Mirtha got drunk,she got hard to control,
even for me. She threw things a lot, at me,or smashed them against the wall
—ashtrays, vases, pitchers, any-thing, so long as it would break."
One night after the fire—by now they'd moved to anotherhouse, in North
Miami—they were driving home from a party atthe house of some
Colombians down in Kendall, south of CoralGables. "Mirtha thought I was
trying to get it on with this guy'sgirlfriend. She thought we were making
eyes at each other, and shewas probably right. But anyway, she suddenly
flips out and grabs myhair and starts yanking on it and screaming at me. It's
a little aftermidnight on Saturday, on 1-95 going north through the center
ofMiami, which is like rush hour, only everyone's going eighty milesan
hour, and I'm right in the center lane, with cars on both sides.My hair's long
again now, and she's got it in both hands, yanking myhead back and forth.
I'm trying to hold on to the wheel, the car'sweaving all over, I'm yelling at
her that she's gonna fucking get uskilled. The only thing I could do, I let her
have it with my righthand, and I broke her nose."
Blood now streaming down over her mouth and chin, Mirtha letgo of
George's hair to attend to her own problem, and the incidentmight have
ended in a hospital emergency room had not the carright behind them
contained two members of the Dade CountyPublic Safety Department, now
known as the Metro Police."They'd seen us fighting and me hitting her, the
car's going all overthe road. When they pull us over, Mirtha's so pissed off
she beginsyelling, 'He's a fucking cocaine smuggler! He's wanted by the
police
up in Massachusetts! Take that motherfucker away to jail!' So theyput the
cuffs on me, drive me down to the police station, and thatwas it. Two days
later they came and asked if I'd waive my rights andsign the extradition
papers. I said, sure. I had had it. I knew I was introuble big-time here, what
with running away and also the drugcharge. But one thing about going to
jail: I knew Mirtha wouldn'tbe in there with me."
From the bust onward, that October of 1981, life took Georgeon a fairly
bumpy trip for a while. After being escorted back to Mas-sachusetts, he
languished for thirteen months in the Barnstable jailwhile his lawyer tried to
work out some deal with the prosecutor.Mirtha had managed to remain free
for a few weeks because theMiami police hadn't thought to check her record
when they lockedup George. But she, too, was arrested shortly afterward on
a fugitivewarrant and also sent back to Massachusetts, to the women's
facilityin Framingham. By early in 1983, George's lawyer, a criminal attorney from Quincy named Elliot R. Levine, a former teaching fellowat the
Harvard Law School, had convinced the district attorney thatthe state's
mandatory sentencing law was so constitutionally vaguethat, in exchange
for Levine's not challenging the statute in theappellate courts, the prosecutor
agreed to let George and Mirthaplead guilty and receive only the time
they'd already served.
A few days after they got out George collected his family, andthey all
headed down to Florida. There he ran into Hank, the pilotfrom Norfolk,
Virginia, who had suddenly disappeared a couple ofyears before. He was
now living with a Colombian woman in PalmBeach, and he and George
began flying in more loads. In the fall of1983, however, as a favor to a
down-and-out pilot in Massachusetts,who had begged George to get him
some cocaine to sell so he couldget back on his feet, George delivered a
kilo to the man at a HowardJohnson's Motel outside of Plymouth, only to
discover that the guywas working for the state police. Busted again!
For Mirtha, this was the last straw. Shortly afterward, she gath-ered the
children and moved out to San Francisco to start anew,continuing the
program she'd begun in prison to get off alcohol anddrugs. Where the
raising of five-year-old Kristina was concerned,Mirtha resolved to make the
life she had shared with George Jungdisappear altogether. "I told her that
Daddy had gotten into a verybad boat accident, and that he was in the
hospital and was being
2 5 O B 1
taken care of very well, but that he was paralyzed from the neckdown. This
was what my counselor and I agreed on, to tell her this,because it was better
than telling a five-year-old, 'You know, yourdaddy is a drug smuggler, and
do you know how many keys hebrought in with Carlos Lehder?' So, he was
in a hospital back Eastand he couldn't move his arms and legs."
By now the Massachusetts state legislature had repaired thedefects in the
mandatory sentencing law, which meant that George,having been busted
with a whole kilo, was facing serious time. Ontop of the state charge, they'd
also found a 9-millimeter pistol in thetrunk of his car, so the feds had him
for interstate transportation of aweapon in connection with the commission
of a felony, that is, thesale of the kilo of cocaine. As dark as things
appeared, however,George had always experienced considerable luck where
the crimi-nal justice system was concerned, and the gods didn't choose
thismoment to cast him adrift. Somehow the kilo of cocaine he'd
beencaught with miraculously disappeared from the locker at the Middleboro state police barracks, where it was being stored as evidence.All the
state had left was the sample that had been sent to the policelab for testing.
In negotiating with the prosecutor for a deal,George's lawyer threatened to
call to the witness stand everytrooper in the barracks to get to the bottom of
what had happened.Figuring this would not only tie up the case endlessly
but also bringdown more embarrassment on the state cops, the prosecutor
agreedto a compromise. George would serve forty months on the
drugcharge, instead of the twenty years he faced had they pressed thematter.
As an added bonus, he could do two years of that in the min-imum-security
forestry camp in Plymouth, where inmates workedat the not-particularly
onerous task of tidying up the grounds ofMiles Standish State Park for the
tourists. And so as not to inconve-nience him terribly on the federal gun
charge, they would let theeighteen additional months for that one run
concurrently. Once heheard about that minimum-security forestry camp,
George listenedto all the other details with only half an ear. Because he'd
alreadymade up his mind that right after he'd done his federal time, hewould
pull off an escape.
One motive for the escape was simply that George was George."I didn't
have that much more time to do, really, but my mind didn'twork like other
people's," he says. "Ninety-five percent of themwould have stayed. But I
would just go. Leave. I always ran away,
every chance I got." More important, though, something he wascareful not
to share with anyone, was the worry that had begun toseep into his mind
about the money in Panama, the stash he'd beenmounting up all these years,
which the last time he'd added up hisbank receipts had totaled just short of
$68 million. Because ofMirtha and her goddamn crack habit, all the receipts
were gonenow. He'd memorized the account number, of course. But
he'dcompletely lost touch with Big Ralph, who was out of prison by nowbut
didn't stay in close touch with George. One thing George coulddo was send
a lawyer down to Panama to look into it, to see if thingswere okay. But
George had seen too much of lawyers in the cocainetrade to regard that as a
smart idea. In his experience, the lawyerswere like wolves stalking a herd
of caribou—ravenously hungry butbiding their time, watching for a
weakened animal, then moving into devour their prey. No, he really had to
go himself. But the tripwould require a lot of cash, and with his bad luck in
the last year anda half, he was just about tapped out, especially when it
came to thefunds he would need to pull this off. His name might be on all
kindsof international watch lists, and he could just imagine what sort
ofreception a paroled ex-convict cocaine smuggler would get askingthe vice
president of the bank to please give him his $68 million, orwire it to
Switzerland, whatever. He'd need a lot of grease here,maybe have to pay
people off, maybe get help from Pablo Escobar,who by now had become
friendly with the man who ran Panama,Colonel Manuel Noriega. Whatever
he devised, it would takemoney to get it done—to make that big withdrawal
and retirefinally from the smuggling business. Retire to the motor sailer,
theGreat Barrier Reef. Maybe he could even get back with Mirtha, giveher
68 million reasons to remember the good old days. He could seethe
children. For all these reasons, George was determined to getout of
captivity as soon as he fucking well could, get his ass down toFlorida, and
set himself up to do just one more run.
To rate being sent to the forestry camp at Plymouth required hisfirst
spending a year in the prison system, during which he filtereddown through
the upper security levels, like a piece of food movingalong the alimentary
canal. First there was time in a maximum-security joint, the Massachusetts
Correctional Institution atWalpole; then there was "close" security, which
meant the MCIs atNorfolk and Concord. He passed much of the time
reading, andsending off literature samples to Mirtha: "The changing seasons
are
but a four-act play, leaving us to obey the applause and filling uswith
curtain calls and laughter, for you and I are the center of theuniverse," went
one epistle. "There's a book called the / Ching. It isa book of wisdom
written by holy men. One sentence is enough tobusy one's mind and
penetrate deep into you. I wanted to teach youof the book but our life was
filled with such turmoil that as you wellknow I lost touch with the inner
truth. . . . P.S. If you send peanutsthey must be in pressure sealed cans.
Cheese and meats can bewrapped in original cellophane wrapper. Also
discuss with attorneythat I want to be moved to Plymouth MCI. Take
picture withPolaroid with red background similar to passport photo.
Willexplain later."
He also wrote to Kristina—his arms and legs might be para-lyzed, but there
was still life in his fingers.
Dear Sunshine,
I wish you a very happy birthday. You are the Sunshine of my life. Ilove
you. Be happy always. Try to give joy and happiness to thosearound you.
Be kind to others. Love and love life. Love is a precioussacred gift which I
give to you.
Love,Daddy
Underneath his signature George drew in a large smiling face ofthe sun.
Actually, "escape" doesn't seem quite the appropriate word forwhat George
did about six months after he'd reached Plymouth, onthe night of February
13, 1985, to be exact. "Walking away"describes it more accurately, since the
place has no real fencearound it, and the inmates were pretty loosely
watched. For a pay-ment of two thousand dollars, he'd arranged to have a
confederatebring him a change of clothes and drive along a road close by
theprison, slow down near a copse of trees where George would bewaiting
for him at precisely nine-thirty at night. George had chosenthat time
because it would be dark then, and also because the lastcount was done at
9:00 P.M., by a guard who wandered around theplace with a clipboard. An
hour later, at ten, everyone had to be intheir rooms, and the place was
locked up. Shortly afterward, aroundten-thirty, a guard would check again,
to see that all the beds wereoccupied. George figured this gave him an
hour's head start, from
9:30 to 10:30, before his absence would be noticed. So right afterthe count
George sauntered over toward the outside of the floodlitarea, and when the
guard with the clipboard disappeared into thebuilding, he slipped into the
darkness. The car appeared on sched-ule, and less than an hour later he'd
changed into a sports jacket andslacks and was ensconced in a chair at a
revolving bar at the top ofthe Hyatt Regency in Cambridge, sipping his
Scotch and lookingout over the city lights. Just for the style of it, he'd left a
note on hisbed for the prison administration to ponder. "Freedom is a realm
ofillusion," it read. "And I am a master of illusion."
While in prison, George had found the intellectual level of
theMassachusetts inmates to be a good deal lower than that at Dan-bury.
Nevertheless, he did manage to make several useful acquain-tances, one of
whom he was thinking about now as he sat slowlyrevolving above
Cambridge. Dale Habel was a forty-five-year-oldprisoner who had been
serving time for helping to smuggle severaltons of pot into the old whaling
port of New Bedford. Having to dohis time in the North imposed a special
hardship on Dale, since henormally lived in Florida and had never managed
to acclimate him-self to the cold. Dale and George had in common the fact
thatthey'd both lived in the Fort Lauderdale area; Dale had lived west ofthe
city, in the farming community of Davie. In prison, he andGeorge had
talked a lot about smuggling. If George ever neededhelp getting planes or
finding landing fields, Dale had told him, hehad a good buddy down there
who could be of service. He was afarmer, an old guy, but still a tough son of
a bitch and reliable, whoran a farm labor camp, renting out migrant pickers
during harvesttime. The farmer had been a marijuana smuggler, had rigged
it sothe bales were dropped out of an airplane into a cornfield out nearhis
place where he also raised horses, out near Davie in a towncalled Sunrise.
But this old farmer would be just as interested, Dalethought, in working on
the importation of some other product. Andso it was that when George got
back down to Florida, a fugitive nowfor the third and weariest time in his
life, he did just as Dale hadsuggested and hooked himself up with Leon
Harbuck.
George had missed a year and a half of action while being aguest of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and when 1985rolled around, a few new
faces had come on to the scene. Madonnaand Prince had caught on in the
music business. In sports that year,
2 54 Blow
Boris Becker, age seventeen, became the youngest player ever towin the
tournament at Wimbledon. On the international scene, theSoviet premiers
had been dying right and left, and now there was anew Russian name to
learn, that of Mikhail Gorbachev, fifty-four,the youngest leader to take over
since Stalin. In the cocaine busi-ness, too, circumstances had changed
dramatically. With the sharpdecrease in wholesale prices, George had to
bargain hard now to getless than half his accustomed payment for
transportation, down tobetween three and four thousand dollars a kilo these
days.
Right after leaving Plymouth, George put in a call to Hum-berto down in
Medellin to line up some kilos for their last trip,then he flew out to his old
stomping grounds in Manhattan Beach,California, to see about acquiring a
plane and a pilot. The newsback from Colombia proved encouraging. His
brother-in-law saidthat three to four hundred kilos, maybe more, would be
ready toship in early April. This time around, Humberto would
appreciateGeorge making some use of his stepson, and George's nephew-inlaw, Joseph Ahmed. Joseph, who was Martha's son from a
previousmarriage, was twenty-five years old, and Humberto thought it
washigh time for him to earn his spurs in the business, to show thepowers
that be, Pablo and the others, that he was old enough nowto be trusted with
his own loads. The news from California turnedout to be less welcoming. In
Manhattan Beach George had lookedup some of the marijuana pilots,
including Here-We-Go Bob,whom he found through his motorcycle, a
custom-built chromejob with high-rise handlebars and a stretch fork in the
front, parkedjust off the beach, as if Bob hadn't budged an inch in fifteen
years.Although he and the others seemed glad enough to see Georgeagain,
they reacted with suspicion when he broached the subject offlying in
cocaine. "They knew I'd been arrested, but they didn'tknow whether I'd
really escaped or was working for Uncle Sam,"he says. "After all, how'd I
keep escaping and getting away? Youbegin to wonder after a while. Either
you're working for the gov-ernment or you're a certified lunatic. 'You're
saying you just walkedout of prison? No, this is too much, George, I don't
want any partof it.'"
So it was early in March when he arrived in Florida, still look-ing for a
means of transportation. Dale, his newfound friend fromMassachusetts, had
also been released from prison by now, and thetwo of them went out to see
this guy Leon Harbuck at a trailer he
lived in with his young wife in the middle of a horse pasture out inthe
boonies west of Fort Lauderdale. Harbuck turned out to be aleather-tough
Florida cowboy, with jug ears, a bulbous nose, a lotof missing teeth, and
thinning hair that stuck up in wispy tufts. Hetalked with a brittle cracker
twang, and his face was set in a more orless permanent glare, not a guy well
endowed with a sense ofhumor. During a break in the discussion over how
to get an air-plane, Harbuck asked George if he'd ever ridden a horse.
Sure,George said, thinking of the well-broken beasts the beach boys
hadgotten him down in Puerto Vallarta. "I got up on the back of thishorse,
and all of a sudden the son of a bitch takes off like a rocket,nothing I could
do to stop it. He's heading right for this fence, andI'm thinking either he's
going to jump over it or stop short andthrow me over it. Either way I had to
get off, so the only thing Icould think of was to hurl myself off backward,
and I landed on theground with a crash, flat on my back, thought I'd broken
everygoddamn bone in my body. This guy Harbuck comes running up tome
yelling, 'Holy shit! That was the greatest dismount I've seen inmy life!'"
Within a couple of weeks, Harbuck called George to say he'dput out the
word and had found a couple of guys in the transporta-tion business. Their
names were Tom and Greg, and they seemed tohave what was needed—
pilots, planes, manpower, anything Georgewanted. George said it sounded
good, but that he'd agree to meetthem only if they brought along their pilot.
He was the crucial fac-tor here, and George didn't want to spin his wheels
on a deal thatwasn't going to pan out. The meeting was set for the night of
March27 in George's room at the Days Inn, off 1-95.
George doesn't recall much about Tom and Greg during thatfirst meeting,
because his attention was almost completely devotedto the guy they brought
with them to fly in the load. Here staring athim, hardly changed since he'd
last seen him, was his old pal andbuddy from Mexico days, the FLYBOY
himself, Cliff Guttersrud.During that first encounter, George kept the
recognition to himself,as did Cliff, but seeing his old pilot here renewed his
confidence. "Ihadn't seen Cliff since Mexico, in ten or fifteen years, but I
recog-nized him right away," recalls George. "I mean, he had been
withRamon and Frank, and Annette, and the two Wendys. He'd stayedwith
all of us at the beach house in Puerto Vallarta. We'd done awhole bunch of
things together, and he was a damn good pilot. Har-
2 5 6 B1
buck I wasn't terribly thrilled dealing with, and I didn't really knowmuch
about Tom and Greg. But seeing Cliff eased my mind a lot. Itgave me a
really good feeling about the trip."
By about the same time, March of 1985, the police in Florida—and just
about everywhere else in the country—had been in steadyretreat when it
came to waging President Reagan's war on drugs.For all the manpower,
intelligence capability, and equipment pro-vided by the much vaunted
South Florida Task Force—and the bigseizures it flaunted now and then
before the TV cameras—theaggressive battle was by now proving itself a
sad exercise in futility.At the time of its formation under the leadership of
Vice PresidentGeorge Bush in January of 1982, the task force had been
given anunprecedented amount of resources to interdict cocaine
smugglersand track down money launderers. The DEA's Florida office
wasprovided with 60 new agents, 10 supervisors, and 3 intelligence analysts; 43 agents were added to the FBI in Florida, 145 to the Cus-toms
Service, 45 to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms,20 to the
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center of the Trea-sury Department, 11
to the U.S. Marshals Service, and an unspeci-fied number of accountants to
the Internal Revenue Service. TheU.S. Attorney's Office was bolstered with
prosecutors. Chief JusticeWarren Burger of the U.S. Supreme Court
promised to providemore federal judges to try the cases. The Coast Guard
got addi-tional cutters with which to blockade the coast. Navy warships
wereauthorized to stop suspected vessels on the high seas. The U.S.Army
contributed Cobra helicopter gunships, famous for their firesupport during
the Vietnam War, which would now chase after sus-pected drug planes. The
Cobras would get help from the navy'ssophisticated EC-2 surveillance
planes, capable of tracking drugflights emanating from the Bahamas and the
Caribbean by radar. Ascommander-in-chief of the operation, the vice
president came toFlorida in February of 1982 and told a gathering of the
Miami Citi-zens Against Crime: "To those who commit crime, who engage
inviolence, we say, the American people have great patience, but
thatpatience has been sapped."
If the object of it all was to reduce the supply of cocaine avail-able to those
who wanted it in the forty-eight contiguous Ameri-can states plus Alaska,
the task force in its first three years ofoperation had been a dismal failure.
At the time of its inception,
federal estimates put the amount of cocaine arriving in theUnited States at
somewhere between 60 and 80 tons a year; thewholesale price for a kilo of
100 percent pure coke was fifty tosixty thousand dollars; and the police
were finding the strength ofthe average gram they seized on the street to be
12.5 percentcocaine. By 1985, despite record seizures by agencies
cooperatingin the task-force effort, it was estimated that between 100
and125 tons were being imported each year, the price of a kilo ofpure
cocaine had dropped to twenty thousand dollars—and wouldkeep going
down for another two years—and the strength of astreet gram was moving
on up toward 30 percent cocaine. Therewas more coke around than ever, it
was better than ever, and itcost a lot less; in fact, it was becoming
affordable for just abouteveryone. Poor and working-class Americans, black
and white,could now get themselves a taste of what the privileged
minorityhad been shouting about. And no one knew it yet, but the devastating crack epidemic lay just around the corner.
As a police problem, not only were the drug smugglers toonumerous and
absolutely relentless in their pursuit of the Americanmarket bonanza, but on
balance they had proved much more cleverthan the cops. "It took us a while
to learn how far ahead of us theywere in terms of technology and
sophistication," says MichaelMcManus, a special agent for the Drug
Enforcement Administra-tion in Fort Lauderdale. No matter what hardware
the feds addedto their arsenal, the smugglers always seemed to go them one
better.In the bust of one smuggling operation, McManus says, the
DEAconfiscated an elaborate code book, which consisted of forty legalsize, typewritten pages of radio frequencies that had enabled thesmugglers
to pinpoint not only the location of interceptor boatsoperated by the police,
but also the whereabouts of the CoastGuard, the army, the navy, even the
Secret Service. They also hadplenty of money to overwhelm the police with
surveillance. At PortEverglades, for instance, the main entrance from the
sea into theIntracoastal Waterway in Fort Lauderdale, they'd have spies
sittingon the jetties, monitoring the marine traffic, watching the
U.S.Customs and local police boats move in and out of the port. "Thereare
no more predictable people in the world than cops," saysMcManus. "From
8:00 to 9:00 A.M. they'd stop and have their cof-fee. At 12:00 noon they'd
cruise over to the Coast Guard station toget a cheap lunch. So the boats
loaded with drugs would just wait
2 5 8 \i I ow
offshore until the guy watching the traffic radioed out to them,'Come on
down. Bring the fish in to market."'
What seizures they did manage to make were weighted heavilytoward the
marijuana end of the business, the blizzard of incomingcocaine being nearly
invisible as far as the police were concerned.Up until March of 1985, the
biggest cocaine seizure by the FortLauderdale Police Department was a
four-kilo bust back in 1983,and that occasioned a big party in the squad
room. Yet that bustcame a full six years after Barry Kane alone smuggled
over half a tonof cocaine into the city, when the business was still in its
infancy,smugglers not yet getting up to speed.
That was the situation in the spring of 1985, when two detec-tives for the
Fort Lauderdale police department had the good for-tune to stumble into a
mother lode of a cocaine deal. The casewould prove remarkable in many
respects, but the first thing thatstruck everybody involved was how such an
important tip couldcome in off the street from such a small-time hood. Billy
Fitzger-ald, forty-one, was a scraggly alcoholic, one rung above wino status, who hung out at redneck dives in the featureless and desolatefarming
country west of Fort Lauderdale. As a low-level dopepusher, he dealt just
enough coke or marijuana to pay for his ownneeds, and earned a little extra
as a snitch, selling information tothe police. "We took him out to dinner,
he's got spaghetti all overhis face, picking up food with his hands, it was
hard to watchwhile you were eating," says Tom Tiderington, who worked
atthe time as an undercover narcotics detective for the
department'sOrganized Crime Division. He and his partner, Greg Kridos,
hadbeen together for about two years, doing mostly buy-and-buststings, a
kilo here, a kilo there. "One of the officers who knewthis guy said he had
something interesting to tell us. We didn'texpect much, but we figured, what
the hell. Then suddenly he'sgoing on about how he can introduce us to
members of theMedellin cartel!" Billy told Tom and Greg that there was
this oldfarmer who lived out toward the Everglades, bred and raisedhorses
on a small spread. "He told us this old man had an impor-tant connection
down in Colombia and was looking for someoneto bring in a big load of
cocaine. We're thinking, 'In his seven-ties? Doing a cocaine run?'"
Billy said he'd gotten the information from another man namedMcWilliams,
who was working on the deal directly with the farmer,
looking to find someone who could help them out. Billy said if theywanted
him to, he could set up a meeting with this guy. Tom andGreg told him
okay. The story they wanted him to tell McWilliamswas that he knew a
couple of guys this farmer might be interested inmeeting. Tell him these
two guys are in the transportation business.Tell him they have access to
boats and airplanes, and, from whatyou've heard about their operation,
they've got the knowledge andthe wherewithal to handle heavy loads.
This was the last time Tom and Greg saw Billy alive. A coupleof months
later they heard he'd stolen some drugs from a group ofblack cocaine
dealers in the northwest part of Fort Lauderdale, anill-advised move they
assumed had some connection with the factthat shortly afterward a couple
of police officers investigating anasty smell in the neighborhood found that
it came from Billy hav-ing been shot to death and stuffed into the trunk of a
car. Butalthough his story about the farmer had sounded a little implausible, even the vague prospect of pulling off a victory on the cocainefront
provided incentive enough to follow up any lead they had.
Several days after talking to Billy, Tom and Greg met with thego-between,
McWilliams, at a cowboy bar out in Davie.McWilliams drove semis for a
living, and he repeated Billy's storythat this farmer was looking for
transportation, adding that theamount he wanted flown in was five hundred
kilos, a startling quan-tity considering the stir their little four-kilo bust had
caused. Thenext day McWilliams introduced them to the principal himself,
atanother redneck bar out toward the Everglades. The man's namewas Leon
Harbuck. Checking afterward on the registration for thelong-bed pick-up
he'd driven to the bar, they found out that Har-buck was sixty-one years old,
not seventy, and he had a policerecord, but not for drugs. Besides a
speeding ticket the previousyear, he'd been arrested back in 1981 for
"reckless display of aweapon," that is, waving a shotgun at somebody in a
menacing fash-ion, and had been given six months on probation.
"He didn't feel comfortable with us right away," says Greg Kri-dos, a
former state trooper in New Hampshire who joined the FortLauderdale
force in 1980 after growing weary of doing nothing butwriting speeding
tickets. "They wanted to know a lot about what wehad as an operation. We
were pretty vague at first. You never wantto be too specific about what you
have because you don't really haveall those resources at the time that you're
purporting to have them.
Being too specific can mess you up in the end if you have to changeplans or
can't come up with something. So we told them just gener-ally that we'd
been doing this awhile, we had a good safe house,good transportation, solid
planes that could go to Colombia andpick up what you needed. Our pilots
were excellent, they'd flowndown there before."
Harbuck took it all in. He told them he was thinking aboutsomething like an
airdrop, rather than actually landing a plane. Hehad a trailer he was living in
in the middle of a horse pasture out inSunrise, two miles north of
Lauderdale and twelve to fourteen mileswest. Right nearby was a cornfield.
His idea was to have a plane flyin low, make two or three passes close off
the ground, and kick theduffel bags out the cargo door so they fell into a
field of six-foot-high cornstalks. He'd have four or five guys go through the
fieldlike a human chain, pick up the bags and hide them in the neighbor-ing
woods, then exit the area in a couple of pick-ups, riding empty.That way, if
they were stopped on the way out by any police whomight have been
alerted by the low-flying aircraft, they'd be freeand clear, and could go back
later and get the dope. Harbuck toldthem he'd done a dry ran on the idea,
sending some guys into thewoods with bales of hay, and he thought the
whole operation wouldtake only a few minutes.
By the time they left the bar, having told Harbuck they neededto check on a
few things and would get back to him on the details,Tom and Greg knew
they'd need a good deal of help. Not for thehuman-relations part; after
working together for two years now,they were confident enough of handling
that end pretty smoothly. Agraduate of Saint Anselm College in New
Hampshire, Greg playedthe low-key partner, never getting very excited,
handling matter-of-factly all the numerous problems that arose in any drug
deal. Hisolive complexion also gave him a distinct advantage.
Althoughderived from Greek ancestors, it created the impression in
people'sminds that he had roots somewhere south of the border, an assumption he gladly let stand. Tom Tiderington came from up in Michi-gan, and
looked it—fresh-faced with clean features, his expressionfrozen in a state of
eagerness. Perhaps because he appeared less likea smuggler than Kridos
did, he played the more aggressive half ofthe team, the one more prone to
push people, quick to get irritatedif things didn't go right. The object was to
distract people with hishard-nosed personality so they'd forget he didn't
look right for the
part. His cover story was that his father was a wealthy businessmanfrom
Detroit, and when not smuggling cocaine, Tom worked as acharter fishingboat captain.
It was the resource end of the thing that posed the problem.The Fort
Lauderdale Police Department had a few accou-trements—flashy cars such
as Mercedes Benzes and BMW's thathad been confiscated in drug busts.
They'd also acquired a couple ofmarine vessels, a fifty-eight-foot Hatteras
sportfisherman and asixty-three-foot trawler, which could double as drug
runners. But asfor the flying part—the planes and the pilots, being able to
demon-strate the kind of know-how expected of veteran cocaine transporters—they possessed nothing in this area whatsoever. "This wasthe first
importation case we'd worked on at that level, so our exper-tise only went
to a certain point," Greg recalls. "We didn't knowwhat type of plane we'd
need, for instance. He was talking of flyingin at a low altitude to air-drop
the cocaine. Well, you can't drop ittoo high or it'll burst all over. You have
to fly in maybe at 150 feet.You needed a particular plane that, first, would
fly low enough to dothat, and, second, that you could get the coke out of
easily, with theright kind of cargo doors. They were talking five hundred
kiloshere."
This was why, right after the first meeting with Harbuck, theyput in a call to
the local office of the DEA, to Mike McManus, to tellhim what they
seemed to have glommed onto. McManus, a short,compact Audie Murphy
lookalike, a graduate of Florida State Uni-versity, had grown up in the
nearby town of Plantation and hadworked undercover for that police
department before joining theDEA. He got so good at posing as a drug
dealer that more than oncehe sat in a bar in Plantation buying tabs of LSD
and ounces of grassfrom dealers who felt compelled to warn him that
"there's an under-cover cop around here named Mike that you've really got
to watchout for." The father of three girls, McManus took a fifteen-thousand-dollar pay cut to join the DEA and harbors something of amessianic
attitude toward the job of catching smugglers. "I realizedafter getting in that
I'm not going to change the world," he says."I'm a firm believer in
education, and until you make it not a sociallyacceptable thing to do, you're
not going to solve the drug problem.But I do believe that I can make a
difference. The role of the DEA isto locate, identify, successfully penetrate,
and arrest, and, I wouldadd, destroy the major smuggling networks. If I just
take a load, I can
hurt them, but if I take down the whole organization, I've destroyedthem."
So there's that, he says, but he also went into undercoverwork "because I
love the excitement. I can't stand sitting behind adesk. I look at it as a game.
I've got a set of rules, and the bad guyshave no rules. But I beat them at
their own game and in their ownballpark. They don't play by the rules, and I
do, and I still beatthem."
The three of them, Mike, Tom, and Greg, had worked togetherbefore, on
much smaller cases. If Harbuck wasn't living in FantasyLand here, they
were staring at an unprecedented opportunity, idealfor the tactic McManus
terms the "controlled delivery"—posing assmugglers, Tom and Greg would
organize the airlift, and the dopewould be flown in on their own airplane
and by their own contractpilot. Once it landed back in Fort Lauderdale, it
would be truckedby Tom and Greg to a safe house that would be guarded by
policeofficers hiding in the bushes. Doing it this way, they would not
onlyconfiscate the dope and arrest people involved in its delivery, butthey'd
score an intelligence coup as well. By negotiating with thepeople who
owned the cocaine back in Colombia, they'd see tosome extent how that end
of the operation worked. By flying to thelanding strip outside Medellin,
they'd get information on the actualoperations of the cartel. And by holding
the dope in the States anddealing with the Colombians in Miami for its
delivery, they'd have achance to penetrate that part of the network as well.
"If you do itright, with a controlled delivery you can identify who's in the
orga-nization that owns the stuff and the organization that distributes
thestuff back in the States, because you've got something both groupswant
and you're negotiating on both ends of the deal." As a DEAagent, McManus
had access to a lot of resources, most important ofwhich were airplanes and
pilots. Many of the latter were formerdrug pilots who either were doing
penance for a bust or had donetheir prison time and were now earning a
living working on stings.McManus told them he had a line on a special pilot
who'd donework for the DEA on other deals just like this. The pilot's name
wasCliff Guttersrud.
For the next meeting, Tom and Greg told Harbuck to meetthem on the
Land's End, the department's trawler anchored in theNew River near Port
Everglades, which Tom now passed off asone of the boats he chartered out
on as a fishing captain. Thewhole place was wired for sound and video, so
McManus could get
a good view of things in absentia. The news they had to tell Har-buck was
that the plane they'd be using was a twin-engineBeechcraft Queen Air,
which had plenty of range to make it toColombia, as well as cargo doors so
they could easily jettison thebags into his cornfield. The pilot who'd be
bringing in the loadwas named Cliff. He'd made the trip to Colombia
several timesbefore and would be flying the plane in shortly from the
WestCoast so Harbuck could meet him and inspect the aircraft. For hispart,
Harbuck also had a little news for them. He could nowdivulge that he
wasn't really the one in charge here. His task hadbeen simply to find
someone who could do the transportation.The man running the show was an
American and was coming toFort Lauderdale in two days, and he'd like to
meet them, and healso wanted to meet the pilot. They asked where the
meeting wasgoing to be held. Harbuck said he couldn't tell them. He'd
takethem there at the appointed time.
That was Monday. At about seven-thirty Wednesday night Har-buck came
by to collect Tom, Greg, and Cliff. With him wasanother man named Steve,
his son-in-law. "It was something you'dexpect to see on TV," says Greg.
"He was very secretive, hewouldn't tell us where we were going. He took us
two miles northto a Days Inn off Route 84 at 1-95 and brought us up to this
guy'sroom. It was dark in there, and the guy we were supposed to meetwas
standing at the extreme end of the room. He had the TV on,and he stood
behind it with closed curtains at his back. The TV illu-minated us, but we
couldn't really see him." As recorded in one ofthe "dailies," the detailed
accounts of their activities the two detec-tives wrote up at the end of each
shift, the stranger introduced him-self as George, and during the meeting he
asked most of the ques-tions and did most of the talking.
After these detectives were let into the room by Leon Harbuck and
theywere introduced to the subject identified as George, he asked who
thepilot was. After stating that the subject with these detectives was the
pilot,George began to ask these detectives and the pilot questions. The
subjectthen told these detectives that he had married into a Colombian
family,that his wife is Colombian. . . . George further stated that the
Colombianwho was the connection for the cocaine, and whose family
George wasnow a part of, was presently in Colombia getting the
coordinates for thelanding strip. George stated that he had sent his nephew
who is Colom-bian down with maps showing the flight pattern from South
Florida to
2 64 Blow
Colombia and that he was coming back with the coordinates....
Georgeasked these detectives and the pilot, "If everything goes smooth the
firsttime, are you willing to make several trips?" George stated he was out
ofcirculation for a while but now he was back in it.
The meeting lasted an hour and twenty minutes, after whichHarbuck and
his son-in-law headed out westbound in separate cars;Tom, Greg, and Cliff
drove back toward the city, leaving Georgealone in the hotel. So far the
detectives had been able to identifyeveryone involved in the operation,
either because they gave theirnames voluntarily or through the license
plates on their cars. ButGeorge had no car. He hadn't given his last name.
And the roomwas registered to a Delbert Lapham, a name they assumed,
cor-rectly, was an alias.
But when they were alone together driving off in the car, Clifftold the
detectives, Jesus, he knew that guy. From the late 1960s, inManhattan
Beach. He'd flown loads for him, kilos of marijuana outof Mexico, into the
dry lake beds of Southern California. The lasthe heard he'd gotten busted
bringing three hundred kilos of mari-juana into the Playboy Club in
Chicago back in 1972. That guy isBoston George! Cliff said. That guy is
George Jung!
In undercover work something new happens every day, andthere was plenty
of action. These were two reasons why DetectiveKridos considers the five
years he worked as a narcotics detectivefor the Fort Lauderdale Police
Department as "the best years I'dspent as a police officer. The standard TV
image you have of whatpolice work is like is what we were actually doing
—dealing withpeople who were dangerous, thousands of pounds of drugs.
Inundercover work, the most important thing was to establish
yourbelievability. You've got to blend your personality with what youknow
to be the narcotics traffickers' personality." He learned earlyon to avoid the
flashy attire associated with drug dealers in themovies. "I'd wear a watch, a
single gold chain, and a wedding band,and that was it. Dopers get nervous
when you wear a lot of jewelrybecause you're too high-profile. I mean, I'm
standing to make a mil-lion dollars here. Why would I draw attention to
myself? I'd wantto look just like everybody else."
Then there's "walking the walk and talking the talk"—knowingthe price
structures, falling in with the lingo. "If you're not very
comfortable with the vernacular, a guy may throw something at youthat you
should know and don't. Like in a marijuana deal, 'Howmuch am I getting on
the wrappings?' Which means, how much ishe going to take off the price of
a bale of marijuana so I'm payingfor net-weight marijuana, not for two and
a half pounds of plasticwrap? You could be stuck and not know what he's
talking about, andthey're immediately going to think something's funny.
You alsodon't jump through hoops for them. Only cops jump through
hoopsfor people. You call a guy and he says meet him at three o'clock atthe
Rainbow Restaurant in Lauderdale, you show up, wait fifteenminutes, and
he doesn't show, you leave. He calls up and says some-thing came up, he's
down in Miami, why don't you meet him downthere? You say, 'Screw you!
You want to do this deal, meet me here,or meet me halfway.' If you jump to
get the deal done, they're goingto suspect something, so you make it a little
hard for them."
One of the most crucial things Greg had to learn was the art ofthe "flash,"
the money flash or the drug flash, usually employed toget a deal that's
become bogged down in a Mexican stand-off mov-ing again. "Say you're
selling the cocaine. They might want to seethe dope before they bring out
the money. But that goes againstyour principles. You tell them, 'No, you
show me the money. Youcan't get arrested for just showing money. But if I
show you the fiftykeys, first I'm heating up where the keys are. I've gotta
have some-body go to the stash house, bring them out on the street.' But if
it's'No, I'm still not showing the money until I see the coke,' thenyou've got
to do a flash. You make a phone call and have someonedrive in and flash
some stuff. And when you're flashing it, particu-larly if you're the buyer and
you're flashing money, the first andforemost, the cardinal rule is when you
show it, you show it whenthis guy has no clue he's going to see it. You may
say, 'Hey, take aride with me.' He hasn't any idea where he's going or why,
and youshow him the money, like, fast. You open up the bag or the
suitcase,let him riffle it but not count it, then you leave right away. You
can'tgive him time to set something up, have some of his people aroundto
get a countersurveillance going."
Whether he was playing the seller, the buyer, or the trans-porter—the three
standard roles in a drug sting—the most nerve-racking part for Greg was
always the moment the deal went down,when the goods and the money
actually changed hands. "Whetheryou're the bad guys or the good guys, you
both have the same goal
2 6 6 I? I
in any cocaine deal, and that is to get through it alive. And here themost
crucial thing is that you're never going to put the money andthe dope
together. You're going to keep them separate. If you putthem together, the
potential for being ripped off and shot and killedgoes up immensely. The
various ways the exchange happens are,'Give me the dope, I'll sell it and
bring you the money back'—that'sprobably the worst way. Another is, 'Give
me half the dope, I'll payfor half and sell it and come back and get the rest
later.' Third is,'Give me half and I'll pay you after I sell it, but you hold the
otherhalf as collateral.' The way the transfer works is each side sends
arepresentative to a neutral place, and they sit down and work outhow it's
going to happen. It's usually, 'I'll send two of my guys withthe money to
meet two of your guys. I'll send two other guys toanother location to meet
two other of your guys who have the dope.So then I talk to my guys on the
phone who are looking at the dope,and you talk to your guys who are
looking at the money. Weexchange everything and we walk away.' Of
course, even doing itthis way you can get ripped off, and if you're going to
get ripped off,remember, they don't know you're cops, they just think you're
drugdealers, so you're probably going to get killed. They don't want
anywitnesses, and they don't want anyone coming after them."
From the beginning Tom and Greg could hardly believe thebonanza they'd
stumbled upon—a three- to four-hundred-kilococaine deal involving a large
network of traffickers. George'snephew, Joseph Ahmed, had appeared on
the scene, so countingnoses, they had six conspirators so far—McWilliams,
their initialcontact with Harbuck; Harbuck and his son-in-law, Steven
Fuller;another gofer who popped up named Walsh; and George. And
thiswas just on the American side. If they could use the cocaine they'dbe
flying in to pry into the Colombian organization in Miami, therewas no
telling how many they'd land. They were also going to dis-cover, though
they would not be the first ones, that in dealing withGeorge they had a tiger
by the tail.
The first surprise came when they ran George's name throughthe FBI's
computer and found out that here was someone who'd justescaped from a
state prison. So right away came a major problem.The Fort Lauderdale
police had no proscriptions against dealingwith fugitives. But Mike
McManus of the DEA was operating undera strict policy that said anytime
he ran across someone wanted by
another jurisdiction he couldn't fool around, he had to arrest himright away
—unless he could get the jurisdiction to sign off on keep-ing the fugitive for
the duration of the trip. McManus found thestate police in Massachusetts
were willing to go along with theoperation, but the Department of
Corrections up there wasn't tookeen on letting this guy, the "master of
illusion" smart-ass, stay freeany longer. "We were pleading with them that
we were into a reallybig thing here," says McManus, who handled all the
back-up work."This was the Medellin cartel! George was a documented
heavyplayer, and all the names we're coming up with are major,
majorplayers in the cartel. We had such a good handle on this guy. He
waseating out of our hand." Still, Corrections wasn't satisfied. Hey,come on,
putting George up at a hotel? He could walk away fromthe operation any
minute. To get Corrections to cooperate, FortLauderdale at least had to put
him on a tighter leash.
That was when they thought of housing George and his nephewon the boat,
along with Cliff, who could help keep tabs on them. Itwas this fifty-eightfoot Hatteras, which the Fort Lauderdale PDhad confiscated from a dirty
cop who, under everyone's noses, hadbeen running a huge marijuanasmuggling ring, with mother shipsoffshore and go-fast boats ferrying the
goods in at night. The Hat-teras was a $750,000 lushly appointed yacht
moored at a slip in theNew River alongside other luxury craft. It had plenty
of room belowdeck for five or six people. It was wired for sound, with
micro-phones all over the boat, under the carpet. There was a video cam-era
in one of the stereo speakers. The story they told George wasthat it
belonged to Tom's father in Detroit and was just sitting thereunused, so they
might as well stay there. "George loved the idea, hethought it was great,"
says Greg. "The big yacht owner. It fit theprofile he had of himself to a tee."
As plans moved along, it became apparent that the deliverywasn't going to
happen as quickly as everyone had assumed. It wasthe rainy season down in
Colombia, so difficulties arose with trans-porting the bales through the
jungle. And the gravel airstripsweren't in good shape. The longer the delay,
the higher expensesmounted. Until they moved to the boat, George, Cliff,
and JosephAhmed had been put up at hotels, and even afterward there
weremeals to pay for; covering George and Cliff's bar bills alone
wasenough to support a family of four over quite a stretch. Joseph hadto be
flown down to Colombia to check on how things were going.
2 6 8 B 1
Colombians would come up to Fort Lauderdale to look things over,check on
Cliff's plane. On that occasion, Tom and Greg took themout to eat at the
Marriott Hotel, and although the Marriott boastedthe most expensive
restaurant in town, they still had difficultyexplaining to the stingy
accountants at the police department howthey managed to spend five
hundred dollars on lunch. Thus Tomand Greg were encouraged by the
department to get as muchmoney back as possible from the Colombians.
Ideally they wouldmake them pay for their own bust.
So they started putting pressure on George and Joseph to getthe people in
Medellin to produce forty thousand dollars up front.They said they needed
it to pay Cliff, to purchase equipment for theairplane, get vehicles ready for
the trucking end of it. Cliff had tohire a copilot to help him, a friend named
B. D. Good, from Ari-zona. But they also started demanding money
because it made thembelievable. "We were supposed to be transporters,"
says Greg, "andthat's the way the typical transportation deal was done: You
give usmoney up front. If we had agreed to go down and get it before getting paid, we wouldn't be legitimate. So with George it was always,'Hey,
where's the money? You said you can do this, you say you'repart of a large
organization. We're not seeing squat here. You guysfor real, or are we
wasting our time here, spinning our wheels? Youstroking us? We're seeing
nothing here.'"
As George busied himself getting the cash, solving other prob-lems, Tom
and Greg had the opportunity to get a peek into theorganization to see how
things worked. When Joseph was gettingcash from the Colombians, for
instance, Tom and Greg would drivehim down to Miami, note all the people
he talked to, the addresses,the car registrations. They'd furnish George or
Joseph cellularphones for the calls down to Medellin, then reclaim them
quicklyand press the redial button to find out what number they'd called.
At one point the Colombians in Medellin wanted to meet thepilot George
had found to make sure he wasn't working for thepolice, that he hadn't
flown previous missions resulting inexplica-bly in a bust. Cliff didn't want
to fly down, because he'd doneother flights for the DEA, and so B.D. went
in his place. UnlikeCliff, B.D. was a regular commercial pilot, had never
flown drugsor been to Medellin, so sending him down seemed safe enough
—except from B.D.'s point of view. For him, the experience provedfairly
unnerving. "He said he was taken to a room on the top floor
of the Intercontinental Hotel in Medellin," Greg recalls, "and he'swaiting in
there when the door opens and these twelve Colom-bians come in. Nothing
is said to him. Each one comes over andlooks him up and down and then
leaves. At that point he said hewas thinking it could go either way. 'You're
thinking the worstthoughts at that point. They think I'm someone, but I'm
reallynot.' He held his breath through the whole thing, until they allhad left
and he got the nod. If not, no two ways about it, he wouldhave been killed
right away. Afterward he said he went into thebathroom and threw up."
It was hardly surprising, operating as they were in the midst of aring of
individuals whose business was breaking the law, that Tom,Greg, and Mike
occasionally found themselves cutting a few cornersof their own. Aside
from harboring an escaped fugitive, not to men-tion feeding him a steady
diet of steaks, lobsters, and GlenlivetScotch, they had to contend with
Joseph Ahmed's lack of controlwhere women were concerned. One night,
before everyone wasmoved to the boat, George called up Tom frantic from
their hotelsaying that Joseph had just attacked some young girl. "I mean,
I'm apolice officer, and he's telling me Joseph had just assaulted a girl,and
wants me to come over and get them out of the hotel before thepolice come
and they get arrested." As it turned out, the girl hadsome of her clothes torn,
but she suffered no physical harm and waspersuaded eventually not to file a
complaint.
Then came the kidnapping. Essentially, it came about becauseLeon Harbuck
had gotten his feelings hurt when the two Colom-bians who'd come up to
look at the plane also went out to inspecthis field and immediately nixed the
idea of throwing out theircocaine into a bunch of cornstalks. It might burst
open, they felt;Harbuck's guys might not find it all right away. The idea
seemedjust too flaky. Harbuck told them he'd plow the corn under and
theycould put the plane down on the ground. As for that big drainageditch
that ran right through the middle of the field, he'd bridge itover with
plywood. The Colombians looked at each other, and thenat George, as if to
say, Where'd you'd get this guy?
Instead, it was decided to fly the load into a regular landingstrip, a
reasonably out-of-the-way field they had found up in VeroBeach, about a
hundred miles north of Fort Lauderdale. This deci-sion to abandon the
cornfield, however, made Harbuck and his son-in-law unhappy, because it
seemed as if they were getting nudged
out of the deal. "Harbuck had always wanted to be the controller ofthe
operation, right under George," says Tom. "But once Georgestarted living
on the boat, his loyalty changed from Harbuck to us.Leon thought he was
going to get cut out completely. He'd alsogiven us fifteen thousand dollars
for expenses, and now he wanted atleast to get his money back." While
Harbuck was contemplating thebest way to accomplish this, there were a
couple of developmentsinvolving the boat that almost blew up the whole
deal. While luxu-rious, the quarters aboard were also tight, which meant
that temperscould easily flare up. At one point George and Ahmed, who
wassnorting coke pretty consistently—another infraction Tom andGreg
regularly had to overlook—got into such a violent fight witheach other that
people on the neighboring yachts called the FortLauderdale police. The
cops showed up, not knowing they'd bargedin on an undercover operation,
and a lot of diplomacy had to beused to settle the dispute without having
George and Joseph hauleddown to the police station, where it would have
been discoveredthat, my God, here was an escapee from a state prison.
Then, in a piece of coincidence worthy of Charles Dickens,Cliff Guttersrud
one night met at a singles bar the ex-wife of thedirty cop whose boat they
were living on. Cliff brought her back tothe yacht, whereupon in the
presence of George she remarked onthe fact that this vessel looked very
familiar. In fact, this was herhusband's boat! "I remember I was on my
honeymoon in Napa Val-ley, California," says Tom, "when I got this call
from George. Hesaid, 'Hey, I found out that the boat we're staying on is a
cop's boat.'But he didn't think, 'Hey, you guys must be cops.' It was, 'What
arewe going to do? She told us we were being set up. The police seizedit.
She could show us the newspaper articles.'" Tom told George torelax. It was
his father's boat, all right. He'd bought it at the auctionwhere the police sell
all the stuff they've confiscated. Hadn't he toldhim that before?
Nevertheless, they felt they'd already pressed their luck too farwith the boat,
so they moved George and Joseph back into a hotel,to a Holiday Inn out in
Davie, thinking they'd cause less trouble far-ther from civilization. And that
worked okay for a few days, untilMay 12, when George opened his door to
a knock and found Har-buck standing there with his son-in-law, Steve
Fuller, and Fuller waspointing at George with a .38-caliber revolver.
Harbuck announcedthat he had nothing particularly against George, but he'd
decided
the only way to get back the money he'd invested was to commit
akidnapping, and George and Joseph were going to be his victims.George
asked Harbuck who the fuck he thought he was kidding.And if he wanted to
shoot him, go ahead. Where would that gethim? Joseph, however, took the
situation a little more to heart,especially as he saw Fuller pick up one of the
pillows on the couchto use, supposedly, to muffle a gunshot, and he raced
past them outthe door screaming down the hallway that they were being
kid-napped and somebody call the police. "Now we're all in trouble,"recalls
George. "So I tell Harbuck, 'Look, Leon, we better get thefuck out of here
before the cops come, because I'm a goddamn fugi-tive, and we'll all get
arrested, you stupid son of a bitch.' So ineffect, you could say I facilitated
my own kidnapping." The next dayHarbuck called up Tom and Greg to tell
them what he'd done andwhat he wanted. And after George got on the
phone to say he wasokay, they drove out to meet Harbuck, gave him back
his money,and secured the return of George.
By now the operation was into its third month, and patience onall sides was
wearing thin. "We had been at these guys' beck and callseven days a week,
twenty-four hours a day," says Greg. "Drive ushere, drive us there, get us
this, get us that, take them to Miami,take them out to the airplane. It was
getting pretty tiring." Gregpulled an eight-hour wait at the Miami passport
office gettingJoseph his papers so he could fly down to Medellin. Just about
thelast straw came the day when George said that, despite everythingthey'd
done for him, he needed to find out more about them. Afterall, the only
thing he knew was what they'd told him. "He told us,Tve got to know where
at least one of you lives,'" says Greg. "Andhe was adamant about it. 'We just
can't do this deal unless you showme. If anything goes wrong, it shows your
good faith.'
"Well, we had a real estate friend who was selling a house aboutforty-five
minutes north of Lauderdale. It was a nice place, going for$400,000, the
furnishings were still there, even a little dog, a minia-ture poodle, running
around. We decided to show him that houseand tell him it belonged to
Tom." Before they took him out there,Tom stuck some family snaps up on
the wall to personalize the place."When we arrived with George, I told him
my wife was out at thestore, but to look around, take his time. The poodle
was yapping atus the whole time we were there. I told him, 'Don't mind the
dog,C icorge, it does that to everyone.' And anyway, he bought it."
2 7 2 Blow
Finally, after some three and a half months of on-again, off-again
preparation, the plane was set to go down early on the morn-ing of
Saturday, May 25, and return sometime after midnight, rightin the middle of
Memorial Day weekend. George had broughtdown two gofers he knew
from Massachusetts to act as a securitydetail, to help watch out for the
police. Joseph had gone down toMedellfn earlier to get the coordinates of
the field they'd be using.The way George set it up with Humberto, Joseph
would fly down inthe Queen Air with Cliff and B.D. to supervise the actual
loading.Coming back, they'd stop off in the Cayman Islands to take on
fuel.Cliff had said the plane would be too heavy to make it to the Statesin
one jump. In Florida, they'd land up in Vero Beach. The threehundred kilos,
packed in duffel bags, would be off-loaded into atruck and a station wagon
and driven down to this safe house thatTom and Greg had rented in
Lauderdale. On the drive down, thetwo guys from Massachusetts would
follow behind in another car,and if they saw any police on their tail, their
job was to take offdown the highway, to draw the cops away from the load.
Once it was safely in the stash house, negotiations would beginto transfer
the coke to the Colombians in Miami. George hadnegotiated with Humberto
to be paid $4,000 a kilo for the trip, agood price, considering the drop in the
wholesale rates. Thismeant a total of $1.2 million. Of this, $300,000 was
going to Tomand Greg for their part, and another $300,000 to Harbuck and
hispeople. George was keeping $600,000 for himself, enough to gethim to
Panama, where he would check out things with the bank.With a little left
over if he needed it.
Tom, Greg, and Mike McManus had a plan of their own forMemorial Day
weekend. And if the one George was counting ondidn't work out in exactly
the way he'd hoped, neither quite didtheirs. Adding in the two new guys
from Massachusetts, and alsotwo Colombians who had surfaced in Miami
as representatives ofthe people for whom the shipment was intended, they
now had tencocaine conspirators they could lay their hands on, and hoped
tohaul in more. To make sure things went off without a hitch, theyhad
prepared for the plane trip down and back with military preci-sion. The stop
in the Caymans on the way back wasn't really so Cliffcould refuel. It was so
he could make contact with a DEA agent atthe airport there, to tell him
exactly how much dope was on board
and also whether anyone else besides Joseph had come along for theride
from Colombia. Tom and Greg didn't want any surprises pop-ping out of the
cockpit when the plane landed. In the Caymans aDEA chase plane would
also pick them up and follow the Queen Airinto Florida to keep the ground
people advised on the progress ofthe flight.
On Saturday morning, May 25, the flight took off from the FortLauderdale
Executive Airfield. On board were Cliff, B.D., andJoseph, and right away
came plan deviation number one. Cliffhadn't confessed this to McManus,
but he'd been harboring a lot offear over the possibility of being recognized
as a DEA pilot bysomeone down at the airstrip. So he had never really
intended to flyto Medellin in the first place. He was loath to tell this to the
DEA,however, because if he didn't make the trip, he wouldn't get
paid,which meant he'd lose out on twenty-five thousand dollars.
Thesolution he thought of was to have the plane stop off in the Cay-mans,
not only on the way back, but on the way down as well.Which is what
indeed occurred, and in the Caymans Cliff got offand had B.D. fly down to
Colombia by himself; he would pick Cliffup on the return trip.
In Fort Lauderdale that day it was mostly sit and wait. Georgeand his
security detail from Massachusetts, Dennis and Ray, stayedwith Tom at a
place called the Berkeley Inn, while Greg supposedlywent up to check the
field in Vero Beach. Greg called in at about6:30 P.M. to say it had rained a
lot up there and the strip was toomuddy; they'd have to bring the load
directly into Fort LauderdaleExecutive Airfield. The truth was that Greg
never went up to VeroBeach, and they had always planned on bringing it
into Fort Laud-erdale, because the load would be easier to keep under
surveillancethat way. They knew, however, that George would object to the
air-port as too risky, and would only agree to it if it was broached as
anemergency. A little over three hours later, at 9:50 P.M., the call camein
from the agent in the Caymans that the plane had landed. It wascarrying
300 kilos, or 660 pounds, packed in thirteen duffel bags.Cliff, B.D., and
Joseph were the only ones on board. It would takeoff shortly, and the ETA
in Fort Lauderdale would be between 1:30and 2:30 A.M. Sunday. Oh, by
the way, the agent asked. How comeCliff had gotten off there and hadn't
gone down to Colombia?
Because they were using the airport in town, George's two secu-rity guys
wouldn't be needed right away. Tom suggested they go
2 74 Bl
over to the Holiday Inn, rent a couple of rooms, and stay there untilhe or
George called them. They'd be needed tomorrow to help withthe load. Tom,
Greg, and George then drove out to the airport towait for the plane. They
had a camper truck and a station wagon,with plenty of room for the thirteen
bags. George told Greg he wasnervous about using such an open landing
site. Greg said he agreed,but there was nothing they could do about the
weather. He andGeorge were waiting outside the hangar. Tom was inside
talking tothe plane on a radio set. At 12:30 A.M., an hour early, Tom
bangedon the hangar door to have Greg open it, and he said the plane
wasjust about to touch down. Pretty soon they could see its landinglights
approaching in the distance, and then the roar of the QueenAir as it taxied
on by them into the hangar, with Cliff waving tri-umphantly from the
cockpit. He offed its lights as soon as it pulledto a stop. The cargo door
swung open, and out stepped JosephAhmed. He was dirty and greasy from
loading the cocaine inColombia and helping with the refueling, but he wore
a big smile."Let's go," he said, and started lowering the bags to the three
ofthem, who transferred them quickly to the waiting vehicles.
As Cliff and B.D. drove off in their own car, George got intothe truck with
Tom, and Joseph and Greg took the wagon. Theyheaded to the stash house
in the southwest part of Fort Lauderdale.Joseph couldn't contain his
excitement. He clapped his hands sev-eral times and wrung Greg's in
congratulations. He said his stepfa-ther had wanted them to bring up fifty
more kilos, but theycouldn't fit them on the plane. There was also another
load allready to go, and Humberto wanted them to come back in three
orfour days and pick up three to five hundred more keys. Joseph wasjigging
around in the seat, babbling on about how they were allgoing to be rich.
From what he'd seen at the landing strip, theamount of cocaine being
shipped out just this weekend was fairlystaggering. He was told their plane
had been the fifth to land thatmorning, each plane taking off with what he
thought were betweentwo and five hundred kilos. In an underground shed
next to thestrip, he saw forty more duffel bags waiting to be picked up
byplanes coming in after them. All in all, counting the coke they'dbrought
in on this flight, the coke they'd get in a few days, as wellas what he saw
down there, it came to more than seven thousandpounds, or three and a half
tons! Greg made a mental note to gethold of McManus as soon as he was
clear of Joseph to have him
alert the DEA down there, to see if they couldn't get the Colom-bian police
to pull off a quick raid.
Several minutes later the two vehicles pulled up at the stashhouse, a low,
sprawling Florida ranch located on a dead-end streetoff Riverland Road in
the ritzy Riverland Isles section of FortLauderdale. The houses in this
neighborhood—some of them withmillion-dollar price tags—were built
along fingerlike canals thatled into the south fork of the New River.
Residents could hopaboard their boats in the backyard and follow the river
right downto Port Everglades and out to sea. It was dark, so George
couldn'tsee that the stash house stood out in the neighborhood for the wayit
had been neglected. Whereas the other lawns on the street hadhardly a blade
of grass out of place, the lawn here was badly over-grown, the bushes
untrimmed. In the swimming pool out back thewater was coated over with a
scum of algae. The house actuallybelonged to the state of Florida, another
piece of property confis-cated from the rogue marijuana policeman at the
same time theytook his boat. After driving the vehicles into the two-car
garageand closing the door, they all went into the house to begin
dealingwith the transfer to the Colombians.
What Tom, Greg, and Mike had hoped was not only to seize thethree
hundred kilos, but also get their hands on the $1.2 million theColombians in
Miami were forking over for the transportation.That would pay for quite a
few sting operations in the future. Theyalso wanted to reach further into the
distribution network and takeoff a few more people. While Tom and Joseph
went off to beginnegotiations over a pay phone at a convenience store
nearby calledthe Majik Market, Greg stayed in the house with George,
whosought to elevate his already high level of ecstasy by snorting
somecoke. "He was so elated," recalls Greg. "All this cocaine was sittingin
the garage, and he knew the money he was going to make from it.Plus,
when Joseph said there was another five hundred kilos sittingdown there
that Humberto wanted brought up, and forty more duf-fel bags, this put him
in seventh heaven. This was what he'd spenttime in prison for. He talked
about doing future deals. We had agreat relationship, he said. He said this
deal had been hard becauseit was the first time we'd all been together, but
from now on they'dgo a lot easier."
The more George snorted, however, the more his elation gaveway to
paranoia, and at about 3:00 A.M. he started telling Greg he
2 7 6 Blow
thought he heard something rustling around out on the lawn. Thiswas one of
the few coke deals where he hadn't been armed with hisfavorite .357
Magnum, and he was growing anxious over the secu-rity of the load. He'd
asked Tom and Greg numerous times to findhim a gun, and they'd debated
over whether to supply him one thathad a defective firing pin. In the end
they promised to get one froma guy they knew but kept putting it off, and at
the last moment theysaid the guy never showed up. So now George was
looking aroundfor a stick, anything. Finally he found a two-by-four piece of
lum-ber. Brandishing that as a weapon, he sallied forth to check thegrounds.
George had been right in thinking there were people outthere—nearly fifty
of them, in fact, members of a special strike forceput together by the DEA
and the Fort Lauderdale PD. They werearmed with pistols, rifles, shotguns,
and submachine guns, all wait-ing for Greg or Tom to call it down, so they
could rush in and bringthis baby home. But everyone was hiding a good
way back from thehouse, crouching down behind cover of one kind or
another and notmaking any noise. What George had heard was coming out
of hisown head. After a couple of circuits around the yard he came
backindoors, lay down on the floor, and using his sports jacket as a blanket, fell fast asleep.
Meanwhile, the negotiations Tom and Joseph were having withthe
Colombians in Miami weren't going too well. The Colombianstold them
they'd been sending all their cash down to Medellin,which meant they were
cocaine-rich but money-poor. There was noway they could come up with
the whole $1.2 million without firstgetting some of the kilos to sell. During
these conversations, Tomfound out that most of the load had been
contracted for by awoman, but he didn't get a name. At one point, the
Colombiansproposed that he put a hundred kilos in the trunk of a car and
driveit down to a parking lot in Kendall, south of Miami, where it wouldbe
picked up by agents for this woman. Twenty-four hours later
theColombians would deliver the $1.2 million, in return for the twohundred
remaining kilos. Tom and Greg wanted to go for this,maybe set up
surveillance around the parking lot and follow theColombians as they tried
to unload the coke. Mike McManus, how-ever, said his superiors at the
DEA were afraid to take the chance oflosing the trail and allowing the
cocaine to disappear onto thestreet.
Tom and Greg next proposed that they stonewall the ColomFori Lauderdale (1«>85) 277
bians, force them to come up to Lauderdale with the money or theyjust
wouldn't get the coke. The DEA nixed this too. "Everybodythinks the DEA
is very conservative, but the only time they got con-servative on us was at
the very end," says Greg. "We wanted them tobe a little more liberal. The
way we wanted to do it—and Mike andI and Tom felt we had a feel for it—
was push the Colombians to thepoint where, 'You don't get your cocaine, or
at least half of it, untilyou come up with some good-faith money. We did
our part. Wetook our chances. We flew our people down to Colombia.
Welanded at Executive Airport. We're stashing the cocaine. Nowyou're
telling us you're not giving us any money?'" But the DEAdidn't want to take
the chance of making the Colombians angryenough so that they'd try to
come and take their coke by force.After all, the Colombians didn't know it
was a police trap. "We felt,Hey, we had forty, fifty guys in the bushes, we
could have at leasttried it," says Greg. "That was the frustrating point for
me."
So, the decision was made at 9:00 Sunday morning to go inand collect what
they had. "There are just two of us in the housenow, because they took
Joseph off by the phone booth," says Greg."George had fallen dead asleep.
Everybody came through thefront door without making any noise. They
were extremely quiet.They came over and pointed their guns at George and
woke himup, and said, 'George, you're under arrest.' He was very groggy,his
mouth was gaping open. Wide eyes. He was flabbergasted.Devastated. He
was in utter shock. He had been so ecstatic justbefore, and now it was all
over."
George doesn't remember the bust being quite so gentle. "1woke up and I
see all these guys pointing at me with guns, there'sabout twenty of them
coming in from all sides of the house, andthey're looking like they can
hardly control themselves. One thingI've noticed about the police is they get
very hyper at times likethese. Some of them were shaking like a leaf, they
were so excited.'Don't you move, you cocksucker, dirtbag, you piece of shit,
I've gotkids you're selling drugs to, motherfucker.' One of them
startsyelling, 'Watch out! He could have a gun under that sports coat!You
move, you rotten son of a bitch, and I'll blow your brains out!'"
Seeing George there on the floor surrounded by the cops jab-bing at him
with their shotguns and pistols, then watching himbeing hauled out through
a cluster of gawking neighbors, armshandcuffed behind his back, Greg
couldn't help experience just a
2 7 8 Bl
twinge, a vague discomfort that tempered, albeit ever so slightly, theelation
he derived from bringing off what to this day ranks as thebiggest cocaine
seizure in the department's history. "I don't carewho you are, if you're an
undercover officer, there are times you canbecome involved with the people
you work with. You figure you'rewith him three and a half months, and
George is a personable guy. Afunny guy. A nice guy. I've seen where he
could get mean, but Inever saw him become violent. You don't feel bad he's
going to jailbecause he deserves to go to jail. You don't have regrets,
obviously,but you think to yourself, 'You know, it's too bad. Under a
differentsituation, you might develop a friendly relationship. Under
normalconditions he probably would have been a good guy to know.'"
ELEVEN
1987
Dylan said, "Ain't no use in calling out my name, babe, Vm on the dark side
ofthe road." Well, Vm there! And its rock bottom, believe me
—letter to mlrtha from george jung at the unitedStates Penitentiary,
Lewisburg, Pennsylvania
AS DISCONCERTING AS THE BUST WAS TO GEORGE, THE conduct
ofthe arresting officers also caused no small uproar among the well-to-do
residents of Fort Lauderdale's Riverland Isles neighborhood.And their
complaints received more than passing attention in astory bannered across
the top of the front page in Monday morn-ing's News and Sun-Sentinel,
overshadowing even the story about thearrest. "Those cars—sixteen to
twenty of them—came roaring inhere at 50 mph. Machine guns. Regular
guns. Cops with hats thatread 'Miami Vice.' It was like a war zone. They
couldn't even putanything like that in the movies" said one woman, whom
thereporter described as "visibly shaken" by the event. "You want thebad
guys caught, but you don't want to put yourself and your familyin
jeopardy," another homeowner was quoted as saying. "This typeof thing
really puts the neighborhood in danger."
For George, of course, the arrest procedures and their after-math had
become a depressingly familiar scenario in recent years.After prying him
away from their hyperventilating colleagues, Tom,
2 so m
Greg, and Mike inveighed upon George to make a couple of phonecalls to
the Colombians in Miami; if they couldn't nab the principalsinvolved in the
deal, they'd at least bag the two guys who'd beenacting as the go-betweens.
George readily agreed to help out, think-ing that playing the hard-ass was
hardly going to do his case anygood. He was then taken to be booked and
transported to the NorthDade Detention Center, a county facility that rented
out cell spacefor housing federal prisoners.
Along the way, someone had logged in his personal effects thepolice had
found back in his room at the Holiday Inn, which com-prised pretty much
all he owned these days, besides the clothes onhis back—and not to
mention the $68 million he hoped was downin Panama. Going through his
bag, they found George had alreadysupplied himself with the documents
he'd need for traveling to aforeign clime—birth certificates for two
deceased males born in theearly 1940s in Dedham and Melrose,
Massachusetts, along with acouple of applications for U.S. passports. There
was a Time maga-zine appointment book for the year 1983, with the
telephone num-ber of his parents scrawled in the back along with that of
Leon Har-buck. There were picture postcards Mirtha had sent him from
tripsto Big Sur, of the cliffs overlooking the beach up at Mendocino."The
coast is beautiful," she wrote on one of them, and expressedthe wish that
they could see it together someday. The police alsofound a three-inchsquare snapshot of Kristina taken on her sixthbirthday the year before. She's
smiling into the camera, her paperhat affixed to her head with a rubber
band, a Coke in one hand andan ice-cream cone in the other.
Sitting in jail, George had plenty of time to think ruefully, self-disgustedly,
over how he could possibly have fallen for all the decep-tion and the games
played on him during the past three and a halfmonths. His pain at having
been so thoroughly fooled reached itszenith one night about a month after
he got there, when a segmentof ABC-TV's "World News Tonight," came on
the tube, scoringhigh in the jailhouse Nielsens for the fact that it featured an
inter-view with a former drug smuggler who earned his living working asa
confidential informant helping the DEA conduct stings on oldassociates.
The son of a bitch was dressed up for the camera in aphony beard and had
on dark glasses and a watch cap pulled downover his forehead. But to
anyone who'd known him as long asGeorge had, no amount of disguise
could hide the fact that staring
out at him from the TV monitor was his old pal and good buddy,Cliff
Guttersrud.
The next ritual in the process consisted of visits by the lawyers.Following
up on the large play George's arrest had gotten in theFort Lauderdale press,
a half dozen or so attorneys specializing indrug cases made appointments to
see him at North Dade to try toget his business. "They came in, one after
the other," he recalls.'"We can do this,' and 'We can do that.' 'Help you make
some kindof a deal.' I'd been through it fifty times before. 'George, if
theytaped you on the telephone, did they have proper warrants from
thejudge? Did they go through proper procedures? Protect your constitutional rights? Otherwise we can get it thrown out.' I mean,you're caught
red-handed, and they try actually to make you believeyou have a chance to
fight it. In my mind, you're already stupidenough to get arrested, but if
you're stupid enough to believe thatbullshit, which a lot of people are, then
you deserve to spend therest of your life in jail. After they get done with
their spiel, they talkabout the money they think you've got stashed away.
'We can workany kind of a deal you want on the money. If you've got
money hid-den, I can send someone, or if you've got gold buried, or
diamonds,whatever you have, tell us where it is, whatever country it's in,
andwe'll go get it and protect you.' They're like barracudas. The peoplethey
really take are the Colombians—usually some poor bastardthey've got dead
to rights, and the lawyers will take a quarter of amillion dollars from him,
and then after they lose the case, they tellhim, 'Give me another quarter of a
million, and we'll win an appeal.'They aren't going to win any appeal! The
conviction rate in federalcourts is something like 96 percent. The federal
government hasunlimited resources, and when they come after your ass,
they'refucking ready."
The lawyer he eventually chose was a British transplant toFlorida named
Maurice Graham, who'd followed a younger brotherto the States for better
employment opportunities after college andhad first hung out his shingle in
Lauderdale in the 1970s. "You startoff with whoever comes in the door,
shoplifters, home closings,"Graham says. Gradually, he began specializing
in marijuana defen-dants and had a couple of airplane cases that got some
attention inthe media, spreading the word that even if your case looked
hope-less, here was a fellow who could get you off. One of them involveda
plane loaded up with marijuana that lost its way in bad weather
2 8 2 Blow
and made an emergency landing on the shores of Lake Okeechobee,on the
grounds of an Indian reservation. The tribal police chiefimpounded the
plane, the county sheriff arrived, and a squabbleensued about who had
jurisdiction. With the issue somewhat up inthe air, Graham was able to
negotiate with the prosecutor a dealwhere the pilot would get five years'
probation and a fine of tenthousand dollars. "Then I looked the fellow right
in the eye, I'mashamed to admit, and I told him, 'Look, there's no way this
guy canraise ten thousand dollars in that time. Why not give him a twentythousand-dollar fine and indefinite probation until he comes upwith the
money?' The prosecutor is thinking that this way he'll havethe poor guy on
probation, have a hold on him for the rest of hisnatural life. And so he
agreed. The very next day, the pilot walkedinto his office with a paper bag
containing twenty thousand dollars,paid his fine, and flew off into the
sunset, having been on probationfor twenty-four hours. We got quite a lot of
cases after that."
Since then, Graham had graduated to representing cocainedefendants,
whose business was considerably more lucrative; but bythe time George
came around he was losing his stomach for it, espe-cially when it meant
going into federal court. For one thing, therewas a new ruling that allowed
prosecutors to go after a defenselawyer's fee if he could show it was paid
from illegally gotten gains.Considering the money involved, this was
offering an increasinglytempting gambit where cocaine cases were
concerned. Federaljudges in the Reagan years also seemed to be growing
more conser-vative, allowing prosecutors wider latitude, from Graham's
point ofview, on the admissibility of evidence. And unlike the state judiciaries, the federal courts had guidelines preventing the use of before-trial
depositions taken from the police to impeach their testimonyor cause them
confusion when they appeared on the stand. If hecould depose the officers
first, then grill them during the trial, Gra-ham could often come up with
significant inconsistencies. "It's noteasy for people to tell the exact same
story about a situation if theyhave to tell it twice," he says.
In talking to George, Graham gave some of the same spiel as theothers did,
about how the case might actually be won. Entrapmentwasn't much of a
defense here, because with George's smuggling his-tory it would be difficult
to show he harbored no predisposition tocommit the crime. Nevertheless, he
said, the authorities had behaveddisgracefully during the sting, having made
several significant gaffes
that could prove useful in muddying up the prosecution case before ajury.
"In the first place, the guys George had fallen in with here werehopelessly
inept smugglers who couldn't possibly have committed thecrime without
the help of the police." The police provided George aplace to stay, on their
own boat and then at hotels. They gave himmoney for meals and also for
booze. They'd gotten him the airplane.They'd found him the pilot, a place to
land. "Here's a guy who's justgotten out of prison, with nothing but the
clothes on his back. Heknew people in South America who had cocaine, but
he could neverhave pulled it off by himself." Then there was the fact that
the police,together with those who worked for them, that is, Cliff
Guttersrud,had come very close to committing some serious crimes
themselves.One instance Graham planned to bring up was their
involvement inthe Harbuck kidnapping caper—which amounted to
tolerating thecommission of a major felony in order to keep the sting alive.
Accord-ing to George, Cliff had also lent him his 9-millimeter Mauser
pistolto carry around for protection while they were both living on theboat.
He'd gotten George some pot to smoke, helped him meet girls.The way
Graham would have put it, the police had supplied guns anddrugs and
women to a known escaped fugitive from a state prison.Where do you draw
the line? "In view of the tremendous sentenceGeorge was faced with,"
Graham recounts, "I felt we had to try it.Either that, or use it to the extent
we could to convince the prosecu-tor that it was going to be a long and
expensive case to win." Not tomention hugely embarrassing.
This latter strategy struck George as the smart way to go in thisinstance,
especially since Graham assured him he had good relationswith Lurana
Snow, the assistant United States attorney who wouldbe prosecuting the
case. "What I liked about Graham is he didn'tgive me any of the bullshit
about going before a jury," says George."He said Lurana Snow was a friend
of his and that he could make adeal. That's what I listened to." Which is
eventually what happened.It took the better part of a year, but in the end,
considering hisrecord, George got better than he had any right to expect. In
theindictment he had been accused on four counts, two of importingand
possession of cocaine with the intention to distribute and twomore of
conspiring with others to import and distribute. Comingup, as he would be,
before Judge Norman Roettger, the hangingestfederal judge in the whole
Southeast, each count could havebrought him a sentence of fifteen years in
prison, a total of sixty
2 8 4 B1o w
years, with George walking out a free man at around age 104. ButGraham's
presentation to the prosecutor, emphasizing George'swillingness to help
with the other busts, the arguably questionablepolice conduct during the
sting, and the expense and troubleinvolved in taking the case to trial,
succeeded in getting the chargesreduced to a single count. George would do
fifteen years.
"He knew I was fucked," George says. "And I knew I wasrucked. This was
the best way out of it. Fifteen years is no walk inthe park, but it's better than
sixty. And there was the money sittingin Panama. So I was prepared to do
it." At least up until he got windof a couple of FBI agents named Richie
Garcia and Bobby Levin-son, and heard what they were shopping around
for.
As much as George's circumstances had altered in the past eightyears, so
had those of his old compadre in crime, Carlos Lehder.Norman Cay had
received so much notoriety in the press, includingbeing featured in an
outraged documentary by NBC News, that theBahamian parliament was
embarrassed into funding an investigationby a royal commission into
bribery and drug-running throughoutthe islands. Where payoffs were
concerned, the commission foundout readily enough that Prime Minister
Lynden Pindling's expendi-tures had far exceeded his income, but it
couldn't prove that theoverage came from drug smugglers. In any event,
Norman Cay wasbecoming too hot for Carlos in the early 1980s, and by
1983 he'dreturned to Colombia, where he bought a cattle ranch and
beganspending his millions to further his dreams of achieving
nationalpower. About 12 5 miles south of Medellin, on the outskirts of
hisnative Armenia, he built a sprawling alpine resort named
PosadaAlemana, to rival the Hacienda Veracruz owned by the Ochoas
andalso Pablo Escobar's Hacienda los Napoles, where George had seenthe
police informer shot several years earlier. Built at a cost of $3million, the
complex contained a restaurant of gourmet pretensions,a good-sized zoo
and wired-in aviary, swimming pools, and thirtyseparate guest villas, two
stories tall and covered in thatch. Carlosalso built a discotheque at the
place, naming it after his musicalmuse, John Lennon, whose Utopian
reverie "Imagine" had beenCarlos's all-time favorite song. He hired the
noted Colombianarchitect, Rodrigo Arenas Betancourt, to design a life-size
statue ofthe late Beatle and installed it at the entrance to the posada.
Thestatue shows Lennon standing naked, his right hand holding on to a
guitar, his left displaying the letters PAZ for "peace," and the assas-sin's
bullet wound visible in his back.
On the political side, Carlos organized the Movimento LatinoNacional, a
party that used Colombian nationalism as a guise forrailing against
extraditing drug traffickers to the United States. Heassigned to himself the
title of "maximum chief" and installed atwelve-foot-high poster of himself
at the party's headquarters indowntown Armenia. In speeches to the faithful
he would rant onlike a junior-varsity7 Hitler, saying that the rabbis
collected taxes forIsrael and laying blame for all the terrorism and
oppression in LatinAmerica at the feet of "international Zionism." A bunch
of youthfulthugs called Woodchoppers maintained decorum at party
rallies,marching around in khaki uniforms and hard hats and
brandishingfour-foot truncheons. In a weekly newspaper published by the
party,Quindio Libre, the editor regularly praised Carlos as "a man of a
newera, captain of the seas and the skies."
It all didn't last very long. Unbeknownst to Carlos, in the late1970s and
1980, the United States attorney for the Middle Districtof Florida, based in
Jacksonville, had been gathering evidence aboutCarlos's activities in the
States, as well as the drug operation onNorman Cay. In January of 1981
he'd succeeded in getting a federalgrand jury to indict Carlos and thirteen of
his American confeder-ates and pilots on thirty-nine counts of cocaine
smuggling andincome-tax evasion. The prosecutor, a 245-pound former
runningback at Notre Dame named Robert W. Merkle, had flown
theindictments down to Colombia himself and presented them to
thesupreme court in Bogota for a ruling on their constitutionality.
OnSeptember 2, 1983, the court decided in favor of the United
States.Immediately afterward, the justice minister, Rodrigo Lara
Bonilla,signed the papers, sent them on to President Belisario Betancur
forhis signature, and promptly issued a warrant for Carlos's arrest.Almost
overnight the maximum chief had become a fugitive fromjustice and took
himself off into hiding. His political party col-lapsed, his zoo animals were
taken away to save them from starving,the posada fell into ruins, and a year
later it was all but destroyed byan unexplained fire.
(ieorge wasn't the only one who'd experienced a comedown.
In 1986 agents Garcia and Levinson were stationed in theMiami office of
the FBI as part of something called the Joint Drug
Intelligence Group, working with their counterparts at the DEA todevelop
knowledge about the Medellin cartel and other SouthAmerican drug
operations. Normally the two agencies get alongabout as nicely as Israelis
and Arabs, but here the object was todevelop intelligence jointly, then take
it back to their respectiveorganizations for use in whatever way seemed
appropriate, so therewas little opportunity for rivalry. "Part of the
assignment involveddebriefing people in prison in an attempt to get
together all thepieces of the puzzle so we could see the big picture," says
Garcia,the senior partner on the team, whose darkish complexion, brush-cut
mustache, and stern eyes make him resemble Burt Reynolds.Garcia had
earned a B.S. in law enforcement from Southwest TexasState University, an
M.S. in management and human relations fromAbilene Christian
University, and he came to the Bureau after fiveyears on the Dallas Police
Department. Both his wife and hisbrother are FBI agents. He wears white
shirts and conservative darksuits and speaks fluent Spanish.
"We were getting every little bit of information we could, everylittle
scribble and piece," he says. "As one person put it, we debriefpeople by
putting a vacuum to their head and in two or three dayssucking out every bit
of knowledge they have." At this point the FBIwas treating drug traffickers
like agents of a foreign power, andwhen they found one who agreed to talk,
they grilled him as theywould have a Communist defector. "'What is your
part in the orga-nization? Who did you report to? Who did that person
report to?What forms of communications do you use? How do you
recruitpeople?' We'd get all the names, full descriptions, who they
wererelated to, addresses, phone numbers. 'What numbers did theyknow
you had?' Step by step by step, until we got to the point wherethey start to
say, 'I think,' or, 'It could be.' And we put that part overon the fuzzy side."
To mask the identity of those they talked to, Garcia and Levin-son would
arrange for federal marshals to take the people out of thetwo major lockups
in the region, North Dade and the MiamiMetropolitan Correctional Center,
and escort them to the federalcourthouse, supposedly for a hearing on their
cases, then theywould whisk them down another corridor, where the two
agentswould be waiting in a borrowed office. George showed up one dayas
a surprise. He came in with another North Dade inmate they'dbeen talking
to named Danny McGinniss. Danny had been arrested
as part of what to law-enforcement people was a famous marijuanasting
conducted by the DEA called Operation Grouper, named forthe way the
bales of pot dropped into water by drug planes hadresembled fish of that
name. For his involvement, Danny had beenconvicted of being part of a
continuing criminal enterprise, or CCE,and sentenced to sixty years in
prison. He'd been talking to the FBIfor a while now in a fruitless attempt to
shave some years off thesentence, when one day at North Dade he met this
celebrity pris-oner who was related to high-ups in the cartel and had been
pickedup in a big cocaine bust up in Fort Lauderdale.
"Danny's problem," says George, "was he waited too long toplay the game.
By the time he was ready to talk, they knew every-thing he knew, and
anyway, it was only marijuana, whereas I had thefucking cartel in my
pocket. He was a streetwise Irishman fromConnecticut, I think it was, and
he thought by getting me involvedhe could help himself out. So he came
over one day and asked me ifI'd be interested in talking to some friends of
his. And I said, sure."
"My first impression of George was that he'd been 'rode hard,'he'd been
through the mill," recalls Garcia. "He looked a lot olderthan he was, and I
think he was getting at his wit's end. So when heshowed up with
McGinniss, he didn't know why he was here, but heknew he wanted to be
here. He knew he had got arrested with threehundred kilos and he knew he
had to do something to try to get outof that." The agents were certainly right
that George had a goal, butnot so right in thinking he didn't have any idea
about how to reachit. He did. And not long after he began talking to Garcia
and Levin-son, he made it clearly known to them in only two words:
CarlosLehder.
They knew in a vague way that George had once done somework with
Carlos, but they were ignorant of the Danbury connec-tion and the
closeness the two of them once shared. And they knewnothing about the
depth of George's fury at being thrown over backin 1977, a humiliation now
nearly nine years old, but which Georgehad never managed to overcome.
The FBI certainly didn't knowabout the hit he'd almost attempted, and
George wasn't going totell them. He'd give them just enough now to dwell
on the falling-out they'd had, give himself a plausible reason to be sitting
there inthe first place, willing to tell them what they wanted to know. "I
getthe sense he didn't know how far to take this with us," Garciarecalls. "He
didn't know what was in it for him, deal-wise. We said
2 8 8 Blow
we couldn't promise anything, of course. The three hundred kiloswas
between him and the DEA. 'But any information you give us wewill make
known to the judge, and you go from there.'"
Garcia and Levinson knew that here in their grasp was one ofthe best
information sources they'd ever turned up on the cartel; itwas difficult to
fathom how the DEA had passed this one up. "Herewe had a source, not
like someone who'd worked as just a pilot atone point in time. This was a
different caliber of individual we had.He wasn't a runner. He was actually
one of the founders of thisthing. And we had no reason to doubt what he
was saying. We werechecking the details he'd tell us as we went along, and
it was allcoming back right."
So they took out Danny and George on a daily basis now,Danny more or
less so he wouldn't feel left out of the deal andspread the word on what was
going on around the lockup. They hadthe marshals switch the delivery site
from the courthouse to a plushsuite at the Omni Hotel in downtown Miami,
where the agents sup-plied them little nips of Scotch from the bar, ordered
up steak andlobster for lunch and dinner. And where they'd talk. And talk.
Tenor fifteen days of solid grilling went by, during which George toldthem
more than even he realized he knew about Carlos, how thecocaine business
worked, what he'd seen on his trips down toMedellin. It went on like that
until the day arrived when he toldthem he'd just about depleted all his
knowledge on the subject, butnow he had another idea.
Instead of just talking about Carlos Lehder, why not try to catchhim? Wasn't
that the object here—to actually lay their hands on theguy? It was a day
Garcia remembers very well, when the purpose ofthese little sessions at the
Omni switched from gathering intelli-gence on the cartel to discussing how
to launch an actual operationagainst it. "Levinson said, 'Well, I don't know.'
And I asked George,'Okay, but will Carlos Lehder leave Colombia?' And
George says,'Yeah, he'll leave Colombia, if he has a reason to leave.' So,
likewhat? we're thinking. Women? Money? No, it has to be somethingreal
big. 'Well,' I said, 'what about if we had a way to offer himStinger missiles?
He's that type of military guy, be into that kind ofthing.'
"George's eyes light up. 'Yeah! But how do we do it?' 'No prob-lem. For
instance, we get you out, and we get you down to Colom-bia. You make
friends with Carlos again, and you tell him you've got
a contact for Stinger missiles. This guy has these Stinger missiles.And you
meet him out at sea. You call him up to the Bahamas, you'dbe on a sailboat,
in international waters, with Stinger missiles. Andwe get Carlos on the boat.
Maybe we even have a Stinger he canhold on to, give him a dummy that
you can't fire. After we get himon the boat and verify him, the Coast Guard,
navy, whatever, a Sealteam, come by and we take him. We got him!'"
It took several more sessions for them to figure out how exactlyit might
work. There was no doubt, once they'd been mentioned,that the Stingers
were the proper draw. "You had all these revolu-tionary groups down there,
FARC and M-19, having a constant warand such," says Garcia. "Stinger
missiles would go over pretty big.They had good press from the Afghan
war at the time. That's whereI really thought of the idea from. It's portable.
Carlos would be likethe new kid on the block with a better weapon. We
knew fromsources that Carlos Lehder was in the jungle at the time. Sources
wewere talking to said he really wanted to battle it out with the government. We had a source who said one time Lehder showed up at ameeting
the Ochoas and Escobar were at with crossed bandolerasand hand grenades
hanging off his belt, yelling and screaming, 'Weought to kill these people!
Go in fighting!' We figure George goesdown there saying he's got a guy
with a load of Stingers, Carloswould light up and come right out and get
them, especially sincehe's being chased by the Colombian military and their
helicopters.They'd figure now they could shoot them down."
Garcia thought of luring him on to a sailboat rather than a bigpowerboat, he
says, because powerboats got heavy attention fromlaw-enforcement types in
the area. Sailboats fitted right in with thetourist traffic. He had in mind a
Morgan 45 sloop, which he'd sailedhimself when stationed in the Bureau's
Puerto Rico office. "Youdidn't want something that would flag attention to
us. The Morgan45 is a beautiful boat, teak deck, teak finish, nice stereo
system. Itcould hold five or ten missiles. But it's not something out of
JamesBond. It was less likely to be boarded by the Coast Guard or
theDEA." But wouldn't the DEA be let in on the deal, help the FBIbring off
the sting? he was asked. Garcia's expression went a littlestony at this
suggestion. "The DEA?"
The mechanics would need to be finely tuned. They'd have todecide
whether to stage an actual break at an armory, for instance,or just feed a
phony story to the press, to convince them down in
Colombia that the missiles were on the street. The plan would haveto be
pushed up through channels, first at FBI headquarters inWashington, and, if
approved there, at the Department of Justice.Something this big would need
the express approval of AttorneyGeneral Edwin Meese. Then they had to
devise a way to bolsterGeorge's credibility. The Colombians would have to
feel goodenough about him to take him to Carlos. After all, George
hadhated Carlos for so long, and here he's just been busted for threehundred
kilos. The first thing anyone's going to think is that he'sturned into a fink to
save his skin, which, of course, he had.
That's when they arrived at the escape. It would happen inMiami, while
Garcia and Levinson were transporting George andDanny McGinniss from
jail to one of their supposed court hearings.And it must be totally
believable, even inside the Bureau. "It wouldhave to be done where myself
and Mr. Levinson would be the per-sons actually called on the carpet for
losing a prisoner. In order tomake it so believable the agents themselves that
we worked withwould have to believe that we screwed up. We'd have to go
throughthe whole nine yards, of an investigation by the Office of Professional Responsibility, which is the internal-affairs unit. We'd proba-bly get
time on the bricks, time off without pay. Censored, for what-ever
negligence there was."
But they didn't want to go overboard. There were limits, afterall, to their
willingness to become the Bureau's laughing stock. "Wewere going to try to
work it so it wasn't really our fault; it was cir-cumstances that caused it to
happen. The way I was thinking, we'dhave Dan and George out the way
we'd normally been doing, trans-porting them to the place. We would stage
an automobile accident,crack a car up against a pole, not right on Main
Street but in aneighborhood somewhere a little out of the way. Crack up the
carand stage an unconsciousness, to the extent where George wouldescape,
but not Dan. One of us would be out cold, and the otherwould be semi-out
cold, and he's the one who grabs McGinniss.Dan didn't like that part of the
idea too much. But I told him flatout, 'Dan, you've got a sixty-year
sentence. There is no way I'mgoing to let you go. Forget about that pipe
dream.'
"But publicity-wise, it would be in the papers, one guy out cold,everybody
injured. The concept of George escaping would be cred-ibility in itself for
why he would show up in Colombia. There'd bestories all over the news.
Maybe shots fired, we hadn't worked that
out yet. But George would be in the right front seat, the driverknocked out,
the door pops open, and George, who's handcuffedbehind his back, gets out.
The guy in the back is cushioned in thecrash by the seats, so he grabs
McGinniss, but George is going off"and we can't catch him. He gets away.
Of course he wouldn't reallyescape. He'd be running into a net of people
who'd know it was astaged deal, and would get him away from the area to
another placeand hide him out and smuggle him back into Colombia. We
had toget him out of the area, because whoever wasn't unconscious
wouldgrab on to the radio and be calling it in, 'We've had an accident,we've
got a prisoner on the ground, da dah, da dah, da dah.' So youreally don't
want George running around, because we don't wanthim caught by the team
coming out to investigate."
The car hits a pole? A staged unconsciousness? A phony break-in at an
armory? Stinger missiles? Where'd he get this idea? "I don'tknow," he says.
"I might have seen it in the movies."
George contributed a few suggestions of his own during the dis-cussions,
touches here and there to move the operation into therealm of high-concept,
so it wouldn't look like it was run by a bunchof pikers. "He wanted us to
provide him with a nice yacht of his ownfor him to sail down to Colombia
on from his escape, somethingabout a hundred feet long. We'd give him all
this money, and he'dhave all these women on board, have access to an
airplane when hegot there, one he could call up when he wanted. He wanted
to be setup like some millionaire. Sail down there, have access to villas
atplaces in the Bahamas along the way, pick up Carlos himself in hisboat.
And his idea was it was going to be a long trip, take him a cou-ple of
months to make it down there." The others looked on insilence as George
laid out how it should really happen, if theywanted to do the thing properly.
"I remember I didn't say a word. Iwas just staring at George. And he finally
stopped and said, 'Ah,come on, Richard. What's the matter?'"
In the end, to everyone's dismay if not surprise, the Bureauchickened out.
Garcia and Levinson had written up a brief descrip-tion of their proposal,
even came up with a code name, Cap-Tel, for"Capture Cartel"—and fired it
on up the chain of command. In itsrough outline the idea reached as far as
an assistant section chief atheadquarters in Washington, who told Garcia he
was vetoing it onthe grounds that he just couldn't picture the Justice
Departmentsigning off on something requiring such audacity. "We knew it
2 9 2 Blow
would be a hard sell," says Garcia. "But conservatism was takingplace,
where the reaction was, 'Let's not try this right now.' TheBureau was just at
the point of coming out with a national drugstrategy as far as how to
approach investigations. Headquarters wasstill growing as far as how
they're going to be doing things. InMiami, you learn quickly about how far
you can go. What's feasiblefor us in Miami is really off the wall for them in
Washington,because they had not been exposed to what we'd been exposed
to.With all the debriefing we'd been doing, Levinson and I thought wehad a
pretty good idea of what would fly and what wouldn't fly. Butthis was not
the sort of institutional knowledge that they had inWashington."
As it worked out, Garcia never had to inform George that theirgrand
scheme had been nixed. For on February 4, 1987, while hewas watching TV
in the day room at North Dade, the same set onwhich he spotted Cliff
Guttersrud more than a year and a halfbefore, George caught a news story
out of Bogota, Colombia. Thescreen showed a bunch of DEA agents on
some military installa-tion hustling a short, tousle-haired figure in handcuffs
into thebody of an Aerocommander turboprop jet, which was warming upto
take off for Tampa, Florida. The guy they were loading into theplane,
without a single scrap of help from George, was CarlosLehder.
Most people in a position to know believe that Carlos hadmade himself into
such a loudmouthed nuisance as far as thereigning cartel members were
concerned that they were the oneswho turned him in. The story given out to
the press was that thecaretaker of a mountainside chalet in a pine forest
outside Medel-lin had been grousing to a friend about a large party of men
whohad rented the house, complaining about the loud partying theywere
doing and the way they were messing up the place in general.The friend
passed on the complaint to a local constable, and theconstable called a
major in the national police named WilliamLemus, who just happened to be
in the Medellin area lookingaround for Carlos. Major Lemus went up to
nose around and hidin the bushes until he saw a man walking the grounds
who lookedlike Lehder. The next morning he returned with a force of
men,and after a brief firefight, Lemus himself nabbed Carlos, levelingon
him with his pistol. "Little chief, don't shoot me," Carlos is
supposed to have begged. That was on February 4, 1987. By 1:15A.M. the
following morning, the DEA landed with him at the air-port in Tampa.
Whether the tip on where Carlos was hiding arrived via thecaretaker, the
caretaker's friend, or the constable, there seems littledoubt that the ultimate
dime on Carlos was dropped by Escobar andthe Ochoas. "From my
understanding, talking to sources, the cartelmembers were saying to each
other that Lehder was off the wall,"says Garcia. "They were under a lot of
pressure. There were theseextraditions involved. They'd be in danger of
losing a lot of supportthey might have for sovereignty in Colombia, to get
rid of the extra-dition law, if this guy keeps doing what he's doing. My
personalbelief is the cartel set up Lehder. The government wants someoneto
extradite? They want to take a token person? Let them take Car-los. He's a
whacko. He should be out of here anyway. And he'sgone!"
Gone from Colombia, and now in the possession of the UnitedStates
government, but the task of convicting Carlos in a court oflaw still lay
ahead. Like George, Agent Garcia had also heard thenews about the capture
from TV, during a trip he had to make toBoston. "My first thought was, 'Oh,
boy, I bet old Dan and George,their hearts are down in their stomachs right
now.' I called Georgefrom Boston and asked him what about testifying? I
told him, 'Ithink you should do it. It's the right thing to do. And all the
revengeyou felt? You wanted to be in on his capture. Well, he's already captured. Now your best thing to do is to sit right there in the court-room and
look him straight in the eye and tell them what he did.'"George said no, he
didn't think he'd do that. He told Garcia that thecode he'd followed ever
since he first became involved in the mari-juana business mandated that you
don't give people up. It was onething to pull off a slick operation like the
one they'd been planning,to go down on a boat and nab Carlos himself; it
was something elseto come slithering into the courtroom and open up on
him from thewitness chair like a rat, like a rata. "He didn't seem ready to
changehis mind," says Garcia. "So I said, 'Fine, George.' And that's the
waywe left it."
George did testify in the end. In fact, he opened the proceed-ings as the
leadoff witness, playing one of the two starring roles inthe whole trial,
along with another convicted smuggler named EdWard, who had worked
directly for Carlos on Norman Cay. The
2 94 Bl
turnaround in George's attitude had come in the spring of 1987,after a
number of things happened to alter his perspective on lifein general. One of
them was a peek he got inside a heavy-dutyfederal prison, which convinced
him that the existence therepromised to be significantly less jovial than
what he'd experi-enced at Danbury. In a bureaucratic mix-up, before his
plea bar-gain had become official, he was sent off to the United
StatesPenitentiary in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, one of six maximum-
security institutions on the federal roster, along with ones inAtlanta,
Georgia; Leavenworth, Kansas; Lompoc, California;Terre Haute, Indiana;
and Marion, Illinois. For some unexplainedreason, he was thrown
immediately on arrival into an administra-tive segregation cell, the hole,
that is, along with a wiry, hyperac-tive Mexican-American murderer from
Texas with tear-gas burnsall over his body from where the guards had had
to subdue himwhenever he went berserk in his cell. "He's got skulls tattooed
allover his arms and chest with knives sticking through the eyes, ahuge
Virgin Mary on his back," recalls George. "He's jabberingto himself all the
time, washing himself constantly in the toiletbowl. I said to myself, 'Jesus>
you've really done it this time.'Even once I got out of the hole, the
atmosphere in that place youcould cut it with a knife, nobody smiled or
laughed. Thereweren't a lot of guys you'd want to hang around with. I had
mylittle talk with the caseworker, and he wasn't anything like the guyat
Danbury, who tried to help you. It was, 'What I've got to say toyou is, Here,
you stay with your own group, you mind your ownbusiness, and you keep
your back to the wall at all times. Fuck upat Lewisburg, you go to Marion,
and that's the last stop on thebus.'"
It took six weeks before George convinced the authorities oftheir mistake
and got himself transferred back to North Dade.That was when he decided
finally to send one of the lawyers who'dbeen paying him court down to
check on his money in Panama. Ifhe was going to do the time, he wanted to
be sure there was some-thing pleasant to think about as it went by, to know
there'd be ahappy ending to his life story, at least on the material side
ofthings. He found a lawyer who'd been recommended by MauriceGraham;
he was a big man with a bushy beard who smoked aMeerschaum pipe. Even
though back at Danbury Fat Harry hadtold him one of the things he'd
learned long ago was never to trust
anyone who smoked a pipe, no matter what kind it was, Georgegave the
lawyer the account number and sent him to Panama City.The lawyer was
gone for about ten days. When he got back, hetold George he'd found the
account all right, still active. And ithad had an awful lot of money in it
during the time George wasshipping cash down in the late 1970s and early
1980s. But check-ing the bank's calculations, setting off the money that
went inagainst the money that got withdrawn at various points, he cameup
with the same result the bank did, which was a balance of zero.There was
nothing there, George. Just a big double aught. Themotor sailer, the beaches
on Ibiza, just a life without having to goto work and slave for a dollar—he
could pack all that away, put itinto the category of a dream he'd had during
the night and wokenup from early in the morning and found that it was all
gone andthat, indeed, it never was.
So there he had it, the empty bank account to ponder. He'dheard of this
happening to other guys who'd sent money down toNoriega-land, but
knowing he had company in his expanding senseof misery gave him
precious small comfort now. Then he found outabout the letter. He saw it in
a story in the Miami Herald onemorning. It was written to Vice President
George Bush from Car-los, sitting in the Atlanta penitentiary, where a
whole tier had beenemptied of prisoners so he could have the thing entirely
to himself.Carlos told the head of the war on drugs that he wanted to make
adeal. In return for immunity from prosecution, he'd tell everythinghe knew
about the drug business. He'd turn in all the operativeshe'd relied on in his
network, the hundreds of Colombians andAmericans he'd dealt with from
Miami to Los Angeles. He'd tellthe police anything they wanted to know
about Escobar and theother cartel figures. He'd say anything they wanted
him to say incourt, against anyone they wanted to put up. Just let him get
out ofjail free, let him leave the country, and he'd promise never to smuggle drugs again.
The Reagan administration making a deal on the eve of an elec-tion year
with the biggest cartel figure they'd ever caught, a manthey'd billed as evil
incarnate, seemed about as likely a prospect asCarlos had of levitating the
walls around Atlanta and crawling outfrom underneath. But to George, the
letter itself, just the brashnessof it, came as the final insult. Given even the
remotest possibilitythat at any time in the future Carlos might be walking
the streets
somewhere as a free man, while George was rotting in a place
likeLewisburg, making conversation with people covered with skullsand
daggers, moved his hand as if it had a will of its own toward thepay phone
in the dayroom at North Dade to begin the negotiationson a deal. The first
person he called was Mirtha, out on the WestCoast. He told her to call down
to Humberto in Medellin, and tohave Humberto call Pablo Escobar and tell
him the circumstances,and ask if it would be okay with him if George took
the standagainst Carlos. In two days the word came back from
Pablo,through the same network in reverse. It was actually two
words:"Fuck him."
Thus it was that George next placed a phone call to AgentRichard Garcia at
the FBI. He'd had some time now to think overwhat Garcia had said to him
right after Carlos's capture, and he'dconcluded that Richie was right, that
testifying against Carlos wasthe right thing to do. He told Garcia to tell
Merkle, the U.S. attor-ney in Jacksonville who would be prosecuting the
case, that GeorgeJung was on the team. "Maybe I might have testified
eventually any-way, but I don't think so, not without that letter," says
George. "Itwas too much. I mean, looking back, the first person Carlos put
inthe box, the 'fuck-you box,' was me. Then he put Richard Barile inthe
fuck-you box. Then he put Nick Hunter in the fuck-you box.Then he put
Barry Kane in the fuck-you box. Then he put Ed Wardand all the people on
Norman Cay in the fuck-you box. And prettysoon the box was filled up
with 150 people, looking like a bunch ofbroken rag dolls in a toy chest with
their stuffing all coming out.Then one day it was as if they all got out of the
box at once, andnow Carlos was in the box, and they all came to his trial
and said,fuck you.'"
The trial itself, in the U.S. courthouse in Jacksonville, rated eas-ily as one
of the most exciting events in the city's history. Parkingwas banned on all
the adjacent streets. Snipers patrolled therooftop, alert for an attack by
narcoterrorists. Dogs with the abilityto sniff out bombs patrolled the
corridors inside the building. Metaldetectors at the entrances were cranked
down so low you had totake off your shoes so the metal eyelets and the
nails in the soleswouldn't set off the alarm.
In his three-hour opening statement to the jury of nine womenand three
men, Merkle charged that "Carlos Lehder was to cocaine
transportation as Henry Ford was to automobiles." As George'scontribution
toward proving that contention, he sat in the witnessbox for three days and
gave testimony about Carlos that filled up564 pages of transcript. He told
all about their meeting at Danburyand the dream they shared of cornering
the transportation market.He told about hooking up with Carlos after prison.
He told aboutthe first suitcase trip from Antigua. He told about introducing
Car-los to Barry Kane. To show how close George had been to
Carlos,Merkle introduced into evidence Carlos's marriage license
fromCanada, when George had stood up as his best man. "And does
yoursignature appear on that document, sir?" Merkle asked with
sometheatricality.
"Yes, it does," George answered. "Approximately an inch abovethe date."
Merkle led him through Carlos's tramp through the Vermontwoods, even
produced one of the customs people to bolster thestory. George told the jury
all about the red-eye flights to LosAngeles, the hundreds of kilos they
unloaded through Barile, theheavy amount of money that was beginning to
roll in. That BMWCarlos had bought for cash in Hyannis? Just as George
had warned,it returned to haunt him when Merkle produced the manager of
thedealership so he could point the guy out to the jury who'd given
himeleven thousand dollars in a paper bag. George told them about histrip
to Norman Cay, their falling-out, about going to see Fat Harrywhen George
wanted to set up a hit. In all, Merkle paraded 115 wit-nesses past the jury,
along with providing them stacks and stacks ofdocuments, so they could see
the aircraft and boats that Carlosowned, the dummy corporations he'd set
up. Merkle even put Wal-ter Cronkite, the former CBS anchorman, on the
stand, to describehow abruptly he'd been run off of Norman Cay. At the
close of thispiece of testimony, Merkle lowered his voice an octave or two,
gear-ing it down to broadcast level, and asked, "Was that the way it was,Mr.
Cronkite?"
"Yes," Cronkite answered. "That's the way it was."
For a fee reputed to be somewhere between $1.5 and $2 million,Carlos had
hired two Miami defense lawyers who were already wellknown in the
society of moneyed cocaine defendants, EdwardShohat and Jose Quinon.
"This is the type of case that represents tous the highest mountain, and we're
going after it," Quinon was
2 98 Blow
quoted as saying, "This is our Everest." Throughout the trial theyreferred to
their client as "Joe" Lehder, an early alias of Carlos's, inan apparent effort to
de-Colombianize him for the jury. Their basicargument turned out to be that
Joe was a much maligned and mis-understood businessman, whose
activities on Norman Cay hadnothing to do with cocaine whatsoever.
Lengthening the airstrip,building the hangars and such, that was all part of a
plan to make theisland into a tourist resort. All this testimony to the
contrary, theysaid, that was just part of "Pick-on-Joe-Lehder Month."
Carloshimself never took the stand during his trial, and his lawyers presented not a single witness in his defense. Instead, they concen-trated their
guns on the cross-examination, grilling the prosecutionwitnesses, twentynine of whom had been convicted of one drugoffense or another, in an effort
to show the jury that these peoplewere all lying about Carlos in order to get
a reduction in their sen-tences or get out of jail altogether. One of the worst
of these, theysaid in their opening statement, was George Jung. Yet when
his turncame to be cross-examined, on the fourth day of the trial, Georgenot
only managed to keep his story well intact, but in the fencingbattle with
Quinon, he gave just about as good as he got.
Q: Knowing you to have used people before when it fits your interest,would
you be using Mr. Lehder in this case in order to lower your prisonsentence
maybe?
A: Do you really believe that?
Q: I'm asking the questions.
A: Then, no. . . .
Q: And when you wrote down that you had been to Pablo Escobar'sfarm
numerous times weren't you trying to sort of puff up your impor-tance in
this case, to see if you can get a better deal, better letter from
thegovernment, to see if they will reduce your parole and your sentence?
Were you trying to do that, knowing Pablo Escobar to be somebody whohas
been publicized?
A: No. I didn't have to expand my role. I was married into a Colom-bian
family that is tied in to people down there. That was well known. Ididn't
have to exaggerate my role. I mean, I was arrested in 1985 with 660pounds
of cocaine, and, in essence, they suddenly confiscated more on theairstrip,
close to 3,000 pounds of cocaine. I don't believe that I had toexaggerate my
role with 3,000 pounds of cocaine.
Regarding the matter of George's aborted hit against Carlos,Quinon tried to
suggest that he'd invented Carlos s whole betrayalof him as a way to
support the fact that he'd had any meaningfulrelationship with Carlos in the
first place.
Q: How long had you known Fat Harry?
A: In effect, I met him while in Danbury.
Q: Okay. And did you go as far as to discuss the amount of money thatit
would take to do a hit?
A: He was looking more to that, once Lehder was eliminated, a part-nership
effect, taking over where Lehder left off.
Q: And these discussions took place with Fat Harry?
A: That's correct.
Q: All right. Was anybody else present in addition to Fat Harry?
A: No. You usually don't have too many people present when
you'rediscussing to the effect that you'd like to kill somebody.
The trial opened the week before Thanksgiving of 1987 andended more
than seven months later, in mid-May of 1988, whenthe jury finally received
its instructions from U.S. district judgeHowell W. Melton and retired to
ponder the evidence. It tookthem seven days to reach a verdict, betraying a
degree of uncer-tainty that surprised most of the observers, considering the
over-whelming nature of Merkle's case. Part of the problem, one jurorlater
told a reporter for the Tampa Tribune, was that they took toheart the
complaint of Shohat and Quinon that much of the evi-dence against their
client came from "bought testimony" andwould have preferred the
government to have found some way ofconvicting Carlos other than turning
loose half the prison popula-tion. "The more you listened to, the more you
heard, you knewyou could not find him innocent," one juror was quoted as
saying.Nevertheless, he said, "I sat there and ground my teeth at what
thegovernment had given them. I actually busted a crown on mytooth, I got
so mad." Of all the witnesses, he was asked, who hadbeen the most
compelling? Walter Cronkite, he said. "It surprisedme when he testified. He
looked like he did on the news. He wasprobably one of the first people you
could turn around and say, 'Ihaven't got a convict here.'"
The verdict came down on May 19—guilty on all eleven counts
3 O O Blow
on which he'd been tried, involving the smuggling of 3.3 tons ofcocaine into
the United States. And two months later Carlos wasbrought in for
sentencing. For nearly half an hour he lectured thejudge on the fact that he
was a political prisoner, that he'd been kid-napped out of his own country. "I
feel like an Indian in a whiteman's court," he said. Judge Melton listened to
the speech, thensentenced him to life in prison without the possibility of
parole, plusan additional 135 years. "This sentence is a signal," the judge
said,"that our country will do everything in its power and within thelaws to
battle the drug problem that threatens the very fabric of oursociety."
Around Christmastime, about a month after George had testi-fied, a pair of
federal marshals came to where he was being held inthe county jail in
Jacksonville. They said that Merkle's office hadjust received a call from
Mirtha. She had heard from George's sister,Marie, that George's father was
dying. He had contracted cancer ofthe colon and was currently in the
hospital undergoing an opera-tion. No one was holding out hope that he
would live for more thana short time after he returned home. George hadn't
seen his fatheror mother in more than seven years, not since the arrest in
Eastham.Shortly after that, Fred and Ermine had moved out to Indiana to
benear their daughter and son-in-law in Greenwood, outside of Indianapolis. Marie and Otis lived in a five-bedroom, split-level houseon a
street named Serenity Way with ample room for them andtheir three
children, a barbecue and a pool out back, a two-cargarage, and a good-sized
yard. Rather than have her parents livewith them, Marie thought it more
practical to put them up in acommunity of pre-fabs nearby. They'd have
their privacy, yet they'dstill be close if they needed anything.
When George heard the news, the first thing he did was to tele-phone
Merkle and ask if he could somehow get permission to leavethe jail and fly
up to Greenwood and see his father for what wouldbe the last time. Merkle
said he'd not only give him permission, buthe personally would take George
there, drive him up to the househimself. And he promptly called Marie and
Otis to see to thearrangements. No, Marie told him. She was really sorry,
but she didnot think it was a good idea for George to come at this time. He
hadalready caused his father enough heartache, not to mention the painand
humiliation he'd visited on everyone else in the family. Now, at
his father's deathbed, it would be much too unsettling suddenly forher
brother to make an appearance. "They told Merkle they justdidn't want me
there," says George. "So he got me a tape recorderand told me if I wanted to
say good-bye to my father, I could do iton tape. The two marshals brought
me into a little room at the jail.There was a chair and table set up, and we
put the tape recorder onthe table, and I talked into it.""Hello, Fred," the tape
begins.
You know, I remember a lifetime ago I was about three and a halffeet tall
weighing all of sixty pounds with a determined look on my face.Some
Saturday mornings you'd wake me up. It was still dark outside.The earth
was covered with snow, and together we'd climb up into yourbig yellow
truck. You know, I used to think that truck was the biggesttruck in the world
and how important the job was we had to do. If itweren't for us, people
would run out of oil and freeze to death. We'dstop after driving it seemed
forever in a world that was entirely alien tome, a place called South Boston,
with huge brick buildings and strange-looking black people everywhere. I
was in awe of these strange-lookingpeople and somewhat afraid, but felt
safe with you. Together, we'd getout of that big yellow truck and you'd let
me pull the hose down thealleyway to the oil spout. I would struggle
desperately through thesnow, but the oil spout seemed forever away. I'd
never make it morethan halfway, and then you'd grab the whole of the hose,
taking it therest of the way with ease. I thought you were the strongest guy
in theworld, and the toughest. Everywhere we went it seemed you
kneweveryone. I remained under that impression for quite some time.
Remember when you bought the boat for me and the outboardmotor?
Christ, I couldn't even swim. Are you sure it wasn't a plot to getrid of me?
You must have lived in fear, wondering what crazy idea I wasabout to
conceive of next. I believe getting my driver's license was prob-ably the
most traumatic experience of your life. It was most definitelythe point when
you had to give up going to sleep on weekends until theblue-and-white
Mercury was safe in the garage.
Football. Now that's an interesting subject. You were my most loyalfan,
never missing a game. Remember when Jack Fisher turned againstme? And
I was going to quit the team? You stuck by me and talked meout of quitting.
Every kid on the block loved you, Fred. Remember howthey all would hang
out at our house? They came to see you, not me.You were unique, and
everyone and anybody was always welcome at ourhouse. You were
certainly the Pied Piper sitting there with cigar in handand giving orders
and free advice. You always managed to get the guysinto some job, cutting
the lawn, painting the house, putting up a fence.
3 02 Blow
They never said, No, Fred. They all loved you. In essence, you had adozen
sons, not just one, making you the richest man in the world.What you had
was priceless. In between all this activity, you kept mebusy digging up the
yard. For the longest time I lived under the impres-sion you were in the
septic-tank business. Even Marie would pick up ashovel before Otis would
arrive for the Saturday-night date.
Track meets. Remember the old track meets? You were alwaysthere to
watch me throw the discus. Remember the day I broke therecord? Little
League baseball. Remember how you encouraged me tobecome a pitcher?
And the day I pitched the first no-hit game for theFederal League? I guess
we were both proud of each other that day. Wedid have some crowning
achievements, didn't we? Do you think webecame legends in our own time,
Fred? Well, maybe in Weymouth,anyway.
Then I kind of grew up, well, almost grew up, and went away tocollege.
Two or three colleges, to be exact. Remember Waino, theTuna? They broke
the mold when they made Tuna. How about the dayTuna and I left for
California, in that little black sports car. I often won-der what went through
your mind that day as you watched Tuna and Idrive away in that sports car,
to travel three thousand miles to wherewe'd never been, California. After a
few years in California, I returnedhome with the FBI chasing me. Of
course, everyone comes home withthe FBI chasing him, right? The day they
caught me in the living room,remember, Fred? I was standing in there,
handcuffed, and that FBIagent, Trout, the crazy one that was after me for
two years, had to geton his knees to put my boots on. You looked down at
him and said,'That's where you belong, putting on his boots.' That was one
of yourbest lines, Fred. That was right out of a John Wayne movie. You
evencame to visit me in Danbury, remember that? How about the day
youpicked me up from Danbury, and the car broke down in Connecticut?We
made it though, didn't we, buddy? What a team, able to overcomeany
obstacle.
Well, eventually I did reach the pinnacle of success, and I became abig-time
smuggler. Money, Learjets, fast cars, wild women, houses withmaids.
Remember how you would say for me to give you half themoney to save,
otherwise I'd end up broke someday? You were rightagain, Fred. Well, old
man, I'm forty-five years old right now, and I'vefinally learned what you
tried to tell me all those years. As the gamblersays, "You got to know when
to hold, know when to fold, and knowwhen to walk away when the
dealing's done." At least I've learned thatmuch. I'm going to be all right,
buddy. You know, I've written a bookabout all my adventures called
Grazing in the Grass Until the Snow Came.And the book is dedicated to my
father. "With love, from your son."
Jacksonville (1987) 303
"May the wind always be at your back and the sun upon your face,and the
winds of destiny carry you aloft to dance with the stars." Dutch-men never
give up, do they, Fred? The book comes out in the fall. And Iknow you're
going to be around to read it. I love you. George.
When Fred died three months later, on April 26, 1988, Georgegot the news
right away. What he didn't hear about until longafterward, when Auntie
Gertrude finally told him, was that afterthe tape arrived in Greenwood, Fred
would take it out to his carwhere he could be alone, away from everyone,
and he'd sit there inthe front seat with a little battery-operated tape recorder
and playthe tape over and over again, listening to his son try to tell hisfather
good-bye.
Of the old crowd from Weymouth, Barry Damon, the"White Rabbit," who
played center for the Weymouth Maroonsand waited for George to pick him
up in the Mercury for their Sat-urday night dates, earned an associate
degree in engineering andbecame a supervisor in the documents department
of the nucleargenerating plant at Plymouth. Mike Grable, team quarterback
whohanded off to George for his first touchdown run, married a juniorhigh
school girlfriend of George's, with whom he has three chil-dren, and works
as a general manager for an electrical contractor inBoston. John Hollander,
the end who smashed George during thescrimmage just before the Brockton
game, married Gerry Lee,George's high school sweetheart; they have two
children in collegeand live in an eighteenth-century white colonial house
just belowthe Circle. Waino Tuominen—Tuna—lives in western Massachusetts, where he works as an assistant herdsman on a large dairyfarm
and is active in environmental politics and plans to run as the"Green"
candidate for the local board of selectmen. Malcolm Mac-Gregor, George's
best boyhood friend, graduated from WorcesterPolytechnic Institute, earned
a doctorate in theoretical chemistry atthe University of Connecticut, and
teaches physics at the Mas-sachusetts Maritime Academy; he's married,
with three sons. ClemHorrigan, the Weymouth High School English teacher
who read toGeorge and his friends from the pages of Jack London, died in
thefall of 1986.
Otis and Marie Godfrey still live in Greenwood, Indiana, where
3 O 6 Epilogue
Otis is a senior research scientist at Eli Lilly & Co. in Indianapolis.One of
their sons graduated from West Point, another from lawschool, and a
daughter became an engineer via Purdue University.Ermine continues to
live in the pre-fab not far away. Uncle Georgedied in 1991, five years after
Aunt Myrna. Auntie Gertrude, whomoved into their house in Wakefield,
gave George his uncle'sclothes, including a sterling silver belt buckle,
inscribed with theinitials G J J. Considering that they shared the same
name, Georgemight get some use out of it.
Most of the policemen who arrested George over the years havesince
moved up a notch professionally. Special Agent J. J. Troutadvanced from
the FBI's warrant squad to pursuing bank robbers,still working out of
Boston. His first inkling of what happened tothe young man he arrested in
his bedroom that day back in 1973came fifteen years later when he saw
George on TV during theLehder trial in Jacksonville, in an interview with
Ron Gollobin, starcrime reporter for Boston's Channel 5. "A guy like him,
from a mid-dle class family, I thought he would do a couple of years and
get outand get on with his life," says Trout. "It blows my mind that he
wentall the way to the top."
Trooper Billy McGreal made sergeant and won the "Trooper ofthe Year"
award after the Eastham bust and is working in the high-way patrol division
out of the barracks in Foxboro, Massachusetts.Detectives Greg Kridos and
Tom Tiderington of the Fort Laud-erdale PD were also promoted to
sergeant; Kridos began attendinglaw school at night, hoping to open up a
practice after he retiresfrom the force. Tiderington uses George's bust as the
basis for hisdrug lecture at Broward County Police Academy. Agent
MikeMcManus was moved up several grades in the Drug
EnforcementAdministration and relocated with his family to the Bahamas
office.Special Agent Richard Garcia, the Stinger missile man, won
theAttorney General's Distinguished Service Award in 1988 for
anundercover operation and was promoted to a supervisory position
inWashington, where he used to think "conservatism was takingplace."
All the major drug smugglers with whom George associatedhave been
arrested or, as in the case of his brother-in-law, Hum-berts, fled the country
and went back to Colombia. The YaquiIndian, Ramon, spent four years in
prison in Chihuahua, Mexico, in
Epilogue 307
the late 1980s, a year more than he had to for the fact that he retali-ated
against a bullying inmate by stabbing the fellow in the stomach.The man
survived, "but now he can only eat mushy things," saysRamon, who's back
in Puerto Vallarta with his wife, Emily, and theirtwo sons. Barry Kane, in
what was dubbed the "Son of Lehdertrial," was convicted in 1988 of the
two drug flights he made forGeorge and Carlos back in 1977 and sentenced
to twelve years inprison and fined $500,000. Richard Barile pleaded guilty
in 1989 tococaine distribution charges stemming from his own activities
withGeorge and Carlos. He ended up serving only two and a half years,and
is now back in Manhattan Beach, driving a van for a courier ser-vice.
Carlos won a reprieve of sorts in 1992, after he provided key tes-timony
helping to convict Manuel Antonio Noriega, the formerPanamanian
dictator, as a drug trafficker. In payment, he was movedout of his basement
cell in the U.S. penitentiary in Marion, Illinois,placed in the Witness
Protection Program and relocated to cheerierprison quarters elsewhere in
the country. The Miami Heraldrecently ranked him eighty-fourth out of the
One Hundred MostInfluential People in South Florida History. Pablo
Escobar turnedhimself in to the Colombian government in June of 1991
inexchange for the promise that he would not be extradited to theUnited
States and would do his time in comfortable prison quartersin his native
province of Antioquia. American officials said his incar-ceration would
have a "negligible" effect on the drug trade. "If LeeIacocca left, would
Chrysler stop making automobiles?" said TomCash, head of the DEA office
in Miami. In any event, a year laterPablo escaped after getting word he was
being moved to a harsherprison setting elsewhere in the country, and, as of
the spring of1993, remains a fugitive from justice. The Colombian
governmenthas promised a $7 million reward for information leading to
hiscapture.
Mirtha is still living on the West Coast, where she endeavors toraise
Kristina, now fifteen years old, who discovered finally that herfather wasn't
lying paralyzed in a hospital bed. Clarie is married andhas a daughter of her
own.
And George. In exchange for his testimony at the Lehder trial,he was free to
walk out of prison in July of 1989, no parole, his debtto society marked
PAID IN FULL. He returned to the Cape, where he
308 Epilogue
currently lives alone in half of a duplex house in a patch of scrub-oak
woods alongside a cranberry bog in West Yarmouth. He turnedfifty years
old on August 6, 1992. In all his life he has never had achecking account,
never had a Social Security card, never paidincome taxes. He calculates he
made around $100 million throughhis association with the Medellin cartel,
but these days is workingfor his old bodyguard, Bird, taking home $150 a
week for helping todrop off fresh-caught fish at seafood restaurants up and
down theCape. In the sky above his house you can see the seagulls
wheelingabout and hear their cries, and out on the cranberry bog it is
vast,and lonesome, and quiet. So it is for George, the motor sailer but adim
wish from the past, the dream itself having receded so far in thedistance as
to no longer be in view.
First of all, thanks to George, for the hundreds of hours he spentand the
thousands of miles he traveled in the effort to bring his pastinto focus, not
always a pleasant journey, from California to CapeCod, from Mexico to
Miami, from the Valley of the Moon and theDry Lake Beds to Norman Cay
and the mostly vanished haunts ofhis teenage days in Weymouth.
This book was also made possible by the willingness of manypeople to
share their memories of George and of Carlos and todescribe their
experiences in connection with the cocaine and mari-juana trades, on both
sides of the law, and thanks to them is herebygiven. Their names appear
throughout the chapters and the natureof their help is self-evident. In this
regard, I wish particularly to notethe assistance of Mirtha Jung and her
mother, Clara Luz; of RamonMoreno, Arthur Davey, Richard Barile, and
Mr. T; and of AgentsJames J. Trout and Richard Garcia of the FBI, Agent
MichaelMcManus of the DEA, Sergeants Greg Kridos and Tom
Tideringtonof the Fort Lauderdale Police Department, Sergeant
WilliamMcGreal of the Massachusetts State Police, and Sergeant
FredMcKewen of the Manhattan Beach Police Department, now retired.
Others contributed in ways not made apparent in the book, andI would like
to use this space to express my gratitude. Among themany I talked to in
Weymouth, I'd like especially to thank BennyElls, retired member of the
Weymouth Fire Department anddevoted statistician to the Weymouth High
School Maroons since1946; Donald Cormack, lecturer at the Weymouth
HistoricalMuseum; and Eddie Beck, guidance counselor at Braintree
HighSchool, who encountered George as his football coach at CentralJunior
High School in Weymouth.
3 10 Acknowledgments
In Manhattan Beach, there was Jan Dennis, its former mayorand also author
of a lively history of the town, A Walk Beside the Sea;in Puerto Vallarta,
Ramon's wife, Emily, an earthy cook and tourguide and hostess to
wandering journalists; in Mazatlan, MauroDelgado Millan, a/k/a "Morris
the Jewish Joker," who passed alonglore of the marijuana days, and in
Durango, Alfonso Trevino, war-den of the Durango penitentiary, who
allowed a free-ranging tourof his facility. In Miami, thanks to Mark
Teitelbaum, Dr. James Lip-ton, and criminologist Cloud Miller, Ph.D., for
their views ofGeorge under lock and key. In Fort Lauderdale, to Eileen
O'Con-nor, assistant United States Attorney, for her explications on mat-ters
of plea bargaining, and to Dick Kelly, a veteran flyboy withexpertise
relating to drug aircraft. In Jacksonville, thanks to AgentSheila Smith of the
Drug Enforcement Administration, for herassistance in obtaining
documents. In Washington, thanks to Spe-cial Agent Frank Scafidi of the
FBI, who inveighed upon the Bureauto permit its agents to tell their stories,
and in Danbury, to LisaAustin, management analyst at the Federal
Correctional Institution,for her guidance through the prison labyrinth.
Among the numerous people who gave aid and comfort out onthe Cape,
thanks to Tim White, managing editor of the Cape CodTimes; to Johnny
Scott and Bird, pliers of the fisher's trade; toJeanne Flamburis; to Steven
and Cathy Faucher, George's goodneighbors in times of need, and, for her
graciousness and her acts ofkindness, to Marilyn Anderson, who cared for
George over thecourse of two and a half years, until her tragic death on
February 10,1992.
For their assistance in other ways, my special thanks to NellPorter Brown,
reporter for the Troy Record, who provided valuableresearch help; to her
husband, Andrew Brown, M.D., for patientlyexplaining the physiological
effects of cocaine use; to AlexandraPorter and to Adelaide Porter, for their
critical reading of themanuscript; and to Schellie Hagan, fact checker; John
Mabie, ofthe legal department of HarperCollins; Rick Turner, in Sales
atHarperCollins; Margaret Wimberger, the book's copyeditor; andKeonaona
Peterson, its production editor.
The book would have been difficult to write had not other jour-nalists and
scholars gone down the cocaine road before and illumi-nated the way. Of
particular help in understanding the broad reachof the Medellfn cartel were
the encyclopedic work done by Guy
Acknowledgments 311
Gugliotta and Jeff Leen in Kings of Cocaine, and by Paul Eddy,
HugoSabogal, and Sara Walden in The Cocaine Wars. Among other
usefulworks were Deep Cover by DEA Special Agent Michael
Levine,Turning the Tide by Sidney Kirkpatrick and Peter Abrahams,
Desper-adoes by Elaine Shannon, The Fruit Palace by Charles Nicholl,
Snow-blind by Robert Sabbag, and Drugs and Human Behavior by
TiborPalfai and Henry Jankiewicz of Syracuse University.
I owe a lasting debt to my agent, Sarah Lazin, for engenderingthe project
and for being wise in many ways, start to finish, and tomy editor, Wendy
Wolf, who numerous times over saved me fromfalling prey to embarrassing
sins of commission and omission alike.
And, of course, to my wife, Sara Jane, but for whom nothinganywhere
would ever seem possible.
\ l»<»ll I UlO /% II 1 ll€»l*
Bruce Porter is a former writer and editor for Newsweek and haswritten as
well for the Washington Post, the New York Times, Connois-seur, Playboy,
Rolling Stone, and other magazines and newspapers. Heis currently director
of journalism at Brooklyn College and anadjunct professor at the Columbia
Graduate School of Journalism.He lives in New York City.
, lilliil
3 9999 02023 142
Boston Public Library
BRIGH'BRANCH L "EW
BR BR
HV58J• P62!1993
The Date Due Card in the pocket in-dicates the date on or before whichthis
book should be returned to theLibrary.
Please do not remove cards from thispocket.
(continued From front ii«|
With Escobar's limitless supply of coke, they set up anelaborate import
scheme that eventually suppliedmore than 80 percent of the cocaine in the
UnitedStates for the next fifteen years, grossing nearly $35billion annually
and reaching blizzard proportions by1985, when an estimated 125 tons of
the snow-whitepowder entered the country.
The ride eventually came to a screeching haltwhen Jung was ensnared in a
joint law-enforcementundercover sting operation in 1985, and his
fortunesunraveled. Bruce Porter's exhaustively researchedand suspenseful
account of one man's roller coastertrip from a small New England mill town
to the innercircle of the menacing Medellin cartel is an irresistiblepageturner and fast-paced tale of the high life andfrightening high jinks at the
top of the pyramid in theinternational drug trade.
BRUCE POUTER is a former writer and editor forNewsweek and has
written for the Washington Post,the New York Times, Connoisseur,
Playboy, andRolling Stone, as well us other magazines andnewspapers, lie
is currently director of journalism atBrooklyn College and an adjunct
professor at theColumbia Graduate School of Journalism, lie lives in
Jacket rimign I 1992 l»> ConiHci/Maiisone
Jacket photograph ' 1993 li> Genrgina BeriroaiaM
tuthnr photograiih ! IW.'l l.\ Sara Jane RonzuK
HarperCott'insPublisbers
y ■««►>■ acm 4**\z
'The way I saw it, being in the drug business was
like being an executive in any business: If you
wanted to climb the ladder, you sought out people
and pursued those who were better and bigger than
you were.
-George Jung
Vi*> %^Ni«EK ■•Ry%lSI] ■<"<»■« M£M^00\W =
"The first thing you need is a good story, and the
second thing you need is a good storyteller. You got
, folks. Bruce Porter can write,
always could, and it's one devil of a good story."
George V. Higgins
Ob-017=130-T
90000
9 780060"179304
