16 


Sheena had moved to the other side of the tank. “Billy, look—!” she 
called to me. 

I hurried around to her. 

“The mermaid isn’t dead,” Sheena reported, pointing. “Look. She 
—she’s crying or something.” 

My sister was right. The mermaid had slumped to the bottom of 
the tank and had buried her face in her hands. “Now what do we do?” 
I asked. 

No one answered. 

“We have to find a method of feeding her,” my uncle said, 
rubbing his chin, his eyes on the tank. 

“Do you think she eats like a person or a fish?” I asked. 

“If only she could tell us,” said Alexander. “She can’t talk, can 
she, Billy?” 

“I don’t think so,” I said. “She just makes sounds. Whistles and 
clicks and hums.” 

“PIL go down to the lab and get some equipment ready,” said 
Alexander. “Maybe we can find out something about her with the 
sonar monitor.” 

“Good idea,” said Dr. D. thoughtfully. 

Alexander hurried below. 

“I think Pd better go to Santa Anita for some supplies,” said Dr. D. 
Santa Anita was the nearest inhabited island. “I’ll buy lots of different 
kinds of foods. We can try them out on her until we find something 
she likes. Would you two like anything while I’m there?” 

“How about some peanut butter?” Sheena asked quickly. “There’s 
no way Alexander can ruin a peanut butter sandwich!” 

Dr. D. nodded as he climbed into the dinghy. “Peanut butter it is. 
Anything else? Billy?” 

I shook my head. 

“All right,” Dr. D. said. “TIl be back in a few hours.” 

He started the motor, and the dinghy sped off toward Santa Anita. 

“Tt’s so hot,” Sheena complained. “I’m going down to my cabin for 
a while.” 

“Okay,” I said, my eyes on the mermaid. 

It was hot up on deck. There was no breeze, and the white-hot 
noon sun beat down on my face. 

But I couldn’t go below deck. I couldn’t leave the mermaid. 


She floated behind the glass, her long tail drooping. When she 
saw me, she pressed her hands and face to the glass and cooed sadly. 

I waved to her through the glass. 

She cooed and hummed in her low voice, trying to communicate 
with me. I listened, trying to understand. 

“Are you hungry?” I asked her. 

She stared at me blankly. 

“Are you hungry?” I repeated, rubbing my stomach. “Go like 
this’—I nodded my head up and down—“for yes. Do this for no.” I 
shook my head back and forth. 

I stopped and waited to see what she’d do. 

She nodded her head yes. 

“Yes?” I said. “You are hungry?” 

She shook her head no. 

“No? You’re not hungry?” 

She nodded her head yes. Then she shook her head no again. 

She’s just copying me, I thought. She doesn’t really understand. 

I took a step back and studied her in the tank. 

She’s young, I thought. She’s a lot like me. That means she must 
be hungry. And she probably likes to eat what I like. Right? 

Maybe. It was worth a try. 

I hurried down to the galley. I pulled open a cupboard and took 
out a package of chocolate chip cookies. 

Okay, so it’s not exactly seafood, I thought. But who wouldn’t like 
chocolate chip cookies? 

I grabbed a few cookies and stuffed the package back in the 
cupboard. Alexander came through on his way up to the deck. He was 
carrying some equipment in his arms. 

“Getting a snack?” he asked me. 

“For the mermaid,” I told him. “Do you think she’ll like them?” 

He shrugged his broad shoulders and said, “Who knows?” 

He followed me out on deck, carrying the equipment. 

“What’s all that stuff?” I asked him. 

“I thought we could run a few tests on the mermaid, to see what 
we can find out about her,” said Alexander. “But go ahead and feed 
her first.” 

“Okay,” I said. “Here goes.” 

I held a cookie up to the glass. The mermaid stared at it. I could 
see that she didn’t know what it was. 

“Mmmmm,” I said, patting my stomach. “Yummy.” 

The mermaid patted her tummy, imitating me. She stared out at 
me blankly with those sea-green eyes. 


Alexander reached up and unlatched the screen top. I handed him 
the cookie, and he dropped it into the tank. 

The mermaid watched it falling toward her through the water. 
She made no attempt to grab it. 

By the time it reached her, it was soggy. It fell apart in the tank. 

“Yuck,” I said. “Even I wouldn’t eat it now.” 

The mermaid pushed the soggy cookie pieces away. 

“Maybe Dr. D. will have something she likes when he gets back,” 
said Alexander. 

“I hope so,” I said. 

Alexander began to set up his equipment. He put a thermometer 
inside the tank, and some long white plastic tubes. 

“Oh, man,” Alexander mumbled, shaking his head. “I forgot my 
notebook.” 

He hurried back down to the lab. 

I watched the mermaid float sadly in her tank, with all the tubes 
coming out of it. She reminded me of the fish down in the lab. 

No, I thought. She’s not a fish. She shouldn’t be treated this way. 

I remembered how she had fought the shark. 

She could have been killed, I thought. Easily. But she fought the 
shark, anyway, just to help me. 

The mermaid cooed. Then I saw her wipe away the tears that had 
begun to run down her face. 

She’s crying again, I thought, feeling guilty and miserable. She’s 
pleading with me. I put my face against the glass, as close to hers as I 
could get it. 

I’ve got to help her, I thought. 

I put a finger to my lips. “Ssshhh,” I whispered. “Stay quiet. I 
have to work quickly!” 

I knew I was about to do something that would make Dr. D. very 
angry. 

My uncle would probably never forgive me. 

But I didn’t care. 

I was going to do what I thought was right. 

I was going to set the mermaid free. 


17 


My hand trembled as I reached up to unlatch the screen at the top of 
the tank. The tank was taller than I was. I wasn’t quite sure how I’d 
get the mermaid out of there. But I had to find a way. 

As I struggled to pull the screen off, the mermaid began to squeal, 
“Eeee! EEEEEE!” 

“Sshh! Don’t make any noise!” I warned her. 

Then I felt a hand grab me by the arm. I gasped, startled. 

A deep voice asked, “What are you doing?” 

I turned around to see Alexander standing behind me. 

I stepped away from the tank, and he let go of my arm. 

“Billy, what were you doing?” he asked again. 

“I was going to let her go!” I cried. “Alexander, you can’t keep her 
in there! Look how unhappy she is!” 

We both stared at the mermaid, who had slumped to the bottom 
of the tank again. I think she knew that I had tried to help her—and 
that I had been stopped. 

I caught the sadness on Alexander’s face. I could tell he felt sorry 
for her. But he had a job to do. 

He turned to me and put an arm around my shoulders. “Billy, 
you’ve got to understand how important this mermaid is to your 
uncle,” he said. “He’s worked his whole life for a discovery like this. It 
would break his heart if you let her go.” 

He slowly led me away from the tank. I turned back to look at the 
mermaid again. 

“But what about her heart?” I asked. “I think it’s breaking her 
heart to be stuck in that fish tank.” 

Alexander sighed. “It’s not ideal, I know that. But it’s only 
temporary. Soon she’ll have plenty of room to swim and play in.” 

Sure, I thought bitterly. As an exhibit at the zoo, with millions of 
people gawking at her every day. 

Alexander removed his arm from my shoulders and rubbed his 
chin. 

“Your uncle is a very caring man, Billy,” he said. “He’ll do his 
best to make sure the mermaid has everything she needs. But it’s his 
duty to study her. The things he can learn from her could help people 
understand the oceans better—and take better care of them. That’s 
important, right?” 

“T guess so,” I said. 


I knew Alexander had a good point. I loved Dr. D., and I didn’t 
want to spoil his big discovery. 

But, still, the mermaid shouldn’t have to suffer for science, I 
thought. 

“Come on, Billy,” Alexander said, leading me below deck. “I 
promised you I’d show you how the sonar probes work, didn’t I? Let’s 
go down to the lab, and Ill give you a demonstration.” 

As we started to climb below, I took one last glance back at the 
mermaid. She was still slumped forlornly at the bottom of the tank. 
Her head was lowered, her blond hair floating limply above it like 
seaweed. 


The sonar probes weren’t as interesting as I thought they’d be. All they 
did was beep whenever the Cassandra was in danger of running 
ashore. 

I guess Alexander could tell my mind was not on the sonar 
probes. “Want some lunch?” he asked me. 

Uh-oh. Lunch. I was hungry. But not for spicy chicken salad. 

I hesitated. “Well, I had a big breakfast....” 

“PIL whip up something special,” Alexander offered. “We can have 
a picnic up on deck with the mermaid. Come on.” 

What could I do? I followed him to the kitchen. 

He opened the small refrigerator and pulled out a bowl. 

“This has been marinating all morning,” he said. 

I looked into the bowl. It was full of thin strips of something 
white and rubbery-looking. They floated in an oily, dark gray liquid. 

Whatever it was, I knew I couldn’t eat it. 

“It’s marinated squid,” said Alexander. “I added some squid ink 
for extra flavor. That’s what makes it gray.” 

“Yum,” I said, rolling my eyes. “I haven’t had squid ink in days!” 

“Don’t be so sarcastic. You might be surprised,” Alexander 
replied. He handed me the bowl. “Take this up on deck. I'll bring 
some bread and iced tea.” 

I carried the bowl of squid up and set it down near the mermaid’s 
tank. 

“How are you doing, Mermaid?” I asked her. 

She flipped her tail a little. Then she opened and closed her 
mouth, as if she were chewing. 

“Hey,” I said. “You are hungry, aren’t you?” 

She kept making that chewing motion. I glanced down at the 
bowl of squid. 

Who knows? I thought. This might be just what she’d like. 


I stood on a rail and unlatched the top of the tank. Then I 
dropped in a piece of the rubbery squid. 

The mermaid leaped toward it and caught it in her mouth. 

She chewed, then smiled. 

She liked it! 

I gave her some more. She ate it. 

I rubbed my stomach. “Do you like it?” I asked her. I nodded yes. 

She smiled again. Then she nodded yes. 

She understood me! 

“What are you doing, Billy?” Alexander asked. He had come up 
on deck carrying two plates and a loaf of bread. 

“Alexander, look!” I cried. “We communicated!” 

I dropped another piece of squid into the tank. She ate it. Then 
she nodded yes. 

“That means she likes it!” I said. 

“Wow,” murmured Alexander. He put down the plates and picked 
up his notebook. He scribbled some notes. 

“Isn’t that way cool?” I demanded. “I’m a scientist, too—aren’t I, 
Alexander?” 

He nodded, but kept writing. 

“I mean, I’m the first person on Earth to communicate with a 
mermaid—tright?” I insisted. 

“If she stays with us long enough, you might be able to talk to her 
in sign language,” he said. “Just think of the things we could learn!” 

He spoke aloud as he wrote, “Likes to eat squid.” Then he put 
down his pencil and said, “Hey, wait! That’s our lunch!” 

Uh-oh, I thought. I hope his feelings aren’t hurt. 

He looked at me. He looked at the bowl. He looked at the 
mermaid. 

Then he started laughing. 

“At least somebody around here likes my cooking!” he exclaimed. 


About an hour later, Dr. D. returned with the groceries and supplies. 
Luckily he had bought plenty of seafood in Santa Anita. We fed some 
of it to the mermaid for supper. While she ate, Dr. D. checked the 
readings on the meters Alexander had set up in the tank. 

“Interesting,” Dr. D. commented. “She sends out sonar signals 
through the water. Just as whales do.” 

“What does that mean?” asked Sheena. 

“It means there are probably other mermaids like her,” said Dr. D. 
“She must be trying to contact them with underwater sounds.” 

Poor mermaid, I thought. She’s calling to her friends. She wants 


to be rescued. 


I went to my cabin after supper and stared out of the little porthole. 

An orange sun sank slowly into the purple horizon. A wide carpet 
of gold light shimmered in the rolling ocean waters. A cool breeze 
blew in through the porthole. 

I watched the sun drop into the ocean. The sky immediately 
darkened, as if someone had turned off a lamp. 

The mermaid is up there all alone, I thought. She must be so 
frightened. A prisoner. Trapped in a fish tank in the dark. 

The door to my cabin suddenly burst open. Sheena bounded in, 
panting, her eyes wide. 

“Sheena!” I scolded angrily. “How many times do I have to tell 
you to knock first?” 

She ignored me. “But, Billy!” she gasped. “She’s escaped! The 
mermaid escaped!” 


18 


I leaped off my bed, my heart pounding. 

“She’s not there!” Sheena cried. “She’s not in her tank!” 

I darted out of the cabin, up the hatch, and out on deck. 

Part of me hoped she really had escaped to freedom. But part of 
me wished she could stay forever—and make my uncle the most 
famous scientist in the world and me the most famous nephew of a 
scientist! 

Please let her be okay, I thought. 

Up on deck, my eyes adjusted to the evening darkness. Tiny lights 
glowed all around the edge of the boat. 

I squinted across the deck at the giant fish tank. 

I ran so fast, I nearly toppled overboard. Sheena was right behind 
me. 

“Hey—!” I cried out when I saw the mermaid floating listlessly in 
the water, her green tail shimmering faintly in the fading light. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that Sheena was laughing. 
“Gotcha!” she shouted gleefully. “Gotcha again, Billy!” 

I groaned long and loud. Another one of Sheena’s stupid tricks. 

“Good one, Sheena,” I said bitterly. “Very clever.” 

“You’re just mad because I fooled you again. You’re so easy to 
trick.” 

The mermaid raised her eyes to me, and a faint smile formed on 
her pale lips. “Looorrrooo, looorrrooo,” she cooed at me. 

“She really is pretty,” Sheena said. 

The mermaid is hoping Ill let her go now, I thought. Maybe I 
should.... 

Sheena could help me, I decided. It would be easier with two of 
us. 

But would my sister cooperate? “Sheena—”I began. 

I heard footsteps behind us. “Hey, kids.” It was Dr. D. “It’s almost 
bedtime,” he called. “Ready to go below?” 

“We never go to bed this early at home,” Sheena whined. 

“Maybe not. But I bet you don’t get up so early at home, either. 
Do you?” 

Sheena shook her head. We all stood at the tank and watched the 
mermaid in silence. She gave her tail a little flick and settled back 
down at the bottom of the tank. 

“Don’t worry about her,” Dr. D. said. “PI check on her during the 


night to make sure she’s all right.” 

The mermaid pressed her tiny hands against the glass wall of the 
tank. Her eyes pleaded with us, pleaded with us to set her free. 

“She'll feel better once she gets to Marina Zoo,” Dr. D. said. 
“They're building a special lagoon just for her, with a reef and 
everything. It’ll be exactly like the lagoon off Ilandra. She’ll be free to 
swim and play. She’ll feel at home.” 

I hope so, I thought. But I didn’t feel so sure. 


The Cassandra rocked gently on the waves that night, but I couldn’t 
fall asleep. 

I lay on my bunk, staring at the ceiling. A pale beam of moonlight 
fell through the porthole and across my face. I couldn’t stop thinking 
about the mermaid. 

I tried to imagine what it would feel like to be trapped in a glass 
tank for a whole day. It probably wouldn’t be that different from 
being trapped in this tiny cabin, I thought, glancing around. My cabin 
was about as big as a closet. 

It would be terrible, I thought, fiddling with the collar of my 
pajama top. I pushed open the porthole to let in more air. 

The fish tank might not even be the worst of it, I figured. I know 
Dr. D. cares about the mermaid. I know he’d never hurt her. 

But what will happen to her when the zoo people take her away? 
Who will look out for her? 

Sure, they’re building a fancy fake lagoon. But it won’t be the 
same as the real lagoon. And there will be people around, staring at 
her all the time. They’ll probably expect her to perform tricks or 
something; maybe jump through hoops like a trained seal. 

They'll probably put her in TV commercials, too. And TV shows 
and movies. 

She’ll be a prisoner. A lonely prisoner for the rest of her life. 

This is all my fault. How could I let this happen? 

I have to do something, I decided. I can’t let them take her. 

Just then I thought I heard something—a low hum. I lay very still 
and listened. At first I thought it was the mermaid. But I quickly 
realized it was a motor. 

I heard it chugging softly, from a distance. But slowly the sound 
moved closer. 

A boat. 

I sat up and peered out of the porthole. A large boat pulled 
quietly up beside the Cassandra. 

Who was it? The zoo people? 

In the middle of the night? 


No. It wasn’t the same boat. This boat was much bigger. 

As I peered out the small porthole, I saw two dark figures quietly 
slip on board the Cassandra. Then two more. 

My heart began to race. Who are these people? I wondered. What 
are they doing? 

What should I do? 

Should I sneak up and spy on them? What if they see me? 

Then I heard more strange noises. 

A thud. A muffled cry of pain. 

It came from the deck. 

The deck. Where the mermaid was trapped helplessly in her tank. 

Oh, no! I thought, feeling a chill of panic. They’re hurting the 
mermaid! 


19 


I charged up to the deck. Sheena ran right behind me. 

Stumbling over a tow rope, I grabbed the rail to steady myself. 
Then I darted blindly to the fish tank. 

The mermaid huddled at the bottom of the tank, her arms 
wrapped protectively around herself. 

I saw four men standing tensely near the tank. All four were 
dressed in black. They had black masks pulled over their faces. 

One of the men held a small club in his hand. 

And a body lay sprawled on the deck, face down. 

Dr. D.! 

Sheena screamed and ran to our uncle. She knelt beside him. 
“They hit him on the head!” she cried. “They knocked him out!” 

I gasped. “Who are you?” I demanded. “What are you doing on 
our boat?” 

The four men ignored me. 

Two of them unfolded a heavy rope net and spread it over the 
fish tank. Then they let it fall into the tank, draping it over the 
mermaid. 

“Stop it!” I yelled. “What are you doing?” 

“Be quiet, kid,” the man with the club muttered. He raised the 
club menacingly. 

I watched helplessly as they tightened the net around the 
mermaid. 

They were kidnapping her! 

“Eeeee! EEEEEeeee!” she squealed in terror and started to thrash 
her arms, struggling to free herself from the heavy net. 

“Stop it! Leave her alone!” I cried. 

One of the men gave a low laugh. The other three still ignored 
me. 

Sheena was bent over Dr. D., frantically trying to wake him up. I 
ran to the hatch and shouted down into the cabin, “Alexander! 
Alexander! Help!” 

Alexander was big and strong—maybe strong enough to stop 
these men. 

I ran back to the tank. The mermaid was trapped in the net. All 
four men worked to lift her out of the tank. She squirmed and fought 
with all her strength. 

“EEEEEE!” she screamed. The high-pitched squeal hurt my ears. 


“Can’t you get her to shut up?” one of the men cried angrily. 

“Just load her on board,” the one with the club replied sharply. 

“Stop!” I yelled. “You can’t do that!” 

Then I totally lost it. 

Without thinking, I dove toward the four of them. I don’t know 
what I planned to do. I just knew I had to stop them. 

One of them pushed me away easily with one hand. “Stay away— 
or you'll get hurt,” he muttered. 

“Let her go! Let the mermaid go!” I cried frantically. 

“Forget about the mermaid,” said the man. “You'll never see her 
again.” 

I grabbed the rail. My heart was pounding in my chest. I gasped 
for breath. 

I couldn’t stand the mermaid’s terrified screams. 

I couldn’t let them take her—not without a fight. 

She had saved my life once. Now it was my turn to save hers. 

But what could I do? 

They had lifted the mermaid out of the tank. Three men held her 
in the net. 

She squirmed and thrashed like crazy, splashing water all over 
the deck. 

I'll tackle them, I thought. I’ll knock them over. Then I’ll push the 
mermaid into the ocean and she can swim away to safety. 

Lowering my head like a football player, I took a deep breath and 
ran right at them. 


20 


“Billy—stop!” Sheena screamed. 

I crashed into one of the men holding the net, butting him hard in 
the stomach with my head. 

To my dismay, the man hardly moved. 

He grabbed me with his free hand, lifted me up off the deck, and 
heaved me into the fish tank. 

I splashed into the warm water and came up, choking and 
sputtering. 

Through the glass, I watched the men toss the mermaid aboard 
their boat. They were getting away! 

I tried to scramble out of the tank, but it was too tall. I kept 
slipping down the wet glass, unable to reach the top. 

I knew there was only one person who could stop the masked 
men now. Alexander. 

Where was he? Hadn’t he heard all the noise? 

“ALEXANDER!” I shouted as loud as I could. But my voice was 
muffled by the glass walls of the tank. 

Then, finally, he appeared on the deck. I saw his big blond head 
and muscular body moving toward me. At last! 

“Alexander!” I cried, scrambling to stay afloat in the tank. “Stop 
them!” 

I could hear the motor of the other boat begin to rumble. One by 
one, the masked men lowered themselves off our boat. 

Three of them had left the Cassandra. Only one remained on deck. 

Through the glass I watched Alexander run up to him and grab 
his shoulder. 

Yes! I thought. Get him, Alexander! Get him! 

Pd never seen Alexander hit anyone before. But I knew he could 
do it if he had to. 

But Alexander didn’t hit the masked man. Instead, he asked, “Is 
the mermaid safely on board?” 

The masked man nodded. 

“Good,” Alexander replied. “And have you got the money for 
me?” 

“Got it.” 

“All right,” Alexander murmured. “Let’s get out of here!” 


21 


I nearly choked on a mouthful of water. 

I just couldn’t believe that Alexander was working with the 
masked men. He had seemed like such a good guy. 

But I knew now that he had arranged the whole thing. He had to 
be the one who had told them the mermaid was on board our boat. 

“Alexander,” I cried, “how could you?” 

He stared at me through the glass. “Hey, Billy, it’s just business,” 
he said with a shrug. “The zoo was going to pay a million dollars for 
the mermaid. But my new bosses will pay twenty million!” A thin 
smile crossed his face. “You know arithmetic, Billy. Which would you 
choose?” 

“You rat!” I shouted. I wanted to punch him. I struggled to get out 
of the tank. All I managed to do was splash a lot and get water up my 
nose. 

Alexander followed the masked man to his boat. I pounded 
helplessly on the glass tank. 

Then I saw Sheena stand up. Lowering my gaze to the deck, I saw 
that Dr. D. was moving. 

Alexander didn’t seem to notice. He stepped over Dr. D.’s body. 
He didn’t even care that Dr. D. could have been hurt badly. 

I watched my uncle reach up and grab Alexander by the ankle. 

“Whoa!” Alexander tripped and fell hard onto his elbows and his 
knees. 

Sheena screamed and backed up to the rail. 

Maybe there’s still hope, I thought, my heart beating faster. 
Maybe they won’t get away after all. 

Alexander sat up, dazed, rubbing one elbow. “Get them!” he 
shouted down to the masked men. 

Two of the men climbed back aboard the Cassandra and grabbed 
Dr. D. Sheena ran at them, flailing at them with her puny little fists. 

Of course that didn’t do any good. The third masked man grabbed 
her arms and pinned them behind her back. 

“Kick him, Sheena!” I yelled through the glass. 

She tried to kick the man who held her, but he just tightened his 
grip. She couldn’t move. 

“Let them go!” I screamed desperately. 

“What should we do with them?” asked one of the men. 

“Whatever you do, do it quickly,” said Alexander. “We’ve got to 


get out of here.” 

The man who held Sheena glanced in at me. I was frantically 
treading water, trying to stay above the surface. 

“They might call the island police or the Coast Guard,” he said, 
frowning. “We’d better kill them.” 

“Throw them all in the tank!” suggested one of his partners. 


22 


“Alexander!” Dr. D. shouted. “I know you’re not a cruel man. Don’t let 
them do this.” 

Alexander avoided my uncle’s hard stare. “Sorry, Dr. D.,” he 
muttered. “I can’t stop them. If I try to, they’ll kill me, too.” 

Without another word, he lowered himself onto the other boat. 

What a creep, I thought angrily. 

Two of the masked men lifted Dr. D. up high and dropped him 
into the tank. He landed beside me with a splash. 

“Are you okay?” I asked him. 

He rubbed the back of his head and nodded. 

Sheena was next. They tossed her in easily. She flew through the 
air, flailing her arms and legs. Then she plopped into the water. 

The men replaced the screen lid. They clamped it shut. 

I stared out at them, realizing in horror that we had no way to 
escape. 

The water in the tank was about six feet deep. We all kicked and 
paddled, trying to stay above the surface. There was barely enough 
room for the three of us. 

“All right,” said one of the men. “Let’s go.” 

“Wait!” Dr. D. shouted. “You can’t just leave us here!” 

The three men exchanged glances. “You’re right. We can’t,” said 
one. 

They stepped toward us. 

So they aren’t heartless monsters after all, I thought. They weren’t 
going to leave us. 

But what were they going to do? 

The first man signaled the other two. They raised their hands to 
one side of the tank. 

“One, two, three—” the first man called out. 

On three, they pushed the tank over the side of the deck. 

We were thrown together. Then our bodies slammed against the 
side of the tank as it dropped into the ocean. 

Ocean water seeped into the tank. 

“The tank—it’s sinking!” cried Dr. D. 

We watched the kidnappers’ boat as it roared away. Our tank 
rocked in its wake. Then it started to sink. 

“We’re going under!” Sheena screamed. “We’re going to drown!” 


23 


All three of us desperately pushed against the screen. I beat my fists 
against it. Dr. D. tried to get his shoulder against it. 

But the tank tilted in the water, and we were all tossed back. 

The screen was made of heavy steel mesh, and clamped onto the 
top of the tank. We couldn’t reach the clamps from inside, so we had 
to try to break through it. 

We pushed with all our strength. It wouldn’t budge. 

The tank slowly sank deeper below the surface of the dark, rolling 
water. The moon disappeared behind a blanket of clouds, leaving us in 
total darkness. 

We had only a minute or two before the tank dropped completely 
below the surface. 

Sheena started to cry. “I’m so afraid!” she shrieked. “I’m so 
afraid!” 

Dr. D. pounded his fists against the glass tank wall, trying to 
break through. 

I ran my hands all along the top of the tank, looking for a weak 
spot in the screen. 

Then I hit something. 

A tiny latch. 

“Look!” I cried, pointing to the latch. 

I fumbled with it, trying to open it. “It’s stuck!” 

“Let me try.” Dr. D. tore at the latch with his fingers. “It’s jammed 
shut,” he said. 

Sheena took a red barrette from her hair. “Maybe we can loosen it 
with this,” she said. 

Dr. D. took the barrette and scraped hard around the latch. 

“Its working!” he said. 

Maybe there’s hope, I thought. Maybe we'll get out of here! 

Dr. D. stopped scraping and tugged at the latch. 

It moved! 

It opened! 

“Were free!” cried Sheena. 

We all pushed at the screen. We pushed again. 

“Come on, kids, push harder,” urged Dr. D. 

We pushed again. The screen didn’t move. The latch hadn’t 
opened it after all. Two other latches held the screen in place. 

Two latches we couldn’t reach. 


We all grew silent. The only sounds now were Sheena’s soft, 
frightened sobs and the steady wash of the waves. 

The water had risen nearly to the top of the tank. Soon it would 
come rushing in on us. 

Suddenly, the ocean darkened. The waters grew choppy, and the 
tank rocked a little faster. 

“What’s that noise?” Sheena asked. 

I listened. 

Through the churning of the water, I heard a strange sound. It 
was very faint, as if coming from far away. 

A shrill, high-pitched whistle. 

“It sounds like a siren,” Dr. D. murmured. “Lots of sirens.” 

The eerie wails rose and fell over the water. 

Louder. Closer. 

The sound—as shrill as the screech of metal—surrounded us. 

Suddenly, dark, shadowy forms swirled around the tank. 

We pressed our faces to the glass. 

“That sound. I’ve never heard anything like it. What can it be?” 
asked Dr. D. 

“It—it’s coming from all around!” I stammered. 

The dark water tossed, churned by the shadowy forms. I peered 
through the foam, straining to see. 

Suddenly, out of the murky water, a face appeared. It pressed 
itself against the glass, right in front of my face! 

I gasped and pulled back. 

Then I saw more faces. We were surrounded by small, girlish 
faces. Their wide eyes peered in at us menacingly. 

“Mermaids!” I shrieked. 

“Dozens of them!” Dr. D. murmured in hushed amazement. 

They churned the water with their long tails. 

Their hair, dark tangles in the black water, floated around their 
faces. The tank rocked harder and harder. 

“What do they want?” cried Sheena, her voice shrill and 
trembling. 

“They look angry,” Dr. D. whispered. 

I stared out at the mermaids, swirling around us like ghosts. They 
reached out their hands and began clutching at the tank. They 
smacked their tails on the water. The dark waters tossed and churned. 

Suddenly I knew. I knew what they wanted. 

“Revenge,” I murmured. “They’ve come for revenge. We took 
their friend. And now they’re going to pay us back.” 


24 


Shadowy hands pressed against the glass. 

“They’re pulling us under!” Dr. D. cried. 

I gasped in terror, staring out at the hands, black outlines against 
the glass. 

Then, suddenly, the tank began to rise. Up out of the water, 
higher and higher. 

“Huh? What’s happening?” asked Sheena. 

“They—they’re pushing us back up!” I cried happily. 

“The mermaids aren’t taking revenge—they’re saving us!” Dr. D. 
exclaimed. 

The tank brushed up against the Cassandra. I could see the 
mermaids’ tiny hands working above us. 

The clamps popped open. The screen was pulled off. 

With a happy groan, Dr. D. boosted Sheena up. She scrambled on 
board the boat. 

Then I climbed aboard, and we both helped pull Dr. D. out of the 
tank. 

We were drenched, shivering from the cold. But we were safe. 

The mermaids swarmed around the boat, their pale eyes peering 
up at us. 

“Thank you,” Dr. D. called down to them. “Thank you for saving 
our lives.” 

I realized this was the second time a mermaid had saved my life. I 
owed them more than ever now. 

“We’ve got to get the kidnapped mermaid back,” I said. “Who 
knows what Alexander and those creeps will do to her!” 

“Yeah,” cried Sheena. “Look what they tried to do to us!” 

“I wish we could rescue her,” Dr. D. murmured, shaking his head. 
“But I don’t see how we can. How will we find the kidnappers’ boat in 
the dark? They’re long gone by now.” 

But I knew there had to be a way. I leaned over the rail, peering 
down at the mermaids floating beside us, chattering and cooing in the 
moonlight. 

“Help us!” I pleaded with them. “We want to find your friend. 
Please—can you take us to her?” 

I held my breath and waited. Would the mermaids understand 
me? Would they be able to help us—somehow? 

The mermaids chattered and whistled to one another. Then one of 


them—a dark-haired mermaid with an extra-long tail—moved to the 
head of the group. 

She began whistling and clicking to the other mermaids. She 
seemed to be giving orders. 

The three of us stared in amazement as the mermaids began to 
form a long line, one mermaid after the other, stretching far out to 
sea. 

“Do you think they’re going to lead us to the kidnappers?” I 
asked. 

“Maybe,” Dr. D. replied thoughtfully. “But how will the mermaids 
find the boat?” He rubbed his chin. “I know. I'll bet they’ll use their 
sonar. I wish I had time to really listen to those sounds they’re making 


2) 


“Look, Dr. D!” Sheena interrupted. “The mermaids are swimming 
away!” 

We watched the dark figures slide away through the rolling black 
waters. 

“Quick!” I cried. “We’ve got to follow them.” 

“Too dangerous,” Dr. D. replied, sighing. “We can’t fight 
Alexander and four big masked men by ourselves!” 

He paced back and forth on the narrow deck. “We should call the 
island police,” he said finally. “But what would we say? That we’re 
chasing after a kidnapped mermaid? No one would believe us.” 

“Dr. D., we have to follow them. Please!” I pleaded. “The 
mermaids are swimming out of sight!” 

He stared at me for a long moment. “Okay. Let’s get going,” he 
said finally. 

I hurried to the stern to untie the dinghy. Dr. D. dropped it into 
the water and jumped in. Sheena and I followed. Dr. D. started the 
motor—and we raced after the shimmering line of mermaids. 

The mermaids glided so quickly through the rolling waters, it was 
hard for the small boat to keep up with them. 

About fifteen or twenty minutes later, we found ourselves in a 
small, deserted cove. The moon drifted out of the clouds. It cast pale 
light on a dark boat anchored near the shore. 

Dr. D. cut the motor so the kidnappers wouldn’t hear us 
approaching. 

“They must be asleep,” he whispered. 

“How can Alexander sleep after what he did to us?” said Sheena. 
“He left us to drown!” 

“Money can make people do terrible things,” Dr. D. replied sadly. 
“But it’s good they think we’re dead. They won’t be expecting us.” 

“But where’s the mermaid?” I whispered, staring at the dark boat, 


bobbing gently under the misty moonlight. 

We drifted silently toward the darkened boat. 

Well, we’ve found the kidnappers, I thought, holding on to the 
side of the dinghy as we drew near. 

There’s just one problem. 

What do we do next? 


25 


The air became very still. The kidnappers’ boat sat gently on the calm, 
glassy waters of the cove. 

“What happened to all the mermaids?” Sheena whispered. 

I shrugged. There was no sign of them. I imagined them 
swimming way down below the surface, hiding. 

Suddenly, at the side of the kidnappers’ boat, I saw ripples in the 
water. 

Slowly, silently, our dinghy glided toward the boat. I stared at the 
ripples, trying to see what was making them. Then I saw a flash of 
blond hair in the moonlight. 

“The mermaid!” I whispered. “There she is!” 

She was floating in the water, tied to the back of the kidnappers’ 
boat. 

“They must not have a tank to keep her in,” Dr. D. whispered 
excitedly. “Lucky for us.” 

Suddenly, we saw other figures rippling the water. Mermaids 
arched up, circling the captured mermaid. I saw tail fins raised like 
giant fans. I saw hands reach around the mermaid, hands tugging at 
the rope that held her. 

The waters tossed quietly as the figures worked. 

“The mermaids are setting her free,” I whispered. 

“What are we going to do?” Sheena asked. 

“We'll just make sure she gets away safely,” Dr. D. replied. “Then 
we'll slip away. The kidnappers will never know we were here.” 

We watched the mermaids struggle with the rope as our dinghy 
washed up against the kidnappers’ boat. 

“Come on, mermaids!” Sheena urged under her breath. “Hurry!” 

“Maybe they need some help,” I said. 

Dr. D. began to steer toward the mermaids. 

I gasped as a light flared on the kidnappers’ boat. A match set 
flame to a torch. 

An angry voice boomed, “What do you think you’re doing?” 


26 


I ducked away as the flaming torch was thrust in my face. 

Behind the torch, I could see the kidnapper glaring down at me. 
He had quickly pulled on his black mask. It covered only the top of his 
face. 

I heard a clambering sound, cries of surprise. Alexander and the 
other three kidnappers appeared on the deck. 

“How did you get here?” demanded the man with the torch. 
“Why aren’t you dead?” 

“We’ve come for the mermaid,” Dr. D. called up to him. “You 
can’t keep her here!” 

The torch swung past my head. I stood up in the dinghy and took 
a swipe at it, trying to knock it into the water. 

“Billy, no!” cried Dr. D. 

The kidnapper pulled the torch away. I fell forward in the dinghy, 
toppling over on Sheena. 

“Give us back the mermaid!” Dr. D. demanded. 

“Finders, keepers,” the kidnapper muttered. “You’ve made a long 
trip for nothing. And now look—your boat is on fire.” 

He lowered the torch to the dinghy and set it aflame. 


27 


The flames flared up, bright orange and yellow against the blue-black 
sky. They spread quickly across the front of the dinghy. 

Sheena uttered a terrified scream and tried to back away from the 
flames. 

In a panic, she started to leap into the water—but Dr. D. pulled 
her back. “Don’t leave the boat! You’ll drown!” 

The fire crackled. The bright flames shot higher. 

Dr. D. grabbed a yellow life jacket from the bottom of the dinghy 
and started frantically beating out the fire. 

“Billy—get a life jacket!” he yelled. “Sheena—find the bucket. 
Throw water on the flames—hurry!” 

I found a life jacket and beat at the flames. Sheena dumped 
seawater on them as fast as she could. 

Over the crackling flames, I heard Alexander shout, “Get the 
mermaid aboard. Let’s get out of here!” 

“Dr. D.!” I cried. “They’re getting away!” 

Then I heard the kidnappers yelling. “The mermaid! Where’s the 
mermaid?” 

I turned to the side of the boat. The mermaid was gone. Her 
friends had freed her. 

One of the kidnappers reached down from his boat and grabbed 
me. “What did you do with the mermaid?” he demanded. 

“Let him go!” shouted Dr. D. 

I tried to squirm away from the kidnapper. He held me tight. 
Then I saw another kidnapper swing a club at Dr. D.’s head. 

Dr. D. dodged the club. The kidnapper tried to hit him in the 
stomach. Dr. D. dodged again. 

I kicked and squirmed. Sheena tugged at the kidnapper’s hands, 
trying to help me escape. 

The third kidnapper picked her up by the wrists and threw her to 
the floor of the dinghy. 

“Let go of the kids!” pleaded Dr. D. “Alexander! Help us!” 

Alexander didn’t move from his spot on the deck. He stood with 
his brawny arms crossed in front of him, calmly watching the fight. 

The flames had nearly been quenched, but they suddenly flared 
up again. 

“Sheena—the fire!” I cried. “Put out the fire!” 

She grabbed the bucket and poured seawater everywhere. 


One of the kidnappers kicked the bucket from her hands. It 
landed in the water with a splash. 

Sheena picked up a life jacket and beat the last of the flames out. 

“Drop down into their boat and toss them in the water!” I heard a 
kidnapper shout up above. 

A man started to lower himself to our dinghy. But suddenly he 
lurched forward, his arms flailing. He let out a cry of surprise as his 
boat began to rock violently to the left. It looked as if it had been 
slammed by a huge wave. 

The kidnappers cried out as their boat began to rock back and 
forth. Slowly at first. Then violently. Gripping the sides of the dinghy, 
I watched them clinging to the rail, screaming in confusion and 
surprise. 

Dr. D. slowly stood up, trying to see what was happening. 

The boat tossed violently, as if bucking tall waves. 

The mermaids. I could see them now. 

They had surrounded the kidnappers’ ship and were rocking it 
hard. 

Hard. Harder. The kidnappers hung on helplessly. 

“Mission accomplished!” Dr. D. cried happily. He started up the 
motor and we roared off. 

Turning back, I could see the boat tilting and rocking in the 
water. And I could see our mermaid swimming free, behind the other 
mermaids in the shimmering waves. 

“She got away!” I cried. “She’s free!” 

“I hope she'll be all right,” said Sheena. 

“We'll look for her tomorrow,” said Dr. D. as he steered us back to 
the sea lab. “We know where to find her now.” 

Sheena glanced at me. I glanced back. 

Oh, no, I thought. After all this, it can’t be true. 

Is Dr. D. going to catch the mermaid again—and give her to the 
ZOO? 


Sheena and I met in the galley the next morning. Since Alexander was 
gone, we had to fix our own breakfasts. 

“Do you think the mermaid went back to the lagoon?” asked 
Sheena. 

“Probably,” I replied. “That’s where she lives.” 

She spooned some cereal into her mouth and chewed with a 
thoughtful look on her face. 

“Sheena,” I said, “if someone gave you a million dollars, would 
you show them where the mermaid lives?” 


“No,” Sheena replied. “Not if they wanted to capture her.” 

“Me, neither,” I said. “That’s what I don’t get. Dr. D. is a great 
guy. I just can’t believe he’d—” 

I stopped. I heard a noise. The sound of a motor. 

Sheena listened. She heard it, too. 

We dropped our spoons and ran up on deck. 

Dr. D. was standing on the deck, staring out to sea. 

A boat was approaching. A white boat with Marina Zoo stenciled 
on the side in large letters. 

“The zoo people!” I said to Sheena. “They’re here!” 

What would our uncle do? I wondered with growing dread. 
Would he tell them where the mermaid was? Would he accept the 
million dollars? 

Sheena and I ducked behind the cockpit. We watched the Marina 
Zoo boat tie up beside the Cassandra. I recognized Mr. Showalter and 
Ms. Wickman. 

Mr. Showalter tossed a rope to Dr. D. Ms. Wickman jumped 
aboard. 

The zoo people smiled and shook Dr. D.’s hand. He nodded at 
them solemnly. 

“We had word from the fishermen on Santa Anita that you found 
the mermaid,” Mr. Showalter said. “We’re ready to take her with us 
now.” 

Ms. Wickman opened her briefcase and pulled out a slender 
envelope. “Here is a check for one million dollars, Dr. Deep,” she said, 
smiling. “We’ve made it out to you and the Cassandra Research Lab.” 

She held out the check to my uncle. 

I peered out from behind the cockpit. Please don’t take it, Dr. D., I 
pleaded silently. Please don’t take the check. 

“Thank you very much,” my uncle said. He reached out a hand 
and took the check from her. 


28 


“A million dollars means a great deal to me and my work,” Dr. D. said. 
“Your zoo has been very generous. That’s why I’m sorry I have to do 
this.” 

He raised the envelope and tore it in half. 

The two zoo people gasped in surprise. 

“I can’t take the money,” Dr. D. said. 

“Just what are you saying, Dr. Deep?” Mr. Showalter demanded. 

“You sent me on a wild goose chase,” my uncle replied. “I have 
searched these waters thoroughly ever since you left. With my 
equipment, I searched every inch of the lagoon and all the 
surrounding waters. I am now more convinced than ever before that 
mermaids do not exist.” 

“Yaaaay!” I screamed to myself. I wanted to jump up and down 
and cheer my head off—but I stayed hidden with Sheena behind the 
cockpit. 

“But what about the fishermen’s stories?” Ms. Wickman protested. 

“The local fishermen have told mermaid stories for years,” Dr. D. 
told her. “I think they believe they’ve really seen mermaids rising 
through the mist on foggy days. But what they have seen are only fish, 
or dolphins, or manatees, or even swimmers. Because mermaids don’t 
exist. They’re fantasy creatures.” 

Mr. Showalter and Ms. Wickman both sighed in disappointment. 

“Are you sure about this?” Mr. Showalter asked. 

“Completely sure,” my uncle replied firmly. “My equipment is 
very sensitive. It can pick up the tiniest minnow.” 

“We respect your opinion, Dr. Deep,” Mr. Showalter said with 
some sadness. “You’re the leading expert on exotic sea creatures. 
That’s why we came to you in the first place.” 

“Thank you,” said Dr. D. “Then I hope you'll take my advice and 
drop your hunt for a mermaid.” 

“I guess we'll have to,” said Ms. Wickman. “Thank you for trying, 
Dr. Deep.” 

They all shook hands. Then the zoo people got back on their boat 
and motored away. 

The coast was clear. Sheena and I came bursting out of our hiding 
place. 

“Dr. D.!” cried Sheena, throwing her arms around him. “You’re 
the greatest!” 


A wide grin spread over Dr. D.’s face. “Thanks, guys,” he said. 
“From now on, none of us will say anything to anyone about 
mermaids. Is it a deal?” 

“It’s a deal,” Sheena instantly agreed. 

“Deal,” I said. We all shook hands. The mermaid was our secret. 


I swore I’d never mention the mermaid to anyone. But I wanted to see 
her one last time. I wanted to say good-bye. 

After lunch, Sheena and Dr. D. went to their cabins to nap. We 
had been up for most of the night, after all. I pretended to take a nap, 
too. 

But once they were asleep, I sneaked out of my cabin and slipped 
into the bright blue water. 

I swam over to the lagoon to search for the mermaid. 

The sun was high in a pale blue sky. It glowed down on the still 
lagoon waters, making them glitter as if covered in gold. 

Mermaid? Where are you? I wondered. 

I was just past the reef when I felt a playful tug on my leg. 

Sheena? I thought. Had she followed me again? 

I spun around to catch her. 

No one there. 

Seaweed, probably, I thought. I kept swimming. 

A few seconds later, I felt the tug again. Harder this time. 

Hey—it must be the mermaid! I told myself. 

I turned once again to search for her. 

The water rippled. “Mermaid?” I called. A head popped out of the 
water. A gigantic, slimy, dark green head. With one enormous eye. 
And a mouthful of jagged teeth. “The sea monster!” I shrieked. “The 
sea monster!” Would they believe me this time? 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer People
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
ci rowinc + 


S| 


MY HAIRIEST 
ADVENTURE 


Goosebumps - 26 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


Why were there so many stray dogs in my town? 

And why did they always choose me to chase? 

Did they wait quietly in the woods, watching people go by? 
Then did they whisper to each other, “See that blond kid? That’s 
Larry Boyd—let’s go get him”? 

I ran as fast as I could. But it’s so hard to run when you’re 
carrying a guitar case. It kept banging against my leg. 

And I kept slipping in the snow. 

The dogs were catching up. They were howling and barking, 
trying to scare me to death. 

Well, it’s working, guys! I thought. Pm scared. I’m plenty 
scared! 

Dogs are supposed to sense when youw’re afraid of them. But 
I’m not usually afraid of dogs. In fact, I really like dogs. 

I’m only afraid of dogs when there’s a pack of them, running 
furiously after me, drooling hungrily, eager to tear me to tiny 
shreds. Like now. 

Scrambling over the snow, I nearly toppled into a drift up to 
my knees. I glanced back. The dogs were gaining on me. 

It isn’t fair! I thought bitterly. They have four legs, and I only 
have two! 

The big black dog with the evil black eyes was leading the 
pack, as usual. He had his lips pulled back in an angry snarl. He 
was close enough so that I could see his sharp, pointy teeth. 

“Go home! Go home! Bad dogs! Go home!” 

Why was I yelling at them? They didn’t even have homes! 

“Go home! Go home!” 

My boots slipped in the snow, and the weight of my guitar 
case nearly pulled me over. Somehow I staggered forward, caught 
my balance, and kept moving. 

My heart was pounding like crazy. And I felt as if I were 
burning up, even though it was about twelve degrees. 

I squinted against the bright glare of the snow. I struggled to 
run faster, but my leg muscles were starting to cramp. 

I don’t stand a chance! I realized. 

“Ow!” The heavy guitar case bounced against my side. 

I glanced back. The dogs were leaping excitedly, making 
wide crisscrosses across the yards, howling and yowling, as they 


scrambled after me. 

Moving closer. And closer. 

“Go home! Bad dogs! Bad! Go home!” 

Why me? 

I’m a nice guy. Really. Ask anybody. They’ll tell you—Larry 
Boyd is the nicest twelve-year-old kid in town! 

So why did they always chase me? 

The last time, I dived into a parked car and shut the door just 
as they pounced. But today, the dogs were too close. And the cars 
along the street were all snow-covered. By the time I got a car 
door open, the dogs would be having me for dessert! 

I was only half a block from Lily’s house. I could see it on the 
corner across the street. It was my only chance. 

If I could get to Lily’s house, I could—“NOOOOOOOO!” 

I slipped on a small rock, hidden under the snow. The guitar 
case flew from my hand and hit the snow with a soft thud. 

I was down. Facedown in the snow. 

“They’ve got me this time,” I moaned. “They’ve got me.” 


Everything went white. 

I struggled to my knees, frantically brushing snow off my 
face with both hands. 

The dogs barked hungrily. 

“Scat! Get away! Get going!” Another voice. A familiar voice. 
“Get going, dogs! Get away!” 

The barking grew softer. 

I brushed the wet snow from my eyes. “Lily!” I cried happily. 
“How did you get here?” 

She swung a heavy snow shovel in the dogs’ direction. “Scat! 
Go away! Go!” 

The growls turned to low whimpers. The dogs backed up, 
started to retreat. The huge black dog with the black eyes lowered 
his head and loped slowly away. The others followed. 

“Lily—they’re listening to you!” I cried thankfully. I climbed 
slowly to my feet and brushed the snow off the front of my blue 
down parka. 

“Of course,” she replied, grinning. “I’m tough, Larry. I’m real 
tough.” 

Lily Vonn doesn’t exactly look tough. She’s twelve like me, 
but she looks younger. She’s short and thin and kind of cute. She 
has chin-length blond hair with bangs that go straight across her 
forehead. 

The strange thing about Lily is her eyes. One is blue and one 
is green. No one can really believe she has two different colors— 
until they see them. 

I brushed most of the snow off the front of my coat and the 
knees of my jeans. Lily handed me my guitar case. “Hope it’s 
waterproof,” she muttered. 

I raised my eyes to the street. The dogs were barking wildly 
again, chasing a squirrel through several front yards. 

“I saw you from my window,” Lily said as we started toward 
her house. “Why do they always chase after you?” 

I shrugged. “I was just asking myself the same question,” I 
told her. Our boots made crunching noises in the snow. Lily led 
the way. I stepped in her bootprints. 

We waited for a car to move past, its tires sliding on the slick 
road. Then we crossed the street and made our way up her 
driveway. 


“How come you're late?” Lily asked. 

“I had to help my dad shovel the drive,” I replied. Some snow 
had caught inside my hood and was trickling down the back of 
my neck. I shivered. I couldn’t wait to get inside the house. 

The others were all hanging out in Lily’s living room. I waved 
hi to Manny, Jared, and Kristina. Manny was down on his knees, 
fiddling with his guitar amp. It made a loud squeal, and 
everybody jumped. 

Manny is tall and skinny and kind of goofy-looking, with a 
crooked smile and a mop of curly, black hair. Jared is twelve like 
the rest of us, but he looks eight. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him 
without his black-and-silver Raiders cap on. Kristina is a little 
chubby. She has curly, carrot-colored hair and wears glasses with 
blue plastic frames. 

I tugged off my wet coat and hung it on a peg in the front 
entryway. The house felt steamy and warm. I straightened my 
sweatshirt and joined the others. 

Manny glanced up from his amp and laughed. “Hey, look— 
Larry’s hair is messed up. Somebody take a picture!” 

Everybody laughed. 

They’re always teasing me about my hair. Can I help it if I 
have really good hair? It’s dark blond and wavy, and I wear it 
long. 

“Hairy Larry!” Lily declared. 

The other three laughed and then picked up the chant. 
“Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry!” 

I made an angry face and swept my hand back through my 
hair, pushing it off my forehead. I could feel myself blushing. 

I really don’t like being teased. It always makes me angry, 
and I always blush. 

I guess that’s why Lily and my other friends tease me so 
much. They tease me about my hair, and about my big ears, and 
about anything else they can think of. 

And I always get angry. And I always blush. Which makes 
them tease me even more. 

“Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry! Hairy Larry!” 

Great friends, huh? 

Well, actually, they are great friends. We have a lot of fun 
together. The five of us have a band. This week, it’s called The 
Geeks. Last week, we called ourselves The Spirit. We change the 
name a lot. 

Lily has a gold coin that she wears on a chain around her 
neck. Her grandfather gave the coin to her. He told her it’s real 


pirate gold. 

So Lily wants to call our band Pirate Gold. But I don’t think 
that’s cool enough. And Manny, Jared, and Kristina agree. 

At least our name—The Geeks—is a lot cooler than Howie 
and the Shouters. That’s the band who’s challenging us in the big 
Battle of the Bands contest at school. 

We still can’t believe that Howie Hurwin named the band 
after himself! He’s only the drummer. His stuck-up sister, Marissa, 
is the singer. “Why didn’t you call it Marissa and the Shouters?” I 
asked him one day after school. 

“Because Marissa doesn’t rhyme with anything,” he replied. 

“Huh? What does Howie rhyme with?” I asked him. 

“Zowie!” he said. Then he laughed and messed up my hair. 

What a creep. 

No one likes Howie or his sister. The Geeks can’t wait to 
blow the Shouters off the stage. 

“If only one of us played bass,” Jared moaned as we tuned 
up. 

“Or saxophone or trumpet or something,” Kristina added, 
pulling out a couple of pink guitar picks from her open case. 

“T think we sound great,” Manny said, still down on the floor, 
fiddling with the cord to his amp. “Three guitars is a great sound. 
Especially when we put on the fuzztone and crank them all the 
way up.” 

Kristina, Manny, and I all play guitar. Lily is the singer. And 
Jared plays a keyboard. His keyboard has a drum synthesizer with 
ten different rhythms on it. So we also have drums. Kind of. 

As soon as Manny got his amp working, we tried to play a 
Rolling Stones song. Jared couldn’t find the right drum rhythm on 
his synthesizer. So we played without it. 

As soon as we finished, I shouted, “Let’s start again!” 

The others all groaned. “Larry, we sounded great!” Lily 
insisted. “We don’t need to play it again.” 

“The rhythm was way off,” I said. 

“You're way off!” Manny exclaimed, making a face at me. 

“Larry is a perfectionist,” Kristina said. “Did you forget that, 
Manny?” 

“How could I forget?” Manny groaned. “He never lets us 
finish one song!” 

I could feel myself blushing again. “I just want to get it 
right,” I told them. 

Okay. Okay. Maybe I am a perfectionist. Is that a bad thing? 

“The Battle of the Bands is in two weeks,” I said. “We don’t 


want to get onstage and embarrass ourselves, do we?” 

I just hate being embarrassed. I hate it more than anything in 
the world. More than steamed broccoli! 

We started playing again. Jared hit the saxophone button on 
his keyboard, and it sounded as if we had a saxophone. Manny 
took the first solo, and I took the second. 

I messed up one chord. I wanted to start again. 

But I knew they’d murder me if I stopped. So I kept on 
playing. 

Lily’s voice cracked on a high note. But she has such a sweet, 
tiny voice, it didn’t sound too bad. 

We played without taking a break for nearly two hours. It 
sounded pretty good. Whenever Jared found the right drum 
rhythm, it sounded really good. 

After we put our instruments back in their cases, Lily 
suggested we go outside and mess around in the snow. The 
afternoon sun was still high in a shimmery blue sky. The thick 
blanket of snow sparkled in the golden sunlight. 

We chased each other around the snow-covered evergreen 
shrubs in Lily’s front yard. Manny crushed a big, wet snowball 
over Jared’s Raiders cap. That started a snowball fight that lasted 
until we were all gasping for breath and laughing too hard to toss 
any more snow. 

“Let’s build a snowman,” Lily suggested. 

“Let’s make it look like Larry,” Kristina added. Her blue- 
framed glasses were completely steamed up. 

“Whoever heard of a snowman with perfect blond hair?” Lily 
replied. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered. 

They started to roll big balls of snow for the snowman’s 
body. Jared shoved Manny over one of the big snowballs and 
tried to roll him up in the ball. But Manny was too heavy. The 
whole thing crumbled to powder under him. 

While they worked on the snowman, I wandered down to the 
street. Something caught my eye at the curb next door. 

A pile of junk standing next to a metal trash Dumpster. 

I glanced up at the neighbors’ house. I could see that it was 
being remodeled. The pile of junk at the curb was waiting to be 
carted away. 

I leaned over the side of the Dumpster and began shuffling 
through the stuff. I love old junk. I can’t help myself. I just love 
pawing through piles of old stuff. 

Leaning into the Dumpster, I shoved aside a stack of wall 


tiles and a balled-up shower curtain. Beneath a small, round, shag 
rug, I found a white enamel medicine chest. 

“Wow! This is cool!” I murmured to myself. 

I pulled it up with both hands, moved away from the 
Dumpster, and opened the chest. To my surprise, I found bottles 
and plastic tubes inside. 

I started to examine them, moving them around with my 
hand, when an orange bottle caught my eye. “Hey, guys!” I 
shouted up to my friends. “Look what I found!” 


I carried the orange bottle back up to Lily’s yard. “Hey, guys— 
look!” I called, waving the bottle. 

No one looked up. Manny and Jared were struggling to lift 
one big snowball and set it on the other one to form the 
snowman’s body. Lily was shouting encouragement. Kristina was 
wiping snow off her glasses with one of her gloves. 

“Hey, Larry—what’s that?” Kristina finally asked, putting her 
glasses back on. The others turned and saw the bottle in my hand. 

I read the label to them: “INSTA-TAN. Rub on a dark suntan 
in minutes.” 

“Cool!” Manny declared. “Let’s try it.” 

“Where did you find it?” Lily demanded. Her cheeks were 
bright red from the cold. There were white flecks of snow in her 
bangs. 

I pointed to the Dumpster. “Your neighbors threw it out. The 
bottle is full,” I announced. 

“Let’s try it!” Manny repeated, grinning his crooked grin. 

“Yeah. Let’s all go into school on Monday with dark suntans!” 
Kristina urged. “Can you see the look on Miss Shindling’s face? 
We'll tell her we all went to Florida!” 

“No! The Bahamas!” Lily declared. “We’ll tell Howie Hurwin 
that The Geeks went to the Bahamas to practice!” 

Everyone laughed. 

“Do you think the stuff works?” Jared asked, adjusting his 
cap and staring at the bottle. 

“It has to,” Lily said. “They couldn’t sell it if it didn’t work.” 
She grabbed the bottle from my hand. “It’s nearly full. We can all 
get great tans. Come on. Let’s do it. It'll be so cool!” 

We all followed Lily back into the house, our boots crunching 
over the snow, our breath steaming up above our heads. 

I pulled off my coat and tossed it onto the pile with the 
others. As I made my way into the living room, I began to have 
second thoughts. What if the stuff doesn’t work? I asked myself. 
What if it turns us bright yellow or green instead of tan? 

Pd be so totally embarrassed if I had to show up at school 
with bright green skin. I couldn’t do it. I just couldn’t. Even if it 
took months, Pd hide in my house—in my closet—till the stuff 
wore off. 

The others didn’t seem to be worried. 


We jammed into the downstairs bathroom. Lily still had the 
bottle of INSTA-TAN. She twisted off the cap and poured a big 
glob of it into her hand. It was a creamy white liquid. 

“Mmmmm. Smells nice,” Lily reported, raising her hand to 
her face. “Very sweet-smelling.” 

She began rubbing it on her neck, then her cheeks, then her 
forehead. Tilting the bottle, she poured another big puddle into 
her palm. Then she rubbed the liquid over the backs of both 
hands. 

Manny took the INSTA-TAN bottle next. He splashed a big 
glob of it into his hand. Then he started rubbing it all over his 
face. 

“Feels cool and creamy,” Kristina reported when her turn 
came. Jared went next. He practically emptied the bottle as he 
rubbed the stuff on his face and neck. 

Finally it was my turn. I took the bottle and started to tilt it 
into my palm. 

But something made me stop. I hesitated. I could see that the 
others were all watching me, waiting for me to splash the liquid 
all over my skin, too. 

But, instead, I turned the bottle over and read the tiny print 
on the label. 

And what I read made me gasp out loud. 


“Larry, what’s your problem?” Lily demanded. “Just pour a little 
in your hand and rub it on.” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“Do I look darker?” Kristina asked Lily. “Is it working?” 

“Not yet,” Lily told her. She turned back to me. “What’s 
wrong, Larry?” 

“The I-label,” I stammered. “It says ‘Do not use after 
February, 1991.” 

Everyone laughed. Their laughter rang off the tile walls in 
the narrow bathroom. 

“It can’t hurt you,” Lily said, shaking her head. “So what if 
the stuff is a little old? That doesn’t mean it will make your skin 
fall off!” 

“Don’t wimp out,” Manny said, grabbing the bottle and 
tilting the top toward my hand. “Go ahead. Pour it. We’ve all 
done it, Larry. Now it’s your turn.” 

“T think my skin is starting to tan,” Kristina said. She and 
Jared were admiring themselves in the mirror over the sink. 

“Go ahead, Larry,” Lily urged. “Those dates on the labels 
don’t mean anything.” She shoved my arm. “Put it on. What could 
happen?” 

I could see that they were all staring at me now. My face 
grew hot, and I knew that I was blushing. 

I didn’t want them to call me a wimp. I didn’t want to be the 
only one to chicken out. So I tilted the bottle down and poured 
the last sticky glob of the liquid into the palm of my hand. 

Then I splashed it onto my face and rubbed it all over. I 
covered my face, my neck, and the back of my hands. It felt cool 
and creamy. And it did have a sweet smell, a little like my dad’s 
aftershave. 

The others cheered when I finished rubbing the cream in. 
“Way to go, Larry!” Jared clapped me on the back so hard, I 
nearly dropped the empty INSTA-TAN bottle. 

We all pushed and shoved, struggling to get a good view of 
ourselves in the small medicine chest mirror. Manny gave Jared a 
hard shove and sent him sprawling into the shower. 

“How long is it supposed to take?” Kristina asked. The bright 
ceiling light reflected off her glasses as she studied herself in the 
mirror. 


“I don’t think it’s working at all,” Lily said, letting out a 
disappointed sigh. 

I studied the label again. “It says we should have a dark, 
good-looking tan almost instantly,” I reported. I shook my head. 
“I knew this stuff was too old. I knew we shouldn’t have—” 

Manny’s shrill scream cut off my words. We all turned to him 
and saw his horrified expression. 

“My face!” Manny shrieked. “My face! It’s falling off!” 

He had his hands cupped. They trembled as he held them up. 
And I saw that he was holding a pale blob of his own skin! 


“Ohhhbh.” A weak moan escaped my lips. 

The others stared down at Manny’s hands in silent horror. 

“My skin!” he groaned. “My skin!” 

And then a grin burst out over his face, and he started to 
laugh. 

As he held up his hand, I saw that it wasn’t a piece of pale 
skin at all. It was a wet, wadded-up tissue. 

Laughing his head off, Manny let the tissue float down to the 
bathroom floor. 

“You jerk!” Lily cried angrily. 

We all began shouting and shoving Manny. We pushed him 
into the shower. Lily reached for the knobs to turn on the water. 

“No—stop!” Manny pleaded, laughing hard, struggling to 
break free. “Please! It was just a joke!” 

Lily changed her mind and backed away. We all took final 
glances into the mirror as we paraded out of the bathroom. 

No change. No tan. The stuff hadn’t worked at all. 

We grabbed our coats and hurried back outside to finish the 
snowman. I took the empty INSTA-TAN bottle with me and tossed 
it into the snow as Lily and Kristina rolled a snowball to make the 
head. Then they lifted it onto the snowman’s body. 

I found two dark stones for eyes. Manny grabbed Jared’s 
Raiders cap and placed it on the snowman’s head. It looked pretty 
good, but Jared quickly grabbed his cap back. 

“Tt looks a lot like you, Manny,” Jared said. “Except smarter.” 

We all laughed. 

A strong gust of wind whipped around the side of the house. 
The wind toppled the snowman’s head. It rolled off the body and 
crumbled to powder on the ground. 

“Now it really looks like you!” Jared told Manny. 

“Think fast!” Manny cried. He scooped up a big handful of 
snow and heaved it at Jared. 

Jared tried to duck. But the snow poured over him. He 
instantly bent down, scooped up an even bigger pile of snow, and 
dropped it over Manny’s head. 

This started a long, funny, snowball fight among the five of 
us. Actually, it turned out to be Lily and me against Manny, 
Jared, and Kristina. 


The two of us held our own for a while. Lily is the fastest 
snowball maker I ever saw. She can make one and throw it in the 
time it takes me to bend down and start rolling the snow between 
my gloves. 

The snowball fight quickly became a war. We weren’t even 
bothering to make snowballs. We were just heaving big handfuls 
of snow at each other. And then we started rolling in the snow. 
And then we chased each other to the next yard, where the snow 
was fresh—and started another heavy-duty snowball fight. 

What a great time! We were laughing and shouting, all 
breathing hard, all steaming hot despite the cold, swirling winds. 

And then suddenly I felt sick. 

I dropped to my knees, swallowing hard. The snow started to 
gleam brightly. Too brightly. The ground swayed and shook. 

I felt really sick. 

What’s happening to me? I wondered. 


Dr. Murkin raised the long hypodermic needle. It gleamed in the 
light. A tiny droplet of green liquid spilled from the tip. 

“Take a deep breath and hold it, Larry,” the doctor instructed 
in his whispery voice. “This won’t hurt.” 

He said the same words every time I had to see him. 

I knew he was lying. The shot hurt. It hurt every time I got 
one, which was about every two weeks. 

He grabbed my arm gently with his free hand. He leaned 
close to me, so close I could smell the peppermint mouthwash on 
his breath. 

I took a deep breath and turned away. I could never bear to 
watch the long needle sink into my arm. 

“Ow!” I let out a low cry as the needle punctured the skin. 

Dr. Murkin tightened his grip on my arm. “That doesn’t hurt 
much, does it?” he asked, his voice just above a whisper. 

“Not too much,” I groaned. 

I glanced up at my mother. She was biting her lower lip, her 
face twisted in worry. She looked as if she were getting the shot! 

Finally, I felt the needle slide out. Dr. Murkin dabbed a cold, 
alcohol-soaked cotton ball against the puncture spot. “You'll be 
okay now,” he said, patting my bare back. “You can put your shirt 
back on.” 

He turned and smiled reassuringly at my mother. 

Dr. Murkin is a very distinguished-looking man. I guess he’s 
about fifty or so. He has straight white hair that he slicks down 
and brushes straight back. He has friendly blue eyes behind 
square-shaped, black eyeglasses, and a warm smile. 

Even though he lies when he says the shot won’t hurt, I think 
he’s a really good doctor, and I like him a lot. He always makes 
me feel better. 

“Same old sweat gland problem,” he told my mother, writing 
some notes in my file. “He got overheated. And we know that’s 
not good—don’t we, Larry?” 

I muttered a reply. 

I have a problem with my sweat glands. They don’t work 
very well. I mean, I can’t sweat. So when I get really overheated, I 
start to feel sick. 

That’s why I have to see Dr. Murkin every two weeks. He 


gives me shots that make me feel better. 

Our snowball battle was a lot of fun. But out in the snow and 
cold wind, I didn’t even realize I was getting overheated. 

That’s why I started to feel weird. 

“Do you feel better now?” my mom asked as we made our 
way out of the doctor’s office. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m okay,” I told her. I stopped at the door 
and turned to face her. “Do I look any different, Mom?” 

“Huh?” She narrowed her dark eyes at me. “Different? How?” 

“Do I look like maybe I have a suntan or something?” I asked 
hopefully. 

Her eyes studied my face. “I’m a little worried about you, 
Larry,” she said quietly. “I want you to take a short nap when we 
get home. Okay?” 

I guessed that meant I didn’t look too tanned. 

I knew that INSTA-TAN wouldn’t work. The bottle was too 
old. And it probably didn’t work even when it was new. 

“It’s hard to get a suntan in the winter,” Mom commented as 
we headed across the snowy parking lot to the car. 

Tell me about it, I thought, rolling my eyes. 


Lily called me right after dinner. “I felt a little sick, too,” she 
admitted. “Are you okay?” 

“Yeah. I’m fine,” I replied. I held the cordless phone in one 
hand and flipped TV channels with the remote control in my 
other hand. 

It’s a bad habit of mine. Sometimes I flip channels for hours 
at a time and never really watch anything. 

“Howie and Marissa walked by after you left,” Lily said. 

“Did you massacre them?” I asked eagerly. “Did you bury 
them in snowballs?” 

Lily laughed. “No. We were all soaked and exhausted by the 
time Howie and Marissa showed up. We all just sort of stood 
there, shivering.” 

“Did Howie say anything about their band?” I asked. 

“Yeah,” Lily replied. “He said he bought an Eric Clapton 
guitar book. He said he’s learning some new songs that will blow 
us away.” 

“Howie should stick to drums. He is the worst guitar player 
in the world,” I muttered. “When he plays, the guitar actually 
squeaks! I don’t know how he does it. How do you make a guitar 
squeak?” 

Lily laughed. “Marissa squeaks, too. But she calls it singing!” 


We both laughed. 

I cut my laughter short. “Do you think Howie and the 
Shouters are any good?” 

“I don’t know,” Lily replied thoughtfully. “Howie brags so 
much, you can’t really believe him. He says they’re good enough 
to make a CD. He says his dad wants them to make a demo tape 
so he can send it to all the big CD companies.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered sarcastically. “We should sneak over 
to Howie’s house some afternoon when they’re all practicing,” I 
suggested. “We could listen at the window. Check them out.” 

“Marissa is actually a pretty good singer,” Lily said. “She has 
a nice voice.” 

“But she’s not as good as you,” I said. 

“Well, I think we’re getting better,” Lily commented. Then 
she added, “It’s a shame we don’t have a real drummer.” 

I agreed. “Jared’s drum machine doesn’t always play the 
same song we play!” 

Lily and I talked about the Battle of the Bands a while longer. 
Then I said good night, turned off the phone, and sat down at my 
desk to start my homework. 

I didn’t finish until nearly ten. Yawning, I went downstairs to 
tell Mom and Dad I was going to sleep. Back upstairs, I changed 
into pajamas and crossed the hall to the bathroom to brush my 
teeth. 

Under the bright bathroom light, I studied my face in the 
mirror over the sink. No tan. My face stared back at me, as pale 
as ever. 

I picked up my toothbrush and spread a small line of blue 
toothpaste on it. 

I started to raise the toothbrush to my mouth—and then 
stopped. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. 

The toothbrush dropped into the sink as I gazed at the back 
of my hand. 

At first I thought the hand was covered by a dark shadow. 

But as I raised it closer to my face, I saw to my horror that it 
was no shadow. 

I let out a loud gulping sound as I stared at the back of my 
hand. 

It was covered by a patch of thick, black hair. 


Staring down in shock, I shook the hand hard. I think I expected 
the black hair to fall off. 

I grabbed at it with my other hand and tugged it. 

“Ow!” 

The hair really was growing from the back of my hand. 

“How can this be?” I cried to myself. Holding the hand in the 
light, I struggled to stop it from trembling so that I could examine 
it. 

The hair was nearly half an inch high. It was shiny and black. 
Very spikey. Very prickly. It felt kind of rough as I rubbed my 
other hand over it. 

“Hairy Larry.” 

That dumb name Lily called me suddenly popped back into 
my head. 

“Hairy Larry.” 

In the mirror I could see my face turning red. They’ll call me 
Hairy Larry for the rest of my life, I thought unhappily, if they 
ever see this black hair growing out of my hand! 

I can’t let anyone see this! I told myself, feeling my chest 
tighten in panic. I can’t! It would be so embarrassing! 

I examined my left hand. It was as smooth and clear as ever. 

“Thank goodness it’s only on one hand!” I cried. 

I tugged frantically at the patch of black hair again. I pulled 
at it until my hand ached. But the hair didn’t come out. 

My mouth suddenly felt dry. I gripped the edge of the sink 
with both hands, struggling to stop my entire body from 
trembling. 

“What am I going to do?” I murmured. 

Do I have to wear a glove for the rest of my life? 

I can’t let my friends see this. They’ll call me Hairy Larry 
forever. That’s how Ill be known for the rest of my life! 

A panicky sob escaped my throat. 

Got to calm down, I warned myself. Got to think clearly. 

I was gripping the sink so tightly, my hands ached. I lifted 
them, then rolled up both pajama sleeves. 

Were my arms covered in black hair, too? 

No. 

I let out a long sigh of relief. 


The square patch of prickly hair on the back of my right hand 
seemed to be the only hair that had grown. 

What to do? What to do? 

I could hear my parents climbing the stairs, on their way to 
their bedroom. Quickly, I closed the bathroom door and locked it. 

“Larry—are you still up? I thought you went to bed,” I heard 
my mom call from out in the hall. 

“Just brushing my hair!” I called out. 

I brush my hair every night before I go to bed. 

I know it doesn’t make any sense. I know it gets messed up 
the instant I put my head down on the pillow. 

It’s just a weird habit. 

I raised my eyes to my hair. My dark blond hair, so soft and 
wavy. 

So unlike the disgusting patch of spikey black hair on my 
hand. 

I felt sick. My stomach hurtled up to my throat. 

I forced back my feeling of nausea and pulled open the door 
to the medicine chest. My eyes slid desperately over the bottles 
and tubes. 

Hair Remover. I searched for the words Hair Remover. 

There is such a thing—isn’t there? 

Not in our medicine cabinet. I read every jar, every bottle. 
No Hair Remover. 

I stared down at the black patch on my hand. Had the hair 
grown a little bit? Or was I imagining it? 

Another idea flashed into my mind. 

I pulled down my dad’s razor. On the bottom shelf of the 
medicine cabinet, I found a can of shaving cream. 

I'll shave it all off, I decided. It will be easy. 

Pd watched my dad shave a million times. There was nothing 
to it. I started the hot water running in the sink. I splashed some 
onto the back of my hand. Then I rubbed the bar of soap over the 
bristly black hair until it got all lathery. 

My hands were wet and slippery, and the can of shaving 
cream nearly slid out of my grip. But I managed to push the top 
and spray a pile of white shaving cream onto the back of my 
hand. 

I smoothed it over the ugly black hair. Then I picked up the 
razor in my left hand, held it under the hot water, the way I’d 
seen Dad do it. 


And I started to shave. It was so hard to shave with my left 
hand. 


The razor blade slid over the thick patch. The bristly hair 
came right off. 

I watched it flow down the sink drain. 

Then I held my hand under the faucet and let the water rinse 
away the rest of the shaving cream lather. 

The water felt warm and soothing. I dried off my hand and 
then examined it carefully. 

Smooth. Smooth and clean. 

Not a trace of the disgusting black hair. 

Feeling a lot better, I put my dad’s razor and shaving cream 
back in the medicine chest. Then I crept across the hall to my 
bedroom. 

Rubbing the back of my hand, enjoying its cool smoothness, I 
clicked off the ceiling light and climbed into bed. 

My head sank heavily into the pillow. I yawned, suddenly 
feeling really sleepy. 

What had caused that ugly hair to grow? The question had 
been nagging at me ever since I discovered it. 

Was it the INSTA-TAN? Was it that old bottle of tanning 
lotion? 

I wondered if any of my friends had grown hair, too? I had to 
giggle as I pictured Manny covered in hair, like a big gorilla. 

But it wasn’t funny. It was scary. 

I rubbed my hand. Still smooth. The hair didn’t seem to be 
growing back. 

I yawned again, drifting to sleep. 

Oh, no. I’m itchy, I suddenly realized, half-awake, half- 
asleep. My whole body feels itchy. 

Is spikey black hair growing all over my body? 


“Did you sleep?” Mom asked as I dragged myself into the kitchen 
for breakfast. “You look pale.” 

Dad lowered his newspaper to check me out. A white mug of 
coffee steamed in front of him. “He doesn’t look pale to me,” he 
muttered before returning to his newspaper. 

“T slept okay,” I said, sliding on to the stool at the breakfast 
counter. I studied my hand, keeping it under the counter just in 
case. 

No hair. It looked perfectly smooth. 

I had jumped out of bed the instant Mom called from 
downstairs. I turned on the light and studied my entire body in 
front of my dresser mirror. 

No black hair. 

I was so happy, I felt like singing. I felt like hugging Mom 
and Dad and doing a dance on the breakfast table. 

But that would be embarrassing. 

So I happily ate my Frosted Flakes and drank my orange 
juice. 

Mom sat down beside Dad and started to crack open a hard- 
boiled egg. She had a hard-boiled egg every morning. But she 
threw away the yellow and only ate the white. She said she didn’t 
want the cholesterol. 

“Mom and Dad, I have to tell you something. I did a pretty 
stupid thing yesterday. I found an old bottle of a cream called 
INSTA-TAN in a trash Dumpster. And my friends and I all rubbed 
it on ourselves. You know. So we’d have tans. But the date had 
run out on the bottle. And... well... last night, I suddenly grew 
some really gross black hair on the back of my hand.” 

That’s what I wanted to say. 

I wanted to tell them about it. I even opened my mouth to 
start telling them. But I couldn’t do it. 

Pd be so embarrassed. 

They would just start yelling at me and telling me what a 
jerk I was. They’d probably drag me off to Dr. Murkin and tell 
him what I had done. And then he would tell me how stupid I had 
been. 

So I kept my mouth shut. 

“You're awfully quiet this morning,” Mom said, sliding a 
sliver of egg white into her mouth. 


“Nothing much to talk about,” I muttered. 


I ran into Lily on the way to school. She had her coat collar 
pulled up and a red-and-blue wool ski cap pulled down over her 
short blond hair. 

“Tt isn’t that cold!” I said, jogging to catch up with her. 

“Mom said it’s going down to ten,” Lily replied. “She made 
me bundle up.” 

The morning sun floated low over the houses, a red ball in 
the pale sky. The wind felt sharp. We leaned into it as we walked. 
A hard crust had formed over the snow, and our boots crunched 
loudly. 

I took a deep breath. I decided to ask Lily the big question on 
my mind. “Lily,” I started hesitantly. “Did any... uh... well... did 
any strange hair grow on the back of your hands last night?” 

She stopped walking and stared at me. A solemn expression 
darkened her face. “Yes,” she confessed in a hushed whisper. 


“Huh?” I gasped. My heart skipped a beat. “You grew hair on 
your hand?” 

Lily nodded grimly. She moved closer. Her blue eye and her 
green eye stared at me from under the wool ski cap. 

“Hair grew on my hands,” she whispered, her breath 
steaming up the cold air as she talked. “Then it grew on my arms, 
and my legs, and my back.” 

I let out a choked cry. 

“Then my face changed into a wolf’s face,” Lily continued, 
still staring hard at me. “And I ran out to the woods and howled 
at the moon. Like this.” She threw back her head and uttered a 
long, mournful howl. 

“Then I found three people in the woods, and I ate them!” 
Lily declared. “Because I’m a werewolf!” 

She growled at me and snapped her teeth. And then she burst 
out laughing. 

I could feel my face turning red. 

Lily gave me a hard, playful shove. I lost my balance and 
nearly fell on to my back. 

She laughed even harder. “You believed me—didn’t you, 
Larry!” she accused. “You actually believed that dumb story!” 

“No way!” I cried. My face felt red-hot. “No way, Lily. Of 
course I didn’t believe you!” 

But I had believed her story. Up to the part where she said 
she ate three people. 

Then I finally figured out that she was joking, that she was 
teasing me. 

“Hairy Larry!” Lily chanted. “Hairy Larry!” 

“Stop it!” I insisted angrily. “You’re not funny, you know? 
You’re not funny at all!” 

“Well, you are!” she shot back. “Funny-looking!” 

“Ha-ha,” I replied sarcastically. I turned and crossed the 
street, taking long strides, trying to get away from her. 

“Hairy Larry!” she called, chasing after me. “Hairy Larry!” 

I slid on a patch of ice. I quickly caught my balance, but my 
backpack slid off my shoulder and dropped with a thud onto the 
street. 

As I bent to pick it up, Lily stood over me. “Did you grow hair 


last night, Larry?” she demanded. 

“Huh?” I pretended not to hear her. 

“Did you grow hair on the back of your hand? Is that why 
you asked me?” Lily asked, leaning over me. 

“No way,” I muttered. I hoisted the backpack onto my 
shoulder and started walking again. “No way,” I repeated. 

Lily laughed. “Are you a werewolf?” 

I pretended to laugh, too. “No. I’m a vampire,” I replied. 

I wished I could tell Lily the truth. I really wanted to tell her 
about the patch of ugly hair. 

But I knew she could never keep it a secret. I knew she would 
spread the story over the whole school. And then everyone I knew 
would call me Hairy Larry for the rest of my life! 

I felt bad about lying to her. I mean, she is my best friend. 

But what could I do? 

We walked the rest of the way to school without saying 
much. I kept glancing over at Lily. She had the strangest smile on 
her face. 


“Are you ready to present your book reports?” Miss Shindling 
asked. 

The classroom erupted with sounds—chairs scraping, 
Trapper-Keepers being opened, papers being rustled, throats 
being cleared. 

Standing in front of the entire class and reciting a book 
report makes everyone nervous. It makes me very nervous! I just 
hate having everyone stare at me. 

And if I goof up a word or forget what I want to say next, I 
always turn bright red. And then everyone laughs and makes fun 
of me. 

The night before, I had practiced my book report standing in 
front of the mirror. And I had done pretty well. Only a few tiny 
mistakes. 

Of course, I hadn’t been nervous giving the report to myself 
in my room. Now, my knees were shaking—and I hadn’t even 
been called on yet! 

“Howie, would you give your report first?” Miss Shindling 
asked, motioning for Howie Hurwin to come to the front of the 
class. 

“Its a shame to have the best go first!” Howie replied, 
grinning. 

A few kids laughed. Other kids groaned. 

I knew that Howie wasn’t joking. He really thought he was 


the best at everything. 

He stepped confidently to the front of the room. Howie is a 
big guy, sort of chubby, with thick, brown hair that he never 
brushes, and a big, round face with freckles on his cheeks. 

He always has a smirk on his face. A stuck-up look that says, 
“Tm the best—and you’re an insect.” 

He usually wears baggy faded denim jeans about five sizes 
too big, and a long-sleeved T-shirt with a shiny black vest opened 
over it. 

He held up the book he was reporting on. One of the Matt 
Christopher baseball books. 

I groaned to myself. I knew in advance exactly what Howie 
was going to say: “I recommend this book to anyone who likes 
baseball.” 

That’s how Howie always started his book reports. So boring! 

But Howie always got A’s anyway. I never understood why 
Miss Shindling thinks he’s so terrific. 

Howie cleared his throat and grinned at Miss Shindling. Then 
he turned to the class and started his report in a loud, steady 
voice. “I recommend this book to anyone who likes baseball,” he 
began. 

Told you. 

I yawned loudly. No one seemed to notice. 

Howie droned on. “This is a very exciting book with a very 
good plot,” he said. “If you like a lot of excitement, you'll like this 
book. Especially if you’re a baseball fan.” 

I didn’t hear the rest of it. I kept silently going over and over 
my own book report. 

A few minutes later, when Miss Shindling announced, “Larry, 
yow’re next!” I almost didn’t hear her. 

I took a deep breath and climbed to my feet. Stay cool, Larry, 
I told myself. You’ve practiced and practiced your report. There’s 
nothing to be nervous about. 

Clearing my throat loudly, I started up the aisle to the front 
of the room. I was halfway up the aisle when Howie stuck out his 
foot. 

I saw his big grin—but I didn’t see his foot. 

“Oh!” I cried out in surprise as I stumbled over it—and went 
sprawling on the floor. 

The classroom exploded with laughter. 

My heart pounding, I started to pull myself up. 

But I stopped when I saw my hands. 

Both of them were bristling with thick, black hair. 


10 


“Larry, are you okay?” I heard Miss Shindling call from her desk. 

“Uh...” I was too stunned to answer. 

“Larry, are you hurt?” 

“Uh... well...” I couldn’t speak at all. I couldn’t move. I 
couldn’t think. 

Crouched on the floor, I stared in horror at my hairy hands. 

Above me, I could hear kids still laughing about how Howie 
had tripped me. I glanced up to see the kid next to Howie 
slapping him a high-five. 

Ha-ha. Very funny. 

Usually, Pd be totally embarrassed. But I didn’t have time to 
be embarrassed. I was too scared. 

Had anyone seen my hairy hands? 

Still down on the floor, I glanced quickly around the room. 

No one was pointing in horror or crying out. 

Maybe no one had caught a glimpse of them yet. 

Quickly, I jammed both hands deep into my jeans pockets. 

When I was sure that both hands were completely hidden, I 
climbed slowly to my feet. 

“Look! Larry is blushing!” someone called from the back row. 
The room exploded with more laughter. 

Of course, that made me blush even redder. But blushing 
wasn’t exactly my biggest problem. 

There was no way I could stand in front of the class with 
these two hairy hands. I’d rather die! 

Without even thinking about it, I started hurrying back up 
the aisle to the classroom door. With my hands jammed into my 
jeans, it wasn’t easy to walk fast. 

“Larry—what’s wrong?” Miss Shindling called from the front 
of the room. “Where are you going?” 

“Uh... Pll be right back,” I managed to choke out. 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” the teacher asked. 

“Yeah. Fine,” I mumbled. “Be right back. Really.” 

I knew everyone was staring at me. But I didn’t care. I just 
had to get out of there. I had to figure out what to do about my 
hands. 

As I reached the door, I heard Miss Shindling scold Howie. 
“You could have hurt Larry. You shouldn’t trip people, Howie. 


I’ve warned you before.” 

“But, Miss Shindling—it was an accident,” Howie lied. 

I slipped out the door. Into the long, empty hall. 

I checked to make sure no one was around to see me. Then I 
pulled my hands from my pockets. 

I had a dim hope that maybe my hands would be back to 
normal. But that hope vanished as soon as I raised them to the 
light. 

Thick, black hair—nearly an inch high!—covered both hands. 
How could it grow so fast? I wondered. 

The backs of my hands were hairy. And my palms were 
hairy, too. Hair poked up from the knuckles of my fingers. And 
clumps of black hair grew in the space between my fingers. 

I rubbed my hands together, as if trying to rub the ugly hair 
away. But of course it didn’t come off. 

“Nooooooo. Please—noooooo!” I moaned out loud without 
realizing it. 

What could I do? 

I couldn’t go back to class with these hairy monster hands. 
They would make everyone sick! 

I would be embarrassed for the rest of my life. Whenever 
anyone would see me coming, they’d say, “Here comes Hairy 
Larry Boyd. Remember that day the black hair grew all over his 
hands?” 

Pll run home, I decided. I'll get away from here. 

No. How could I leave school in the middle of the morning? 
Miss Shindling was waiting for me to return and give my book 
report. 

I stood frozen, my back against the tile wall, gazing at the 
hideous hands. 

And I suddenly realized that I wasn’t alone in the hallway. 

I glanced up—and gasped when I saw Mr. Fosburg, the 
principal. 

He was carrying a stack of textbooks. But he had stopped a 
few feet away from me. 

And he was staring in shock at my hairy hands. 


11 


I swung my hands down and tucked them behind my back. 

But it was too late. Mr. Fosburg had already seen them. His 
blue eyes narrowed as he studied me. 

I shuddered. 

What was he going to say? What was he going to do now? 

“Ts it too cold in the building?” the principal asked. 

“Huh?” I replied. What was he asking? 

I leaned back against my hands, pressing them against the 
wall. Even through my shirt, I could feel the prickly hair all over 
them. 

“Should I have the furnace turned up, Larry?” Mr. Fosburg 
asked. “Is it too cold? Is that why you’re wearing gloves to class?” 

“G-gloves?” I stammered. 

He thought I was wearing gloves! 

“Yes. I... uh... was a little cold,” I told him, starting to feel a 
little better. “That’s why I went to my locker. For gloves.” 

He stared at me thoughtfully. Then he turned and headed the 
other way, balancing the stack of textbooks in both hands. “T’ll 
talk to the custodian about it,” he called back. 

I breathed a sigh of relief as he disappeared around the 
corner. That had been a close call. 

But he had given me a good idea. Gloves. 

I hurried to my locker. Turning the dial on the combination 
lock felt strange with my hairy fingers. But I opened the locker 
easily and pulled my black leather gloves from the pockets of my 
parka. 

A few seconds later, I stepped back into the classroom. Lily 
stood at the front of the class, giving her book report. She glanced 
at me curiously as I slid back into my seat. 

When Lily finished, Miss Shindling called me to the front of 
the room. “Are you okay now, Larry?” she asked. 

“Yes,” I replied. “My... uh... hands were cold.” I climbed out 
of my seat and stepped quickly to the front of the room. 

Some kids started to giggle and point at my gloves. But I 
didn’t care. 

At least no one could see my hands with the ugly black fur 
sprouting all over them. 

I took a deep breath and started my report. “The book I read 


is by Bruce Coville,” I began. 
“And I would recommend it to anyone who likes funny 
science fiction stories....” 


After school, I hurried to my locker. I kept my head down and 
tried to avoid everyone. 

I had worn the gloves all day. They were hot and 
uncomfortable. And they seemed to grow tighter and tighter. 

I wondered if the black hair on my hands was growing. But I 
was afraid to take off the gloves to check it out. 

I tugged on my parka and slung my backpack over one 
shoulder. I have to get out of here and think, I told myself. 

A few steps from the front exit, I heard Lily calling my name. 
I turned and saw her chasing after me. She was wearing an 
oversized yellow sweater pulled down over bright green tights. 

I kept walking. “Catch you later!” I called back to her. “I’m in 
a hurry.” 

But she came running up and stepped in front of me. “Aren’t 
you coming to band practice?” she asked. 

I was so upset about my hairy hands that Pd completely 
forgotten. 

“It’s at my house again this afternoon—remember?” Lily 
continued, walking backwards as I made my way to the doors. 

“I— can’t,” I stammered. “I don’t feel very well.” 

That was the truth. 

She stared hard at me. “What’s your problem, Larry? How 
come you’ve been so weird all day?” 

“I just don’t feel well,” I insisted. “Sorry about the practice. 
Can we do it tomorrow?” 

“T guess,” she replied. She said something else, but I didn’t 
hear it. I pushed open the door and hurried out of the school. 

I ran all the way home. The sun beamed down on the snow, 
making it gleam like silver. It was beautiful, but I couldn’t enjoy 
it. I was lost in my own troubled thoughts. 

Thinking about hair. Thick patches of black, spikey hair. 

I burst into the house and tossed my backpack onto the floor. 
I started up the stairs to my room—but stopped when I heard 
Mom call my name. 

I found her in the living room, on the chair by the front 
window. She had Jasper, our cat, in her lap and the cordless 
phone up to her ear. She said something into it, then lowered it as 
she raised her eyes to me. 

“Larry, you’re home early. Don’t you have band practice?” 


“Not today,” I lied. “I have a lot of homework, so I came 
straight home.” Another lie. 

I didn’t want to tell her the truth. I didn’t want to tell her 
that I had rubbed INSTA-TAN all over myself and now I was 
sprouting disgusting black hair. 

I didn’t want to tell her. But it suddenly burst out of me. The 
whole story. I just couldn’t hold it in any longer. 

“Mom, you won't believe this,” I started in a tiny, choked 
voice. “I’m growing hair, Mom. Really gross black hair. On my 
hands. You see, my friends and I—we found this old bottle of 
tanning lotion. And I know it was really stupid. But we all poured 
it on ourselves. I rubbed it all over my face, and hands, and neck. 
And now I’m growing hair, Mom. In school today, I looked down. 
And both of my hands were covered in black hair. Pm so 
embarrassed. And I’m scared, too. I’m really scared.” 

I was breathing hard as I finished the story. I had been 
staring down at the floor as I told it. But now I raised my eyes to 
see my mom’s reaction. 

What would she say? Could she help me? 


12 


I heard her mumble something. But I couldn’t understand the 
words. 

Then I realized that she wasn’t talking to me. 

She had the phone pressed to her ear, and she was talking 
into it. 

Mom had gone back to her telephone conversation. She was 
concentrating so hard, she hadn’t heard a word I had said! 

I let out an annoyed groan. Then I spun around and hurried 
up the stairs to my room. I closed the door behind me and tore off 
the hot, uncomfortable gloves. 

Jasper had run upstairs and perched on the window seat. She 
spent most of the day on the window seat in my room, staring 
down at the front yard. 

As I tossed the gloves onto a chair, she turned to me. Her 
bright yellow eyes glowed happily. 

I crossed the room and picked her up. Then I sat down on the 
window seat and hugged her. 

“Jasper, you’re the only real friend I have,” I whispered, 
petting her back. 

To my surprise, the cat let out a squawk, arched her back, 
and jumped to the floor. She ran halfway across the room, then 
turned back, her yellow eyes glaring at me. 

It took me a few seconds to realize the problem. I held up my 
hands. “It’s these hairy paws, isn’t it, Jasper?” I said sadly. “They 
frightened you—didn’t they?” 

The cat tilted her head, as if trying to understand me. 

“Well, they frighten me, too,” I told her. 

I jumped up and hurried across the hall to the bathroom. 
Once again, I pulled my dad’s shaving equipment from the 
medicine cabinet. 

I set to work, shaving off the thick hair. 

It wasn’t easy. Especially trying to shave off the tufts of hair 
that had grown in the spaces between my fingers. That hair was 
really hard to reach. 

The hair was stiff and tough. Like the bristles on a hairbrush. 
I cut myself twice, on the palm and the back of my right hand. 

As I rinsed the shaving cream off, I glanced down and saw 
Jasper staring up at me from the bathroom doorway. “Don’t tell 


Mom and Dad,” I whispered. 

She blinked her yellow eyes and yawned. 

The next morning, I awoke before Mom and Dad. Most 
mornings, I lie in bed and wait for Mom to shout that it’s time to 
get up. 

But this morning I jumped out of bed, turned on all the 
lights, and stepped up to my dresser mirror. 

Would I find new hair? 

I held up my hands and checked them out first. My eyes were 
still heavy from sleep. But I could see clearly that the hair had not 
grown back. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. 

The razor cuts on my right hand still hurt. But I didn’t care. 
Both hands were smooth and hairless. 

I turned them over and gazed at them for a long while. I was 
so glad they looked normal. 

I had dreamed about hair during the night. It had started out 
as spaghetti. In the dream, I was sitting in the kitchen, starting to 
eat a big plate of spaghetti. 

But as I started to twirl the noodles on my fork, they instantly 
turned to hair. Long, black hairs. 

I was twirling long, black hairs onto my fork. The plate was 
piled high with long strands of black hair. 

Then I raised the forkful of hair to my mouth. I opened my 
mouth. I brought the hairy fork up closer, closer. 

And then I woke up. 

Yuck! What a gross dream. 

I had felt really sick to my stomach. And it had been hard 
getting back to sleep. 

Now at last it was morning, and I continued my inspection. I 
leaned over and checked my feet. Then my legs. No black clumps 
of hair. 

No weird fur growing anywhere. 

I guess it’s safe to go to school, I told myself happily. But PI 
be sure to keep my gloves handy. 

After breakfast, I pulled on my coat, grabbed my backpack, 
and headed out of the house. 

It was a bright, warm day. The snow glistened wetly. The 
sunshine had started to melt it. I stepped carefully around puddles 
of slush as I walked along the sidewalk. 

I was feeling better. A lot better. In fact, I was feeling really 
good. 

Then I turned and saw that pack of dogs. Snarling dogs. 


Heading right for me. 


13 


My heart jumped up to my throat. The dogs were running full 
speed, their heads bobbing up and down, their eyes trained on 
me. They barked and growled furiously with each bounding step. 

My legs suddenly felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds. 
But I whirled around and forced myself to run. 

If they catch me, they’ll tear me to pieces! I told myself. They 
must smell Jasper on me, I decided. That’s why they always chase 
me. 

I loved my cat. But why did she have to get me in so much 
trouble? 

Who owned these vicious dogs, anyway? Why were they 
allowed to run wild like this? 

Questions, questions. They flew through my mind as I ran. 
Across front yards. Then across the street. 

A car horn blared. I heard the squeal of brakes. 

A car skidded toward the opposite curb. 

I had forgotten to check the traffic before I crossed. 

“Sorry!” I called. And kept running. 

A sharp pain in my side forced me to slow down. I turned 
and saw the yapping dogs racing steadily toward me. They 
crossed the street and kept moving over the snowy ground. 
Closer. Closer. 

“Hey, Larry!” Two kids stepped on to the sidewalk ahead of 
me. 

“Run!” I screamed breathlessly. “The dogs—” 

But Lily and Jared didn’t move. 

I stepped up to them, holding my side. It ached so hard, I 
could barely breathe. 

Lily turned to stare down the dogs, as she had done before. 
Jared stepped up to meet them. All three of us watched the dogs 
approach. 

Seeing the three of us standing together, the dogs slowed to a 
stop. The snarls and growls stopped instantly. They stared back at 
us uncertainly. They were panting hard, their tongues drooping 
down nearly to the snow. 

“Go home!” Lily shouted. She stamped her shoe hard on the 
sidewalk. 

The big black dog, the leader, uttered a low whimper and 


hung his head. 

“Go home! Go home!” All three of us chanted. 

The pain in my side started to fade. I felt a little better. The 
dogs weren’t going to attack, I could see. They didn’t want to 
tangle with all three of us. 

They turned and started to trot away, following the big black 
dog. 

Suddenly Jared started to laugh. “Look at that one!” he cried. 
He pointed to a long, scrawny dog with black, curly fur. 

“What’s so funny about that one?” I demanded. 

“He looks just like Manny!” Jared declared. 

Lily started to laugh. “You’re right! He does!” 

All three of us laughed. The dog had Manny’s curly hair. And 
he had Manny’s dark, soulful eyes. 

“Come on. We'll be late,” Lily said. She kicked a hard clump 
of snow off the sidewalk. Jared and I followed her toward school. 

“Why were those dogs chasing you?” Jared asked. 

“T think because they smelled my cat,” I replied. 

“Those dogs are mean,” Lily said, a few steps ahead of us. 
“They shouldn’t let them run wild like that.” 

“Tell me about it,” I replied, rolling my eyes. 

A sharp gust of wind nearly blew us backwards over the 
slippery sidewalk. Jared’s Raiders cap went flying into the street. 
A station wagon rumbled past, nearly running it over. 

Jared darted into the street and snatched the cap back. “PI 
be glad when winter is over,” he muttered. 

We met Kristina in front of the school. Her red hair blew 
wildly around her head in the swirling wind. “Do we have band 
practice this afternoon?” she asked. She was chewing a Snickers 
bar. 

“Great breakfast,” I said sarcastically. 

“Mom didn’t have time to make eggs,” Kristina replied, 
chewing. 

“Yes. Practice at my house,” Lily said. “We’ve got to get to 
work, guys. We don’t want Howie to win the contest.” 

Kristina turned to me. “Where were you yesterday?” 

“I... uh... didn’t feel too well,” I replied. 

That reminded me of the INSTA-TAN lotion. Were any of my 
friends growing hair, too, because of that suntan gunk? I had to 
know. I had to ask. 

But if they weren’t growing hair—if I was the only one—then 
Pd be totally embarrassed. 


“Uh... remember that INSTA-TAN stuff?” I asked quietly. 

“Great stuff,” Jared replied. “I think it made me paler!” 

Kristina laughed. “It didn’t work at all. You were right, Larry. 
That bottle was too old.” 

“Look at us,” Lily added. “We’re all as pale as the snow. That 
stuff didn’t do anything.” 

But are you growing weird black patches of hair now? 

That’s what I was dying to ask. 

But none of them said anything about growing hair. 

Were they like me? Were they too embarrassed to admit it? 

Or was I the only one? 

I took a deep breath. Should I ask? Should I ask if anyone 
was sprouting hair? 

I opened my mouth to ask. But I stopped when I realized that 
the subject had changed. They were talking about our band again. 

“Can you bring your amp to my house?” Lily asked Kristina. 
“Manny will bring his. But it only has jacks to plug in two 
guitars.” 

“Maybe I can bring mine—” I started to say. 

But a gust of wind blew my parka hood back. 

I reached up to pull the hood back on my head. 

But my hand brushed the back of my neck—and I gasped. 

The back of my neck was covered with thick hair. 


14 


“Larry—what’s wrong?” Lily demanded. 

“Uh... uh...” I couldn’t speak. 

“What’s wrong with your scarf?” Jared asked. “Is it too 
tight?” He tugged at the wool scarf around my neck. 

The scratchy scarf my mom made me wear because my great- 
aunt Hildy had knitted it. 

I had forgotten I was wearing it. When my hand brushed 
against it, I’d thought... 

“You looked scared to death!” Lily exclaimed. “Are you okay, 
Larry?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I’m okay,” I muttered, feeling my face go 
red. “The scarf was choking me, I guess.” What a lame lie. 

But I had to say something. I couldn’t say that I had 
mistakenly thought that my neck had sprouted fur! 

Larry, you’ve got to stop thinking about hair! I scolded 
myself. If you don’t, you’ll drive yourself crazy! 

I shivered. “Let’s go inside,” I said, wrapping the wool scarf 
tightly around my neck. 


I hurried to the boys’ room to brush my hair before the bell rang. 
Gazing at my wavy, blond hair in the mirror as I brushed it, I had 
a horrifying thought. 

What if my real hair suddenly fell out? And the gross, prickly 
black hair grew in its place? 

What if I woke up one morning, and my entire head was 
covered in the disgusting black fur? 

I took a long look at myself in the mirror. Someone had 
smeared soap over the glass, and my reflection appeared to stare 
back through hazy, white streaks. 

“Shape up,” I told myself. 

I pointed a finger at my reflection. A smooth, hairless finger. 

“Stop thinking about hair, Larry,” I instructed my reflection. 
“Stop thinking about it. You’re going to be okay.” 

The INSTA-TAN lotion has worn off, I decided. 

It had been several days since my friends and I had splashed 
it on ourselves. I had taken at least three showers and two baths. 

It wore off, I told myself. It’s all gone. Stop worrying about it. 

I took one last glance at my hair. It was getting pretty long, 


but I liked it that way. I liked brushing the sides back over my 
ears. 

Maybe TIl let it grow really long, I thought. I tucked the 
hairbrush into my backpack and headed to class. 


I had a pretty good day until Miss Shindling handed back the 
history term papers. 

It wasn’t the grade that upset me. She gave me a ninety-four, 
which is really good. I knew that Lily would probably brag that 
she got a ninety-eight or a ninety-nine. But Lily was great at 
writing. 

A ninety-four was really excellent for me. 

The grade made me happy. But when I flipped through the 
pages, glancing over Miss Shindling’s comments on my writing, I 
found a black hair on page three. 

Was it my black hair? I wondered. Was it one of the 
disgusting black hairs that had sprouted on my hands? 

Or was it Miss Shindling’s? Miss Shindling had short, straight 
black hair. It could be one of hers. 

Or else... 

I squinted at the hair, afraid to touch it. 

I knew I was starting to get weird. I knew I had made a 
solemn vow that I was going to stop thinking about hair. 

But I couldn’t help it. 

Seeing this one, stubby little black hair stuck to the third 
page of my term paper gave me the shudders. Finally, I raised the 
term paper close to my face—and blew the hair away. 

I didn’t hear a word Miss Shindling said for the rest of the 
class. I was glad when the bell rang and it was time to go to gym. 

It will feel good to run around and get some exercise, I 
decided. 

“Basketball today!” Coach Rafferty shouted as we filed into 
the brightly lit gym. “Basketball today! Change into your shorts! 
Come on—hustle!” 

I usually don’t like basketball that much. There’s so much 
running back and forth. Back and forth the entire length of the 
floor. Also, I don’t have a very good shooting eye. And I get really 
embarrassed when a teammate passes me the ball and I miss an 
easy shot. 

But, today, basketball sounded just right. A chance to run 
and get rid of a lot of my nervous energy. 

I followed the other guys into the locker room. We all opened 
our gym lockers and pulled out our shorts and T-shirts. 


At the end of the row of lockers, Howie Hurwin kept 
shouting, “In your face! In your face!” 

Another guy snapped a towel at Howie. 

Serves him right, I thought. Howie is such a jerk. 

“In your face!” I heard Howie chant. Someone shouted to him 
to shut up. 

“In your face, man! In your face!” 

I sat down on the bench and pulled off my sneakers. Then I 
stood up and started to pull off my jeans. 

I stopped when I got the jeans about halfway down. 

I stopped and let out a low cry when I saw my knees. 

Bushy clumps of furry black hair had sprouted from both 
knees. 


15 


“How come you kept your jeans on in gym?” Jared asked. 

“Huh?” His question caught me by surprise. It was the next 
day, and we were walking along the slushy sidewalks, lugging our 
instruments to Lily’s house for another band practice. 

“You refused to change into gym shorts, remember?” Jared 
said, swinging his keyboard case at his side. 

“I... was just cold,” I told him. “My legs got cold. That’s all. I 
don’t know why Coach Rafferty gave me such a hard time.” 

Jared laughed. “Rafferty nearly swallowed his whistle when 
you sank that three-point jump shot from midcourt!” 

I laughed, too. I am the worst shot in school. But I was so 
crazed about my hairy knees, so totally pumped, that I played 
better than I’d ever played in my life. 

“Maybe you should wear jeans all the time!” Coach Rafferty 
had joked. 

But, of course, it was no joke. 

I ran all the way home after school and spent nearly half an 
hour locked in the upstairs bathroom, shaving the clumps of black 
hair off my knees. 

When I finally finished, both knees were red and sore. But at 
least they were smooth again. 

I spent the rest of the afternoon closed up in my room, 
thinking hard about what was happening to me. Unfortunately, 
all I came up with were questions. Dozens of questions. 

But no answers. 

Sprawled on my stomach on top of the bed, my knees 
throbbed as I thought. Why did my knees grow hair? I asked 
myself. I didn’t spread any INSTA-TAN on my knees. So why did 
the ugly black hair sprout there? 

Had the INSTA-TAN worked itself into my system? Had the 
strange liquid seeped into my pores? Had it spread through my 
entire body? 

Was I going to turn into some kind of big, hairy creature? 
Was I soon going to look like King Kong or something? 

Questions—but no answers. 

The questions still troubled me as I crossed the street with 
Jared, and Lily’s white-frame house came into view on the corner. 

The sun beamed down above the two bare maple trees that 


leaned over Lily’s driveway. The air felt warm, almost like spring. 
The snow had melted a lot in one day. Patches of wet grass poked 
up through the white. 

In the yard across the street from Lily’s house, a half-melted 
snowman looked sad and droopy. My hightops splashed through 
the slushy puddles as Jared and I carried our instruments up the 
driveway. 

Lily opened the door for us. She and Kristina had already 
been practicing. Lily was wearing a bright red-and-blue ski 
sweater pulled down over pale blue leggings. Kristina wore faded 
jeans and a green-and-gold Notre Dame sweatshirt. 

“Where’s Manny?” Lily asked, closing the front door behind 
Jared and me. 

“Haven’t seen him,” I replied, scraping my wet sneakers on 
the floor mat. “Isn’t he here?” 

“He wasn’t in school again today,” Kristina reported. 

“We’ve got to get serious,” Lily said, biting her lower lip. 
“Did you talk to Howie today? Did he tell you what his dad 
bought him?” 

“A new synthesizer?” I replied, bending to open my guitar 
case. “Yeah. Howie told me all about it. He says it can sound like 
an entire orchestra.” 

“Who wants to sound like an orchestra?” Jared asked. He had 
a wet leaf stuck to his shoe. He pulled it off, but then didn’t know 
where to throw it away. So he jammed it in his jeans pocket. 

“If Howie sounds like an orchestra, and we sound like three 
guitars and a kiddie keyboard, we’re in major trouble,” Lily 
warned. 

“It’s not a kiddie keyboard!” Jared protested. 

I laughed. “Just because you wind a crank at the side of it 
doesn’t make it a kiddie keyboard!” 

“It’s small—but it has all the notes,” Jared insisted. He set 
the keyboard on the coffee table and bent down to plug it in. 

“Let’s stop messing around and get to work,” Kristina said, 
moving her fingers over the frets of her shiny red Gibson. “What 
song do you want to practice first?” 

“How can we practice without Manny?” I asked. “I mean, 
what’s the point?” 

“T tried calling him,” Lily said. “But his phone is messed up 
or something. It didn’t even ring.” 

“Let’s go to his house and get him,” I suggested. 

“Yeah. Good idea!” Kristina agreed. 

All four of us started for the front entryway to get our coats. 


But Lily stopped at the door. “Larry and I will go,” she announced 
to Kristina. “You and Jared should stay and practice. Why should 
we all go?” 

“Okay,” Jared agreed quickly. “Besides, someone should be 
here in case Manny shows up.” 

With that settled, Lily and I pulled on our coats and headed 
out the front door. Lily’s Doc Martens splashed through a wide 
puddle as we made our way along the sidewalk. 

“T hate it when the snow gets all gray and slushy,” she said. 
“Listen. All you can hear is dripping. Water dripping from the 
trees, dripping from the houses.” 

She stuck out her arm to block my path and stop me from 
walking. We listened in silence to the dripping sounds. 

“Its deafening—isn’t it?” Lily asked, smiling. The sunlight 
reflected in her eyes. One blue eye, one green eye. 

“Deafening,” I repeated. Lily can be pretty weird sometimes. 
She once told me that she writes poetry. Long poems about 
nature. But she’s never shown any of them to me. 

We trudged through the slush. The sun felt warm on my face. 
I unzipped my parka. 

Manny’s house came into view as we turned the corner. 
Manny lives in a square-shaped brick house on top of a hill. It’s a 
great sledding hill. There were two little kids sledding down it 
now on blue plastic discs. They were going pretty slow since most 
of the snow had melted. 

We walked past them and made our way up to Manny’s front 
stoop. Lily rang the doorbell, and I knocked. “Hey, Manny—open 
up!” I shouted. 

No reply. 

No sounds at all. Just the drip drip drip of water from the 
gutter. 

“Hey, Manny!” I called. We rang and knocked again. 

“No one home,” Lily said quietly. She stepped off the stoop 
and moved to the front window. Edging up on tiptoes, she tried to 
peer in. 

“See anything?” I called. 

She shook her head. “No. The sun is reflecting on the glass. It 
looks dark inside.” 

“There’s no car in the driveway,” I said. I knocked one more 
time, as hard as I could. To my surprise, the front door swung in a 
little. 

“Hey—the door is open!” I called to Lily. She hurried back to 
the stoop. I pushed the door open a little further. “Anyone 


home?” I called in. 

No reply. 

“Hey—your door is open!” I shouted. 

Lily pushed the door all the way, and we stepped inside. 
“Manny?” she called, cupping her hands around her mouth. 
“Manny?” 

I stepped into the living room—and gasped. 

I tried to speak. But I couldn’t. I couldn’t believe what I saw. 


16 


Lily grabbed my arm as we both stared around the living room. 

The room was totally bare. No furniture. No curtains. No 
paintings or posters on the wall. Even the carpet had been 
removed, leaving shiny dark floorboards. 

“Wh-where did they go?” I managed to choke out. 

Lily made her way through the back hall to the kitchen. Also 
empty. Everything gone. An empty hole where the refrigerator 
had stood. 

“They moved!” Lily exclaimed. “I don’t believe it!” 

“But why didn’t Manny tell us?” I demanded, my eyes 
moving around the deserted room. “Why didn’t he tell us his 
family was moving away?” 

Lily shook her head and didn’t reply. The house was silent. I 
could hear water dripping from the gutter outside. 

“Maybe they had to move suddenly,” Lily said finally. 

“Suddenly? Why?” I demanded. 

It was a question that neither of us could answer. 


I love to run. 

Not when I’m running from snarling dogs. But I do love to 
run. 

I like the way it gets my heart pounding. And I like the thud 
of my sneakers on the ground, and the feeling of my muscles all 
working together. 

On Saturday mornings I like to go jogging with my dad. He 
always jogs at Miller Woods, along a path that curves around a 
small lake. 

It’s really pretty there. The air is always fresh-smelling. And 
it’s a very quiet place. 

Dad is tall and lean and pretty athletic. He used to be blond 
like me, but now his hair is mostly gray, and he has a big bald 
spot on top. 

He jogs every morning before work. I think he usually jogs 
pretty fast. But on Saturdays, he slows down so that we can run 
side by side. 

We usually jog without talking. That way we can concentrate 
on the scenery and the fresh air. 

But this Saturday morning, I felt like talking. I had decided to 


tell Dad everything. About the bottle of INSTA-TAN. And about 
the black hair that kept sprouting. 

As I talked, I kept my eyes straight ahead. I saw two big 
crows float down from the clear blue sky and perch side by side 
on the bare limb of a tree. The crows cawed loudly, as if talking 
to us. 

The lake sparkled brightly as Dad and I followed the curving 
path around it. Small patches of ice bobbed in the blue-green 
water. 

I started at the beginning and told the whole story. Dad 
slowed down a little more to listen. But we kept jogging as I 
talked. 

I told him about finding the bottle of tanning lotion and how 
we all splashed it on ourselves as a joke. Dad nodded but kept his 
eyes straight ahead. “I guess it didn’t work,” he said, sounding a 
little breathless from running. “You don’t look too tan, Larry.” 

“No, it didn’t work,” I continued. “The bottle was really old, 
Dad. It had expired a long time ago.” 

I took a deep breath. The next part was the hardest to tell. “It 
didn’t give me a tan, Dad. But something really weird started 
happening to me.” 

He kept jogging. We both leaped over a fallen tree branch. I 
slipped over a pile of wet leaves, but quickly caught my balance. 

“This weird hair started growing on me,” I told him in a 
shaky voice. “First on the back of my hand. Then on both hands. 
Then on my knees.” 

Dad stopped. He turned to me with a worried expression on 
his face. “Hair?” 

I nodded, breathing hard. “Black hair. Thick clumps of it. 
Very rough and spikey.” 

Dad swallowed hard. His eyes grew wide. With surprise? 
With fear? With disbelief? 

I couldn’t tell. 

But to my surprise, he grabbed my arm and started to pull 
me. “Come on, Larry. We’ve got to go.” 

“But, Dad—” I started, holding back. 

He tightened his grip and pulled harder. “I said we’ve got to 
go!” he insisted through gritted teeth. “Now!” 

He tugged so hard, he nearly pulled me off my feet! 

“Dad—what’s wrong?” I demanded in a high, shrill voice. 
“What is it?” 

He didn’t answer. He pulled me back along the path toward 
the street. His eyes were wild. His whole face was twisted into a 


tight, frightened scowl. 
“Dad—what’s wrong?” I cried. “Where are you taking me? 
Where?” 


17 


Dr. Murkin raised the hypodermic needle and examined it in the 
light. “Turn away, Larry,” he said softly. “I know you don’t like to 
watch. This won’t hurt at all.” 

Pain shot through my arm as the needle sank in. I shut my 
eyes and held my breath until he pulled out the needle. 

“T know it’s early,” he said, rubbing my arm with a cotton 
ball dipped in alcohol. “But since you were here, I thought I’d 
give you your shot.” 

My dad sat tensely in a folding chair against the wall of the 
small examining room. He had his arms crossed tightly over the 
front of his sweatshirt. 

“Wh-what about the hair?” I stammered to Dr. Murkin. “Did 
the INSTA-TAN—” 

The doctor shook his head. “I really don’t think tanning 
lotion can cause hair to grow, Larry. Those lotions work on the 
pigments of the skin. They—” 

“But it was a very old bottle!” I insisted. “Maybe the 
ingredients turned sour or something!” 

He waved his hand, as if to say, “No way.” 

Then he turned and started scribbling notes in my file. “’m 
sorry, Larry,” he said, writing rapidly in a tiny handwriting. “It 
wasn’t the tanning lotion. Trust me.” 

He turned his head to me, his eyes studying me. “I’ve 
examined you from head to foot. You passed every test. You seem 
fine to me.” 

“Whew! That’s a relief!” Dad said, sighing. 

“But the hair—!” I insisted. 

“Let’s wait and see,” Dr. Murkin replied, his eyes on my dad. 

“Wait and see?” I cried. “You’re not going to give me any 
medicine or anything to stop it?” 

“Maybe it won’t happen again,” Dr. Murkin said. He closed 
my file. Then he motioned for me to jump down from the 
examining table. 

“Try not to worry, Larry,” he said, handing my coat to me. 
“You'll be okay.” 

“Thank you, Dr. Murkin,” Dad said, climbing to his feet. He 
flashed the doctor a smile, but I could see that it was forced. Dad 
still looked really tense. 


I followed Dad out to the parking lot. We didn’t say anything 
until we were in the car and on the way home. “Feel better?” Dad 
asked, his eyes narrowed straight ahead on the road. 

“No,” I replied glumly. 

“What’s wrong?” Dad asked impatiently. “Dr. Murkin said 
you checked out fine.” 

“What about the ugly black hair?” I demanded angrily. 
“What about it? Why didn’t he do anything about it? Do you 
think he didn’t believe me?” 

“Tm sure he believed you,” Dad said softly. 

“Then why didn’t he do anything to help me?” I wailed. 

Dad didn’t reply for the longest time. He stared straight 
through the windshield, chewing his lower lip. Then, finally, he 
said in a hushed voice, “Sometimes the best thing is to wait.” 


We met at Lily’s house for band practice that afternoon. We 
sounded pretty good—but it wasn’t the same without Manny. 

We were all really upset that he had moved away without 
saying good-bye. Lily asked her mom to call some friends who 
were friendly with Manny’s parents. She wanted to find out where 
Manny and his family had moved. 

But the friends turned out to be as surprised as we were. 

We couldn’t find anyone who knew that Manny’s family 
planned to move from our town. 

I have to admit that our songs sounded better with two 
guitars instead of three. Lily has a very light singing voice—not 
much power. And three guitars nearly always drowned her out. 

With Manny gone, we could actually hear Lily some of the 
time. 

I kept messing up the Beatles song we were rehearsing—“I 
Want to Hold Your Hand.” I played the wrong chords and 
couldn’t get the rhythm right. 

I knew what the trouble was. I couldn’t stop thinking about 
Dr. Murkin and how he didn’t believe me about the hair. He said 
it wasn’t the INSTA-TAN. But maybe he was wrong. 

I felt so angry—and so... alone. 

Glancing around Lily’s living room as we started “I Want to 
Hold Your Hand” for the twentieth time, I studied my friends. 
Were they having the same problem? Were they growing ugly, 
black hair, too, and afraid to tell anyone? 

The first time I had asked, Lily had laughed at me and called 
me Hairy Larry. But I had to ask again. I couldn’t think about 
anything else. I had to know the truth. 


I waited till practice was over. Kristina was tucking her 
guitar into its case. Jared went into the kitchen to get a Coke 
from the fridge. Lily was standing beside the couch, one hand 
twirling the gold pirate coin at her throat. 

“J—I have to ask you something,” I said nervously when 
Jared returned to the room. 

He popped the top on the can, and a spray of Coke hit him in 
the face. 

Everyone laughed. 

“Can’t you work a Coke can?” Lily joked. “Do you need an 
instruction book?” 

“Ha-ha,” Jared replied sarcastically, wiping his face with his 
sleeve. “You deliberately shook the cans, Lily, so people would 
get squirted. Admit it.” 

Kristina laughed as she snapped her guitar case shut. “Maybe 
you should stick to juice boxes, Jared.” 

He stuck out his tongue at her. 

I cleared my throat loudly. “I want to ask you guys 
something,” I repeated in a shaky voice. 

They were all in a great mood, laughing and kidding around. 
They all seemed totally normal. 

Why was I the only one who felt worried and afraid? 

“Remember the INSTA-TAN stuff?” I started. “Have any of 
you been growing hair since we put that stuff on?” I could feel 
my face turning red. “I mean, really ugly patches of black hair?” 

Jared started to laugh, and Coke spurted out of his nose. He 
started to choke. Kristina hurried over to slap him on the back. 

“Hairy Larry!” Jared cried when he stopped choking. He 
pointed the Coke can at me and started chanting. “Hairy Larry! 
Hairy Larry!” 

“Come on, guys!” I pleaded. “I’m serious!” 

That made Kristina and Jared laugh even harder. 

I turned to Lily, who was still standing beside the couch. She 
had a troubled expression on her face. She definitely wasn’t 
laughing. She lowered her eyes to the floor as I continued to stare 
at her. 

“Larry is a werewolf!” Jared declared. 

“I hope The Geeks don’t have to play when there’s a full 
moon!” Kristina exclaimed. 

“Maybe Larry’s howling is better than his guitar playing!” 
Jared said. They both laughed. 

“I—I was just making a joke!” I stammered. I wanted a hole 
to open up in the floor so that I could disappear into it. 


I’m the only one, I realized. I’m the only one who is growing the 
ugly hair. 

That’s why Jared and Kristina thought it was so funny. It 
wasn’t happening to them. They didn’t have to worry about it. 

But Lily wasn’t joining in with the jokes. She turned away 
and started picking up music sheets from the floor and 
straightening the room. 

Lily always enjoys teasing me and making me blush. I stared 
at her, wondering if she had the same secret I did. 

I packed up my guitar slowly and waited for Jared and 
Kristina to leave. Then I put on my coat and baseball cap and 
followed Lily to the front door. 

On the front stoop, I turned back to her. “Lily, tell me the 
truth,” I insisted, studying her face. “Have you been growing 
weird patches of black hair on your hands and knees?” 

She hesitated, chewing her bottom lip. “I... I don’t want to 
talk about it,” she replied in a whisper. 

Then she slammed the front door. 

I didn’t move from the concrete stoop. I kept picturing her 
troubled expression. I kept hearing her whispered voice. 

Was it happening to Lily? If it was, why wouldn’t she admit it 
to me? Was she too embarrassed? 

Or was she embarrassed for me? 

Maybe it wasn’t happening to her, I realized. Maybe she just 
thinks I’m crazy. Maybe she feels bad for me because I keep 
acting like such a jerk. 

Feeling totally confused, I turned and headed for the street. 
The sun was still high in the sky, but the air felt cold. A sharp 
wind blew at my face as I started toward home. 

Leaning into the wind, I reached up and tugged down my cap 
to keep it from blowing away. To my surprise, I couldn’t pull it 
down. 

The cap suddenly felt tight. Too tight. 

I removed it and held it close to my face to study it. Had 
someone adjusted the back to make it tighter? 

No. 

A chill of dread ran down my back as I raised a hand to my 
forehead. And discovered why my cap didn’t fit. 

My entire forehead was covered with thick, bristly hair. 


18 


I burst through the back door, into the kitchen. “Mom—look at 
this!” I cried. “Look at my head!” 

My eyes darted around the room. “Mom?” 

Not there. 

I ran through the house, calling for her. I decided it was time 
to show my parents what was happening to me. Time to make 
them believe me. 

The stripe of hair would totally gross them out, would finally 
convince them this was serious. 

“Mom! Dad? Anybody home?” 

No. 

When I returned to the kitchen, I found a note on the 
refrigerator: WE WENT SHOPPING IN BROOKESDALE VILLAGE. 
HOME LATE. FIX YOURSELF A SNACK. 

With a cry of disgust, I tossed my cap across the room. Then I 
pulled off my parka and let it fall to the floor. 

My heart pounding, I made my way to the mirror in the front 
hall and studied myself. I looked like some kind of comic book 
mutant! 

My pale face stared back at me. It appeared exactly the same. 
Except that I had a thick, black stripe of fur across my forehead. 

Looks like I’m wearing a bandanna, I thought miserably. Like 
one of those headbands that skiers wear. Except this one is made 
of disgusting hair. 

I ran a trembling hand over the thick hair. 

My chest heaved up and down. I felt like crying and 
screaming furiously at the same time. I felt like grabbing the 
stripe of fur and ripping it out of my head. 

I couldn’t bear to look at myself. The hair was so gross, so 
disgusting. 

I decided there was no way I could wait for Mom and Dad to 
get home. I couldn’t leave that horrible hair on my face. Spinning 
away from the mirror, I ran upstairs to shave it off. 

I lathered up the strip of hair with shaving cream. Then I 
began to scrape my dad’s razor over it. 

“Ow!” It hurt, but I didn’t care. I had to cut it off. Every 
thick, bristly strand of it. 

Watching the hair fall into the sink, I suddenly knew what I 


had to do. I had to find the INSTA-TAN bottle. I had to find it and 
take it to Dr. Murkin. 

“If I bring him the bottle, I can make him believe me!” I told 
myself. Then Dr. Murkin can do tests on it. He can figure out why 
it’s making hair grow on me. 

And once he knows that it’s the INSTA-TAN that’s growing 
hair, Dr. Murkin will give me a cure, I decided. 

But where did we toss the bottle? 

I shut my eyes and struggled to remember. 

After I discovered the bottle, we had all run into Lily’s house 
to splash the stuff on. Then we had gone back outside to mess 
around in the snow. 

Did we toss the INSTA-TAN bottle back in the trash Dumpster 
next door? 

I had to find out. 

I scribbled a note to my parents, telling them I left something 
at Lily’s and would be back soon. Then I grabbed my coat and 
hurried out the door. 

The air had become a lot colder. Clouds had rolled over the 
sun, making the evening sky gray. I zipped up my parka and 
pulled the hood over my head. My forehead still tingled from 
where I had shaved it. 

The three blocks to Lily’s house seemed like three miles! As I 
turned the corner, her house came into view. 

I don’t want her to see me, I realized. If she sees me poking 
around that trash Dumpster, she’ll want to know why. And I’m 
not ready to tell her the whole story. 

She wouldn’t tell me the truth, I thought bitterly. Instead, she 
slammed the door on me. 

So I’m not ready to tell her the truth, either. 

I felt glad that it had become so dark out. Maybe Lily 
wouldn’t see me. 

I kept my eyes on her house as I approached. The lights were 
on in the dining room. Maybe her family was having an early 
dinner. 

Good, I thought. Pll dig into the trash Dumpster, pull out the 
bottle, and disappear before they finish, before anyone has a 
chance to glance out the window. 

I stopped short when I saw that there was just one little 
problem. 

The trash Dumpster was gone. 

The workers must have hauled it away. 

I let out a long sigh and nearly slumped to my knees. “Now 


what?” I murmured out loud. 

Now how do I prove to Dr. Murkin that the INSTA-TAN is 
making me grow hair? 

The cold wind swirled around me as I stared at the curb 
where the Dumpster had stood. Fat brown leaves, blown by the 
twisting wind, fluttered around my legs. 

I shivered. 

Turning to leave, a memory flashed through my mind. 

The INSTA-TAN bottle. We hadn’t dropped it back into the 
Dumpster. We had tossed it into the woods on the other side of 
the neighbors’ house. 

“Yes!” I cried happily. “Yes!” 

We had chased each other across the neighbors’ yard—and 
Pd heaved the bottle into the trees. 

It will still be there, I told myself. It has to be there. 

I darted past Lily’s house, glancing up at the front windows. I 
couldn’t see anyone looking out. 

Past the neighbors’ house, dark and empty. The remodeling 
work not finished. 

Into the woods. The dead leaves wet and slippery under my 
shoes. The bare tree branches shook and rattled in the shifting, 
sharp wind. 

Where had the bottle landed? I asked myself. Where? 

It hadn’t gone far, I remembered. Just past the first trees. 

It had to be nearby, I knew. Somewhere near where I stood. 

A blanket of deep shadow had fallen over the woods. I kicked 
at a pile of dead leaves. My shoe hit something hard. 

Bending quickly, I tossed leaves away with both hands. 

Only a tree branch. 

I moved deeper into the woods, pushing my way through 
clumps of tall, dead weeds. 

I stopped. 

It has to be around here, I knew. My eyes desperately 
searched the shadows. 

There it is. No. Just a smooth stone. 

I kicked it away. Then I turned slowly, making a complete 
circle, my eyes sweeping the dark ground. 

Where is the bottle? Where? 

I sucked in my breath when I heard the sound. 

The crack of a twig. 

I listened hard. I heard the crackle of leaves. The brush of a 
leg against a winter-dry shrub. 


Another twig cracking. 
Swallowing hard, I realized I was no longer alone. 
“Wh-who’s there?” I called. 


19 


“Who’s there?” 

No reply. 

Frozen as still as a statue, I listened. I heard the scrape of feet 
moving rapidly over the ground. I heard heavy breathing. 

“Hey—who is it?” I called. 

I glanced down—and saw the bottle. Lying on its side, 
nestled in a pile of leaves right in front of me. 

I bent quickly, reached eagerly for the bottle with both 
hands. But I jerked back up to my feet in fright as a dark figure 
lumbered out from the trees. 

Panting hard. Its long tongue flapping from its open mouth. 

A tall, brown dog. Even in the dim light, I could see how 
scraggly and tangled its fur was. I could see large burrs stuck in 
its heaving side. 

I took a step back. “Are you alone, boy?” I called in a 
frightened whisper. “Huh? Are you alone, doggie?” 

The animal lowered its head and let out a whimper. 

I searched the woods for other dogs. Was he part of a pack? 
Part of the pack of stray dogs that liked to chase me, growling 
and snapping? 

I didn’t see any others. 

“Good dog,” I told him, keeping my voice low and calm. 
“Good doggie.” 

He stared up at me, still panting. His scraggly, brown tail 
wagged once, then drooped. 

I bent slowly, keeping my eyes on the dog, and picked up the 
bottle. It felt surprisingly cold. I held it up and tried to see if any 
of the liquid remained inside. 

But it was too dark to see. 

Pm pretty sure I didn’t use every last drop, I thought, 
struggling to remember. There has to be a little left. Enough for 
Dr. Murkin to test. 

I shook the bottle close to my ear, listening for the splash of 
liquid inside. Please, please, let there be a drop left! I pleaded 
silently. 

The trees shivered in a sharp, swirling gust. Leaves rustled 
and scraped against each other. 

The dog let out another soft whimper. 


I grasped the bottle tightly in my right hand and started to 
back away. “Bye-bye, doggie.” 

He tilted his head and stared up at me. 

I took another step back. “Bye, doggie,” I repeated softly. “Go 
home. Go home, boy.” 

He didn’t move. He let out another whimper. Then his tail 
began to wag. 

I took another step back, grasping the INSTA-TAN bottle 
tightly. Then, as I started to turn away from the staring dog, I saw 
the others. 

They poked out quickly, silently, from the dark trees. Five or 
six big dogs, their eyes glowing angrily. Then five or six more. 

As they lumbered nearer, moving quickly, steadily, I could 
hear their growls, low and menacing. They pulled back their lips 
and bared their teeth. 

I froze, staring in terror at their darkly glowing eyes, 
listening to their menacing, low growls. 

Then I spun around awkwardly. Started to run. 

“Ohh!” I let out a shrill cry as I stumbled over a fallen tree 
branch. 

The bottle flew out of my hand. 

As I fell, I reached out for it, grasping desperately. 

Missed. 

I watched in horror as it hit a sharp rock—and shattered. The 
jagged pieces flew in all directions. A tiny puddle of brown liquid 
washed over the rock. 

I landed hard on my knees and elbows. Pain shot through my 
body. But I ignored it and scrambled to my feet. 

I whirled around to face the dogs. 

But to my surprise, they were running in a different 
direction. Through the trees, I glimpsed a frightened rabbit, 
scrabbling over the leafy ground. Barking and growling, the dogs 
chased after it. 

My heart pounding, my knees still throbbing, I walked over 
to the rock and stared down at the jagged pieces of orange glass. I 
picked one up and examined it closely. 

“Now what do I do?” I asked myself out loud. I could still 
hear the excited barking of the dogs in the distance. “Now what?” 

The bottle was shattered into a dozen pieces. My evidence 
was gone. I had nothing to show Dr. Murkin. Nothing at all. 

With an angry cry, I tossed the piece of glass at the trees. 
Then I wearily slunk toward home. 


Mom and Dad hurried to a school meeting after dinner. I went 
upstairs to my room to do my homework. 

I didn’t feel like being alone. 

I took Jasper in my lap and petted her for a while. But she 
wasn’t in the mood. She glared at me with those weird yellow 
eyes. When that didn’t work, she scratched my hand, jumped 
away, and disappeared out of the room. 

I tried calling Lily, but no one answered at her place. 

Outside, the wind howled around the corner of the house. It 
made my bedroom windows rattle. 

A chill ran down my back. 

I leaned my elbows on my desk and hunched over my 
government textbook. But I couldn’t concentrate. The words on 
the page became a gray blur. 

I walked across the room and picked up my guitar. Then I 
bent down and plugged it into my amp. 

Lots of times when I’m feeling nervous or upset, I play my 
guitar for a while. It always calms me down. 

I cranked the amp up really high and started to play a loud 
blues melody. There was no one else home, no one to tell me to 
turn it down. I wanted to play as loud as I could—loud enough to 
drown out my troubled thoughts. 

But I had played for only three or four minutes when I 
realized that something was wrong. 

I kept missing notes. Messing up the chords. 

What’s wrong with me? I wondered. I’ve played this tune a 
million times. I can play it in my sleep. 

When I glanced down at my fingers, I saw the problem. 

“Ohh!” I uttered a weak groan. That disgusting hair had 
sprouted over both of my hands. My fingers were covered in 
thick, black hair. 

I turned my hands over. Both palms were covered, too. 

The guitar fell heavily to the floor as I jumped to my feet. 

My arms began to itch. 

With trembling hands, I tore at the cuffs. Pulled up the 
sleeves. 

My arms were covered, too! The thick, bristly hair swept over 
both arms and hands. 

I stood there, swallowing hard, staring down at my hairy 
arms and hands. My legs were trembling. I felt weak. 

My mouth suddenly felt dry. My throat ached. 

I tried to swallow. 


Was the disgusting hair growing on my tongue? 

Feeling a jolt of nausea, I lurched across the hall to the 
bathroom. Clicking on the ceiling light, I leaned over the sink. I 
brought my face up close to the mirror and stuck out my tongue. 

No. 

My tongue was okay. 

But my face—my cheeks and chin—were covered with black 
hair. 

It’s spreading so fast! I realized. The mirror reflected my 
horror. 

It’s spreading so fast now—all over me. 

What am I going to do? 

Isn’t there anything I can do? 


20 


I got to school early on Monday morning and waited for Lily at 
her locker. 

It had taken hours to shave off all the bristly clumps of hair. 
But I did it. 

This morning I wore a sweater with extra-long sleeves, and I 
pulled a baseball cap down low on my head in case the hair grew 
back during the day. 

“Lily, where are you?” I murmured impatiently. I paced 
nervously back and forth in front of the row of green lockers. 

Lily and I have to face this problem together, I told myself. I 
remembered the frightened expression on Lily’s face when I asked 
her if she had been growing weird hair. 

I knew the same thing was happening to Lily. I just knew it. 

And I knew that Lily must be embarrassed like me, too 
embarrassed to admit it, to talk about it. 

But the two of us can figure out what to do, I decided. 

If the two of us go to Dr. Murkin and tell him about the 
INSTA-TAN lotion and the hair, he’ll have to believe us. 

But where was Lily? 

Kids jammed the hall, slamming lockers, laughing and 
talking. I glanced at my watch. Only three minutes till the bell 
rang. 

“How’s it going, Larry?” a voice called. 

I turned and saw Howie Hurwin grinning at me. His sister, 
Marissa, stood beside him. Her braid was caught in her backpack 
strap, and she was struggling to free it. 

“Hi, Howie,” I said, sighing. He was the last person I wanted 
to see this morning! 

“Ready for tomorrow?” he asked. Why did he have to grin 
like that when he talked? That grin just made me want to punch 
him. 

“Tomorrow?” I glanced down the crowded hall, searching for 
Lily. 

Howie laughed. “Did you forget about the Battle of the 
Bands?” 

“Ow!” Marissa cried. She finally managed to tug her braid 
free. “Is your band still going to play?” she asked. “We heard 
about Manny leaving.” 


“Yeah. We’ll be there,” I told her. “We sound pretty good.” 

“We do, too!” Howie replied, grinning even wider. “We 
might be on TV. My uncle knows a woman who works on Star 
Search. He thinks maybe he can get us on.” 

“Great,” I replied, without any enthusiasm. 

Where was Lily? 

“If we get on that show, we’ll probably win,” Marissa added, 
still fiddling with her long braid. “And then we’ll be famous.” 

“They asked us to play at the next school dance,” Howie said. 
“They didn’t ask your band, did they?” 

“No,” I replied. “No one asked us.” 

That made Howie’s grin practically burst off his face. “Too 
bad,” he said. 

The bell rang. “I’ve got to go,” I said, hurrying toward Miss 
Shindling’s room. 

“See you at the contest tomorrow,” Marissa called. 

“Were going first,” Howie shouted. “I guess they’re saving 
the best for first!” 

I heard the two of them laughing as I stepped into the 
classroom. I made my way to my seat, searching for Lily. Had she 
slipped past me while I was talking with Howie and Marissa? 

No. No sign of her. 

I sank into my seat, feeling worried and disappointed. Was 
Lily sick today? I hoped not. She can’t get sick the day before the 
Battle of the Bands, I told myself. She just can’t. 

“Larry, would you hand out the tests?” Miss Shindling asked, 
dropping a heavy stack of papers into my arms. 

“Huh? Test?” 

I had totally forgotten. 


Lily didn’t come to school. I tried phoning her at lunchtime. The 
phone rang and rang, but no one answered. 

After school, I decided to go to Lily’s house to see what had 
happened to her. But as I walked out of the school building, I 
remembered that my mom had asked me to come straight home 
after school. She had some chores she wanted me to help her 
with. 

It was a clear, cold day. Puffy, white clouds floated high in 
the afternoon sky. All the snow had finally melted, but the ground 
was still soft and wet. 

I waited for several cars to pass. Then I crossed the street and 
headed for home. 

I had walked nearly a block when I realized I was being 


followed. 

A dog brushed softly against my leg. Startled, I stopped and 
stared down at it. 

The dog had light brown fur, almost red, with a white patch 
at its throat. It was a medium-sized dog, a little bigger than a 
cocker spaniel. It had long, floppy brown ears and a long, furry 
tail that swept slowly back and forth as it gazed up at me. 

“Who are you?” I asked it. “I’ve never seen you before.” 

I glanced around, making sure there weren’t a dozen other 
dogs lurking in the bushes, getting ready to chase after me. 

Then I turned and started walking again. 

The dog brushed my leg again and kept on going. As I 
walked, it stayed a few yards ahead of me, glancing back to make 
sure I was following. 

“Are you following me—or am I following you?” I called to it. 

The dog’s tail gave a single wag in reply. 

It followed me all the way home. 

My mom was waiting for me in the driveway. She had a long 
green sweater pulled down over her jeans. “Nice day,” she 
commented, glancing up at the sunny sky. 

“Hi, Mom,” I greeted her. “This dog followed me home.” 

The dog sniffed at the low evergreen shrubs that lined the 
front walk. 

“She’s kind of pretty,” Mom said. “What a nice color. Who 
does she belong to?” 

I shrugged. “Beats me. I’ve never seen her before.” 

The dog came over and stared up at Mom. 

“At least she’s friendly,” I said, setting my heavy backpack 
down on the driveway. “Maybe we should keep her.” 

“No way,” Mom replied sharply. “No dogs. Not with Jasper in 
the house.” 

I bent down and petted the top of the dog’s head. 

“She has a tag on her collar,” Mom said, pointing. “Check it 
out, Larry. Maybe it says the owner’s name.” 

The dog’s tail wagged furiously as I petted her head. “Good 
dog,” I said softly. 

“Come on, Larry. See what the tag says,” Mom insisted. 

“Okay, okay.” I reached for the round, gold tag hanging 
down from the dog’s collar. Then I dropped to my knees and 
lowered my face so that I could see it clearly. 

“Huh?” 

I recognized it instantly. 


It wasn’t a dog tag. It was Lily’s gold pirate coin. 


21 


I nearly fell over. I felt as if someone had kicked me in the 
stomach. 

“M-mom!” I stammered. But my voice came out as a gasp. 

“Larry—what are you doing?” Mom called. She had 
wandered to the side of the driveway and was pulling up some 
dead weeds. “What does the tag say?” 

“Tt—it isn’t a tag,” I finally managed to choke out. 

She turned her head back to me. “Huh?” 

“It isn’t a dog tag,” I repeated, still holding it between my 
fingers. “It’s Lily’s gold pirate coin.” 

Mom laughed. “Why would Lily give her coin to a dog? 
Didn’t her grandfather give her that coin?” 

“J—I don’t know why,” I stammered. “I don’t get it, Mom.” 

The dog’s hot breath brushed over my hand. She pulled away 
from me, settled back, and started scratching her long, floppy ear 
with her back paw. 

“Are you sure it’s a gold coin, Larry?” Mom asked, crossing 
the drive, standing right behind me. 

I nodded and reached for the coin again. “Yeah. It’s Lily’s 
gold coin, Mom.” 

“It must be some other gold coin,” Mom suggested. “I’m sure 
it isn’t the same coin.” 

Mom must be right, I decided. 

I let go of the coin and raised my hand to pet the dog’s head. 

But my hand stopped in midair when I saw the dog’s eyes. 

She had one blue eye and one green eye. 


22 


“It’s Lily! It’s Lily!” I shrieked, jumping to my feet. 

My shouts frightened the dog. She uttered a shrill yip, turned, 
and bolted from the front yard. 

“Lily—come back!” I called after her. “Come back! Lily!” 

“Larry—wait!” Mom cried. “Please—!” 

I didn’t hear the rest of what she said. Jumping over my 
backpack, I darted toward the street. I hurtled across without 
slowing to look for cars—and kept running toward Lily’s house. 

It is Lily! I told myself. That dog has a green eye and a blue 
eye. And it’s wearing Lily’s coin! 

It is Lily! I know it! 

I could hear my mom calling for me to come back. But I 
ignored her and kept running. 

Lily’s house was three blocks away. I ran at full speed the 
whole way. By the time her house came into view, I was gasping 
for breath, and I had a sharp pain in my side. 

But I didn’t care. 

I had to see Lily. I had to know for sure that the dog wasn’t 
Lily. 

Such a crazy thought! As I crossed the street, I started to 
realize how crazy it was. 

Lily, a dog? 

Larry, are you totally losing it? I asked myself. Mom must 
think I’m totally wacko! I realized. 

Lily, a dog? 

I slowed down, rubbing the pain at my side, trying to 
massage it away. 

I spotted Lily’s parents in the driveway. The trunk of their 
blue Chevy was open. Mr. Vonn was lifting a suitcase into it. 

“Hi!” I called breathlessly. “Hey—hi!” 

“Hello, Larry,” Mrs. Vonn said as I stepped up to the car. I 
saw two other suitcases and some smaller bags waiting to be 
loaded into the car. 

“Going on a trip?” I asked, struggling to catch my breath. The 
pain in my side kept throbbing, refusing to go away. 

They didn’t answer. Mr. Vonn groaned as he hoisted a heavy 
suitcase into the trunk. 

“Where’s Lily?” I asked. I handed him one of the smaller 


bags. “She wasn’t in school today.” 

“We're going away,” Mrs. Vonn said quietly from behind me. 

“Well, where’s Lily?” I repeated. “Is she inside?” 

Mr. Vonn frowned, but didn’t reply. 

I turned to Lily’s mom. “Can I see her?” I asked impatiently. 
“Is Lily inside?” 

“You must have the wrong house,” she replied softly. 

My mouth dropped open. “Wrong house? Mrs. Vonn—what 
do you mean?” 

“There’s no one here named Lily,” she said. 


23 


For some reason, I burst out laughing. 

Startled laughter. Frightened laughter. 

Mrs. Vonn’s sad expression cut my laughter short—and sent a 
chill down my back. 

“Is Lily—?” I started to say. 

Mrs. Vonn grabbed my shoulder and squeezed it. She lowered 
her face close to mine. “Listen to what I’m telling you, Larry,” she 
said through gritted teeth. 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“There is no Lily,” she repeated, squeezing my shoulder hard. 
“Just forget about her.” She had tears in her eyes. 

Mr. Vonn slammed the car trunk. I jumped out of Mrs. Vonn’s 
grasp, my heart pounding. 

“You'd better go,” Mr. Vonn said firmly, coming over to join 
his wife. 

I took a step back. My legs felt weak and shaky. 

“But, Lily—” I started. 

“You'd better go,” Mr. Vonn repeated. 

At the side of the garage, I spotted the red-brown dog. She 
whimpered sadly, her head hung low. 

I whirled around and ran, as fast as I could. 


Mom and Dad acted so strange at dinner. They refused to discuss 
Lily or the dog or Lily’s parents. 

Mom and Dad kept glancing at each other, giving each other 
meaningful looks that I wasn’t supposed to see. 

They think I’m crazy! I realized. That’s why they’re refusing 
to talk about it. They think I’m losing my mind. They don’t want 
to say anything to me until they decide how they’re going to 
handle me. 

“Pm not crazy!” I shouted suddenly, dropping my fork and 
knife onto the table. I hadn’t touched my spaghetti and meatballs. 

How could I eat? 

“Tm not crazy! I’m not making this up!” 

“Can’t we talk about it another time?” Mom pleaded, 
glancing at Dad. 

“Let’s just finish our dinner,” Dad added, keeping his eyes on 
his plate. 


After dinner, I called Jared and Kristina over to give them the 
bad news. I didn’t want them to think that I was crazy. So I 
simply told them that Lily had gone away. 

“But what about tomorrow?” Jared cried. 

“Yeah. What about the Battle of the Bands?” Kristina 
demanded. “How could Lily leave on the day before the contest?” 

I shrugged. We were sitting in the living room. Kristina and I 
sat on opposite ends of the couch. Jared was sprawled in the chair 
across from me. 

Jasper brushed over my feet. I leaned down and lifted her 
into my lap. Her yellow eyes stared up at me. Then she closed 
them and settled against me, purring softly. 

“Where did Lily go?” Kristina asked angrily, drumming her 
fingers on the couch arm. “On vacation? Why didn’t she tell us 
she was going to miss the contest?” 

“Howie Hurwin will jump for joy when he hears this news,” 
Jared muttered glumly, shaking his head. 

“I don’t know where Lily went,” I told them. “I saw her 
parents loading suitcases into the car. Now they’re gone. That’s all 
I know. I’m sure Lily is very unhappy. I know Lily wanted to be 
with us. I don’t think she had a choice.” 

I had a sudden urge to tell them everything that had 
happened. But I didn’t want them to start laughing at me. Or 
worrying about me. 

I felt so mixed up. I didn’t know what I wanted to do. 

I wanted Lily back. And Manny. That I knew. 

And I wanted the ugly hair to stop sprouting all over my 
body. 

If only I had never found that bottle of INSTA-TAN. 

This was all my fault. All of it. 

“So I guess The Geeks have to pull out of the band contest 
tomorrow,” I said glumly. 

“T guess,” Jared repeated, shaking his head. 

“No way!” Kristina cried, surprising both of us. She jumped 
to her feet and stood between Jared and me. She balled both 
hands into fists. “No way!” she repeated. 

“But we don’t have a singer—” Jared protested. 

“I can sing,” Kristina replied quickly. “I’m a pretty good 
singer.” 

“But you haven’t rehearsed any of the songs,” Jared said. “Do 
you know the words?” 

Kristina nodded. “All of them.” 

“But, Kristina—” I started. 


“Listen, guys,” she said sharply, “we have to go onstage 
tomorrow. Even if it’s just the three of us. We can’t let Howie 
Hurwin win tomorrow—can we?” 

“Td like to wipe that grin off Howie’s face,” I muttered. 

“Me, too,” Jared agreed. “But how can we? Two guitars and a 
keyboard? Howie has his full band. He’ll blast us out of the 
auditorium.” 

“Not if we play our hearts out!” Kristina exclaimed with 
emotion. “Not if we give it our best.” 

“Let’s do it for Lily!” I blurted out. The words just tumbled 
from my mouth. As soon as I said it, I felt embarrassed. 

But Kristina and Jared picked right up on it. “Let’s do it for 
Lily!” they both cried. “We can win! We really can! Let’s win it 
for Lily!” 

So it was decided. The Geeks would go onstage tomorrow 
afternoon. Could we win? Could we beat Howie and the 
Shouters? 

Probably not. 

But we’d give it our best shot. 

“Let’s go up to my room and practice a little,” I suggested. 

Jared started toward the stairs. But Kristina didn’t move. 

I turned and found her staring at my face in horror. 

“Larry—!” she cried, pointing. “What’s that on your 
forehead?” 


24 


I gasped in horror. 

My hand shot up to my forehead. 

The ugly black hair—it had grown back, I knew. And now 
Kristina and Jared were both staring at it. They both saw it—saw 
that I was becoming some kind of hairy monster. 

I rubbed my forehead with a trembling hand. 

Smooth. 

My forehead was smooth! 

“It’s right there.” Kristina pointed. 

I hurried over to the hallway mirror and gazed up at my 
forehead. I discovered an orange smear near my right temple. 

“It’s spaghetti sauce,” I moaned. “I must have rubbed my face 
during dinner.” 

I rubbed off the orange spot. My entire body was shaking. 
Kristina had scared me to death! Over a dumb spot of spaghetti 
sauce! 

“Larry, are you okay?” she asked, standing behind me and 
staring at my reflection in the mirror. “You look kind of weird.” 

“Pm okay,” I replied quickly, trying to force my body to stop 
shaking and quaking. 

“Hey—don’t get sick,” Jared warned. “Kristina and I can’t go 
on the stage by ourselves tomorrow.” 

“TIL be there,” I told them. “Don’t worry, guys. II be there.” 


The next afternoon, the whole school jammed into the auditorium 
to watch the Battle of the Bands. 

Feeling really nervous, I stood backstage and peeked out 
through the curtain. The lights in the auditorium were all on, and 
Mr. Fosburg, the principal, stood in front of the curtain, both 
arms raised, trying to get everyone quiet. 

Behind me, Howie Hurwin and his band were tuning up, 
adjusting the amps, making sure the sound was right. Marissa was 
wearing a very short, sparkly red dress over black tights. She 
caught me staring at her and flashed me a smug smile. 

The Geeks should have dressed up, I realized, watching 
Marissa. We didn’t even think of it. The three of us were wearing 
T-shirts and jeans, our normal school clothes. 

I turned and gazed at Howie’s new synthesizer keyboard. It 


was about a mile long, and it had a thousand buttons and dials on 
it. It made Jared’s keyboard look like a baby toy. 

Howie caught me staring at it. “Cool, huh?” he called, 
grinning that gruesome grin of his. “Hey, Larry—after we win the 
contest, you can have my autograph!” 

Howie laughed. So did Marissa and the rest of the Shouters. 

I turned and slumped away to join Jared and Kristina at the 
side of the stage. “We’re total losers,” I moaned, shaking my head. 

“Good attitude, Larry,” Jared replied sarcastically. 

“Maybe Howie’s giant keyboard will blow out all the fuses,” I 
said glumly. “That’s our only chance.” 

Kristina rolled her eyes. “They can’t be that good,” she 
muttered. 

But they were. 

The auditorium lights darkened. The curtain slid open. Howie 
and the Shouters stepped into the red-and-blue stage lights. And 
began blasting out the old Chuck Berry rock-and-roll song 
“Johnny B. Goode.” 

They sounded great. And they looked great. 

Marissa’s dress sparkled in the light. They had worked out 
dance moves, and they all danced and moved as they played. 

We should have thought of that, I told myself glumly, 
watching from the side of the stage. When we play, the three of us 
just stand around—like geeks! 

The kids in the auditorium went crazy. They all jumped to 
their feet and began clapping along, moving and dancing. 

They stayed on their feet for all four of the Shouters’ songs. 
Each song came louder and faster than the last. The old 
auditorium rocked and shook so hard, I thought the floor might 
cave in! 

Then, as Howie and Marissa and the others took their bows, 
the auditorium erupted in wild cheers and shouts of, “More! 
Moooore! Mooooore!” 

So Howie and the Shouters did two more songs. 

Jared, Kristina, and I kept casting tense glances at each other 
as they played. This wasn’t doing a whole lot for our confidence! 

Finally, Howie and Marissa took several more bows and ran 
off the stage, waving their fists high above their heads in triumph. 

“Your turn!” Howie called to me as he ran past. He grinned. 
“Hey, Larry—where’s the rest of your band?” 

I started to reply angrily. But Jared gave me a hard shove, 
and the three of us moved uncertainly onto the stage. 

I bent down and plugged my guitar into the amp. Jared 


worked quickly to adjust the sound level of his little keyboard. 

Howie’s giant keyboard had been pushed to the back of the 
stage. It seemed to stare at us, reminding us how good—and loud 
—the Shouters had sounded. 

Kristina stood tensely at the microphone, her arms crossed in 
front of her T-shirt. I played a few chords, testing the level of the 
amp. My hands felt cold and sweaty. They slipped over the 
strings. 

The audience was talking and laughing, restless, waiting for 
us to start. 

“Are we ready?” I whispered to Jared and Kristina. “Let’s do 
‘I Want to Hold Your Hand’ first. Then go into the Rolling Stones 
song.” 

They nodded. 

I took a deep breath and steadied my hands on my guitar. 

Jared leaned over the keyboard. Kristina uncrossed her arms 
and stepped to the microphone, jamming both hands into her 
jeans pockets. 

We started the Beatles song. 

Shaky at first. All three of us sang on this one. And the 
harmony was off. 

My guitar was too loud. It was drowning out our voices. I 
wanted to stop and turn it down. But of course I couldn't. 

The audience sat quietly, listening. They didn’t jump to their 
feet and start dancing. 

They applauded loudly as we finished the song. But it was 
polite applause. No loud cheering. No real enthusiasm. 

At least we got through it! I told myself, wiping my sweaty 
hands on my jeans legs. 

I stepped forward as we started the Rolling Stones song. 

I had a really long guitar solo in this number. I was praying I 
didn’t mess up. 

I nodded to Jared and Kristina. Kristina grabbed the floor 
microphone with both hands, leaning close to it. Jared started the 
song on the keyboard. 

I started my solo. Badly. I messed up the first chords. 

My heart started to thump. My mouth was suddenly too dry 
to swallow. 

I closed my eyes and tried to shut out everything—to 
concentrate on my fingers, on the music. 

As I played, the audience started to cheer. A few shouts at 
first. Some scattered applause. 

But then the cheering grew louder and louder. 


Happily, I opened my eyes. Several kids were on their feet, 
shouting and laughing. 

I bent my knees and let my fingers move over the frets, the 
pick moving automatically now over the strings. 

I was starting to feel good—really good. 

The cheers grew louder. I realized that several kids were 
pointing at me. 

What’s going on? I wondered. 

And I suddenly knew that something was wrong. The cheers 
were too loud. The laughter was too loud. Too many kids were 
jumping up and pointing fingers at me. 

“Great special effects!” I heard a boy shout from the first row. 

“Yeah. Great special effects!” 

Huh? I thought. What special effects? 

It didn’t take me long to figure it out. 

As Kristina started to sing, I reached my hand up and rubbed 
it over my face. 

I cried out in horror as I felt the stiff, prickly hair. 

My face was covered in it. My chin, my cheeks, my forehead. 

The thick, black hair had sprouted over my entire face. 

And the whole school was staring at it, staring at me. 

The whole school knew my horrible, embarrassing secret. 


25 


“We won! We won!” I heard Jared and Kristina shouting gleefully 
behind me. 

But I set my guitar on the stage floor, turned away from 
them, and started to run. 

The kids in the auditorium were still shouting and cheering. 

We had won the contest because of my amazing hairy 
transformation. “Great special effects!” that kid had shouted. The 
“special effects” had won the day. 

But I wasn’t feeling like a winner. 

I felt like an ugly freak. 

The bushy hair had covered my face, then spread down to 
my neck and shoulders. Both hands were covered in bristly fur, 
and I could feel it growing up my arms. My back began to itch. 
Was it growing on my back, too? 

“Hey, Larry—Larry!” I heard Kristina and Jared calling. “The 
trophy! Come get your trophy!” 

But I was out the stage door, the wild cheers of the audience 
ringing in my ears. Out the back door of the school. Into a chilly, 
gray afternoon. Dark clouds low over the trees. 

Running now. Running blindly, my heart thudding. 

Running home. Covered in thick, black fur. 

Running in panic, in shame. In fear. 

The houses and trees passed in a gray blur. As I turned up my 
driveway, I saw Mom and Dad back by the garage. They both 
turned to me, surprise on their faces. 

“Look at me!” I shrieked. “Look!” My voice burst out, hoarse 
and terrified. “Now do you believe me?” 

They gaped at me, their mouths wide open in shock and 
horror. 

I held my hands up so they could see my arms. “Do you see 
my face?” I wailed. “See my arms? My hands?” 

They both gasped. Mom grabbed Dad’s arm. 

“Now do you believe me?” I cried. “Now do you believe that 
the INSTA-TAN lotion makes hair grow?” 

I stood staring at them, my chest heaving, panting loudly, 
tears in my eyes. I stood waiting, waiting for them to say 
something. 

Finally, Mom broke the silence. “Larry, it isn’t the tanning 


lotion,” she said softly, holding tightly onto Dad. “We tried to 
keep it from you. But we can’t any longer.” 

“Huh? Keep what from me?” I demanded. 

They exchanged glances. Mom let out a sob. Dad slipped his 
arm around her. 

“It isn’t the tanning lotion,” Dad said in a trembling voice. 
“Larry, you have to know the truth now. You’re growing all that 
hair because you’re not a human. You’re a dog.” 


26 


I bent down and lapped up some water from the plastic water 
bowl Mom and Dad put on the front stoop for me. It’s so hard to 
drink without splashing water all over my snout. 

Then I bounded down the steps on all fours and joined Lily 
over by the evergreen shrubs. We sniffed the shrubs for a while. 
Then we loped off to the next yard to see if there was anything 
interesting to sniff. 

It’s been two weeks since my human body vanished and I 
turned back into my real dog identity. Luckily, before I changed 
back, Mom and Dad—or, I should say, Mr. and Mrs. Boyd—were 
nice enough to explain to me what had happened. 

They work for Dr. Murkin, you see. In fact, everyone in town 
works for Dr. Murkin. The whole town is kind of an experimental 
testing lab. 

A few years ago, Dr. Murkin found a way to change dogs into 
children. He discovered a serum that made us dogs look and think 
and act like people. That’s what my shots were. He gave me fresh 
serum every two weeks. 

But after a while, the serum doesn’t work anymore. It wears 
off. And the children go back to being dogs. 

“Dr. Murkin has decided to stop testing the serum on dogs,” 
Mom told me. “It just doesn’t work. And it causes the families too 
much pain when the children turn back into dogs.” 

“He’s never going to work with dogs again,” Dad explained. 
“The serum just doesn’t last long enough with dogs. So, no more 
dogs.” 

It was nice of the Boyds to explain to me what had happened. 
I felt so grateful, I licked their hands. Then I ran off to find Lily 
and show her that I was a dog, too. 

Lily and I roam around together all the time. Sometimes 
Manny joins us. There are so many dogs roaming around in this 
town. I guess they all were human for a while. 

I’m glad Dr. Murkin isn’t using dogs for his tests anymore. 
Dogs should be dogs, in my humble opinion. 

Lily and I found some good dirt to sniff in the neighbors’ 
flower garden. There aren’t any flowers to dig up yet. But the dirt 
smells really great. 

Then I saw the Boyds’ car roll up the driveway. They’d been 
gone all afternoon. I went running up eagerly to the car, wagging 


my tail happily. 

I jumped up and barked out a greeting. 

To my surprise, Mrs. Boyd was carrying a baby. A tiny baby, 
tightly wrapped in pink blankets. 

She held the baby in both arms, and carried it carefully up 
the walk toward the house. Mr. Boyd had a big smile on his face 
as he caught up to her. 

“What a good little girl,” Mrs. Boyd cooed to the baby. “Yes, 
you are. You’re a good little girl. Welcome to your new home, 
Jasper.” 

Huh? I thought. Isn’t Jasper a funny name for a little girl? 

Then I stared up at the baby and saw her bright yellow eyes. 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content
 
Texts
 
Video
 
Audio
 
Software
 
Images
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
About Blog Projects Help Donate  Contact Jobs Volunteer People
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
Keep your eye on the biraret 


THE CUCKOO CLOCK OF DOOM 


THE CUCKOO 
CLOCK OF DOOM 


Goosebumps - 28 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


“Michael, your shoe’s untied.” 

My sister, Tara, sat on the front steps, grinning at me. 
Another one of her dumb jokes. 

I’m not an idiot. I knew better than to look down at my shoe. 
If I did, she’d slap me under the chin or something. 

“Pm not falling for that old trick,” I told her. 

Mom had just called me and the brat inside for dinner. An 
hour before she had made us go outside because she couldn’t 
stand our fighting anymore. 

It was impossible not to fight with Tara. 

When it comes to stupid tricks, Tara never knows when to 
quit. “I’m not kidding,” she insisted. “Your shoe’s untied. You’re 
going to trip.” 

“Knock it off, Tara,” I said. I started up the front steps. 

My left shoe seemed to cling to the cement. I pulled it up 
with a jerk. 

“Yuck!” Pd stepped on something sticky. 

I glanced at Tara. She’s a skinny little squirt, with a wide red 
mouth like a clown’s and stringy brown hair that she wears in 
two pigtails. 

Everyone says she looks exactly like me. I hate it when they 
say that. My brown hair is not stringy, for one thing. It’s short and 
thick. And my mouth is normal-sized. No one has ever said I look 
like a clown. 

I’m a little short for my age, but not skinny. 

I do not look like Tara. 

She was watching me, giggling. “You’d better look down,” 
she taunted in her singsong voice. 

I glanced down at my shoe. It wasn’t untied, of course. But 
Pd just stepped on a huge wad of gum. If I had looked down to 
check my shoelaces, I would have seen it. 

But Tara knew I wouldn’t look down. Not if she told me to. 

Tricked by Tara the Terror again. 

“You're going to get it, Tara,” I grumbled. I tried to grab her, 
but she dodged out of reach and ran into the house. 

I chased her into the kitchen. She screamed and hid behind 
my mother. 

“Mom! Hide me! Michael’s going to get me!” she shrieked. 


As if she were afraid of me. Fat chance. 

“Michael Webster!” Mom scolded. “Stop chasing your little 
sister.” 

She glanced at my feet and added, “Is that gum on your 
shoe? Oh, Michael, you’re tracking it all over the floor!” 

“Tara made me step on it!” I whined. 

Mom frowned. “Do you expect me to believe that? Michael, 
you're fibbing again.” 

“T am not!” I cried. 

Mom shook her head in disgust. “If you’re going to tell a lie, 
Michael, at least make it a good one.” 

Tara peeked out from behind Mom and taunted me. “Yeah, 
Michael.” 

Then she laughed. She loved this. 

She’s always getting me into trouble. My parents always 
blame me for stuff that’s her fault. But does Tara ever do anything 
wrong? Oh, no, never. She’s a perfect angel. Not a bad bone in her 
body. 

I’m twelve. Tara’s seven. She’s made the last seven years of 
my life miserable. 

Too bad I don’t remember the first five very well. The pre- 
Tara years. They must have been awesome! Quiet and peaceful— 
and fun! 

I went out to the back porch and scraped the sticky gum off 
my shoe. I heard the doorbell ring and Dad calling, “It’s here! PI 
get it.” 

Inside, everybody gathered around the front door. Two men 
were struggling to carry something heavy into the house. 
Something long and narrow and wrapped with padded gray cloth. 

“Careful,” Dad warned them. “It’s very old. Bring it in here.” 

Dad led the delivery guys into the den. They set the thing 
down on one end and began to unwrap it. It was about as wide as 
me and maybe a foot taller. 

“What is it?” Tara asked. 

Dad didn’t answer right away. He rubbed his hands together 
in anticipation. Our cat, Bubba, slinked into the room and rubbed 
against Dad’s legs. 

The gray cloth fell away, and I saw a very fancy old clock. It 
was mostly black but painted with lots of silver, gold, and blue 
designs, and decorated with scrolls, carvings, knobs, and buttons. 

The clock itself had a white face with gold hands and gold 
Roman numerals. I saw little secret doors hidden under the paint 
designs, and a big door in the middle of the clock. 


The delivery guys gathered up the gray padding. Dad gave 
them some money, and they left. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed. “It’s an antique cuckoo clock. It 
was a bargain. You know that store across from my office, 
Anthony’s Antiques and Stuff?” 

We all nodded. 

“It’s been in the shop for fifteen years,” Dad told us, patting 
the clock. “Every time I pass Anthony’s, I stop and stare at it. I’ve 
always loved it. Anthony finally put it on sale.” 

“Cool,” Tara said. 

“But you’ve been bargaining with Anthony for years, and he 
always refused to lower the price,” Mom said. “Why now?” 

Dad’s face lit up. “Well, today I went into the shop at 
lunchtime, and Anthony told me he’d discovered a tiny flaw on 
the clock. Something wrong with it.” 

I scanned the clock. “Where?” 

“He wouldn’t say. Do you see anything, kids?” 

Tara and I began to search the clock for flaws. All the 
numbers on the face were correct, and both the hands were in 
place. I didn’t see any chips or scratches. 

“T don’t see anything wrong with it,” Tara said. 

“Me, either,” I added. 

“Neither do I,” Dad agreed. “I don’t know what Anthony’s 
talking about. I told him I wanted to buy the clock anyway. He 
tried to talk me out of it, but I insisted. If the flaw is so tiny we 
don’t even notice it, what difference does it make? Anyway, I 
really do love this thing.” 

Mom cleared her throat. “I don’t know, dear. Do you think it 
really belongs in the den?” I could tell by her face that she didn’t 
like the clock as much as Dad did. 

“Where else could we put it?” Dad asked. 

“Well—maybe the garage?” 

Dad laughed. “I get it—you’re joking!” 

Mom shook her head. She wasn’t joking. But she didn’t say 
anything more. 

“T think this clock is just what the den needs, honey,” Dad 
added. 

On the right side of the clock I saw a little dial. It had a gold 
face and looked like a miniature clock. But it had only one hand. 

Tiny numbers were painted in black along the outside of the 
dial, starting at 1800 and ending at 3000. The thin gold hand 
pointed to one of the numbers: 2003. 

The hand didn’t move. Beneath the dial, a little gold button 


had been set into the wood. 

“Don’t touch that button, Michael,” Dad warned. “This dial 
tells the current year. The button moves the hand to change the 
year.” 

“That’s kind of silly,” Mom said. “Who ever forgets what year 
it is?” 

Dad ignored her. “See, the clock was built in 1800, where the 
dial starts. Every year the pointer moves one notch to show the 
date.” 

“So why does it stop at three thousand?” Tara asked. 

Dad shrugged. “I don’t know. I guess the clock-maker 
couldn’t imagine the year three thousand would ever come. Or 
maybe he figured the clock wouldn’t last that long.” 

“Maybe he thought the world would blow up in 2999,” I 
suggested. 

“Could be,” Dad said. “Anyway, please don’t touch the dial. 
In fact, I don’t want anyone touching the clock at all. It’s very old 
and very, very delicate. Okay?” 

“Okay, Dad,” Tara said. 

“T won’t touch it,” I promised. 

“Look,” Mom said, pointing at the clock. “It’s six o’clock. 
Dinner’s almost—” 

Mom was interrupted by a loud gong. A little door just over 
the clock face slid open—and a bird flew out. It had the meanest 
bird face I ever saw—and it dove for my head. 

I screamed. “It’s alive!” 


Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The bird flapped its yellow feathers. Its eerie, bright blue 
eyes glared at me. It squawked six times. Then it jumped back 
inside the clock. The little door slid shut. 

“Tt’s not alive, Michael,” Dad said, laughing. “It sure is real- 
looking, though, isn’t it? Wow!” 

“You birdbrain!” Tara teased. “You were scared! Scared of a 
cuckoo clock!” She reached out and pinched me. 

“Get off me,” I growled. I shoved her away. 

“Michael, don’t push your sister,” Mom said. “You don’t 
realize how strong you are. You could hurt her.” 

“Yeah, Michael,” Tara said. 

Dad kept admiring the clock. He could hardly take his eyes 
off it. “I’m not surprised the cuckoo startled you,” he said. 
“There’s something special about this clock. It comes from the 
Black Forest of Germany. It’s supposed to be enchanted.” 

“Enchanted?” I echoed. “You mean, magic? How?” 

“Legend has it that the man who built this clock had magical 
powers. He put a spell on the clock. They say if you know the 
secret, you can use the clock to go back in time.” 

Mom scoffed. “Did Anthony tell you that? What a great way 
to sell an old clock. Claim it has magic powers!” 

Dad wouldn’t let her spoil his fun. “You never know,” he 
said. “It could be true. Why not?” 

“I think it’s true,” Tara said. 

“Herman, I wish you wouldn’t tell the kids these wild 
stories,” Mom chided. “It’s not good for them. And it only 
encourages Michael. He’s always making things up, telling fibs 
and impossible stories. I think he gets it from you.” 

I protested. “I don’t make things up! I always tell the truth!” 

How could Mom say that about me? 

“T don’t think it hurts the kids to use their imaginations once 
in a while,” Dad said. 

“Imagination is one thing,” Mom said. “Lies and fibs are 
something else.” 

I fumed. Mom was so unfair to me. The worst part was the 
expression of victory on Tara’s face. 

Making me look bad was her mission in life. I wanted to wipe 


that smirk off her face forever. 

“Dinner’s almost ready,” Mom announced, leaving the den. 
The cat followed her. “Michael, Tara—go wash up.” 

“And remember,” Dad warned. “No one touches the clock.” 

“Okay, Dad,” I said. 

Dinner smelled good. I started for the bathroom to wash up. 
As I passed Tara, she stomped hard on my foot. 

“Ow!” I yelled. 

“Michael!” Dad barked. “Stop making so much noise.” 

“But, Dad, Tara stomped on my foot.” 

“It couldn’t have hurt that much, Michael. She’s a lot smaller 
than you are.” 

My foot throbbed. I limped to the bathroom. Tara followed 
me. 

“You're such a baby,” she taunted. 

“Be quiet, Tara,” I said. How did I get the worst sister in the 
world? 

We had pasta with broccoli and tomato sauce for dinner. 
Mom was on a big no-meat, low-fat kick. I didn’t mind. Pasta was 
better than what we’d had the night before—lentil soup. 

“You know, honey,” Dad complained to Mom, “a hamburger 
now and then never hurt anybody.” 

“T disagree,” Mom said. She didn’t have to say more. We’d all 
heard her lectures about meat and fat and chemicals before. 

Dad covered his pasta with a thick layer of Parmesan cheese. 

“Maybe the den should be off-limits for a while,” Dad 
suggested. “I hate to think of you two playing in there and 
breaking the clock.” 

“But, Dad, I have to do my homework in the den tonight,” I 
said. “I’m doing a report on ‘Transportation in Many Lands.’ And I 
need to use the encyclopedia.” 

“Can’t you take it up to your room?” Dad asked. 

“The whole encyclopedia?” 

Dad sighed. “No, I guess you can’t. Well, all right. You can 
use the den tonight.” 

“T need to use the encyclopedia, too,” Tara announced. 

“You do not,” I snapped. She wanted to hang around the den 
and bug me, that was all. 

“T do, too. I’m supposed to read about the gold rush.” 

“You’re making that up. You don’t study the gold rush in the 
second grade. That’s not until fourth.” 

“What do you know about it? Mrs. Dolin is teaching us the 


gold rush now. Maybe I’m in a smarter class than you were.” 

Mom said, “Michael, really. If Tara says she needs to use the 
encyclopedia, why start a fight about it?” 

I sighed and stuffed a forkful of pasta in my mouth. Tara 
stuck her tongue out at me. 

There’s no point in talking, I thought. All it does is get me 
into trouble. 


I lugged my backpack into the den after dinner. No sign of Tara— 
yet. Maybe I’d be able to get some homework done before she 
came in and started pestering me. 

I dumped my books on Dad’s desk. The clock caught my eye. 
It wasn’t pretty—kind of ugly, really. But I liked looking at all 
those scrolls and buttons and knobs. It really did seem as if the 
clock could be magic. 

I thought about the flaw Dad had mentioned. I wondered 
what it was. Some kind of bump? A missing notch on one of the 
gears? Maybe a piece of chipped paint? 

I glanced back at the door to the den. Bubba wandered 
through it, purring. I petted him. 

Mom and Dad were still in the kitchen, cleaning up after 
dinner. I didn’t think it would matter if I just looked at the clock a 
little. 

Careful not to touch any buttons, I stared at the dial that 
showed the year. I ran my fingers along a curve of silver at the 
edge of the clock. I glanced at the little door over the face of the 
clock. I knew the cuckoo sat behind that door, waiting to leap out 
at the right time. 

I didn’t want to be surprised by the bird again. I checked the 
time. Five minutes to eight. 

Under the face of the clock I saw another door. A big door. I 
touched its gold knob. 

What’s behind this door? I wondered. Maybe the gears of the 
clock, or a pendulum. 

I glanced over my shoulder again. No one was looking. No 
problem if I just peeked behind that big clock door. 

I tugged on the gold knob. The door stuck. I pulled harder. 

The door flew open. 

I let out a scream as an ugly green monster burst out of the 
clock. It grabbed me and knocked me to the floor. 


“Mom! Dad! Help!” I shrieked. 

The monster raised its long claws over me. I covered my face, 
waiting to be slashed. 

“Goochy goochy goo!” The monster giggled and tickled me 
with its claws. 

I opened my eyes. Tara! Tara in her old Halloween costume! 

She rolled on the floor, giggling. “You’re so easy to scare!” 
she shouted. “You should have seen your face when I jumped out 
of the clock!” 

“It’s not funny!” I cried. “It’s—” 

Gong. 

Cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo, cuckoo! 

The bird popped out of the clock and started cuckooing. 
Okay, I admit it scared me again. But did Tara have to clutch her 
sides, laughing at me that way? 

“What’s going on in here?” Dad stood in the doorway, glaring 
down at us. 

He pointed at the clock. “What’s that door doing open? 
Michael, I told you to stay away from the clock!” 

“ME?” I cried. 

“He was trying to catch the cuckoo,” Tara lied. 

“T thought so,” Dad said. 

“Dad, that’s not true! Tara’s the one who—” 

“Enough of that, Michael. I’m sick of hearing you blame Tara 
every time you do something wrong. Maybe your mother is right. 
Maybe I have been encouraging your imagination a little too 
much.” 

“That’s not fair!” I yelled. “I don’t have any imagination! I 
never make anything up!” 

“Dad, he’s lying,” Tara said. “I came in here and saw him 
playing with the clock. I tried to stop him.” 

Dad nodded, swallowing every word his precious Tara said. 

There was nothing I could do. I stormed off to my room and 
slammed the door. 

Tara was the biggest pain in the world, and she never got 
blamed for anything. She even ruined my birthday. 


I turned twelve three days ago. Usually, people like their 


birthday. It’s supposed to be fun, right? 

Not for me. Tara made sure my birthday was the worst day of 
my life. Or at least one of the worst. 

First, she ruined my present. 

I could tell my parents were very excited about this present. 
My mother kept hopping around like a chicken, saying, “Don’t go 
in the garage, Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” 

I knew she’d hidden my present in there. But just to torture 
her, I asked, “Why not? Why can’t I go in the garage? The lock on 
my bedroom door is broken, and I need to borrow one of Dad’s 
tools....” 

“No, no!” Mom exclaimed. “Tell your father to fix the lock. 
He'll get the tools. You can’t go in there, because... well... there’s 
a huge mound of trash in there. It really stinks. It smells so bad, 
you could get sick from it!” 

Sad, isn’t it? And she thinks I get my “imagination” from 
Dad! 

“All right, Mom,” I promised. “I won’t go in the garage.” 

And I didn’t—even though the lock on my door really was 
broken. I didn’t want to spoil whatever surprise they had cooked 
up. 

They were throwing me a big birthday party that afternoon. 
A bunch of kids from school were coming over. Mom baked a 
cake and made snacks for the party. Dad ran around the house, 
setting up chairs and hanging crepe paper. 

“Dad, would you mind fixing the lock on my door?” I asked. 

I like my privacy—and I need that lock. Tara had broken it a 
week earlier. She’d been trying to kickbox the door down. 

“Sure, Michael,” Dad agreed. “Anything you say. After all, 
you’re the birthday boy.” 

“Thanks.” 

Dad took the toolbox upstairs and worked on the lock. Tara 
lounged around the dining room making trouble. As soon as Dad 
was gone, she pulled down a crepe paper streamer and left it 
lying on the floor. 

Dad fixed the lock and returned the tools to the garage. As he 
passed through the dining room, he noticed the torn-down 
streamer. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he mumbled. He 
taped it back up. A few minutes later, Tara tore it down again. 

“T know what you’re doing, Tara,” I told her. “Stop trying to 
wreck my birthday.” 

“T don’t have to wreck it,” she said. “It’s bad all by itself—just 


because it’s the day you were born.” She pretended to shudder in 
horror. 

I ignored her. It was my birthday. Nothing could keep me 
from having fun, not even Tara. 

That’s what I thought. 

About half an hour before the party, Mom and Dad called me 
into the garage. 

I pretended to go along with Mom’s silly story. “What about 
the horrible trash?” 

“Oh, that,” Mom clucked. “I made it up.” 

“Really?” I said. “Wow. It was so believable.” 

“If you believed that, you must be a moron,” Tara said. 

Dad threw open the garage door. I stepped inside. 

There stood a brand-new 21-speed bike. The bike Pd wanted 
for a long time. 

The coolest bike I’d ever seen! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“T love it!” I cried. “It’s awesome! Thanks!” 

“Cool bike, Mike,” Tara said. “Mom, I want one of these for 
my birthday.” 

Before I could stop her, she climbed up on the seat of my 
new bike. 

“Tara, get off!” I yelled. 

She didn’t listen. She tried to reach her feet to the pedals, but 
her legs were too short. The bike fell over. 

“Tara!” Mom cried, running to the little brat’s side. “Are you 
hurt?” 

Tara stood up and brushed herself off. “I’m okay. I scraped 
my knee a little, though.” 

I picked up my bike and inspected it. It was no longer 
perfectly shiny and black. There was a huge white scratch across 
the middle bar. 

It was practically ruined. 

“Tara, you wrecked my bike!” 

“Let’s not get overexcited, Michael,” Dad said. “It’s only a 
scratch.” 

“Don’t you even care about your sister?” Mom asked. “She 
could’ve been hurt!” 

“Its her own fault! She shouldn’t have touched my bike in 
the first place!” 

“Michael, you have a lot to learn about being a good 
brother,” Dad said. 


They make me so mad sometimes! 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “Your friends will be here soon.” 

The party. I thought the party would make me feel better. 
After all, there would be cake, presents, and my best friends. 
What could go wrong? 

It started out okay. One by one my friends arrived, and they 
all brought me presents. ld invited five guys: David, Josh, 
Michael B., Henry, and Lars; and three girls: Ceecee, Rosie, and 
Mona. 

I wasn’t so crazy about Ceecee and Rosie, but I really liked 
Mona. She has long, shiny brown hair and a turned-up nose that’s 
kind of cute. She’s tall, and good at basketball. There’s something 
sort of cool about her. 

Ceecee and Rosie are Mona’s best friends. I had to invite 
them if I was going to invite Mona. They always go everywhere 
together. 

Ceecee, Rosie, and Mona arrived all at once. They took off 
their jackets. Mona was wearing pink overalls over a white 
turtleneck. She looked great. I didn’t care what the other girls 
were wearing. 

“Happy birthday, Michael!” they all called out at the door. 

“Thanks,” I said. 

They each handed me a gift. Mona’s was small and flat and 
wrapped in silver paper. Probably a CD, I figured. But which one? 
What kind of CD would a girl like Mona think a guy like me 
would like? 

I set the presents on top of the pile in the living room. 

“Hey, Michael—what did your parents give you?” David 
asked. 

“Just a bike,” I said, trying to be cool about it. “A twenty-one 
speed.” 

I put on a CD. Mom and Tara brought in plates of 
sandwiches. Mom went back to the kitchen, but Tara stayed. 

“Your little sister is so cute,” Mona said. 

“Not once you get to know her,” I muttered. 

“Michael! That’s not very nice,” Mona said. 

“He’s a terrible big brother,” Tara told her. “He yells at me 
all the time.” 

“I do not! Get lost, Tara.” 

“T don’t have to.” She stuck her tongue out at me. 

“Let her stay, Michael,” Mona said. “She’s not bothering 
anybody.” 

“Hey, Mona,” Tara chirped. “You know, Michael really likes 


2) 


you. 

Mona’s eyes widened. “He does?” 

My face got red-hot. I glared at Tara. I wanted to strangle her 
right then and there. But I couldn’t—too many witnesses. 

Mona started laughing. Ceecee and Rosie laughed, too. 
Luckily, the guys didn’t hear this. They were around the CD 
player, skipping from cut to cut. 

What could I say? I did like Mona. I couldn’t deny it—it 
would hurt her feelings. But I couldn’t admit it, either. 

I wanted to die. I wanted to sink through the floor and die. 

“Michael, your face is all red!” Mona cried. 

Lars heard this and called out, “What did Webster do now?” 

Some of the guys call me by my last name. 

I grabbed Tara and dragged her into the kitchen, Mona’s 
laughter ringing in my ears. 

“Thanks a lot, Tara,” I whispered. “Why did you have to tell 
Mona I like her?” 

“Tt’s true, isn’t it?” the brat said. “I always tell the truth.” 

“Yeah, right!” 

“Michael—” Mom interrupted. “Are you being mean to Tara 
again?” 

I stormed out of the kitchen without answering her. 

“Hey, Webster,” Josh called when I returned to the living 
room. “Let’s see your new bike.” 

Good, I thought. A way to get away from the girls. 

I led them to the garage. They all stared at the bike and 
nodded at each other. They seemed really impressed. Then Henry 
grabbed the handlebars. 

“Hey, what’s this big scratch?” he said. 

“T know,” I explained. “My sister...” 

I stopped and shook my head. What was the use? 

“Let’s go back and open my presents,” I suggested. 

We trooped back into the living room. 

At least lve got more presents coming, I thought. Tara can’t 
ruin those. 

But Tara always finds a way. 

When I entered the living room, I found Tara sitting in the 
middle of a pile of torn-up wrapping paper. Rosie, Mona, and 
Ceecee sat around her, watching. 

Tara had opened all my presents for me. 

Thanks so much, Tara. 

She was ripping open the last present—Mona’s. 


“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

It was a CD. 

“Pve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara 
teased. 

Everybody laughed. They all thought Tara was a riot. 


Later, we all sat down in the dining room for cake and ice cream. 
I carried the cake myself. Mom followed me, holding plates, 
candles, and matches. 

It was my favorite kind of cake, chocolate-chocolate. 

Balancing the cake in my hands, I stepped through the 
kitchen door and into the dining room. 

I didn’t see Tara pressed against the wall. I didn’t see her 
stick her bratty little foot in the doorway. 

I tripped. The cake flew out of my hands. 

I landed on top of the cake. Facedown. Of course. 

Some kids gasped. Some tried to muffle their laughter. 

I sat up and wiped the brown frosting from my eyes. 

The first face I saw was Mona’s. She was shaking with 
laughter. 

Mom leaned over and scolded me. “What a mess! Michael, 
why don’t you look where you’re going?” 

I listened to the laughter and stared at my ruined cake. I had 
no candles to blow out now. But it didn’t matter. I decided to 
make a wish, anyway. 

I wish I could start this birthday all over again. 

I stood up, covered in gooey brown cake. My friends howled. 

“You look like the Hulk!” Rosie cried. 

Everybody laughed harder than ever. 

They all had a great time at my party. Everyone did. 

Except for me. 

My birthday was bad—very bad. But ruining it wasn’t the 
worst thing Tara did to me. 

Nobody would believe the worst thing. 


It happened the week before my birthday. Mona, Ceecee, and 
Rosie were coming over. We all had parts in the school play, and 
planned to rehearse together at my house. 

The play was a new version of The Frog Prince. Mona played 
the princess, and Ceecee and Rosie were her two silly sisters. 
Perfect casting, I thought. 

I played the frog, before the princess kisses him and turns 
him into a prince. For some reason, our drama teacher didn’t 
want me to play the prince. Josh got that part. 

Anyway, I decided that the frog is a better part. Because 
Mona, the princess, kisses the frog, not the prince. 

The girls would arrive any minute. 

Tara sat on the rug in the den, torturing our cat, Bubba. 
Bubba hated Tara almost as much as I did. 

Tara lifted Bubba by the hind legs, trying to make him do a 
handstand. Bubba yowled and squirmed and wriggled away. But 
Tara caught him and made him do a handstand again. 

“Stop that, Tara,” I ordered. 

“Why?” Tara said. “It’s fun.” 

“You're hurting Bubba.” 

“No, I’m not. He likes it. See? He’s smiling.” She let go of his 
hind legs and grabbed him with one hand under his front legs. 
With the other hand she lifted the corners of his mouth and 
stretched them into a pained smile. 

Bubba tried to bite her. He missed. 

“Tara,” I said, “let him go. And get out of here. My friends 
are coming over.” 

“No.” Now Tara tried to make Bubba walk on his front paws. 
He fell and bumped his nose. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. As I tried to take Bubba away from 
her, she let the cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across 
the arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom stood in 
the doorway. Bubba slipped past her into the hall. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. 
She left, calling over her shoulder, “I’m going upstairs to lie down 


for a while. I have a headache.” 

The doorbell rang. “We’ll get it, Mom!” I called. 

I knew it must be the girls at the door. I wanted to surprise 
them in my frog costume, but I wasn’t ready yet. 

“Answer the door, Tara,” I told the brat. “Tell Mona and the 
others to wait for me in the den. I'll be right back.” 

“Okay,” Tara said. She trotted off to the front door. I hurried 
upstairs to change into my costume. 

I pulled the costume out of my closet. I took off my pants and 
shirt. I picked up the frog suit, trying to open the zipper. It was 
stuck. 

I stood there in my underwear, tugging at the zipper. Then 
my bedroom door clicked open. 

“Here he is, girls,” I heard Tara say. “He told me to bring you 
upstairs.” 

No! I thought. Please don’t let it be true! 

I was afraid to look up. I knew what I’d see. 

The door wide open. Mona, Ceecee, Rosie, and Tara, staring 
at me in my underwear! 

I forced myself to look. It was worse than I’d thought. 

There they all stood—staring and laughing! 

Tara laughed hardest of all. She laughed like a rotten little 
hyena. 

You think that’s bad? Wait. There’s more. 


Two days before the underwear disaster, I was hanging around 
after school, playing basketball in the gym with Josh, Henry, and 
some other guys, including Kevin Flowers. 

Kevin is a good player, big and tough. He is twice as tall as 
me! He loves basketball. The Duke Blue Devils are his favorite 
college team. He wears a Blue Devils cap to school every day. 

While we were shooting baskets, I spied Tara hanging around 
the sidelines, where we’d all tossed our jackets and backpacks 
against the wall. 

I got a bad feeling. I always do when Tara’s around. 

What’s she doing there? I wondered. 

Maybe her teacher kept her after school, and she’s waiting 
for me to walk her home. 

She’s just trying to distract me, I told myself. Don’t let her. 
Don’t think about her. Just concentrate on the game. 


I felt good. I actually sank a few baskets before the game 
ended. My side won. We had Kevin Flowers on our team, that’s 
why. 

We all jogged to the wall to get our packs. Tara was gone. 

Funny, I thought. I guess she went home without me. 

I hoisted my pack over my shoulder and said, “See you 
tomorrow, guys.” 

But Kevin’s voice boomed through the gym. “Nobody move!” 

We all froze. 

“Where’s my cap?” he demanded. “My Blue Devils cap is 
missing!” 

I shrugged. I didn’t know where his stupid cap was. 

“Somebody took my cap,” Kevin insisted. “Nobody leaves 
until we find it.” 

He grabbed Henry’s backpack and started pawing through it. 
Everyone knows how much Kevin loves that cap. 

But Josh pointed at me. “Hey—what’s that hanging out of 
Webster’s pack?” he asked. 

“My pack?” I cried. I glanced over my shoulder. 

I saw a patch of blue sticking out of the zippered pocket. 

My stomach lurched. 

Kevin strode over to me and ripped the cap out of my pack. 

“T don’t know how it got there, Kevin,” I insisted. “I swear—” 

Kevin didn’t wait to hear my excuses. He never was much of 
a listener. 

rll spare you the blood and gore. Let’s just say my clothes 
didn’t fit too well when Kevin got through taking me apart! 

Josh and Henry helped me home. My mom didn’t recognize 
me. My eyes and nose had traded places with my chin. 

While I was in the bathroom cleaning myself up, I caught a 
glimpse of Tara in the mirror. The bratty grin on her face told me 
all I needed to know. 

“You!” I cried. “You put Kevin’s cap in my pack! Didn’t you!” 

Tara just grinned. Yeah. She did it, all right. 

“Why?” I demanded. “Why did you do it, Tara?” 

Tara shrugged and tried to look innocent. “Was that Kevin’s 
cap?” she said. “I thought it was yours.” 

“What a lie!” I cried. “I never wore a Duke cap, and you 
know it! You did that on purpose!” 

I was so furious, I couldn’t stand to look at her. I slammed 
the bathroom door in her face. 

And of course I got in trouble for slamming the door. 


Now you understand what I had to live with. 
Now you know why I did the terrible thing that I did. 
Anyone in my place would have done the same. 


I stayed in my room that night, thinking hard. Plotting a way to 
get Tara in trouble. 

But nothing came to me. At least, nothing good enough. 

Then the clock arrived. A few days later, Tara did something 
that gave me an idea. 

Tara couldn’t stay away from the cuckoo clock. One 
afternoon, Dad caught Tara playing with the clock hands. She 
didn’t get into any real trouble, of course—not sweet little Tara. 
But Dad did say, “I’ve got my eye on you, young lady. No more 
playing with the clock.” 

At last! I thought. At last Dad realizes that Tara’s not a 
perfect angel. And at last I’ve found a way to get her into big 
trouble. 

If something went wrong with the clock, I knew Tara would 
be blamed for it. 

So I decided to make sure something did go wrong. 

Tara deserved to get into trouble for the hundreds of terrible 
things she did to me. 

So what if just once she gets blamed for something she didn’t 
do? I thought. It’s only evening the score a little. 

That night, after everybody was asleep, I sneaked downstairs 
to the den. 

It was almost midnight. I crept up to the clock and waited. 

One minute to go. 

Thirty seconds. 

Ten seconds. 

Six, five, four, three, two, one... 

The gong sounded. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

The yellow bird popped out. I grabbed it in mid-cuckoo. It 
made short, strangling noises. 

I twisted its head around, so it faced backwards. It looked 
really funny that way. 

It finished out its twelve cuckoos, facing the wrong way. 

I laughed to myself. When Dad saw it, he’d go ballistic! 

The cuckoo slid back into its little window, still facing 
backwards. 

This is going to drive Dad insane! I thought wickedly. 


He’ll be furious at Tara. He’ll explode like a volcano! 

Finally, Tara will know what it feels like to be blamed for 
something you didn’t do. 

I crept back upstairs. Not a sound. No one saw me. 

I fell asleep that night a happy guy. There’s nothing like 
revenge. 


I slept late the next morning. I couldn’t wait to see Dad blow up 
at Tara. I just hoped I hadn’t missed it already. 

I hurried downstairs. I checked the den. 

The door stood open. 

No one there. No sign of trouble yet. 

Good, I thought. I haven’t missed it. 

I made my way into the kitchen, hungry. Mom, Dad, and 
Tara sat around the table, piled with empty breakfast dishes. 

As soon as they saw me, their faces lit up. 

“Happy Birthday!” they cried all at once. 

“Very funny,” I snapped. I opened a cabinet. “Is there any 
more cereal left?” 

“Cereal!” Mom said. “Don’t you want something special, like 
pancakes?” 

I scratched my head. “Well, sure. Pancakes would be great.” 

This was a little strange. Usually if I woke up late, Mom said 
I had to fix my own breakfast. And why should I want something 
special, anyway? 

Mom mixed a fresh batch of pancake batter. “Don’t go in the 
garage, Michael! Whatever you do, don’t go in the garage!” She 
hopped up and down, all excited. Just as if it were my birthday 
again. 

Weird. 

“.,.there’s a huge mound of trash in there,” Mom was saying. 
“It really stinks. It smells so bad, you could get sick from it!” 

“Mom, what’s with the trash story?” I asked. “I didn’t believe 
it the first time.” 

“Just don’t go into the garage,” she repeated. 

Why was she saying this to me? Why was she acting so 
weird? 

Dad excused himself, saying, “I’ve got a few important chores 
to do,” in a strange, jolly way. 

I shrugged and tried to eat my breakfast in peace. But after 
breakfast I passed through the dining room. Somebody had 
decorated it with crepe paper. One strand had been torn down. 


Weird. Totally weird. 

Dad came into the room, toolbox in hand. He picked up the 
torn piece of crepe paper and started to tape it back up again. 

“Why won’t this crepe paper stay up?” he asked. 

“Dad,” I said. “Why are you covering the dining room with 
crepe paper?” 

Dad smiled. “Because it’s your birthday, of course! Every 
birthday party needs crepe paper. Now, I bet you can’t wait to see 
your present, right?” 

I stared at him. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 


Mom and Dad led me to the garage. Tara followed. They all acted 
as if they were really going to give me a birthday present. 

Dad opened the garage door. 

There it was. The bike. 

It was perfectly shiny and new-looking. No scratches 
anywhere. 

That must be the surprise, I thought. They figured out a way 
to get rid of the scratch somehow. Or maybe they got me another 
new bike! 

“Do you like it?” Mom asked. 

“Tt’s awesome!” I replied. 

Tara said, “Cool bike, Mike. Mom, I want one of these for my 
birthday.” 

Then she jumped up on the seat. The bike fell over on her. 
When we pulled it up, it had a big scratch on it. 

Mom cried, “Tara! Are you hurt?” 

I couldn’t believe it. What a nightmare! 

It was happening all over again. Exactly as it had happened 
on my birthday. 

What’s going on? 

“What’s wrong, Michael?” Dad asked. “Don’t you like the 
bike?” 

What could I say? I felt sick. I felt so confused. 

Then it dawned on me. 

It must have been my wish, I thought. 

My birthday wish. 

After Tara tripped me and I fell on my cake, I wished I could 
go back in time and start my birthday all over again. 

Somehow my wish came true. 

Wow! I thought. This is kind of cool. 

“Let’s go inside,” Mom said. “The party guests will be here 
soon.” 

The party? 

Oh, no. 

Please, no! 

Do I have to live through that horrible party again? 


Yes. 

Yes, I had to live through the whole horrible nightmare 
again. 

My friends all showed up, just like the first time. 

I heard Tara say the awful words, “Hey, Mona. You know, 
Michael really likes you.” 

Mona said, “He does?” 

You already knew that, Mona, I thought. Tara told you four 
days ago. 

You were standing in that very same spot. Wearing those 
same pink overalls. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie cracked up. 

I panicked. This can’t go on, I thought. 

My mother came in, carrying a tray of soda. I grabbed her. 

“Mom,” I begged. “Please take Tara away. Shut her up in her 
room or something!” 

“Michael, why? Your sister wants to have fun, too.” 

“Mom—please!” 

“Oh, Michael, you’re being silly. Be nice to Tara. She won’t 
bother you. She’s just a little girl.” 

Mom left the room, stranding me with Tara and my friends. 

She couldn’t save me. 

No one could. 

I showed the guys my new bike. Henry said, “Hey, what’s this 
big scratch?” 

When we got back to the living room, there were all my 
presents, opened by Tara. 

“Look what Mona gave you, Michael!” Tara shouted. 

I know, I know, I thought. A CD. With great love songs on it. 

“Pve heard there are some great love songs on it,” Tara 
repeated. 

Everybody laughed. 

It was just as bad as before. 

No. Worse. Because I could see it all coming. And I couldn’t 
stop it. 

Could I? 

“Michael,” Mom called. “Come into the kitchen, please. It’s 
time for the birthday cake!” 


Here’s the test, I thought, dragging myself into the kitchen. 

rll carry in the cake—but this time I won’t trip. 

I know Tara is going to try and trip me. I won’t let her. 

I won’t make a fool of myself this time. 

I don’t have to. I don’t have to repeat everything the same 
way. 

Do I? 


I stood in the kitchen, staring at the cake. I could hear my friends 
laughing and talking in the dining room. Tara was in there, too. 

I knew she was standing just beyond the dining room door, 
waiting. Waiting to stick out her foot and trip me. Waiting to 
make me fall on my face and embarrass myself all over again. 

Not this time. 

I carefully picked up the cake in both hands. I started toward 
the dining room. 

Mom followed, just as before. 

I stopped in front of the entrance to the dining room. I 
glanced down. 

No sign of Tara’s foot. 

Carefully, watching closely, I stepped through the door. One 
step. 

So far, so good. 

Another step. I stood inside the dining room now. 

Pd made it! All I had to do was get to the table, about five 
steps away, and I’d be safe. 

I took another step forward. Another. 

Then I felt a tug on my foot. 

Tara reached out from under the table. 

So that was where she’d been hiding. I knew it now. But it 
was too late. 

Everything seemed to move in slow motion. Like in a dream. 

I heard an evil giggle. 

She grabbed my foot. 

Oh, no, I thought. It’s happened. 

I lost my balance. 

As I fell, I turned my head and glanced back. 

Tara sat under that table, smirking at me. 

I wanted to kill her. 

But first I had to fall on my face on a cake. 

The cake flew out of my arms. I turned my head again. 

Splat! 

Everybody gasped with laughter. I sat up and wiped the 
frosting from my eyes. 

Mona leaned over the table, laughing harder than anybody. 

The second time was more embarrassing than the first. 


I sat on the floor, my face covered with cake, thinking, how 
could I have been so stupid? 

Why did I have to make that wish? 

Pll never wish for anything ever again. 

I cleaned myself up and managed to survive the rest of the 
party. When I went to bed that night, I thought, at least it’s over. 

I switched off the light and pulled the covers up high. 

It’s over, I repeated. Pll go to sleep, and everything will be 
back to normal in the morning. 

I shut my eyes and fell asleep. But in my dreams, all night 
long, I saw scenes from my horrible birthday party. The 
nightmare party became a real nightmare. 

There was Tara, telling Mona that I liked her. Mona’s face 
loomed up large in my dreams, laughing, laughing. Ceecee and 
Rosie and the guys, all laughing right in my face. 

I tripped and fell on top of the cake, over and over again. 

I tossed and turned. Each dream was scarier than the last. 
Soon my friends looked like horrible monsters. And Tara was the 
most horrible of all. Her features melted into a blur as she 
laughed and laughed at me. 

Wake up, I told myself. Wake up! 

I dragged myself out of the nightmare world. I sat up in bed, 
in a cold sweat. 

The room was still dark. I glanced at the clock. 

Three o’clock in the morning. 

I can’t sleep, I thought miserably. I can’t calm down. 

I’ve got to tell Mom and Dad what happened. Maybe they can 
help. 

Maybe they can make me feel better. 

I climbed out of bed and hurried down the dark hall to their 
room. Their door was open a crack. 

I pushed it open. 

“Mom? Dad? Are you awake?” 

Dad rolled over and grunted, “Huh?” 

I shook Mom’s shoulder. “Mom?” 

Mom stirred. “What is it, Michael?” she whispered. She sat 
up and grabbed the clock radio. In the clock’s dim blue glow I 
saw her squint, trying to read the time. 

“It’s three o’clock!” she cried. 

Dad snorted and sat up suddenly. “Huh? What?” 

“Mom, you’ve got to listen to me!” I whispered. “Something 
creepy happened today. Didn’t you notice it?” 


“Michael, what is this—” 

“My birthday,” I explained. “Tara ruined my birthday, and I 
wished I could have it all over again. I wanted to make it better. 
But I never thought the wish would come true! Then, today, it 
was my birthday again! And everything happened exactly the 
same. It was horrible!” 

Dad rubbed his eyes. “That you, Michael?” 

Mom patted him. “Go back to sleep, dear. Michael’s just had 
a bad dream.” 

“No, Mom,” I cried. “It wasn’t a dream. It was real! My 
birthday happened twice! You were there, both times. Don’t you 
understand?” 

“Listen, Michael,” Mom began. I heard impatience in her 
voice. “I know you're excited about your birthday, but it’s two 
days away. Only two days to go—then it will be your birthday at 
last! Okay? So go back to bed now and get some sleep.” 

She kissed me good night. “Only two days till your birthday. 
Sweet dreams.” 


I staggered back to bed, my head spinning. 

Two days until my birthday? 

Hadn’t I just lived through my birthday—twice? 

I switched on the reading lamp and stared at the date on my 
watch. February third, it said. 

My birthday is February fifth. My birthday was two days 
away. 

Could it be true? Was time going backwards? 

No, I thought. I must be going nuts. 

I shook my head hard. I slapped myself a few times. Going 
back in time. I laughed at the idea. 

It’s impossible, I thought. Get a hold of yourself, Michael. 

All I did was wish to celebrate my birthday over again—once. 

I didn’t wish to repeat my twelfth birthday for the rest of my 
life! 

But if that’s what’s happening, why is it now two days before 
my birthday? Why isn’t it just the night before? 

Maybe time really is going backwards, I thought. Maybe this 
has nothing to do with my wish. 

But, then—why is this happening to me? 

I racked my brains. 

The clock. Dad’s cuckoo clock. 

I twisted the cuckoo’s head backwards... went to bed... and 
when I woke up, time had gone backwards. 

Could that be it? Did I do this? 

Is Dad’s clock really magic? 

Maybe I shouldn’t have turned that stupid bird backwards, I 
decided. It figures—I try to get Tara in trouble, and end up 
getting myself into a horrible mess. 

Well, if that is what happened, it’s easy enough to fix. 

Pll just go downstairs and turn the cuckoo’s head back 
around. 

I tiptoed out of my room and down the stairs. My parents had 
probably fallen back to sleep already, but I didn’t want to take 
any chances. 

I definitely didn’t want Dad to catch me fooling around with 
his precious clock. 

My feet hit the cold, bare floor of the foyer. I crept into the 


den. I switched on a lamp. I glanced around the room. The 
cuckoo clock was gone! 


10 


“No!” I cried. 

Had the clock been stolen? 

Without the clock, how could I fix everything? How could I 
turn the bird’s head around and make my life go forward again? 

I raced upstairs. I didn’t care who I woke up now. 

“Mom! Dad!” I yelled. I burst into their room and shook Mom 
awake again. 

“Michael, what is it?” She sounded furious. “It’s the middle of 
the night. We’re trying to get some sleep!” 

Let them be angry, I thought. This was way more important. 

“The cuckoo clock! It’s gone!” 

Dad rolled over. “What? Huh?” 

“Michael, you’ve had another nightmare,” Mom assured me. 

“It’s not a nightmare, Mom—it’s true! Go downstairs and see 
for yourself! There’s no cuckoo clock in the den!” 

“Michael—listen to me. It was a dream.” Mom’s voice was 
firm. “We don’t own a cuckoo clock. We never did.” 

I staggered backwards. 

“It’s just a dream. A bad dream,” she said. 

“But Dad bought it....” 

I stopped. 

I understood now. 

The date was February third. Two days before my birthday. 

And five days before Dad bought the cuckoo clock. 

We were traveling back in time. Dad hadn’t bought the clock 
yet. 

I felt sick. 

Mom said, “Michael, are you all right?” She climbed out of 
bed and pressed the back of her hand against my forehead. 

“You feel a little warm,” she said, nicer now that she thought 
I might be sick. “Come on, let’s get you to bed. I’ll bet you have a 
fever—and that’s why you’re having all these nightmares.” 

Dad grunted again. “What? Sick?” 

“PII take care of it, Herman,” Mom whispered. “Go back to 
sleep.” 

She guided me back to bed. She thought I was sick. 

But I knew the truth. 

I had made time move backwards. And the clock was gone. 


How would I fix things now? 


By the time I got to the kitchen the next morning, Mom, Dad, and 
Tara had already eaten. 

“Hurry up, Michael,” Dad said. “You’ll be late.” 

Being late for school didn’t seem to matter much at the 
moment. 

“Dad, please sit down for a second,” I pleaded. “Just for a 
minute. It’s important.” 

Dad sat, impatiently, on the edge of a kitchen chair. 
“Michael, what is it?” 

“Mom, are you listening?” I asked. 

“Sure, honey,” Mom said. She put the milk in the refrigerator 
and busily wiped off the counter. 

“This is going to sound weird,” I began. “But I’m not 
kidding.” 

I paused. Dad waited. I could tell by the tension in his face he 
expected me to say something totally dopey. 

I didn’t disappoint him. 

“Dad, time is going backwards. Every day I wake up—and it’s 
an earlier day than the last!” 

Dad’s face drooped. “Michael, you have a wonderful 
imagination, but I’m really running late. Can we talk about it 
when I get home from work tonight? Or why don’t you write it 
down? You know I love reading science fiction stories.” 

“But, Dad—” 

Mom said, “Did somebody remember to feed the cat?” 

“I did it,” Tara said. “Even though it’s supposed to be 
Michael’s job.” 

“Thanks, Tara,” Mom said. “Let’s hit the road, everybody.” 

I grabbed a muffin as Mom hustled us out the door. 

They’re too busy to understand right now, I reasoned as I 
hurried to school. Tonight, at dinner, when I have more time to 
explain... 

I had lots of time to think about my problem during school. 
I'd lived through this day before, too. Pd already done all the 
work, heard all the lessons, eaten the lousy lunch. 

When my math teacher, Mr. Parker, turned his back to the 
class, I knew what would happen next. I predicted it to the 
second. Kevin Flowers threw an eraser at him and hit him smack 
on the back of his black pants. 

Now Mr. Parker is going to turn around... I thought, 
watching Mr. Parker. 


He turned around. 

... now he'll yell at Kevin... 

Mr. Parker shouted, “Kevin Flowers—to the principal’s office, 
now!” 

.. now Kevin will start yelling his head off. 

“How do you know it was me!” Kevin yelled. “You didn’t see 
me do anything!” 

The rest of the scene happened as I remembered it. Mr. 
Parker cowered a bit—Kevin is pretty big—but told Kevin to go to 
the principal’s office again. Kevin kicked over an empty chair and 
threw his books across the room. 

It was all so boring. 

After school, I found Tara in the den, teasing Bubba. She 
lifted his hind legs and made him walk on his front paws. 

“Tara, stop it!” I cried. I tried to take Bubba away from her. 
She let the cat go. Bubba meowed and scratched me across the 
arm. 

“Ow!” I dropped Bubba. He ran away. 

It felt very familiar. And painful. 

“Michael, what were you doing to that cat?” Mom demanded. 

“Nothing! He scratched me!” 

“Stop teasing him, and he won’t scratch you,” Mom scolded. 

The doorbell rang. 

Oh, no. 

Mona, Ceecee, and Rosie. The Frog Prince. 

The underwear. 

I can’t let it happen. 

But my feet started taking me upstairs. I was walking like a 
robot to my room. 

Why am I doing this? I asked myself. 

I'll get out my frog costume. The zipper will be stuck. 

Tara will open the door, and Pll be standing there in my 
underpants. 

Mona will laugh her head off. Pll want to sink through the 
floor. 

I know all this will happen. 

So why am I doing it? 

Can’t I stop myself? 


11 


Don’t go upstairs, I begged myself. Don’t go to your room. 

You don’t have to do this. 

There must be a way to stop it, to control it. 

I forced myself to turn around. I walked back down the steps. 
I sat down on the third step. 

Tara answered the door, and soon the girls stood before me 
in the foyer. 

Okay, I thought. I’m controlling it. Already things are 
happening differently from before. 

“Michael, where’s your costume?” Mona asked. “I really want 
to see what your costume looks like.” 

“Uh, no you don’t,” I said, shrinking a little. “It’s really ugly, 
and I don’t want to scare you girls—” 

“Don’t be a jerk, Michael,” Ceecee said. “Why would we be 
scared by a stupid frog costume?” 

“And, anyway, I want to rehearse with it,” Mona added. “I 
don’t want to see the costume for the first time onstage. I’ll need 
to be prepared for it. I need to practice with the costume—and 
you in it.” 

“Come on, Michael,” Tara put in. “Show them the costume. I 
want to see it, too.” 

I flashed her a dirty look. I knew what she had in mind. 

“No,” I insisted. “I can’t do that.” 

“Why not?” Mona demanded. 

“T just can’t.” 

“He’s shy!” Rosie exclaimed. 

“He’s embarrassed,” Tara added. 

“No, it’s not that,” I said. “It’s just that... it’s awfully hot in 
that costume, and—” 

Mona leaned close to me. I smelled something sweet, like 
strawberries. It must’ve been the shampoo she used. “Come on, 
Michael,” she said. “For me?” 

“No.” 

She stamped her foot. “I won’t rehearse our scenes unless you 
put on that costume!” 

I sighed. I didn’t see any way out of it. 

Mona wouldn’t leave me alone until I put on that frog 
costume. 


I gave in. “Okay.” 

“Hurray!” Tara cried. I gave her another dirty look. 

All right, I thought. I may have to put on the costume. But 
that doesn’t mean the girls have to see me in my underwear. 

I can still keep that from happening. 

I trudged up to my room. But this time, I locked the door. 

Now try to embarrass me, Tara, I thought. You can’t outsmart 
Michael Webster. No way. 

The door was locked. I felt sure I was safe. 

I took off my jeans and my shirt. I dragged the frog costume 
out of the closet. 

I tugged on the zipper. It was stuck. 

Just like the last time. 

But this time it’s okay, I told myself. The door is locked. I 
have privacy. 

Then the door flew open. 

I stood helplessly in my underwear. Mona, Rosie, and Ceecee 
stared at me. Then they screamed and started laughing. 

“Tara!” I yelled. “The door was locked!” 

“No, it wasn’t,” Tara replied. “The lock’s broken, remember?” 

“No!” I cried. “Dad fixed it... he fixed it...” 

I tried to remember when Dad had fixed the lock on my 
bedroom door. 

Oh, right. 

It was after the underwear nightmare. On my birthday. 

So it hadn’t happened yet. 

How was I supposed to keep all this straight? 

Oh, no, I thought. I’m doomed. 

Time is all messed up. And I have no way of stopping it. 

I began to shake. This was too frightening. 

Where would it end? I had no idea. It was getting scarier by 
the minute. 


I could hardly eat dinner that night. I’d eaten it before, of course, 
and hadn’t liked it the first time. Peas, carrots, and mushrooms. 
Over brown rice. 

I picked at the rice and the carrots. I never eat peas. I slipped 
them into my napkin when Mom and Dad weren't looking. 

I watched Mom, Dad, and Tara eat dinner as if nothing were 
wrong. They sat calmly around the table, saying the same things 
they’d said last time. 

Mom and Dad must notice that something is weird, I thought. 


They must. 

So why don’t they say anything about it? 

I waited for Dad to finish telling us about his day at work. 
Then I brought up the subject again. I decided to take it slowly. 

“Mom? Dad? Doesn’t this dinner seem a little bit familiar?” 

“TIl say,” Dad replied. “It reminds me of the lunch we ate at 
that vegetarian restaurant last month. Ugh.” 

Mom glared at him, then at me. “What are you trying to tell 
us, Michael?” she said frostily. “Are you tired of eating healthy 
food?” 

“T am,” Dad said. 

“Me, too,” Tara chimed in. 

“No. No way,” I insisted. “You don’t understand. I don’t mean 
that we’ve eaten food like this before. I mean that we have eaten 
this very meal before. We’re eating it twice.” 

Dad frowned. “No weird theories at the dinner table, please, 
Michael.” 

They weren’t getting it. I plowed ahead. “It’s not just this 
dinner. It’s this whole day. Haven’t you noticed? We’re doing 
everything over! Time is going backwards!” 

“Shut up, Michael,” Tara said. “This is so boring. Can’t we 
talk about something else?” 

“Tara,” Mom scolded, “don’t say ‘shut up’.” She turned to me. 
“Have you been reading those comic books again?” 

I grew very frustrated. “You’re not listening to me!” I cried. 
“Tomorrow is going to be yesterday, and the day after that will be 
the day before! Everything is going backwards!” 

Mom and Dad exchanged glances. They seemed to be sharing 
a secret. 

They do know something, I thought with excitement. They 
know something, but they’re afraid to tell me. 

Mom gazed at me very seriously. “All right, Michael. We 
might as well tell you,” she said. “We’re all caught in a time 
warp, and there’s nothing we can do about it.” 


12 


Mom pushed back her chair. She walked backwards to the stove. 
She started dishing rice from her plate into the pot on the stove. 

“Yenoh, ecir erom?” she asked Dad. 

Huh? 

“Esaelp, sey,” Dad replied. 

“Oot, em,” Tara said. She spit some rice out on her fork and 
dumped it back on her plate. She was eating backwards! 

Dad stood up and walked backwards to Mom. Then Tara 
skipped backwards around the kitchen table. 

They were all talking and moving backwards. We really were 
in a time warp! 

“Hey!” I cried. “It’s true!” 

Why wasn’t I talking backwards, too? 

“Norom,” Tara said. 

She cracked up first. Then Dad started laughing. Then Mom. 

I finally caught on. It was a joke. “You—you’re all horrible!” I 
cried. 

That made them laugh even more. 

“T was wondering when you’d figure it out,” Tara sneered. 

They all sat down at the table again. Mom couldn’t help 
grinning. “We’re sorry, Michael. We didn’t mean to make fun of 
you.” 

“Yes we did!” Tara exclaimed. 

I stared at them in horror. 

This was the most terrible thing that had ever happened to 
me. And my parents thought it was a big joke. 

Then Dad said, “Michael, did you ever hear of déjf vu?” 

I shook my head. 

“Its when something happens to you and you have the 
feeling it’s happened before,” he explained. “Everyone feels that 
way once in a while. It’s nothing to be afraid of.” 

“Maybe you’re nervous about something,” Mom added. “Like 
your birthday coming up. Ill bet you’re a little nervous about 
turning twelve, right? And planning your party and everything?” 

“Not really,” I protested. “I know that feeling. But this isn’t 
the same thing! This is—” 

“Say, Mike,” Dad interrupted. “Wait till you see what I got 
you for your birthday. You’re going to flip! It’s a big surprise.” 


No, it isn’t, I thought unhappily. 

It’s not a surprise at all. You’ve given me that birthday 
present twice already. How many times are you going to give me 
that stupid bike? 

“Mom, Michael is hiding peas in his napkin again,” Tara 
ratted. 

I smushed the peas up in my napkin and threw it in her face. 


When I went to school the next morning, I wasn’t sure what day it 
was. It was getting hard to keep track. My classes, my lunch, the 
stuff my friends said all seemed familiar. But nothing unusual 
happened. It could have been any day of the school year. 

I played basketball after school that day, as usual. While I 
was playing, a funny feeling crept over me. 

A bad feeling. 

I’ve already played this game, I realized. And it didn’t end 
well. 

But I kept on playing, waiting to see what would happen. 

My team won. We collected our packs. 

Then Kevin Flowers yelled, “Where’s my Blue Devils cap?” 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. 

This was that basketball game. How could I forget? 

Good old Tara. She’s done it again! “Nobody leaves until we 
find that cap!” I shut my eyes and handed over my pack. I knew 
what was coming. Might as well get it over with. 


Getting pounded to a pulp by Kevin Flowers hurt a lot. But at 
least the pain didn’t last long. 

The next morning when I woke up, it was all gone. The pain, 
the scabs, the bruises, everything. 

What day is it today? I wondered. It must be a few days 
before Kevin beat me up. 

I hope I won’t have to live through that a third time. 

But what will happen today? 

As I walked to school, I searched for clues. I tried to 
remember what had happened a day or two before Kevin beat me 
up. 

A math test? Maybe. I hoped not. But at least it would be 
easier this time around. I could even try to remember what the 
problems were and look up all the answers before the test! 

I was a little late today. Did that mean something? I 
wondered. Would I get into trouble? 

My homeroom teacher, Ms. Jacobson, had closed the 


classroom door. I opened it. The classroom was already full. 

Ms. Jacobson didn’t look up when I walked in. 

I must not be that late, I thought. Guess I won’t get in trouble 
after all. 

I started for the back of the room, where I usually sit. As I 
passed through the rows of desks, I glanced at the other kids. 

Who’s that guy? I wondered, staring at a chubby, blond kid 
Td never seen before. 

Then I noticed a pretty girl with cornrows and three earrings 
in one ear. I’d never seen her before, either. 

I stared at all the faces in the classroom. None of the kids 
looked familiar. 

What’s going on? I wondered, feeling panic choke my throat. 

I don’t know any of these kids! 

Where’s my class? 


13 


Ms. Jacobson finally turned around. She stared at me. 

“Hey,” the blond kid shouted. “What’s a third-grader doing in 
here?” 

Everybody laughed. I couldn’t understand why. 

A third-grader? Who was he talking about? 

I didn’t see any third-graders. 

“You're in the wrong classroom, young man,” Ms. Jacobson 
said to me. She opened the door, showing me the way out. 

“I think your room is downstairs on the second floor,” she 
added. 

“Thanks,” I said. I didn’t know what she was talking about. 
But I decided to go along with her. 

She shut the door behind her. I could hear the kids laughing 
behind the door. I hurried down the hall to the boy’s bathroom. I 
needed to splash some cold water on my face. Maybe that would 
help. 

I turned on the cold water tap. Then I glanced in the mirror, 
very quickly. 

The mirror seems a little higher than usual, I thought. 

I washed my hands in the cold water and splashed some on 
my face. 

The sink seems higher, too, I noticed. Strange. 

Am I in the right school? 

I glanced in the mirror again—and got the shock of my life. 

Was that me? 

I looked so young. 

I ran my hand through my short, brushlike brown hair. That 
dopey crew cut I’d had all through the third grade. 

I don’t believe it, I thought, shaking my head. I’m a third- 
grader again! 

I’ve got my third-grade hair. My third-grade clothes. My 
third-grade body. 

But my seventh-grade brain. I think. 

Third grade. 

That means I’ve slipped back four years—in one night. 

My whole body started to tremble. I grabbed on to the sink to 
steady myself. 

I was suddenly paralyzed with fear. 


Things were speeding up. Now I lost whole years in one 
night! How old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I asked 
myself. 

Time was going backward faster and faster—and I still hadn’t 
found a way to stop it! 

I shut off the water and dried my face with a paper towel. I 
didn’t know what to do. I was so frightened, I couldn’t think 
straight. 

I walked back to my third-grade classroom. 

First I glanced through the window of the classroom door. 
There she was, Mrs. Harris, my old third-grade teacher. Pd know 
that helmet of silver hair anywhere. 

And I knew, as soon as I saw her, that I really had gone back 
in time four years. 

Because old Mrs. Harris shouldn’t have been in school that 
day. She’d retired two years earlier. When I was in fifth grade. 

I opened the door and stepped into the classroom. 

Mrs. Harris didn’t bat an eye. “Take a seat, Michael,” she 
commanded. She never mentioned the fact that I was late. 

Mrs. Harris always liked me. 

I checked out the other kids in the class. I saw Henry, Josh, 
Ceecee, and Mona, all little third-graders now. 

Mona wore her shiny brown hair in two braids. Ceecee wore 
hers in one of those stupid side ponytails. 

Josh didn’t have pimples on his forehead, I noticed. Henry 
had a sticker on the back of his hand—Donatello, from the 
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. 

It was my class all right. 

I sat down at an empty desk in the back. My old desk. Right 
next to Henry. 

I glanced at him. He was picking his nose. 

Gross. ld forgotten about that part of being a third-grader. 

“Michael, we’re on page 33 in your spelling book,” Mrs. 
Harris informed me. 

I reached inside the desk and found my spelling book. I 
opened it to page 33. 

“These are the words you'll need to know for tomorrow’s 
spelling test,” Mrs. Harris announced. She wrote the words on the 
board, even though we could read them right there in the spelling 
book: Taste, sense, grandmother, easy, happiness. 

“Man,” Henry whispered to me. “These words are tough. 
Look how many letters there are in grandmother!” 

I didn’t know what to say to him. On my last spelling test 


(when I was still in the seventh grade), Pd had to spell psychology. 
Grandmother wasn’t a big challenge for me anymore. 

I zoned out for most of the day. Pd always wished school 
were easier, but not this easy. It was so babyish and boring. 

Lunch and recess were even worse. Josh chewed up a banana 
and stuck his tongue out at me. Henry painted his face with 
chocolate pudding. 

Finally the school day ended. I dragged my little third-grade 
body home. 

When I opened the front door, I heard a horrible screech. 
Bubba, just a kitten now, raced past me and out the door. Tara 
toddled after him. 

“Don’t tease the cat,” I scolded her. 

“Youre dumb,” she replied. 

I stared at Tara. She was three years old. 

I tried to remember: Had I liked her better when she was 
three? 

“Give me a piggyback!” she cried, tugging on my backpack. 

“Get off me,” I said. 

My pack dropped to the floor. I stooped to pick it up. She 
grabbed a hunk of my hair and yanked it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

She laughed and laughed. 

“That hurt!” I yelled, and shoved her—just as Mom stepped 
into the foyer. 

She rushed to Tara’s side. “Michael, don’t shove your sister. 
She’s only a little girl!” 

I stormed off to my room to think. 

No, I hadn’t liked Tara better when she was three. She was as 
much of a brat as ever. 

She was born a brat, and she’d never grow out of it, I knew. 
She’d be a brat for the rest of her life, driving me crazy even 
when we're old. 

If we ever get to be old, I thought with a shudder. We’ll never 
grow up at this rate. 

What am I going to do? I worried. I’ve slipped back in time 
four years! If I don’t do something fast, I’ll be a baby again. 

And then what? 

A cold shiver ran down my back. 

And then what? I asked myself. 

Will I disappear completely? 


14 


I woke up in a panic every morning. 

What day was it? What year was it? 

I had no idea. 

I climbed out of bed—it seemed farther away from the floor 
than it used to—and padded across the hall to the bathroom. 

I stared in the mirror. How old was I? Younger than I’'d been 
the day before, I knew that much. 

I went back to my room and began to get dressed. Mom had 
left my clothes for the day folded on a chair in my room. 

I examined the jeans I was supposed to wear. They had a 
picture of a cowboy on the back pocket. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. These jeans. The cowboy jeans. 

Second grade. 

That means I must be seven years old now. 

I stepped into the pants, thinking, I can’t believe I have to 
wear these stupid jeans again. 

Then I unfolded the shirt Mom had picked out for me. 

My heart sank when I saw it: A cowboy shirt—with fringe 
and everything. 

This is so embarrassing, I thought. How could I have ever let 
Mom do this to me? 

Deep down I knew that I used to like these clothes. I 
probably picked them out myself. 

But I couldn’t stand to admit that I’d ever been so stupid. 

Downstairs, Tara was still in her pajamas, watching cartoons. 
She was now two. 

When she saw me pass through the living room, she held out 
her arms to me. “Kiss! Kiss!” she called. 

She wanted me to kiss her? That didn’t seem like Tara. 

But maybe the two-year-old Tara was still sweet and 
innocent. Maybe, at two, Tara was actually likable. 

“Kiss! Kiss!” she begged. 

“Give poor Tara a kiss,” Mom called from the kitchen. 
“You’re her big brother, Michael. She looks up to you.” 

I sighed. “Okay.” 

I leaned down to give Tara a kiss on the cheek. With one 
chubby index finger, she poked me in the eye. 

“Ow!” I shrieked. 


Tara laughed. 

Same old terrible Tara, I thought as I stumbled into the 
kitchen, one hand over my sore eye. 

She was born bad! 

This time, at school, I knew which classroom to go to. 

There sat all my old friends, Mona and everybody, younger 
than ever. ld forgotten how dopey everybody used to look when 
we were little. 

I sat through another dull day of learning stuff I already 
knew. Subtraction. How to read books with really big print. 
Perfecting my capital L. 

At least it gave me lots of time to think. 

Every day I tried to figure out what to do. But I never came 
up with an answer. 

Then I remembered Dad telling us he’d been wanting the 
cuckoo clock for fifteen years. 

Fifteen years! That’s it! The clock must be at that antique 
store! 

rll go find the clock, I decided. I couldn’t wait for school to 
end that day. 

I figured if I could turn the cuckoo around, time would go 
forward again. I knew the dial that showed the year must be 
going backwards, too. All I had to do was reset the date on the 
clock to the right year, and I’d be twelve again. 

I missed being twelve. Seven-year-olds don’t get away with 
much. Someone’s always watching you. 

When the school day ended, I started down the block toward 
my house. I knew the crossing guard was watching me, making 
sure I’d get home safely. 

But at the second block I dashed around the corner to the bus 
stop. I hoped the crossing guard hadn’t seen me. 

I stood behind a tree, trying not to be seen. 

A few minutes later, a bus pulled over. The doors opened 
with a hiss. I stepped aboard. 

The bus driver eyed me strangely. “Aren’t you a little young 
to be riding the bus by yourself?” he asked me. 

“Mind your own business,” I replied. 

He looked startled, so I added, “I’m meeting Daddy at his 
office. Mommy said it was okay.” 

He nodded and let the doors slide shut. 

I started to put three quarters in the coin slot, but the driver 
stopped me after two. 

“Whoa, there, buddy,” he said, pressing the third quarter into 


my palm. “Fare’s only fifty cents. Keep this quarter for a phone 
call.” 

“Oh, yeah. Right.” Pd forgotten. They raised the bus fare to 
75 cents when I was eleven. But now I was only seven. I put the 
quarter in my pocket. 

The bus pulled away from the curb and chugged downtown. 

I remembered hearing Dad say that Anthony’s Antiques and 
Stuff was across the street from his office. I got off the bus at 
Dad’s block. 

I hoped Dad wouldn’t see me. I knew I’d be in big trouble if 
he did. 

I wasn’t allowed to ride the bus by myself when I was seven. 

I hurried past Dad’s building and crossed the street. On the 
corner stood a construction site; just a pile of bricks and rubble, 
really. Further down the block I saw a black sign with Anthony’s 
Antiques and Stuff painted on it in gold letters. 

My heart began to pound. 

I’m almost there, I thought. Soon everything will be all right. 

Pll just walk into the store and find the clock. Then, when no 
one’s looking, I’ll turn the cuckoo around and fix the year. 

I won’t have to worry about waking up tomorrow morning as 
a three-year-old or something. My life will go back to normal. 

Life will seem so easy, I told myself, when time is moving 
forward the way it’s supposed to. Even with Tara around! 

I gazed through the big plate-glass window of the shop. 
There it stood, right in the window. The clock. 

My palms began to sweat, I felt so excited. 

I hurried to the shop door and turned the handle. 

It wouldn’t move. I jiggled it harder. 

The door was locked. 

Then I noticed a sign, tucked in the bottom corner of the 
door. 

It said, CLOSED FOR VACATION. 


15 


I let out a howl of frustration. “NOOO!” I cried. Tears sprang to 
my eyes. “No! Not after all this.” 

I banged my head against the door. I couldn’t stand it. 

Closed for vacation. 

How could I have such terrible luck? 

How long was Anthony planning to be on vacation? I 
wondered. How long will the shop be closed? 

By the time it reopens, I could be a baby! 

I gritted my teeth and thought, there’s no way I’m letting that 
happen. No way! 

I’ve got to do something. Anything. 

I pressed my nose against the shop window. The cuckoo 
clock was standing there, two feet in front of me. 

And I couldn’t get to it. 

The window stood between me and that clock. 

The window... 

Normally, I would never think of doing what I decided to do 
at that moment. 

But I was desperate. I had to reach that clock. 

It really was a matter of life and death! 

I strolled down the block to the construction site, trying to 
look casual. Trying not to look like a kid who was planning to 
break a shop window. 

I stuffed my hands in the pockets of my cowboy jeans and 
whistled. I was sort of grateful to be wearing this stupid cowboy 
outfit after all. It made me look innocent. 

Who would suspect a seven-year-old in a cowboy suit of 
trying to break into an antique shop? 

I kicked around a little dirt at the construction site. Kicked a 
few rocks. Nobody seemed to be working there. 

Slowly I made my way over to a pile of bricks. I glanced 
around to see if anybody saw me. 

The coast was clear. 

I picked up a brick and hefted it in my hand. It was very 
heavy. It wouldn’t be easy for me, in my little second-grade body, 
to throw it far. 

But I didn’t have to throw it far. Just through the window. 

I tried stuffing the brick in my pants pocket, but it was too 


big. So I carried it in both hands back to the shop. 

I tried to look as if it were perfectly normal for a boy to be 
carrying a brick down the street. 

A few adults quickly passed by. No one gave me a second 
glance. 

I stood in front of the shiny plate-glass window, weighing the 
brick in my hand. I wondered if a burglar alarm would go off 
when I broke the window. 

Would I be arrested? 

Maybe it wouldn’t matter. If I made time go to the present, 
Td escape the police. 

Be brave, I told myself. Go for it! 

With both hands, I raised the brick over my head... 

...and someone grabbed me from behind. 


16 


“Help!” I shouted. I spun around. “Dad!” 

“Michael, what are you doing here?” Dad demanded. “Are 
you by yourself?” 

I let the brick fall to the sidewalk. He didn’t seem to see it. 

“J—I wanted to surprise you,” I lied. “I wanted to come visit 
you after school.” 

He stared at me as if he didn’t quite understand. So I added, 
for good measure, “I missed you, Daddy.” 

He smiled. “You missed me?” He was touched. I could tell. 

“How did you get here?” he asked. “On the bus?” 

I nodded. 

“You know yow’re not allowed to ride the bus by yourself,” 
he said. But he didn’t sound angry. I knew that line about missing 
him would soften him up. 

Meanwhile, I still had the same major problem—getting my 
hands on the cuckoo clock. 

Could Dad help me? Would he? I was willing to try anything. 
“Dad,” I said, “that clock—” 

Dad put his arm around me. “Isn’t it a beauty? I’ve been 
admiring it for years.” 

“Dad, I’ve got to get to the clock,” I insisted. “It’s very, very 
important! Do you know when the store will open again? We’ve 
got to get that clock somehow!” 

Dad misunderstood me. He patted me on the head and said, 
“I know how you feel, Michael. I wish I could have the clock right 
now. But I can’t afford it. Maybe some day...” 

He pulled me away from the shop. “Come on—let’s go home. 
I wonder what’s for supper tonight?” 

I didn’t say another word all the way home in the car. All I 
could think about was the clock—and what would happen to me 
next. 

How old will I be when I wake up tomorrow? I wondered. 

Or how young? 


17 


When I opened my eyes the next morning, everything had 
changed. 

The walls were painted baby blue. The bedspread and the 
curtains matched. The material was printed with bouncing 
kangaroos. On one wall hung a needlepoint picture of a cow. 

It wasn’t my room, but it looked familiar. 

Then I felt a lump in the bed. I reached under the kangaroo 
covers and pulled out Harold, my old teddy bear. 

I slowly understood. I was back in my old bedroom. 

How had I ended up there? It was Tara’s room now. 

I jumped out of bed. I was wearing Smurf pajamas. 

I swear I don’t remember ever liking Smurfs that much. 

I ran to the bathroom to look in the mirror. 

How old was I now? 

I couldn’t tell. I had to stand on the toilet seat to see my face. 

A bad sign. 

Yikes. I looked about five years old! 

I hopped off the toilet seat and hurried downstairs. 

“Hello, Mikey,” Mom said, squeezing me and giving me a big 
kiss. 

“Hi, Mommy,” I said. I couldn’t believe how babyish my 
voice sounded. 

Dad sat at the kitchen table, drinking coffee. He put down his 
mug and held out his arms. “Come give Daddy a good morning 
kiss,” he said. 

I sighed and forced myself to run into his arms and kiss him 
on the cheek. I’d forgotten how many stupid things little kids 
have to put up with. 

I ran out of the kitchen on my little five-year-old legs, 
through the living room, into the den, and back to the kitchen. 
Something was missing. 

No, someone was missing. 

Tara. 

“Sit still for a minute, sweetie,” Mom said, scooping me up 
and plopping me into a chair. “Want some cereal?” 

“Where’s Tara?” I demanded. 

“Who?” Mom replied. 

“Tara,” I repeated. 


Mom glanced at Dad. Dad shrugged. 

“You know,” I persisted. “My little sister.” 

Mom smiled. “Oh, Tara,” she said, seeming to understand at 
last. 

She glanced at Dad and mouthed, “Invisible friend.” 

“Huh?” Dad said out loud. “He has an invisible friend?” 

Mom frowned at him and gave me a bowl of cereal. “What 
does your friend Tara look like, Mikey?” 

I didn’t answer her. I was too shocked to speak. 

They don’t know who I’m talking about! I realized. 

Tara doesn’t exist. She hasn’t been born yet! 

For a brief moment, I felt a thrill. No Tara! I could go 
through this whole day without ever seeing, hearing, or smelling 
Tara the Terrible! How totally awesome! 

But then the real meaning of this sank in. 

One Webster kid had disappeared. 

I was next. 


After Pd finished my cereal, Mom took me upstairs to get dressed. 
She put on my shirt and pants and socks and shoes. She didn’t tie 
the shoes, though. 

“Okay, Mikey,” she said. “Let’s practice tying your shoes. 
Remember how we did it yesterday?” 

She took my shoelaces in her fingers and, as she tied them, 
chanted, “The bunny hops around the tree and ducks under the 
bush. Remember?” 

She sat back to watch me try to tie my other shoe. I could tell 
by the look on her face she didn’t expect me to get very far. 

I bent over and easily tied the shoe. I didn’t have time to fool 
around with this stuff. 

Mom stared at me in amazement. 

“Come on, Mom, let’s get going,” I said, straightening up. 

“Mikey!” Mom cried. “You did it! You tied your shoe for the 
first time!” She grabbed me and hugged me hard. “Wait till I tell 
Daddy!” 

I followed her downstairs, rolling my eyes. 

So I tied my shoe. Big deal! 

“Honey!” Mom called. “Mikey tied his shoe—all by himself!” 

“Hey!” Dad cried happily. He held up one hand so I could 
slap him five. “That’s my big boy!” 

This time I saw him mouth to Mom: “Took him long 
enough!” 


I was too worried to be insulted. 

Mom walked me to kindergarten. She told my teacher that I’d 
learned to tie my shoe. Big excitement all around. 

I had to sit around that stupid kindergarten all morning, 
finger-painting, and singing the ABC song. 

I knew I had to get back to that antique store. It was all I 
could think about. 

I’ve got to change that cuckoo clock, I thought desperately. 
Who knows? Tomorrow I might not know how to walk. 

But how would I get there? It had been hard enough to get 
downtown as a second-grader. As a kindergartner, it would be 
nearly impossible. 

And, besides, even if I could get on the bus without anybody 
asking questions, I didn’t have any money with me. 

I glanced at the teacher’s purse. Maybe I could steal a couple 
of quarters from her. She’d probably never know. 

But if she caught me, I’d be in really big trouble. And I had 
enough trouble now. 

I decided to sneak on to the bus somehow. I knew I could 
find a way. 

When the kindergarten torture was finally over for the day, I 
raced out of the building to catch the bus— 

—and bumped smack into Mom. 

“Hi, Mikey,” she said. “Did you have a nice day?” 

I forgot that she picked me up every day from kindergarten. 

She took my hand in her iron grip. There was no escape. 


18 


At least I’m here, I thought when I woke up the next morning. At 
least I’m still alive. 

But I’m four years old. 

Time is running out. 

Mom waltzed into my room, singing, “Good morning to you, 
good morning to you, good morning dear Mikey, good morning to 
you! Ready for nursery school?” 

Yuck. Nursery school. 

Things kept getting worse and worse. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. Mom dropped me off at nursery 
school with a kiss and her usual, “Have a nice day, Mikey!” 

I stalked to the nearest corner and sat. I watched the other 
little kids play. I refused to do anything. No singing. No painting. 
No sandbox. No games for me. 

“Michael, what’s the matter with you today?” the teacher, 
Ms. Sarton, asked. “Don’t you feel well?” 

“I feel okay,” I told her. 

“Well, then, why aren’t you playing?” She studied me for a 
minute, then added, “I think you need to play.” 

Without asking my permission or anything, she picked me 
up, carried me outside, and dumped me in the sandbox. 

“Mona will play with you,” she said brightly. 

Mona was very cute when she was four. Why didn’t I 
remember that? 

Mona didn’t say anything to me. She concentrated on the 
sand igloo she was building—at least I think it was supposed to be 
an igloo. It was round, anyway. I started to say hi to her, but 
suddenly felt shy. 

Then I caught myself. Why should I feel bashful with a four- 
year-old girl? 

Anyway, I reasoned, she hasn’t seen me in my underwear yet. 
That won’t happen for another eight years. 

“Hi, Mona,” I said. I cringed when I heard the babyish 
nursery school voice that came out of my mouth. But everyone 
else seemed to be used to it. 

Mona turned up her nose. “Eeew,” she sniffed. “A boy. I hate 
boys.” 

“Well,” I squeaked in my little boy voice, “if that’s the way 


you feel, forget I said anything.” 

Mona stared at me now, as if she didn’t quite understand 
what I had said. 

“Youre stupid,” she said. 

I shrugged and began to draw swirls in the sand with my 
chubby little finger. Mona dug a moat around her sand igloo. 
Then she stood up. “Don’t let anybody smash my sand castle,” she 
ordered. 

So it wasn’t an igloo. Guess I was wrong. 

“Okay,” I agreed. 

She toddled away. A few minutes later she returned, carrying 
a bucket. 

She carefully poured a little water into her sand castle moat. 
She dumped the rest on my head. 

“Stupid boy!” she squealed, running away. 

I rose and shook my wet head like a dog. I felt a strange urge 
to burst into tears and run to the teacher for help, but I fought it. 

Mona stood a few yards away from me, ready to run. “Nyah 
nyah!” she taunted. “Come and get me, Mikey!” 

I pushed my wet hair out of my face and stared at Mona. 

“You can’t catch me!” she called. 

What could I do? I had to chase after her. 

I began to run. Mona screamed and raced to a tree by the 
playground fence. Another girl stood there. Was that Ceecee? 

She wore thick glasses with pink rims, and underneath, a 
pink eyepatch. 

Td forgotten about that eyepatch. She’d had to wear it until 
halfway through first grade. 

Mona screamed again and clutched at Ceecee. Ceecee 
clutched her back and screamed, too. 

I stopped in front of the tree. “Don’t worry. I won’t hurt you,” 
I assured them. 

“Yes you will!” Mona squealed. “Help!” 

I sat down on the grass to prove I didn’t want to hurt them. 

“He’s hurting us! He’s hurting us!” the girls shouted. They 
unclutched their hands and jumped on top of me. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Hold his arms!” Mona ordered. Ceecee obeyed. Mona started 
tickling me under the arms. 

“Stop it!” I begged. It was torture. “Stop it!” 

“No!” Mona cried. “That’s what you get for trying to catch 
us!” 


“I... didn’t...” I had trouble getting the words out while she 
tickled me. “I didn’t... try to...” 

“Yes you did!” Mona insisted. 

Td forgotten that Mona used to be so bossy. It made me think 
twice. If I ever make it back to my real age, I thought, maybe I 
won’t like Mona so much anymore. 

“Please stop,” I begged again. 

“TIl stop,” Mona said. “But only if you promise something.” 

“What?” 

“You have to climb that tree.” She pointed to the tree by the 
fence. “Okay?” 

I stared at the tree. Climbing it wouldn’t be such a big deal. 
“Okay,” I agreed. “Just get off me!” 

Mona stood up. Ceecee let go of my arms. 

I climbed to my feet and brushed the grass off my pants. 

“You're scared,” Mona taunted. 

“T am not!” I replied. What a brat! She was almost as bad as 
Tara! 

Now Mona and Ceecee chanted, “Mikey is scared. Mikey is 
scared.” 

I ignored them. I grabbed the lowest branch of the tree and 
hauled myself up. It was harder than I thought it would be. My 
four-year-old body wasn’t very athletic. 

“Mikey is scared. Mikey is scared.” 

“Shut up!” I yelled down at them. “Can’t you see that I’m 
climbing the stupid tree? It doesn’t make sense to tease me about 
being scared.” 

They both gave me that blank look Mona had given me 
before. As if they didn’t understand what I was saying. 

“Mikey is scared,” they chanted again. 

I sighed and kept climbing. My hands were so small, it was 
hard to grip the branches. One of my feet slipped. 

Then a terrible thought popped into my head. 

Wait a minute. 

I shouldn’t be doing this. 

Isn’t nursery school the year I broke my arm? 

YEEEEOQOOOOOWWWWW'! 


19 


Morning again. 

I yawned and opened my eyes. I shook my left arm, the one I 
broke climbing that stupid tree the day before. 

The arm felt fine. Perfectly normal. Completely healed. 

I must have gone back in time again, I thought. That’s the 
good part about this messed-up time thing: I didn’t have to wait 
for my arm to heal. 

I wondered how far back I went. 

The sun poured in through the window of Tara’s—or my— 
room. It cast a weird shadow across my face: a striped shadow. 

I tried to roll out of bed. My body slammed against 
something. 

What was that? I rolled back to look. 

Bars! 

I was surrounded by bars! Was I in jail? 

I tried to sit up so I could see better. It wasn’t as easy as 
usual. My stomach muscles seemed to have grown weak. 

At last I managed to sit up and look around. 

I wasn’t in jail. I was in a crib! 

Crumpled up beside me was my old yellow blankie with the 
embroidered duck on it. I sat beside a small pile of stuffed 
animals. I was wearing a tiny white undershirt, and— 

Oh, no. 

I shut my eyes in horror. 

It can’t be. Please don’t let it be true! I prayed. 

I opened my eyes and checked to see if my prayer had come 
true. 

It hadn’t. 

I was wearing diapers. 

Diapers! 

How young am I now? How far back in time did I go? I 
wondered. 

“Are you awake, Mikey?” 

Mom came into the room. She looked pretty young. I didn’t 
remember ever seeing her this young before. 

“Did you get lots of sleep, sweetie pie?” Mom asked. She 
clearly expected no answer from me. Instead, she shoved a bottle 
of juice into my mouth. 


Yuck! A bottle! 

I pulled it out of my mouth and clumsily threw it down. 

Mom picked it up. “No, no,” she said patiently. “Bad little 
Mikey. Drink your bottle now. Come on.” 

She slid it back into my mouth. I was thirsty, so I drank the 
juice. Drinking from a bottle wasn’t that bad, once you got used 
to it. 

Mom left the room. I let the bottle drop. 

I had to know how old I was. I had to find out how much 
time I had left. 

I grabbed the bars of the crib and pulled myself to my feet. 

Okay, I thought. I can stand. 

I took a step. I couldn’t control my leg muscles very well. I 
toddled around the crib. 

I can walk, I realized. Unsteadily, but at least I can walk. 

I must be about one year old! 

I fell just then and banged my head against the side of the 
crib. Tears welled in my eyes. I started wailing, bawling. 

Mom ran into the room. “What’s the matter, Mikey? What 
happened?” 

She picked me up and started patting me on the back. 

I couldn’t stop crying. It was really embarrassing. 

What am I going to do? I thought desperately. In one night, I 
went back in time three years! 

I’m only one year old now. How old will I be tomorrow? 

A little shiver ran down my tiny spine. 

I’ve got to find a way to make time go forward again—today! 
I told myself. 

But what can I do? 

I’m not even in nursery school anymore. 

I’m a baby! 


20 


Mom said we were going out. She wanted to dress me. Then she 
uttered the dreaded words. 

“I bet I know what’s bothering you, Mikey. You probably 
need your diaper changed.” 

“No!” I cried. “No!” 

“Oh, yes you do, Mikey. Come on...” 

I don’t like to think about what happened after that. I’d 
rather block it out of my memory. 

I’m sure you understand. 

When the worst was over, Mom plopped me down in a 
playpen—more bars—while she bustled around the house. 

I shook a rattle. I batted at a mobile hanging over my head. I 
watched it spin around. 

I pressed buttons on a plastic toy. Different noises came out 
when I pressed different buttons. A squeak. A honk. A moo. 

I was bored out of my mind. 

Then Mom picked me up again. She bundled me into a warm 
sweater and a dopey little knit cap. Baby blue. 

“Want to see Daddy?” she cooed at me. “Want to see Daddy 
and go shopping?” 

“Da-da,” I replied. 

Pd planned to say, “If you don’t take me to Anthony’s 
Antiques, Illl throw myself out of my crib and crack my head 
open.” 

But I couldn’t talk. It was so frustrating! 

Mom carried me out to the car. She strapped me into a baby 
seat in the back. I tried to say, “Not so tight, Mom!” It came out, 
“No no no no no!” 

“Don’t give me a hard time now, Mikey,” Mom said sharply. 
“I know you don’t like your car seat, but it’s the law.” She gave 
the strap an extra tug. 

Then she drove into town. 

At least there’s a chance, I thought. If we’re going to meet 
Dad, we’ll be near the antique store. Maybe, just maybe. 

Mom parked the car outside Dad’s office building. She 
unstrapped me from the car seat. 

I could move again. But not for long. She pulled a stroller out 
of the trunk, unfolded it, and strapped me in. 


Being a baby really is like being a prisoner, I thought as she 
wheeled me across the sidewalk. I never realized how awful it is! 

It was lunchtime. A stream of workers flowed out of the 
office building. Dad appeared and gave Mom a kiss. 

He squatted down to tickle me under the chin. “There’s my 
little boy!” he said. 

“Can you say hi to your daddy?” Mom prompted me. 

“Hi, Da-da,” I gurgled. 

“Hi, Mikey,” Dad said fondly. But when he stood up, he 
spoke quietly to Mom, as if I couldn’t hear. “Shouldn’t he being 
saying more words by now, honey? Ted Jackson’s kid is Mikey’s 
age, and he can say whole sentences. He can say ‘lightbulb’, and 
‘kitchen’, and ‘I want my teddy bear.’” 

“Don’t start that again,” Mom whispered angrily. “Mikey is 
not slow.” 

I squirmed in my stroller, fuming. Slow! Who said I was 
slow? 

“T didn’t say he was slow, honey,” Dad went on. “I only said 


2) 


“Yes you did,” Mom insisted. “Yes you did! The other night, 
when he stuffed those peas up his nose, you said you thought we 
should have him tested!” 

I stuffed peas up my nose? I shuddered. 

Sure, stuffing peas up your nose is stupid. But I was only a 
baby. Wasn’t Dad getting carried away? 

I thought so. 

I wished I could tell them I would turn out all right—at least 
up to the age of twelve. I mean, I’m no genius, but I get mostly 
A’s and B’s. 

“Can we discuss this later?” Dad said. “I’ve only got an hour 
for lunch. If we’re going to find a dining room table, we’d better 
get moving.” 

“You brought it up,” Mom sniffed. She wheeled the stroller 
smartly around and began to cross the street. Dad followed us. 

I let my eyes rove along the storefronts across the street. An 
apartment building. A pawnshop. A coffee shop. 

Then I found what I was looking for: Anthony’s Antiques and 
Stuff. 

My heart leaped. The store still existed! I kept my eyes glued 
to that sign. 

Please take me in there, Mom, I silently prayed. Please please 
please! 

Mom steered me down the street. Past the apartment 


building. Past the pawnshop. Past the coffee shop. 

We stopped in front of Anthony’s. Dad stood in front of the 
window, hands in his pockets, gazing through the glass. Mom and 
I pulled up beside him. 

I couldn’t believe it. Finally, after all this time—some good 
luck! 

I stared through the window, searching for it. 

The clock. 

The window display was set up like an old-fashioned living 
room. My eyes roamed over the furniture: a wooden bookcase, a 
fringed table lamp, a Persian rug, an overstuffed armchair, and a 
clock... a table clock. Not the cuckoo clock. 

Not the right clock. 

My heart sank back to its normal low spot in my chest. 

It figures, I thought. Here I am, at the antique store, at last. 

And the clock isn’t here. 


21 


I felt like crying. 

I could have cried, too. Easily. 

After all, I was a baby. People expected me to cry. 

But I didn’t. Even though I looked like a baby, I was a 
twelve-year-old inside. I still had my pride. 

Dad stepped to the door and held it open for Mom and me. 
Mom pushed me inside. I sat strapped into the stroller. 

The shop was jammed with old furniture. A chubby man in 
his forties strolled down the aisle toward us. 

Behind him, down at the end of the aisle, in a corner at the 
back of the shop, I saw it. The clock. The clock. 

A squeal of excitement popped out of me. I began to rock in 
my stroller. I was so close! 

“May I help you?” the man asked Mom and Dad. 

“We’re looking for a dining room table,” Mom told him. 

I had to get out of that stroller. I had to get to that clock. 

I rocked harder, but it was no good. I was strapped in. “Let 
me out of this thing!” I shouted. 

Mom and Dad turned to look at me. “What’s he saying?” Dad 
asked. 

“Tt sounded like ‘La ma la ma’,” the shopkeeper suggested. 

I rocked harder than ever and screamed. 

“He hates his stroller,” Mom explained. She leaned down and 
unbuckled the straps. “Pll hold him for a few minutes. Then he’ll 
quiet down.” 

I waited until she held me in her arms. Then I screamed 
again and wriggled as hard as I could. 

Dad’s face reddened. “Michael, what is wrong with you?” 

“Down! Down!” I yelled. 

“All right,” Mom muttered, setting me down on the floor. 
“Now please stop screaming.” 

I quieted down immediately. I tested my wobbly, chubby 
little legs. They wouldn’t get me far, but they were all I had to 
work with. 

“Keep an eye on him,” the shopkeeper warned. “A lot of this 
stuff is breakable.” 

Mom grabbed my hand. “Come on, Mikey. Let’s go look at 
some tables.” 


She tried to lead me to a corner of the shop where several 
wooden tables stood. I whined and squirmed, hoping to get away. 
Her grip was too tight. 

“Mikey, shhh,” she said. 

I let her drag me to the tables. I glanced up at the cuckoo 
clock. It was almost noon. 

At noon, I knew, the cuckoo would pop out. It was my only 
chance to grab the bird and turn it around. 

I tugged on Mom’s hand. She tightened her grip. 

“What do you think of this one, honey?” Dad asked her, 
rubbing his hand along a dark wood table. 

“I think that wood’s too dark for our chairs, Herman,” Mom 
said. Another table caught her eye. As she moved toward it, I 
tried to slip my hand out of hers. No go. 

I toddled after her to the second table. I shot another glance 
at the clock. The minute hand moved. 

Two minutes to twelve. 

“We can’t be too picky, honey,” Dad said. “The Bergers are 
coming over Saturday night—two days from now—for a dinner 
party. We can’t have a dinner party without a dining room table!” 

“T know that, dear. But there’s no point in buying a table we 
don’t like.” 

Dad’s voice began to rise. Mom’s mouth got that hard, set 
look to it. 

Aha. A fight. This was my chance. 

Dad was shouting. “Why don’t we just spread a blanket out 
on the floor and make them eat there? We’ll call it a picnic!” 

Mom finally relaxed her grip on my hand. 

I slipped away and toddled as fast as I could toward the 
clock. 

The clock’s minute hand moved again. 

I toddled faster. 

I heard my parents shouting at each other. “I won’t buy an 
ugly table, and that’s that!” Mom cried. 

Please don’t let them notice me, I prayed. Not yet. 

I reached the cuckoo clock at last. I stood in front of it and 
stared up at the clock. 

The cuckoo’s window was far above me, out of reach. 

The minute hand clicked again. The clock’s gong sounded. 

The cuckoo’s window slid open. The cuckoo popped out. 

It cuckooed once. 

It cuckooed twice. 


I stared up at it, helpless. 

A twelve-year-old boy trapped in a baby’s body. 
I stared grimly up at the clock. 

Somehow, I had to reach that cuckoo. 
Somehow, I had to turn it around. 


22 


Cuckoo! Cuckoo! 

Three, four. 

I knew that once it reached twelve, I was doomed. 

The cuckoo bird would disappear. 

And so would my last chance to save myself. 

In a day or so, I would disappear. Disappear forever. 

Frantic, I glanced around for a ladder, a stool, anything. 

The closest thing was a chair. 

I toddled over to the chair and pushed it toward the clock. It 
moved about an inch. 

I leaned, putting all my weight into it. I figured I weighed 
about twenty pounds. 

But it was enough. The chair began to slide across the floor. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Five, six. 

I shoved the chair up against the clock. The seat of the chair 
came up to my chin. 

I tried to pull myself up onto the seat. My arms were too 
weak. 

I planted a baby sneaker against the chair leg. I boosted 
myself up. I grabbed a spindle at the back of the chair and heaved 
my body onto the seat. 

I made it! 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Seven, eight. 

I got to my knees. I got to my feet. 

I reached up to grab the cuckoo. I stretched as tall as I could. 

Cuckoo! Cuckoo! Nine, ten. 

Reaching, reaching. 

Then I heard the shopkeeper shout, “Somebody grab that 
baby!” 


23 


I heard pounding footsteps. 

They were running to get me. 

I strained to reach the cuckoo. Just another inch... 

Cuckoo! 

Eleven. 

Mom grabbed me. She lifted me up. 

For one second, the cuckoo flashed within my reach. 

I grasped it and turned the head around. 

Cuckoo! 

Twelve. 

The cuckoo slid back into the clock, facing the right way. 

Forward. 

I wriggled out of Mom’s arms, landing on the chair. 

“Mikey, what’s gotten into you?” she cried. She tried to grab 
me again. 

I dodged her. I reached around to the side of the clock. 

I saw the little dial that told the year. I felt for the button 
that controlled it. I could just reach it, standing on the chair. 

I slammed my hand on the button, carefully watching the 
years whiz by. 

I heard the shopkeeper yelling, “Get that baby away from my 
clock!” 

Mom grabbed me again, but I screamed. I screamed so 
loudly, it startled her. She let her hands drop. 

“Mikey, let go of that!” Dad ordered. 

I took my hand off the button. The dial showed the right 
year. The present year. The year I turned twelve. 

Mom made another grab for me. This time I let her pick me 
up. 

It doesn’t matter what happens now, I thought. Either the 
clock will work, and Pll go back to being twelve again... 

...or else it won’t work. And then what? 

Then I'll disappear. Vanish in time. Forever. 

I waited. 

“Pm so sorry,” Dad said to the shopkeeper. “I hope the baby 
didn’t damage the clock.” 

The muscles in my neck tensed. 

Nothing was happening. Nothing. 


I waited another minute. 

The shopkeeper inspected the clock. “Everything seems 
okay,” he told Dad. “But he changed the year. I’ll have to change 
it back.” 

“NO!” I wailed. “No! Don’t!” 

“That boy could use a little discipline, if you ask me,” the 
shopkeeper said. 

He reached his hand around the side of the clock and started 
to set back the year. 


24 


“Nooo!” I wailed. “Nooo!” 

That’s it, I realized. I’m doomed. I’m a goner. 

But the shopkeeper never touched the button. 

A bright white light flashed. I felt dizzy, stunned. I blinked. 
And blinked again. 

Several seconds passed before I could see anything. 

I felt cool, damp air. I smelled a musty odor. A garage smell. 

“Michael? Do you like it?” Dad’s voice. 

I blinked. My eyes adjusted. I saw Dad and Mom. Looking 
older. Looking normal. 

We were standing in the garage. Dad was holding a shiny 
new 21-speed bike. 

Mom frowned. “Michael, are you feeling all right?” 

They were giving me the bike. It was my birthday! 

The clock worked! rd brought myself back to the present! 

Almost to the present. Up to my twelfth birthday. 

Close enough. 

I felt so happy, I thought I’d explode. 

I threw myself at Mom and hugged her hard. Then I hugged 
Dad. 

“Wow,” Dad gushed. “I guess you really do like the bike!” 

I grinned. “I love it!” I exclaimed. “I love everything! I love 
the whole world!” 

Mainly, I loved being twelve again. I could walk! I could talk! 
I could ride the bus by myself! 

Whoa! Wait a minute, I thought. It’s my birthday. 

Don’t tell me I have to live through it again. 

I tensed my shoulders and steeled myself for the horrible day 
to come. 

It’s worth it, I told myself. It’s worth it if it means time will 
go forward again, the way it’s supposed to. 

I knew too well what would happen next. 

Tara. 

She’d try to get on my bike. The bike would fall over and get 
scratched. 

Okay, Tara, I thought. I’m ready. Come and do your worst. 

I waited. 

Tara didn’t come. 


In fact, she didn’t seem to be around at all. 

She wasn’t in the garage. No sign of her. 

Mom and Dad oohed and ahhed over the bike. They didn’t act 
as if anything was wrong. Or anyone was missing. 

“Where’s Tara?” I asked them. 

They looked up. 

“Who?” They stared at me. 

“Did you invite her to your party?” Mom asked. “I don’t 
remember sending an invitation to a Tara.” 

Dad grinned at me. “Tara? Is that some girl you have a crush 
on, Michael?” 

“No,” I answered, turning red. 

It was as if they’d never heard of Tara. Never heard of their 
own daughter. 

“You’d better go upstairs and get ready for your party, 
Michael,” Mom suggested. “The kids will be here soon.” 

“Okay.” I stumbled into the house, dazed. 

“Tara?” I called. 

Silence. 

Could she be hiding somewhere? 

I searched through the house. Then I checked her room. I 
threw open the door. I expected to see a messy, all-pink girl’s 
room with a white canopy bed. 

Instead, I saw two twin beds, neatly made with plaid covers. 
A chair. An empty closet. No personal stuff. 

Not Tara’s room. 

A guest room. 

Wow. I was amazed. 

No Tara. Tara doesn’t exist. 

How did that happen? 

I wandered into the den, looking for the cuckoo clock. 

It wasn’t there. 

For a second, I felt a shock of fear. Then I calmed down. 

Oh, yeah, I remembered. We don’t have the clock yet. Not on 
my birthday. Dad bought it a couple of days later. 

But I still didn’t understand. What had happened to my little 
sister? Where was Tara? 


My friends arrived for the party. We played CDs and ate tortilla 
chips. Ceecee pulled me into a corner and whispered that Mona 
had a crush on me. 

Wow. I glanced at Mona. She turned a little pink and glanced 


away, shyly. 

Tara wasn’t there to embarrass me. It made a big difference. 

My friends all brought presents. I actually opened them 
myself. No Tara to open my presents before I get to them. 

At cake time, I carried the cake into the dining room and set 
it in the middle of the table. No problem. I didn’t fall and make a 
fool out of myself. 

Because Tara wasn’t there to trip me. 

It was the greatest birthday party Pd ever had. It was 
probably the greatest day I’d ever lived—because Tara wasn’t 
there to ruin it. 

I could get used to this, I thought. 

A few days later, the cuckoo clock was delivered to our 
house. 

“Isn’t it great?” Dad gushed, as he had the first time. 
“Anthony sold me the clock cheap. He said he’d discovered a tiny 
flaw on it.” 

The flaw. Pd almost forgotten about it. 

We still didn’t know what it was. But I couldn’t help 
wondering if it had something to do with Tara’s disappearance. 

Maybe the clock didn’t work perfectly in some way? Maybe it 
somehow left Tara behind? 

I hardly dared to touch the clock. I didn’t want to set off any 
more weird time trips. 

But I had to know what had happened. 

I carefully studied the face of the clock again, and all the 
decorations. Then I stared at the dial that showed the year. 

It was properly set at the current year. 

Without really thinking about it, I scanned twelve places 
down the dial to find the year I was born. 

There it was. 

Then I scanned my eyes back up to the dial. 
1992.1993.1994.1995.1997... 

Wait a second. 

Didn’t I just skip a year? 

I checked the dates again. 

Nineteen ninety-six was missing. There was no 1996 on the 
dial. 

And 1996 was the year Tara was born! 

“Dad!” I cried. “I found the flaw! Look—there’s a year 
missing on the dial.” 

Dad patted me on the back. “Good job, son! Wow, isn’t that 


funny?” 
To him it was just a funny mistake. 
He had no idea his daughter had never been born. 
I suppose there’s some way to go back in time and get her. 
I guess I probably ought to do that. 
And I will. 
Really. 
One of these days. 
Maybe. 


Scanning, formatting and basic 
proofing by Undead. 


Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
ERR j 
He’s a real animal! 


THE BEAST FROM THE EAST 


MBSCHOLASTIC 


THE BEAST 
FROM THE EAST 


Goosebumps - 43 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


When I was a really little girl, my mom would tuck me into bed at 
night. She would whisper, “Good night, Ginger. Good night. Don’t let 
the bedbugs bite.” 

I didn’t know what bedbugs were. I pictured fat red bugs with big 
eyes and spidery legs, crawling under the sheet. Just thinking about 
them made me itchy all over. 

After Mom kissed me on the forehead and left, Dad would step 
into my room and sing to me. Very softly. The same song every night. 
“The Teddy Bears’ Picnic.” 

I don’t know why he thought that song made a good lullaby. It 
was about going into the woods and finding hundreds and hundreds of 
bears. 

The song gave me the shivers. What were the bears eating at their 
picnic? Children? 

After Dad kissed me on the forehead and left the room, Pd be 
itching and shaking for hours. 

Then Pd have nightmares about bedbugs and bears. 

Until a few years ago, I was afraid to go into the woods. 

I’m twelve now, and I’m not scared any longer. 

At least, I wasn’t scared until our family camping trip this 
summer. That’s when I discovered that there are a lot scarier creatures 
than bears in the woods! 

But I guess I'd better begin at the beginning. 

The first thing I remember about our camping trip is Dad yelling 
at my brothers. I have two ten-year-old brothers—Pat and Nat. You 
guessed it. They’re twins. 

Lucky me—huh? 

Pat and Nat aren’t just twins. They’re identical twins. They look 
so much alike, they confuse each other! 

They are both short and skinny. They both have round faces and 
big brown eyes. They both wear their brown hair parted in the middle 
and straight down the sides. They both wear baggy, faded jeans and 
black-and-red skater T-shirts with slogans no one can understand. 

There is only one way to tell Pat from Nat or Nat from Pat. You 
have to ask them who they are! 

I remember that our camping trip began on a beautiful, sunny 
day. The air smelled piney and fresh. Twigs and dead leaves crackled 
under our shoes as we followed a twisting path through the woods. 


Dad led the way. He carried the tent over his shoulder, and he 
had a bulging backpack on his back. Mom followed him. She was also 
loaded down with stuff we needed. 

The path led through a grassy clearing. The sun felt hot on my 
face. My backpack began to feel heavy. I wondered how much deeper 
into the woods Mom and Dad wanted to go. 

Pat and Nat followed behind us. Dad kept turning around to yell 
at them. We all had to yell at Pat and Nat. Otherwise, they never 
seemed to hear us. They only heard each other. 

Why was Dad yelling? 

Well, for one thing, Nat kept disappearing. Nat likes to climb 
trees. If he sees a good tree, he climbs it. I think he’s part chimpanzee. 

I tell him that as often as I can. Then he scratches his chest and 
makes chimp noises. He thinks he’s really funny. 

So there we were, hiking through the woods. And every time we 
turned around, Nat would be up a tree somewhere. It was slowing us 
down. So Dad had to yell at him. 

Then Dad had to yell at Pat because of his Game Boy. “I told you 
not to bring that thing!” Dad shouted. Dad is big and broad, kind of 
like a bear. And he has a booming voice. 

It doesn’t do him much good. Pat and Nat never listen to him. 

Pat walked along, eyes on his Game Boy, his fingers hammering 
the controls. 

“Why are we hiking in the woods?” Dad asked him. “You could 
be home in your room doing that. Put it away, Pat, and check out the 
scenery.” 

“I can’t, Dad,” Pat protested. “I can’t quit now. I’m on Level Six! 
I’ve never made it to Level Six before!” 

“There goes a chipmunk,” Mom chimed in, pointing. Mom is the 
wildlife guide. She points out everything that moves. 

Pat didn’t raise his eyes from his Game Boy. 

“Where’s Nat?” Dad demanded, his eyes searching the clearing. 

“Up here, Dad,” Nat called. I shielded my eyes with one hand and 
saw him on a high branch of a tall oak tree. 

“Get down from there!” Dad shouted. “That branch won’t hold 
you!” 

“Hey—I made it to Level Seven!” Pat declared, fingering 
frantically. 

“Look—two bunny rabbits!” Mom cried. “See them in the tall 
grass?” 

“Let’s keep walking,” I groaned. “It’s too hot here.” I wanted to 
get out of the clearing and back under the cool shade of the trees. 

“Ginger is the only sensible one,” Dad said, shaking his head. 


“Ginger is a freak!” Nat called, sliding down from the oak tree. 

We made our way through the woods. I don’t know how long we 
walked. It was so beautiful! So peaceful. Beams of sunlight poked 
through the high branches, making the ground sparkle. 

I found myself humming that song about the bears in the woods. I 
don’t know what made it pop into my head. Dad hadn’t sung it to me 
in years and years. 

We stopped for lunch by a clear, trickling stream. “This would 
make a nice camping spot,” Mom suggested. “We can set up the tent 
on the grass here by the shore.” 

Mom and Dad started to unpack the equipment and set up the 
tent. I helped them. Pat and Nat threw stones into the stream. Then 
they got into a wrestling match and tried to shove each other into the 
water. 

“Take them into the woods,” Dad instructed me. “Try to lose them 
—okay?” 

He was joking, of course. 

He had no way of knowing that Pat, Nat, and I would soon be lost 
for real—with little hope of ever returning. 


“What do you want to do?” Nat demanded. He had picked up a thin 
tree branch to use as a walking stick. Pat kept slapping at it, trying to 
make Nat stumble. 

We had followed the stream for a while. I saw a million tiny, 
silver minnows swimming near the surface. Now we were making our 
own path through the tangle of trees, low shrubs, and rocks. 

“Hide-and-seek!” Pat declared. He slapped Nat. “Yow’re It!” 

Nat slapped him back. “You’re It.” 

“You're It!” 

“Yourre It!” 

“You're It!” 

The slaps kept getting harder. 

“PIL be It!” I cried. Anything to keep them from murdering each 
other. “Hurry. Go hide. But don’t go too far.” 

I leaned against a tree, shut my eyes, and started to count to one 
hundred. I could hear them scampering into the trees. 

After thirty, I counted by tens. I didn’t want to give them too big 
a head start. “Ready or not, here I come!” I called. 

I found Pat after only a few minutes. He had crouched behind a 
large white mound of sand. He thought he was hidden. But I spotted 
his brown hair poking up over the top of the sand. 

I tagged him easily. 

Nat was harder to find. He had climbed a tree, of course. He was 
way up at the top, completely hidden by thick clumps of green leaves. 

I never would have found him if he hadn’t spit on me. 

“Get down, creep!” I shouted angrily. I waved a fist up at him. 
“Youre disgusting! Get down—right now!” 

He giggled and peered down at me. “Did I hit you?” 

I didn’t answer. I waited for him to climb down to the ground. 
Then I rubbed a handful of dried leaves in his face until he was 
sputtering and choking. 

Just a typical Wald family hide-and-seek game. 

After that, we chased a squirrel through the woods. The poor 
thing kept glancing back at us as if he didn’t believe we were chasing 
after him. He finally got tired of the race and scurried up a tall pine 
tree. 

I glanced around. The trees in this part of the woods grew close 
together. Their leaves blocked most of the sunlight. The air felt cooler 


here. In their shade, it was nearly as dark as evening. 

“Let’s go back,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad might be getting 
worried.” 

The boys didn’t argue. “Which way?” Nat asked. 

I glanced around, making a complete circle with my eyes. “Uh... 
that way.” I pointed. I was guessing. But I felt ninety-nine percent 
sure. 

“Are you sure?” Pat asked. He eyed me suspiciously. I could see 
he was a little worried. Pat didn’t like the outdoors as much as Nat 
and me. 

“Sure I’m sure,” I told him. 

I led the way. They followed close behind. They had both picked 
up walking sticks. After we had walked a few minutes, they started 
fighting a duel with them. 

I ignored them. I had my own worries. I wasn’t sure we were 
walking in the right direction. In fact, I felt totally turned around. 

“Hey—there’s the stream!” I cried happily. 

I immediately felt better. We weren’t lost. I had picked the right 
direction. 

Now all we had to do was follow the stream back to the clearing 
where we had set up camp. 

I began to hum again. The boys tossed their sticks into the stream. 
We began to jog along the grassy shore. 

“Whoa!” I cried out when my left boot started to sink. I nearly fell 
into a deep mud patch. I pulled my hiking boot up. Soaked in wet, 
brown mud up over the ankle. 

Pat and Nat thought that was a riot. They laughed and slapped 
each other high fives. 

I growled at them, but I didn’t waste any words. They’re both 
hopeless. So totally immature. 

Now I couldn’t wait to get back to camp and clean the thick mud 
off my boot. We jogged along the shore, then cut through the skinny, 
white-trunked trees and into the clearing. 

“Mom! Dad!” I called, hurrying over the grass. “We’re back!” 

I stopped so short, both boys tumbled into me. 

My eyes searched the clearing. 

“Mom? Dad?” 

They were gone. 


“They left us!” Pat exclaimed. He ran frantically around the clearing. 
“Mom! Dad!” 

“Earth to Pat,” Nat called. He waved his hand in front of Pat’s 
face. “We’re in the wrong place, you wimp.” 

“Nat is right,” I replied, glancing around. There were no 
footprints, no tent markers. We were in a different clearing. 

“I thought you knew the way, Ginger,” Pat complained. “Didn’t 
they teach you anything at that nature camp?” 

Nature camp! Last summer my parents forced me to spend two 
weeks at an “Explore the Great Outdoors” camp. I got poison ivy the 
first day. After that, I didn’t listen to anything the counselors said. 

Now I wished I had. 

“We should have left markers on the trees,” I said, “to find our 
way back.” 

“Now you think of it?” Nat groaned, rolling his eyes. He picked up 
a long, crooked stick and waved it in my face. 

“Give me that,” I ordered. 

Nat handed me the stick. Yellow sap oozed onto my palm. It 
smelled sour. 

“Gross!” I shouted. I tossed the stick away. I rubbed my hands on 
my jeans. But the yellow stain wouldn’t come off my palm. 

That’s weird, I thought. I wondered what the stuff was. I 
definitely didn’t like it on my skin. 

“Let’s follow the stream,” I suggested. “Mom and Dad can’t be too 
far.” 

I tried to sound calm. But I was totally twisted around. In fact, I 
had no idea where we were. 

We headed out of the clearing and back to the shore. The sun fell 
lower in the sky. It prickled the back of my neck. 

Pat and Nat tossed pebbles into the water. After a few minutes, 
they tossed them at each other. 

I ignored them. At least they weren’t throwing anything at me. 

As we walked along, the air became cooler. The path grew 
narrower. 

The water turned dark and murky. Silvery-blue fish snapped at 
the air. The skinny branches of the tall trees reached down toward us. 

A feeling of dread swept over me. Nat and Pat grew quiet. They 
actually stopped picking on each other. 


“I don’t remember any of these bushes near our campsite,” Pat 
said nervously. He pointed to a short, squat plant. Its strange blue 
leaves looked like open umbrellas stacked one on top of the other. 
“Are you sure we’re going the right way?” 

By now I was sure we weren’t headed in the right direction. I 
didn’t remember those strange bushes, either. 

Then we heard a noise on the other side of the shrubs. 

“Maybe that’s Mom and Dad!” Pat exclaimed. 

We pushed our way through the plants. And ran into another 
deserted clearing. 

I glanced around. This grassy field was enormous. Large enough 
for a hundred tents. 

My heart hammered against my chest. 

We stood on rust-colored grass. It stuck up over my ankle. A 
clump of gigantic purple cabbage plants grew to our right. 

“This place is cool!” Nat cried. “Everything is so big.” 

To me, the clearing wasn’t cool at all. It gave me the creeps. 

Strange trees surrounded us on all sides. Their branches shot out 
at right angles to the trunk. They resembled stairs going up and up 
and up. Up into the clouds. 

They were the tallest trees I’d ever seen. And perfect for climbing. 

Red moss clung to the branches. Yellow gourds hung from 
braided vines, swaying in the air. 

Where were we? This looked like a weird jungle—not the woods! 
Why were all the trees and plants so strange? 

A knot formed in the pit of my stomach. 

Where was our clearing? Where were Mom and Dad? 

Nat jogged over to a tree. “I’m climbing up,” he said. 

“No, you don’t,” I protested. I rushed over and pulled his arm 
from the branch. 

The red moss rubbed against my palm. My skin turned red where 
I touched it. Now I had a yellow-and-red design on my hand. 

What’s going on here? I wondered. 

Before I could show my hand to my brothers, the tree started to 
shake. 

“Whoa! Watch out!” I cried. 

A small furry animal jumped out of the branches and landed at 
my feet. I had never seen anything like it before. It was the size of a 
chipmunk, brown all over except for a white patch around one eye. 

It had a bushy tail and floppy ears like a bunny. And two big 
front teeth like a beaver. Its flat nose twitched. It stared at me with 
gray eyes, round with fear. I watched it scurry away. 


“What was that?” Pat asked. 

I shrugged. I wondered what other kinds of weird creatures lived 
in these woods. 

“Tm kind of scared,” Pat admitted, huddling close to me. 

I felt scared too. But I knew I was the big sister. So I told him 
everything was okay. 

Then I glanced down. “Nat! Pat!” I shouted. “Look!” 

My muddy boot stood inside a footprint three times the size of 
mine. No—even bigger. What kind of animal had a footprint that 
huge? 

A bear? A giant gorilla? 

I didn’t have time to think about it. 

The ground started to tremble. 

“Do you feel that?” I asked my brothers. 

“It’s Dad!” Pat shouted. 

It definitely was not Dad. He’s a big guy. But no way could he 
make the ground shake that way! 

I heard grumbles and growls from somewhere in the distance. 
And then a roar. Twigs and branches snapped loudly in the air. 

All three of us gasped as a tall beast stomped through the trees. It 
was huge. So tall that its head touched the middle branches. 

It had a narrow, pointy head over a long neck. Its eyes shone like 
bright green marbles. Shaggy blue fur covered every part of its body. 
Its long, furry tail thumped heavily on the ground. 

The weirdest creature I’d ever seen in my life! 

The beast entered the far side of the clearing. 

I sucked in my breath as it drew closer. Close enough for me to 
see its long snout. Its nostrils flared in and out as it sniffed the air. 

My brothers hung back, hiding behind me. We huddled together. 
Trembling. 

The beast opened its mouth. Two rows of sharp, yellow teeth rose 
up from purple gums. One long, jagged fang slid down over the 
creature’s chin. 

I crouched on my hands and knees. Pulled my brothers down with 
me. 

The beast spun around in circles. It sniffed the air and wiggled its 
hairy, pointed ears. Had it smelled us? Was it searching for us? 

I couldn’t think. I couldn’t move. 

The beast turned its ugly head. It stared at me. 

It saw me. 


My eyes on the creature, I grabbed my brothers by their T-shirts. I 
dragged them behind some of the huge cabbage plants. 

The beast stayed on the other side of the clearing, sniffing the air. 
It stomped back and forth, sniffing hard. The ground seemed to shake 
each time one of its furry paws hit the ground. I could feel Nat and 
Pat shiver with fear. 

The beast turned away from us. 

Whew! I thought. It hasn’t seen us. I bit my bottom lip and held 
onto Pat and Nat. 

“Argggh,” the beast grunted. It dropped to all fours. It pressed its 
snout to the ground and crept along, making loud snuffling noises. 

I didn’t tell Pat or Nat what I was thinking. The beast hadn’t seen 
us—but there was no way we could keep it from smelling us. 

Its long tail swished back and forth. The tail banged against the 
trees. Gourds fell to the ground. 

The beast crawled into the center of the clearing. Closer. 

I dug my fingernails into my palm. 

Turn around, beast, I prayed. Go back into the woods. The blue 
creature stopped. It sniffed again. And then it turned. It began to creep 
in our direction. 

I swallowed. Hard. My mouth suddenly felt so dry. 

The creature’s tail pushed against one of the cabbage plants near 
us. The leaves rustled. 

“Get down!” I whispered, shoving my brothers. We stretched out 
flat on the ground. 

The beast stopped a few feet from our hiding place. 

Its tail brushed my arm. The fur felt rough and scratchy. 

I jerked my arm away. Could he feel me? Was I like a tiny animal 
to him? One he could pick up and squeeze the way my brothers teased 
our dog? 

The beast rose up on its hind legs and sniffed. It towered over the 
cabbage plant. It had to be at least eight feet tall! 

It picked at its fur with a clawed thumb—and placed whatever it 
found in his mouth. 

A pleased grin formed under its twitching snout. It peered around 
the clearing. 

Don’t look down, I prayed. Don’t see us. 

My body tensed. 


The creature growled and ran its long tongue over its fang. Then 
it tromped off into the trees. 

I let out a sigh of relief. 

“We’d better wait a few minutes,” I told my brothers. I counted to 
one hundred. Then I crawled out from behind the plant. No sign of the 
creature. 

But then I felt the earth shake. 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “Here it comes again!” 


The beast’s enormous blue head bobbed up between the trees. How 
had it come back so fast? And from the other direction? 

We scrambled back to our hiding place behind the huge cabbage 
plant. 

“We have to get away from here,” I whispered. “If it keeps 
searching back and forth, it’s bound to find us.” 

“How do we get away?” Nat demanded. 

I picked up a gourd from the ground. “Pll throw this gourd. The 
beast will turn its head to see what the noise is. Then we’ll run—in the 
other direction.” 

“But, what if it sees us? What if it chases us?” Nat asked. He 
didn’t seem happy about my plan. 

Nat and Pat exchanged nervous glances. 

“Yeah. What if it runs faster than us?” Pat demanded. 

“It won't,” I said. I was bluffing. But my brothers didn’t know 
that. 

I peeked over the top of the cabbage. The creature stood closer 
than ever. It sniffed the air, its pink snout coiling like a snake. 

I glanced at the gourd in my hand, then brought my arm back, 
ready to throw. 

“Wait!” Pat whispered. “Look!” 

My arm froze where it was. Another beast had tromped into the 
clearing. 

And another. 

And another. 

I gulped. More blue beasts clomped into the clearing. 

No way could we make a run for it now. 

The enormous creatures tromped around the clearing. They 
growled and grunted to each other. 

One stopped and jabbered loudly in a deep and gravelly voice. 
The folds of hairless skin under its chin wobbled back and forth. 

“Look at them all!” Nat murmured. “There must be at least two 
dozen.” 

A small beast jogged into the clearing. Its fur shone a brighter 
blue than the rest. It stood only about three feet tall. 

Was it a child? A young beast? 

The tiny beast placed its short, pink snout on the ground and 
sniffed. Dirt and dried-up bits of leaves stuck to its snout. 


“It looks hungry,” Pat whispered. 

“Shhh!” I warned. 

The tiny beast glanced up eagerly. In our direction. 

It did look hungry. But for what? 

I held my breath. 

The small beast suddenly scooped a gourd off the ground. It 
shoved the whole thing into its mouth and crunched down. Yellow 
juice squirted between its lips and soaked down its shaggy blue fur. 

It eats fruit! I cheered silently. That was a good sign. Maybe they 
are vegetarians, I thought. Maybe they don’t eat meat. 

I knew that most wild animals ate only one type of food. Either 
meat, or else fruits and vegetables. 

Except for bears, I suddenly remembered. Bears will eat both. 

A large beast thudded over to the kid. It yanked the little creature 
to its feet and began jabbering angrily at it. It dragged the kid back 
toward the woods. 

The beast with the hairless folds of skin stepped into the center of 
the clearing. 

“Ghrugh!” It snorted at the others. It waved a furry paw in a 
circle. It waved and grunted and jabbered. 

The other creatures nodded and grunted to one another. They 
seemed to understand each other. They seemed to be grunting some 
kind of language. 

The big beast gave a final grunt. The other creatures turned back 
toward the woods. They spread out and began to creep silently into 
the trees. I felt the earth trembling under the pounding of their feet. 
Twigs and leaves crackled and cracked. 

In a few seconds, they had vanished. The clearing stood empty. 

I let out another long sigh of relief. 

“What are they doing, anyway?” Pat asked. 

Nat wiped sweat off his forehead. “They act as if they’re searching 
for something,” he answered. “Hunting.” 

I swallowed hard. 

I knew what they were hunting for. 

They were hunting for us. 

And now there were so many of them. Spreading out in every 
direction. 

We don’t stand a chance, I realized. 

They’re going to catch us. 

And then what? 


I stood up slowly. I turned in a full circle, checking everywhere for a 
sign of the hairy creatures. 

Their low grumbles and growls faded into the distance. The 
ground stopped shaking. 

A gust of cool wind blew through the clearing. It made the gourds 
in the trees knock against each other. An eerie melody whistled 
through the trees. 

I shuddered. 

“Let’s get out of here. Now!” Nat cried. 

“Wait!” I told him. I grabbed his arm and held him back. “Those 
beasts are too near. They’ll hear us or see us.” 

“Yeah, well, ’m not going to stick around. I’m going to run as 
hard as I can. I’m outta here!” 

“Tm with you.” Pat leaped to his feet. “But which way do we go?” 
he asked. 

“We can’t go anywhere now,” I argued. “We’re lost. We don’t 
know which way to go. So we have to stay right here. Mom and Dad 
will come find us. I know they will.” 

“And what if they don’t? What if they’re in trouble, too?” Nat 
asked. 

“Dad knows how to survive in the woods,” I said firmly. “And we 
don’t.” 

At least I didn’t. If only I had listened at that outdoors camp. 

“I do, too!” Pat whined. “I can take care of myself. Right Nat? 
Let’s get going!” 

Who was he kidding? Pat didn’t even like the woods. 

But he’s stubborn. When he gets an idea, no one can change his 
mind. And Nat always agrees with him. Twins! 

“Ginger—are you coming or not?” Pat demanded. 

“You’re crazy,” I told him. “We have to stay here. That’s the rule, 
remember?” 

Mom and Dad always told us, if we ever get lost, stay where we 
are. 

“But there are only two of Mom and Dad—and there’s three of 
us,” Pat argued. “So we should go find them.” 

“But they’re not the ones who are lost!” I cried. 

“I think we should go,” Pat repeated. “We have to get away from 
those ugly creatures!” 


“Okay,” I told them. “We’ll go. At least we'll be together.” 

I still thought they were wrong. But I couldn’t let them go off 
without me. What if something horrible happened to them? 

Besides, I didn’t want to stay in these strange woods alone. 

As I turned to follow them, I glimpsed something move in the tall 
grass. 

“It’s... it’s... them!” Nat stammered. “They’re back!” 

I stared at the grass in horror. 

“Run!” Pat shrieked. He bolted across the clearing. 

A squirrel scurried out of the grass. 

“Pat, wait!” Nat yelled. 

“It’s only a squirrel!” I shouted. 

He didn’t hear us. 

Nat and I took off, chasing after Pat. 

“Pat! Hey—Pat!” 

I didn’t see the thick, twisted root that poked out of the ground. I 
tripped over it and hit the ground hard. I lay there stunned. 

Nat knelt down beside me. He grabbed my arm and helped me to 
my feet. 

I glanced up ahead. Pat had already vanished into the woods. I 
couldn’t see him anywhere. 

“We have to catch up to him,” I told Nat breathlessly. I 
straightened up, brushing dirt off my knees. 

The earth started to tremble again. 

“Oh, no!” Nat moaned. 

The creatures were back. 

I whirled around. Big blue beasts pushed back through the trees. I 
counted four behind us. Three on my left. Five to our right. 

I gave up counting. 

There were too many of them. 

The big one grunted and raised its furry paws high in the air. It 
pointed at us. The other creatures grunted and uttered cries of 
excitement. 

“They’ve caught us!” I groaned. 

“Ginger...” Nat whimpered. His eyes opened wide with terror. I 
clutched at his hand and held it tight. 

The beasts drew closer. And formed a circle around us. 

Nowhere to run now. 

“We’re trapped,” I whispered. 

The beasts began to growl. 


Over the drone of their low growls, I heard the eerie melody whistling 
through the gourds again. 

Nat huddled close to me. “They’ve got us,” he whispered. “Do you 
think—do you think they got Pat?” 

I couldn’t answer. I couldn’t talk. 

I felt weak and helpless. Sweat ran down my face into my eyes. I 
wanted to wipe the sweat away, but I couldn’t lift my hand to do it. 

I was too scared to move. 

Then the beast with the flabby chin stepped forward. It stopped a 
few inches away from me. 

I slowly raised my eyes. I stared at its furry belly. Then its broad 
chest. I saw shiny, black insects crawling in its fur. 

I raised my eyes to its face. Its green eyes glared down at me. It 
opened its mouth. I stared helplessly at its long fang, chipped on the 
end. 

You don’t need a tooth like that for eating fruit! I thought. 

The beast stretched to its full height. It raised a furry paw high 
above us. Ready to strike. 

Nat huddled closer to me. I could practically feel his heart beating 
through his T-shirt. Or maybe it was my own heart that was pounding. 

The creature growled and swung. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. 

I felt a slap on my shoulder—so hard it knocked me backwards. 

“You're It!” the creature bellowed. 


Huh? My mouth dropped open in astonishment. 

“Youre It,” the beast repeated. 

I gaped at Nat. His eyes bulged in surprise. 

“Tt... it talked!” Nat stammered to me. “In our language.” 

The creature scowled at Nat. “I talk in many languages,” he 
growled. “We have a universal language adaptor.” 

“Oh,” Nat said weakly. He and I exchanged stunned glances. 

The creature growled again and took a step closer to me. “Did 
you hear me?” he growled. “You're It!” 

His marble eyes glared into mine. He tapped a paw impatiently 
on the ground. 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

The creature grunted. “You’re the Beast from the East,” he said. 

“What are you talking about? I’m not a beast. I’m a girl!” I 
declared. “Ginger Wald.” 

“I am Fleg,” the beast replied, pounding himself on the chest. He 
waved a paw at the creature beside him, a beast with one eye missing. 
“This is Spork,” Fleg announced. Fleg pounded the other beast on the 
back. 

Spork grunted at Nat and me. I stared at his dark, empty eye 
socket. And I spotted a deep black scar on the side of Spork’s nose. 

An eye missing and a scar. The big creature had been in a pretty 
nasty fight. I hoped it wasn’t a fight with a human. Because if Spork 
was the winner, I would hate to see the loser! 

Nat gaped at Spork. 

“Uh, this is my brother Nat,” I said quickly. 

Spork growled in reply. 

“Have you seen our mom and dad?” I asked Fleg. “See, we’re all 
here camping, and we got separated. But we're trying to get back 
together and go home. So, we’d better go—” 

“There are others?” Fleg glanced sharply around the clearing. 
“Where?” 

“That’s the problem,” Nat answered. “We can’t find them.” 

Fleg grunted. “If you can’t find them, they can’t play.” 

“Right. That’s the rule,” Spork agreed. He scratched at the insects 
that climbed around in his fur. 

“Now start moving,” Fleg demanded. “It’s getting late. And you’re 
It.” 


I stared at Nat. This was too weird. What did he mean—they can’t 
play? And why did he keep saying I was It? Did they want to play tag 
or something? 

The circle of beasts began stomping their paws, shaking the forest 
ground. “Play... play...” they chanted. 

“Play what?” I demanded. “Is this really some kind of game?” 

Spork’s eye bulged and a big smile spread under his ugly, pink 
snout. “The best game,” he said. “But you are too slow to win.” 

Spork rubbed his paws together. He ran his tongue over the tops 
of his teeth. “You should run.” He grunted. 

“Yes, run,” Fleg ordered. “Before I count to trel.” 

“Hold on,” I protested. “What if we don’t want to play?” 

“Yeah—why should we?” Nat demanded. 

“You have to play,” Fleg replied. “Read that sign over there.” 

He pointed to a cardboard sign tacked to one of the gourd trees. 
The sign read: GAME IN SEASON. 

Fleg stared down at me. His eyes narrowed menacingly. His wet 
nose flared. 

He grinned. Not a friendly grin. 

“Game in season?” Nat read the sign in a trembling voice. 

“You have to tell us how to play,” I declared. “I mean, we can’t 
play a game without knowing what it is.” 

Spork growled deep in his throat and moved closer to me. So 
close I could smell his fur. What a sour stench! 

Fleg reached out a paw and held Spork back. 

“It’s a good game,” Fleg told us. “It’s very exciting.” 

“Uh... why is it so exciting?” I asked. 

His eyes narrowed. “It’s a game of survival!” he replied with a 
grin. 


Survival? 

Oh, no! No way I wanted to play! 

“You have until the sun sinks behind the Gulla Willow,” Fleg 
declared. 

“What’s a Gulla Willow?” Nat asked. 

“And where is it?” I wanted to know. 

“At the edge of the woods,” Fleg replied. He waved a paw to the 
trees. 

“Which edge? Where? How will we know which tree?” I 
demanded. 

Fleg flashed Spork a grin. They both made weird choking sounds 
in their throats. 

I could tell they were laughing. All the other creatures started 
laughing, too. Such an ugly sound. More like gagging than laughing. 

“We can’t play the game unless we know more,” I shouted. 

The laughter stopped. 

Spork scratched the bugs on his chest. “It’s simple. If you’re It 
when the sun goes down, you lose,” he told me. 

The others grunted in agreement. 

“And what happens to the losers?” I asked in a trembling voice. 

“We nibble on them,” Fleg replied. 

“Excuse me?” I asked. “You nibble?” 

“Yes, we nibble on them. Until dinnertime. Then we eat them.” 


10 


The creatures around us exploded into more laughter. The sick 
gagging sound made me feel like puking. 

“Tt’s not funny!” Nat shrieked. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes at us. “It’s our favorite game.” 

“Well, I don’t like your game!” Nat cried. 

“We’re not going to play. We don’t want to,” I added. 

Spork’s eye lit up. “You mean you surrender? You give up?” He 
smacked his lips hungrily. 

“NO!” I shouted. Nat and I jumped back. “We’ll play. But by the 
rules. You have to tell us the rules. All of them.” 

A cloud rolled overhead. It cast a shadow over the clearing. I 
shivered. 

Were they going to attack us because we didn’t want to play? 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried suddenly. 

“Made in the Shade,” Fleg repeated. 

Huh? 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

The cloud slowly passed. 

“No time to explain,” Fleg said. He waved a paw at the other 
creatures. “Let’s go,” he insisted. “This time-out has been too long.” 

“This isn’t fair!” Nat protested. “Please. We need to know the 
rules.” 

“Okay,” Fleg said as he turned to go. “Gling—you must always 
attack from the east.” 

“The east,” I mumbled. I raised a hand to shade my eyes as I 
scanned the clearing. 

East. North. South. West. I pictured a map. East was to my right. 
West to my left. But which direction was east out here in the woods? 
Why hadn’t I listened at that outdoors camp? 

“Proo—the brown squares are Free Lunch squares,” Fleg 
continued. 

“You mean they’re for resting? They’re safe?” I asked. I liked that 
rule. Maybe we could find a brown square and stay there until sunset. 

Fleg snorted. 

“No. Free Lunch. It means anyone can eat you!” He glared down 
at me. “Rule Zee,” he announced. “You must be three feet tall to 
play.” 

I glanced at the beasts. They were at least ten feet tall! So much 


for Fleg’s rules. 

“Well, thanks for explaining,” I said, shaking my head. “But we 
really can’t play this game. We have to find our parents and—” 

“You must play,” Fleg growled. “You’re It. You’re the Beast from 
the East. Play—or surrender.” 

“The sun will be down soon,” Spork added, licking his fang. 

“You have until the sun goes down behind the Gulla Willow tree,” 
Fleg said. “Then, the Beast from the East is the loser.” 

Spork made a choking sound, his ugly laugh. “You will make a 
delicious loser. Pm thinking maybe a sweet-and-sour sauce. Or 
perhaps you’d go better with something a little more spicy.” 

The creatures all gagged and choked. They thought Spork was a 
riot. 

Fleg turned to the woods. He stopped. “Oh,” he added with an 
evil grin. “Good luck.” 

“Good luck,” Spork repeated. He poked a finger into his open eye 
socket and scratched inside it. Then he turned and lumbered after 
Fleg. 

The other creatures followed. The earth trembled under their 
heavy feet. In a few moments, the clearing stood empty again. 

I gaped at Nat. 

This wasn’t a game! These evil monsters searched the woods for 
lost kids. And then they— 

“What are we going to do?” Nat cried. “Maybe they already ate 
Pat. Maybe they found him on a brown Free Lunch square.” 

“And Mom and Dad, too,” I murmured. 

He let out a frightened gasp. 

“There has to be someplace safe!” I told him. “The way we use the 
porch at home when we play tag.” 

Nat swallowed nervously. “What’s safe here?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know,” I admitted. 

“We can call time-out,” Nat suggested. “You’re always allowed a 
time-out in every game.” 

“This is different. This is for our lives,” I said softly. 

The leaves rustled in the trees above us. The wind made the 
gourds whistle. 

I heard a low growl. Then a creature laughed. That ugly gagging 
sound. Twigs crackled. Bushes swayed. I heard low grunts. 

“We'd better start playing,” Nat urged. “They sound hungry.” 


11 


“How can we play?” I cried. “There’s no way we can win. There are 
too many of them. And we don’t even know where that Gulla tree is.” 

“So what?” Nat demanded. “We don’t have a choice—do we?” 

The leaves in a tree branch over our heads rustled. The branch 
started thrashing around. 

Thud. 

I shrieked and leaped back. 

Something small and brown hit the ground at my feet. 

One of those small, brown animals we had seen earlier. It rubbed 
up against my leg, and made a gurgling sound. 

“At least these little guys aren’t mean,” Nat said. He reached 
down to pet it. 

The animal snapped at Nat’s hand, clamping four rows of tiny, 
sharp teeth. 

“Whooa!” Nat jerked his hand away and leaped back. The animal 
scurried into the underbrush. 

Nat swallowed hard. “Weird,” he murmured. “What kind of forest 
is this? How come there aren’t any normal animals?” 

“Shhh!” I placed my finger over my lips and scowled. “Listen.” 

“I don’t hear anything,” Nat complained. 

“Exactly,” I answered. 

The grunts and growls and choking laughter had vanished. The 
woods were quiet. Really quiet. 

“Now’s our chance!” I cried. “Let’s run for it.” I grabbed his hand. 

“Wait!” Nat cried. “Which way?” 

I squinted around the clearing. “Back to the stream,” I declared. 
“We'll try to follow it back to Mom and Dad. Maybe we’ll hear their 
voices along the water.” 

“Okay,” Nat agreed. 

We raced across the clearing. We plunged into the woods and 
pushed through the thick line of trees. 

I peered ahead into the forest. “This way!” I shouted, pointing to 
my left. 

“Why?” Nat asked. 

“Because,” I said impatiently. “I see light through the trees up 
ahead. That means the woods thin out. There were fewer trees near 
the stream, remember?” 

I hurried on. Nat followed. We ran silently for a while. The trees 


did begin to thin out. Soon, scraggly bushes dotted the ground. 

“There!” I stopped. Nat nearly crashed into me. “Up ahead.” 

“The stream!” Nat exclaimed. He slapped me a high five. 

Excited now. we began to run. We reached the water at about the 
same time. 

“Now what?” Nat asked. 

“Let’s head left again,” I suggested. “The sun was in our eyes 
when we started. So now we want it on our backs.” 

Yes! I thought. We were definitely headed back the way we came. 
All we had to do now was follow the stream back to the right clearing. 
Back to our parents. 

“Stay low,” I told Nat. “Try not to make any noise, just in case.” 
In case the beasts were following us. “And keep an eye out for Pat,” I 
added. 

I had no idea if Pat was still in the woods or not. I hoped he had 
made it back to our camp. But he could be anywhere. Maybe hiding 
someplace nearby, alone and scared. 

Thinking about how scared Pat might be made me feel braver. We 
had to stay calm so we could help Pat. 

Nat and I crouched down. We scooted along the stream, pushing 
through the umbrella bushes that grew close to the water’s edge. 

I could still see the silvery-blue fish circling below the surface of 
the water. 

Gazing at the fish, I stumbled. I grabbed at a leaf on an umbrella 
bush to steady myself. The leaf shredded in my hand. Blue sap 
smeared over my fingers. 

Not again! Another color. Yellow. Red. And now blue. “Ginger! 
Come here!” 

Nat’s cry startled me. I rushed to his side. 

Nat pointed to the ground. 

I glanced down, afraid of what I would see. 

“A footprint,” I said, frowning. Then I let out a loud whoop. 

Nat’s boot rested inside the footprint perfectly. It was exactly the 
same size as his. 

“Pat!” we said together. 

“He has been here!” Nat cried joyfully. 

“Yes!” I shouted. Pat had found his way back to the stream. 

“Maybe he already made it back to camp,” Nat said excitedly. 
“We can follow his footprints.” 

We started out eagerly. With each step I pictured Mom and Dad 
and Pat’s smiling faces when Nat and I showed up at camp. 

Pat’s footprints marched along the stream for a while. Then they 


veered into the woods. 

We followed them through the trees and found ourselves on a 
narrow path. The trees grew closer together here. 

Overhead, the sun disappeared from view. 

The air grew damp and cold. 

I heard a familiar growl. 

Right behind us. 

The ground shook. 

“Beasts!” I screamed. “Run!” 

I pushed Nat forward. We sprinted down the path. It curved to 
the right and then back to the left. I had no idea which direction we 
were going now. 

Branches of trees whipped our faces. I struggled to shove them 
aside. The trees swayed and shook above our heads. Gourds hit the 
ground all around us. 

Something warm and wet tangled itself around my arm. I yanked 
free. Another wet thing grabbed me. 

Vines. 

Thick yellow vines. 

Some draped over the branches of the trees, dangling onto the 
forest floor. Others sprouted from the tree trunks. They wrapped 
around each other, weaving thick nets from tree to tree. 

Some vines stretched across the path. Nat and I had to jump and 
twist, leaping over the vines in our way. 

It was hard work. I could hear Nat breathing hard. 

My side ached. My breath came in short, sharp bursts. 

I longed to rest. But we couldn’t rest. The ground was shaking 
under our feet. The woods echoed with thunderous cries. 

The beasts were coming. And they were gaining on us. 

“Watch out!” Nat warned. 

I spotted a tangled web of vines strung across the path. 

Nat jumped the web. He cleared it. I gathered myself and leaped. 
I jumped high. 

But not high enough. 

Vines wrapped around my ankles. I fell to the ground. 

More thick yellow vines twisted around my legs. Frantically, I 
grabbed at them and tried to pull them off. 

The vines tugged back. 

Hard. 

“Nat!” I shrieked. “Help!” 

“Tm stuck!” he cried. His voice cracked. “Help me, Ginger!” 

I couldn’t help him. I couldn’t move. 


I glanced down at my legs. The vines were tugging tighter and 
tighter. 

Another vine inched around my waist. 

I gaped down at it. 

What were those shiny things? 

Eyes? 

“Eyes!” I cried out. 

Vines don’t have eyes! 

And then I realized what I was staring at. 

The vines weren’t vines. 

They were snakes. 


12 


I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried behind me. “These aren’t vines. They’re— 
snakes!” 

“Tell me something I don’t know!” I groaned. 

The snake around my waist uncoiled and slithered onto my right 
arm. It was covered with thick scales that felt rough against my bare 
skin. 

I took a deep breath. Then I wrapped my left hand around the 
snake’s body. It was warm. 

I yanked hard. Tried to pull it off. 

No way. 

The snake coiled tighter around my arm. Its hard, cold eyes stared 
up at me. Its tongue flicked in and out. 

I felt something brush against my thigh. I glanced down. 

Another snake climbed up my body. 

Sweat ran down my forehead. 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat wailed. “They’re climbing all over me.” 

“M-me, too!” I stammered. I glanced at my brother. His eyes 
bulged in terror. He twisted and squirmed, trying to free himself. 

The snake around my thigh pulled back its head. And stared at 
me with those piercing eyes. 

The snake around my arm wound tighter and tighter—until my 
fingers turned numb. It hissed. A long, slow hiss. As if it had all the 
time in the world. 

“They’re going to attack!” Nat cried in a strangled voice. 

I didn’t answer. I felt a wiry tongue flick against my neck. 

Cold. 

Their tongues were cold. 

And prickly. 

I squeezed my eyes shut and held my breath. 

Don’t bite. Please don’t bite, I prayed. 

A growl disturbed the bushes around us. 

“Grrougggh!” 

Fleg jumped out of the bushes. He stared at Nat and me, his 
mouth open. 

I gasped. 

I saw Fleg’s eyes bulge in surprise as he spotted the snakes. 
“Double Snake Eyes!” he called out. 


My entire body trembling, I gaped at him in horror. 
Double Snake Eyes? 
Was that good—or bad? 


13 


“Congratulations! Double Snake Eyes!” Fleg cried. He shook his head 
in wonder. “And you said you never played this game before!” 

The snakes tightened around me. 

I stared at him. “What are you talking about?” I choked out. 

“Twenty points—that’s what I’m talking about.” The Huge beast 
grunted. “I’d better play harder. Or you’re going to win!” 

“Who cares about winning!” I screamed. “I can’t breathe! Get 
these snakes off!” 

Fleg grinned. “Off!” he screamed with laughter. The folds of skin 
under his jaw flapped up and down. “That’s a good one.” 

“We mean it,” Nat pleaded. “Get them off us!” 

Fleg seemed confused. “Why?” He asked. “They might bite you.” 

“We know!” I screamed. “Help us—please!” 

The snakes flicked their tongues against my cheek. My stomach 
lurched. 

Fleg grinned. “If they bite you, you could be awarded a Triple 
Hisser,” he explained. “Worth sixty points.” 

Points for getting bitten. Some game! 

“Forget the points!” I shrieked. “Get—them—off. Now!” 

Fleg shrugged. “Okay.” 

He stepped up to me. Then he pushed a claw under the snake that 
was coiled around my arm. “You need claws to do this right,” he 
bragged. 

Fleg scratched his claw along the snake’s skin. 

I could feel the snake loosen its grip. 

“They’re ticklish,” Fleg explained. He yanked the snake away and 
tossed it into the woods. 

He tickled the other snake, then pulled it from around my leg. 
Then he turned to Nat and repeated the same motions, tickling the 
snakes and prying them loose. 

When Fleg was done, he leaped toward the edge of the woods. 

I struggled to my feet and rubbed my arms and legs. My whole 
body itched and tingled. I knew I’d see those snakes in my dreams! 

Fleg stuck his furry head out from behind a tree. 

“You could have tagged me,” he called. “Too bad!” 

He opened his mouth in a gagging laugh. Then he plunged into 
the woods and disappeared. 

My mouth dropped open. I stared after him in disbelief. 


“Tag!” Nat cried. “Now I get it. It’s just like tag. The rules are 
easy, Ginger.” He turned to face me. “Touch one of the beasts, and 
you won’t be It anymore. You won’t be the Beast from the East!” 

Nat took off, running after Fleg. 

“Wait, Nat!” I started after him. I stepped on something hard. I 
heard a crunch. 

Another crunch. I glanced down. 

“Nat! Stop!” I screamed. I spotted an orange rock at my feet. I 
picked it up and hurled it after Nat. “Hey—stop!” 

I glanced down at my hand. Orange. My fingers had turned 
orange where they had grasped the rock. 

The rock smacked into a tree trunk. Nat stopped. Whirled around. 
“What did you do that for?” he cried. 

“To stop you,” I answered. 

“Listen, Ginger,” Nat urged. “You have to tag one of the beasts. 
It’s the only way to win the game. To stay alive.” 

“I don’t think so,” I said as calmly as I could. 

Nat scowled. “What’s your problem? It’s just like tag.” 

“No,” I said. “This is not just like tag. Not the game that we used 
to play.” 

I pointed at the ground. 

Nat stepped closer. He gazed down to where I was pointing. 

He gasped. “What is that?” he asked. 


14 


“Bones,” I murmured. “A pile of animal bones.” 

Nat and I stared. The bones gleamed coldly in the sunlight. Picked 
clean. 

“Notice anything else?” I pointed to the ground beside the bones. 

“What?” Nat frowned. 

“Its brown,” I said. “The grass under the bones. It’s a square 
brown patch.” 

Free Lunch. 

Nat swallowed hard. 

“A beast ate it,” he murmured. “Whatever it was.” 

I wrapped my arms around my chest. “This is not like tag, Nat,” I 
told him solemnly. I couldn’t take my eyes off the poor animal’s 
bones. “This game is deadly.” 

“Only if we lose,” Nat said. “Ginger, we just saw Fleg. He helped 
us.” 

“So?” I asked. 

“So, we'll make him help us again.” 

“How can we do that?” 

Nat grinned. “Easy. We’ll trick him. Pretend to need help. Pretend 
you have another snake on you or something.” 

“Right,” I replied, rolling my eyes. Like I was really going to let 
Fleg near me again. 

Nat grabbed my arm. “It'll work. You scream for help. Fleg gets 
close. You jump out and tag him. Easy.” Nat snapped his fingers. 

I shook my head. “Forget it. ’m going to find the stream again 
and get out of here.” 

“Why are you so stubborn?” Nat cried. 

“Because I’m It!” I screamed. “I’m the one they’re going to eat!” 

“I-I know we can win if we try,” Nat stammered. 

I took a few deep breaths and tried to get rid of the panic in my 
chest. 

“Okay,” I said finally. “Okay. Okay. I'll try it. What should I do?” 


15 


Nat beamed at me. “First Pll climb a tree,” he said. “I can spot the 
beasts’ hiding places from up there.” 

I gazed up at the tall, leafy trees around us. 

I thought about it. All we needed was to tag one beast. Any beast. 

“Do it,” I told Nat. “But don’t stay up there too long.” 

Nat searched the woods for the best tree. “That one,” he said 
finally. 

The tree was tall. Dozens of sturdy branches sprang from its sides. 
In the center of each branch was a big, strong knot. Tiny golden leaves 
covered the branches. The tree looked strong, strong enough to hold 
Nat. 

“This is a cinch,” he assured me. “As easy as climbing a ladder. 
I'll be able to see everything from up there.” 

I waited near the base of the tree. 

Nat placed his foot on the lowest branch and hoisted himself up. 

He climbed slowly. Steadily. 

“See anything yet?” I called anxiously. 

“I see a weird nest,” he shouted down. “With big eggs.” 

“What about the beasts?” I yelled. “Do you see them?” 

“Not yet.” Nat climbed higher. A few seconds later, he 
disappeared from view. 

“Nat! Can you hear me?” I called. I cupped my hands around my 
mouth. “Nat! Where are you? Answer me!” 

I rushed around the tree, peering up through the branches. I 
spotted Nat near the very top. 

Nat was moving carefully. He let go of one branch and pulled 
himself onto the next highest branch. The top of the tree swayed 
dangerously. 

I caught my breath. 

Maybe this wasn’t such a good idea. 

Not if I had to climb up and rescue him. 

“Nat!” My throat hurt from shouting so loud. “Be careful!” 

The trunk swayed back and forth. Slowly at first. Then faster. 

Bits of loose bark broke off and fell in slow spirals toward the 
ground. 

The thick branches swished back and forth. Each branch started 
to bend in the middle. 

At the knots. 


I stared. The branches reminded me of something. Something 
familiar. 

Arms, I thought. The knots were like elbows. And the branches 
were like big arms, reaching... 

I blinked. Was I seeing things? 

The branches were reaching. 

They were reaching for Nat. 

“Nat!” I screamed. 

High above me, I saw him grasp onto a slender branch. 

“Nat!” I ran frantically around the base of the tree, pounding my 
fists on the trunk. “Nat! Come down!” I yelled. “The tree is alive!” 


16 


Nat peered down at me from the top of the tree. “What’s wrong?” he 
called down. 

“Come down!” I screamed. “The branches—” 

I was too late. 

The upper branches grabbed at Nat’s arms. Pinned them to his 
side. I saw him gasp in shock. 

Other branches lashed out, slapping at him. 

Slapping him. Whipping him. 

“Ginger!” Nat screamed. “Help me!” 

What could I do? 

I gazed up in horror as two lower branches reached up toward 
Nat. The top branches passed him down to the lower branches. 

The branches wrapped around him, hugging tight. 

This isn’t happening! I told myself. This can’t be happening! 

Nat’s feet dangled in the air. He kicked furiously at the tree. “Let 
me go! Let me gooooo!” 

More branches lashed out. Some held him tight. Others swiped at 
him, slapping at him. 

The branches passed Nat down. 

They were carrying him lower, down to the center of the tree. 

Where the branches were the thickest. 

Where the tree’s arms were strongest. 

Nat cried out. He kicked out again and again. The branches 
wrapped around his legs. 

No way to climb up to him. Every branch was thrashing wildly. 
Even the little thin ones that couldn’t reach Nat were clawing 
upwards. Straining to take a swipe at him. 

As I watched helplessly, the thickest branches pulled Nat into the 
center. 

He disappeared. 

“Help!” His muffled cry drifted down to me. “Ginger—it’s going 
to swallow me!” 

I had to do something. Had to pull him away somehow. Had to 
free him from the living tree. 

But how? 

We had gotten rid of the snakes. We had to get rid of the 
branches, too. If only... 

That’s it! 


I had a crazy idea. But maybe, just maybe it would work. 

If the tree is alive, maybe it has feelings, I thought. 

And if it has feelings, maybe it’s ticklish—just as the snakes were! 

“Ginger! Help!” Nat’s cries grew weaker. 

I knew I didn’t have much time. 

I leaped at the tree. A branch dipped down and slapped at me. 

I jumped back and scrambled around the trunk. I ducked as a 
thick branch swung at me. 

The tree was trying to keep me away while it swallowed up my 
brother. But I ducked beneath the slapping limbs and branches. 

Reached out. And began to tickle the rough bark. 

Tickled it with one hand. Then with both. 

Was that a shiver? Did the tree actually shiver? 

Or did I imagine it? 

Please! I silently begged. Please, please, let go of my brother. 

I tickled furiously with both hands. “Nat!” I called. “Nat! Can you 
hear me?” 

Silence. 

“Nat? Nat?” 

No answer. 


17 


I didn’t give up. I tickled harder. 

The trunk started to jiggle. 

Bunches of leaves shook free and floated down. They landed in 
my hair and covered my arms as I jabbed and scratched at the tree 
trunk. 

I tickled harder. The branches shook and swayed. The trunk 
wriggled. 

Yes! I thought excitedly. It’s working! I think it is ticklish! 

Pll make this tree collapse with laughter! 

I tickled harder. The trunk squirmed under my fingertips. 

I glanced up. Nat’s boots poked through the leaves. 

Then his legs. His arms. His face. 

The branches were shaking. Quivering and shaking. 

Nat swung free. He leaped from branch to branch. His tree- 
climbing skills were finally coming in handy! 

“Hurry!” I shouted up to him. “I can’t keep this up much longer. 
Jump!” 

Nat wriggled down the tree trunk. 

“Here goes!” Nat cried. He let go of the trunk and leaped into the 
air. 

He landed in a crouched position at my feet. “Whoa! Good job, 
Ginger!” 

I grabbed his hand and we hurtled away from the tree. 

Nat brushed twigs and leaves from his hair. “I saw some beasts!” 

I bit my lip. In all the excitement over the living tree, I had 
forgotten we were playing a deadly game. 

“I saw three of them,” Nat reported. “Fleg, Spork, and another 
one with a smashed tail. That way.” He pointed to the right. 

“What were they doing?” I asked. 

“They are all hiding behind a big, gray boulder. You can sneak up 
on them, easy.” 

“Right.” I rolled my eyes. “Piece of cake.” 

“You can do it.” Nat’s dark eyes locked on mine. “I know you can, 
Ginger.” 

Nat led the way. We crept slowly through the woods toward the 
boulder. 

The sky dimmed overhead and the air grew cooler. I knew that it 
was nearly evening. Soon the sun would disappear behind the Gulla 


Willow tree. 

I hoped I had enough time. 

“There’s the rock!” Nat whispered. 

I saw a small clearing in the trees. In the middle of the clearing a 
craggy, gray boulder rose up from the flat ground. 

It was big enough to hide a dozen beasts. 

My heartbeat quickened. 

“PI hide behind this cabbage plant,” Nat said. 

He ducked behind the plant. I followed. I wasn’t quite ready to 
face the beasts alone. 

I bent down and tightened my bootlace, trying to ignore the 
fluttering in my stomach. 

“Just sneak up on them,” Nat whispered. 

“Come with me,” I begged. 

Nat shook his head. “Too noisy if we both go,” he said. “It’s safer 
if you go alone.” 

I knew he was right. 

Besides, I told myself, it was pretty easy. The beasts behind the 
big rock had no idea I was coming. All I had to do was tag one of 
them. 

I felt a thrill of excitement. I could do it. 

And the game would be over. We’d be safe. 

I took a deep breath. “Ready or not, here I come,” I whispered. 

I crept toward the boulder. I glanced back. Nat poked his head 
from behind the cabbage and flashed me a thumbs-up sign. 

A few more steps and I’d be at the rock. I held my breath. 

The gray rock rose up in front of me. 

I reached out. My fingers were trembling with excitement. I 
leaped behind the rock. “Gotcha,” I cried. “You’re It!” 


18 


“Huh?” 

My hand swiped empty air. 

They were gone! 

No beasts. Only a pile of broken gourds scattered over the 
ground. 

I blinked in surprise. And scrambled to the front of the rock. 

No beasts. They had moved on. 

“Nat!” I called. “Nat!” 

My brother came jogging to the boulder. “What happened?” 

“Nothing happened. They’re gone,” I told him. “Now what?” 

“Hey,” Nat snapped. “It’s not my fault.” 

I stared at him, feeling totally disappointed. And afraid. 

A sharp gust of wind kicked up. I glanced at the sky. Shades of 
pink streaked overhead. The sun was setting. 

My chest tightened in despair. 

“It’s hopeless,” I muttered. 

Nat shook his head. “Do you know what we need?” he asked. 

“No. What?” I replied. 

“We need another plan.” 

I had to laugh. Nat was such a jerk! 

He leaned against the boulder and wrinkled his nose. “What kind 
of rock is this anyway?” he asked. 

“A creepy one,” I answered. 

Nat peered at the huge rock. “Something’s growing on it,” he 
said. 

“Well, don’t touch anything,” I warned. 

But telling Nat not to do something only makes him want to do it 
more. 

Nat stuck his finger into a hole in the boulder. 

The big rock trembled. 

A crack appeared at its top and spread quickly. 

Nat pulled his finger away. 

“What’s happening?” I yelled. 

A cloud of gray smoke shot up from inside the boulder. 

KERPLOOM! 

Nat and I ducked, clapping our hands over our ears. 

The explosion roared like a million firecrackers going off at once. 


More gray smoke billowed out of the boulder. 

I could barely see Nat. I started to cough. My eyes burned. 

The smoke filled the clearing around us and drifted above the 
treetops. A few seconds later, it faded away. 

And I saw Fleg standing in the clearing. 

Spork appeared behind him, scratching at his open eye socket. 

Another beast followed. And then another. They stared at Nat and 


“You touched the Penalty Rock!” Fleg cried. 

Nat took a step closer to me. “Huh?” 

Fleg nodded to the beast with the smashed tail. “Get him, Gleeb,” 
Fleg growled. 

Gleeb’s snout tensed. His eyes bulged. He reached out for Nat’s 
arm. 

“Wait! Stop,” I yelled. “Nat didn’t know it was a penalty.” 

“No fair! No fair!” Nat cried. 

The beasts ignored us. 

Gleeb scooped Nat up and lifted him high in the air. “Let’s go,” 
Gleeb grunted. 

Gleeb balanced Nat on both paws. Then he pretended to drop 
him. 

Nat shrieked. 

Gleeb and the other beasts snorted their ugly laughter, clapping 
their hairy paws together. 

“Stop it!” I screamed. “Let him go!” 

“Yes, go,” the beasts echoed. They clapped their paws again. 
“Let’s go! Let’s go!” they chanted. 

I glared at Fleg. “Tell him to put my brother down.” 

“He touched the Penalty Rock,” Fleg explained. “He must have his 
penalty.” 

“But we didn’t know about it!” I protested. “We don’t know any 
of your dumb rules. That isn’t fair.” 

I tried to grab Nat’s dangling legs. 

“Let me see your hand,” Fleg demanded. He snatched at my arm 
and lifted my hand up to his eyes. He studied my palm. 

“Nubloff colors!” he exclaimed. He studied me. “That’s fifty 
points. You can’t trick me. You’ve played this game before. You 
already know the rules.” 

I stared at my hand. Yellow sap from the stick. Blue from the leaf 
of the umbrella plant. Orange from the rock. Nubloff colors? 

“But... but...” I stammered. “I didn’t get these colors on purpose. 
They just happened.” 


Fleg and Spork exchanged glances. 

“Come,” Fleg ordered, waving to Gleeb. 

Gleeb tossed Nat over his shoulder and followed Fleg to the 
woods. The others stomped after them. 

“Ginger!” Nat wailed as the beast carried him away. 

I ran after them, feeling totally helpless. 

“Stop! Where are you taking him?” I shrieked. “What are you 
going to do to him?” 


19 


I chased after them. Down a wide path lined with more giant rocks. 

More penalty boulders? 

I stayed in the center of the path, afraid to touch them. 

The beasts stopped at the entrance to a tunnel. It was carved into 
the side of the largest rock I had seen. They ducked their heads and 
hurried inside. 

I followed behind, my heart pounding. 

“Ginger!” Nat’s cry echoed off the tunnel walls. 

The beasts growled and grunted, jabbering in excitement. Some 
pounded their paws on the ceiling as they moved. 

Everything shook. The walls. The ceiling. The ground. 

“Nat!” I cried. I couldn’t hear my own voice over the noise. 

I followed the beasts out of the tunnel and into another large 
clearing. 

“What’s that?” I gasped. 

In the center of the clearing, a large wooden box hung from a 
tree. It looked like an enormous bird house. I saw a tiny door on one 
side. 

A sign above the door read: PENALTY CAGE. 

Gleeb raised Nat high in the air. He held him up for all the beasts 
to see and spun him around and around. 

Nat screamed. 

Spork and the other beasts stomped and clapped. 

“NO!” I shouted. “You can’t do this!” 

“He must go in the box,” Fleg declared. “He touched the Penalty 
Rock. It’s in the rules.” 

Gleeb tossed Nat inside the Penalty Cage. He slammed the door. 
Fleg dropped a large twig into the rough wooden latch to lock the 
door. 

Nat reached through the slats. “Ginger,” he cried. “Get me out of 
here.” The penalty box swung in the air. 

“Don’t worry, Nat,” I called. “Pll get you out.” I shivered. He 
seemed so small and helpless. 

“You can’t keep him in there forever,” I told Fleg. “When does he 
get out?” 

“When we eat him,” Fleg replied softly. 


20 


“But I’m the Beast from the East!” I protested. “You said you would 
eat me.” I took a step closer to him. 

“Players in the Penalty Cage get eaten, too.” Fleg snorted in 
disgust. “Don’t pretend you forgot. Everyone knows that. It’s a basic 
rule.” 

“There must be another way to get him out,” I said, edging closer. 

“Only if he eats a Free Escape Tarantula,” Fleg explained. He 
scratched the flab under his chin. 

“Huh? He has to eat a tarantula?” I demanded, taking another 
step toward the beast. 

Fleg narrowed his eyes. “Don’t pretend you don’t know that,” he 
said, beginning to turn away. 

I hurled myself at Fleg’s hairy chest. 

I slapped him hard. 

“You're It!” I screamed. I lifted both fists in triumph. “You’re It! I 
tagged you!” 

Fleg raised an eyebrow. “Sorry,” he said calmly. “I paused the 
game. It doesn’t count.” 

“No!” I shrieked. “You can’t! You can’t keep changing the rules!” 

“I didn’t. Rules are rules.” Fleg reached over me and checked the 
lock on Nat’s cage. It held fast. 

“Try again,” Spork grunted. “You can always try again.” 

The rest of the beasts nodded in agreement, grinning and snorting 
in excitement. They were enjoying themselves. They rumbled away 
from the clearing. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He pounded on the box. “Get me out of 
here!” 

I gazed at him in despair. No way could I reach him up there. 

He stared down at me through the slats. His brown hair fell into 
his eyes. “Do something,” he pleaded. 

“PI try again,” I said. 

It was the only thing to do. 

“Can you see them?” I called up to him. “Which way did they 
go?” 

Nat pointed. “I see a few beasts hiding over there.” 

“PIL be back,” I promised. “After I tag one of them.” 

I tried to sound as if it was a sure thing. I wished I could believe 
my own words. 


“Hurry!” Nat called after me. 

A strong wind blew through the clearing, rocking the cage from 
side to side. Nat hunched down, hugging his knees. 

I gave him one last look and took off. 

Long shadows fell across the ground. I gazed at the sky. The 
orange was turning into deep pink. Almost sundown. 

I plunged into the darkening woods. 

All around me I could hear small animals skittering through the 
carpet of leaves on the forest floor. As if hurrying home before sunset. 

Home. Where they were safe. 

The wind howled loudly through the trees. I stumbled and almost 
fell over a rotted tree stump. 

The woods were closing in on me. Time was closing in on me. 

And then I saw a beast hiding behind an umbrella bush. His 
shoulders slumped forward. His head bobbed gently up and down. 

He was sound asleep. 

Here’s my chance, I thought. 

I moved slowly toward him. The beast shifted position. 

I stopped. Held my breath. 

He quieted down again. He must have moved in his sleep. 

This is it, I thought. My chance. In a second, he’ll be the Beast 
from the East. 

I rushed forward. 

And gasped. 

The earth dropped away. 

Nothing under me. 

Nothing but air. 

I fell quickly. Sank straight down. 

Down... down... down... 

Screaming all the way. 


21 


I hit solid ground. 

Hard. 

The air burst from my lungs. 

My shoulder jammed against a sharp rock. 

I cried out. Rubbed my arm. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I pulled myself up and stared 
around me. 

Too dark. I couldn’t see a thing. 

It’s over, I thought. The game is over. 

“Hey—is anyone up there?” I called. “Can anyone hear me?” 

I stopped and listened for an answer. Any answer. 

Silence. 

I forced myself to my feet. My shoulder ached. I rolled it back and 
forth a couple of times to keep it from getting stiff. 

I reached out and patted the walls around me. Solid dirt. I was in 
some sort of deep pit. The kind people dig to trap animals. 

Now I was the trapped animal. 

I ran my hands quickly over the walls. Maybe I could find 
something to hold onto. Some way to climb out. 

Yuck! What was that? 

My hand touched something cold sticking out of the side of the 
pit. 

I clenched my teeth and forced myself to touch it again. It stayed 
firm under my fingers. A root, I thought excitedly. 

It’s not alive. 

I ran my hand further up the wall. The roots were everywhere. As 
high up as I could feel. Perfect! 

I raised my foot and stepped onto the lowest root. It held. 

Footholds! I could climb out of the pit. 

My hands grabbed the highest root I could reach. I pulled myself 
up. I heard a crumbling of loose dirt. 

I pressed myself against the wall as more dirt sifted down the side 
of the pit, spraying my face. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. Waited for the dirt to stop falling. Then I 
found the next root and began climbing again. 

How much time did I have left? How much time before the sun 
went down? 

My shoulder ached. But I had a long way to go. I rested briefly 


against the wall. Then I continued climbing. 

Snap! 

The root shattered under my right foot. My leg dangled in the air. 

Snap! 

The root under my right hand popped loose. 

“Hey!” I cried out as I felt myself fall. 

I landed hard on the floor of the pit. I lay still for a moment, 
trying to catch my breath. 

I gazed up. A last bit of pink sky glowed over the mouth of the 
pit. 

In the fading light, I looked around. I saw the useless roots on the 
sides of the deep hole. I glanced down. 

Oh, no. 

There was just enough sunlight to see the ground beneath me. 

It was brown. 

And square. 

A Free Lunch square. 

I was trapped. Trapped on a Free Lunch square. The beasts could 
eat me—anytime they wanted. 

I froze in panic. And heard rumbling footsteps above me. 

I huddled in a corner of the pit. Pressed my back against the dirt. 

“This way!” I heard Fleg shout. “She’s down here!” 


22 


Fleg appeared in the opening above me. His flabby chin hung down. 
His eyes locked onto mine. 

“Found you!” he cried. 

Spork slid next to Fleg. He grinned down at me and drooled 
yellow drool. It splattered beside my boot. 

“Something down there smells delicious!” Spork cried. “I’m soooo 
hungry!” 

Gleeb shoved his furry face between Fleg’s and Spork’s. 

He smacked his lips. I heard his stomach growl. 

“Finally!” Spork grunted. “Pull her out! Let’s eat!” 

I covered my face with my hands. “Please. Don’t hurt me,” I cried. 
“T haven’t done anything to you.” 

Fleg shrugged. “You play the game. Sometimes you win. 
Sometimes you lose.” 

Spork and Gleeb reached down into the pit. Their big paws 
swiped at me. 

I pressed my back tighter against the wall. “Please,” I begged. 
“Please go away and leave me alone. You win, okay? You can have all 
my points.” 

“Points can’t be given away,” Fleg scolded. “You know that.” 

The others grunted in agreement. They reached down for me. 

My eyes searched the pit. 

I needed a weapon. 

The roots? 

I yanked a fat one out of the dirt. 

“Stay back!” I shouted, whipping the root at their paws. 

The beasts slapped each other on the back and laughed their ugly 
laugh. 

“You'll be sorry,” I threatened. 

Who was I kidding? This stupid root couldn’t hurt them. And they 
knew it. I was the Beast from the East. I was dinner. 

Fleg leaned into the pit and snarled. His claws were only inches 
from my face. 

I ducked. 

His paw brushed against the back of my neck. I felt claws scratch 
my skin. 

I jerked away. The hair on my arms stood straight up. 

If only I could burrow into the earth like an animal, I thought. 


Fleg’s paw swiped the air in front of my face. 

“Stop ducking away,” he shouted. “You’re just making me 
hungrier.” 

“This isn’t fair!” I screamed. 

He turned to Spork and Gleeb. “I’m tired of this,” he complained. 
“Enough stalling.” 

His round eyes gleamed down hungrily at me. 

“Get her!” he bellowed. 

Spork leaned down and grabbed my arm. I felt his claws dig into 
my skin. He pulled me up and yanked me to my feet. 

It’s all over, I thought sadly. The game is over. 


23 


A cloud passed overhead, throwing the pit into deep shadow. 

Fleg howled. He slapped his broad forehead. “Made in the 
Shade!” he cried. 

Spork opened his paw and let go of my arm. 

I dropped to the ground. Fell to my knees. 

“Made in the Shade!” Spork cried. 

“Made in the Shade!” Gleeb echoed. 

I climbed to my feet. The angry voices of the beasts made my 
head throb. 

They stomped their feet loudly. 

“What’s going on?” I demanded. 

“You're safe,” Spork replied, sneering in disgust. “This time.” 

Safe? I breathed a sigh of relief. 

“But... why?” I asked, amazed. 

“You’re Made in the Shade,” Fleg explained. 

“We can’t touch you. It’s a free pass. But you can only use it 
once.” 

Once was enough, I hoped. I didn’t plan to play this game forever. 

“We have to let you go this time,” Fleg growled. “But you're still 
the Beast from the East.” 

“You still have to tag someone before sundown,” Spork agreed. 

Gleeb sighed. The three beasts turned to the woods. “We’ll go 
now,” Fleg announced. 

“Wait!” I scrambled to my feet. “How do I get out of here? How 
can I tag someone if I’m stuck in this pit?” 

Fleg rolled his eyes. He reached down and pressed one paw 
against a purple rock on the ground near the edge of the pit. 

The pit floor creaked and groaned. 

Then it rose up. Higher and higher. 

Finally it jerked to a halt a few feet below the ground. 

I was close enough to stare at the beasts’ ankles. I could see shiny 
black bugs crawling in their fur. I swallowed nervously. Was this some 
kind of trick? Or was I really safe? 

“I still need help to climb out of here,” I told Fleg. 

Fleg pounded on the purple rock again. 

The floor started moving. This time it stopped level with the 
ground. 

I hopped off the Free Lunch square. The beasts circled me. 


“The sun is almost down,” Fleg warned. “The game is almost 
over.” 

“You don’t have much time,” Spork added. 

Fleg snorted. Then he turned and lumbered away. 

“Good luck,” Spork cried as he hurried after Fleg. Gleeb followed. 
They raced back toward the stone tunnel. 

“Wait!” I yelled. I ran after them as fast as I could. 

I raced into the rock tunnel. I could hear the beasts up ahead of 
me. They growled and grunted, scraping their claws across the walls 
and ceiling again. Making a racket. 

I saw them burst through the other side of the tunnel. They split 
up, running in different directions. 

Which way should I go? I knew I couldn’t waste time. 

I followed Fleg. 

He wove in and out between the trees. He leaped over some 
scraggly bushes. 

I panted, straining to keep up. 

Fleg picked up the pace. 

Faster and faster. 

I could barely keep up now. I was gasping for air. 

“Wait!” I shouted desperately. “Wait!” 

Fleg glanced once over his shoulder. He disappeared into the 
trees. I stopped running after him. 

Overhead, the sky turned to purple. Soon it would be completely 
dark. 

I spun around, searching desperately for a beast to tag. 

“Yoo-hoo! Over here!” I heard a call. 

I whirled around. 

Spork. He waved to me from between two tall trees. 

I raced toward him. 

Spork lumbered down a twisting path. I followed him. 

What else could I do? 

Suddenly, my foot caught on a rock. I sprawled into the dirt. 

I forced myself to get up. The woods were quiet around me. 

No beasts. 

I wanted to scream! So I did. 

“Fleg! Spork! Gleeb! Where are you?” I shouted. How could I tag 
them? I couldn’t even find them. 

My eyes scanned the area. 

What was that? I squinted harder. 

Yes! A blue furry head! It popped up behind a bush. 

My last chance. 


I gathered my energy and sprinted toward the bush. My hand 
reached out. “Tag!” I yelled. “You’re—” 


24 


“Gurraugh!” The tiny beast pawed the air. 

The baby beast! The only beast under three feet tall. Too short to 
play the game. 

No fair! I thought. 

My hopes were crushed. Again. 

I picked up a rock and heaved it angrily into the woods. 

“Where is everyone?” I screamed. “Come out and play!” 

The little beast patted its claws together and gurgled happily. 

I stared at it. Why was it here all alone? 

Then it hit me. Of course. 

There must be another beast nearby. A grownup beast to watch 
the kid. One over three feet tall. 

One I could tag. 

I checked out the area. Trees and large rocks. I would have to 
search behind every one of them. 

Taking a deep breath, I tiptoed silently through the trees. Stopped 
to peer behind each rock. 

Crunch. My foot cracked a pile of twigs. 

I stood completely still. And waited. 

Silence. 

I moved forward. 

I listened carefully. 

Silence. 

I crept forward. A beast had to be here somewhere. 

But where? 

Then I heard a noise. 

Mumbling. 

I crept behind a bush and inched closer to the sound. It came 
from behind a tall, jagged rock. 

I peeked out. 

Spork! 

Yes! Spork stood behind the rock, talking to himself. He scratched 
the lumpy scar on his nose. 

I could easily tag him. 

But was this another penalty rock? 

Would it go up in smoke? 

I didn’t want to end up in a cage dangling above the ground. 


Like Nat. Poor Nat. 

I took another deep breath and inched closer to Spork. 

Spork turned and searched the woods behind him. “Little beast,” 
he called out. “Is that you?” 

I dropped to the ground and waited. 

My heart pounded in my ears. I forced myself to stay quiet. 

Spork didn’t move from his spot. He sighed and started mumbling 
again. 

Three more steps and I could tag him. 

Two more. 

I wiped my forehead. One more. 

It was too good to be true. Spork had no idea I was behind him. 

I smacked him hard. “You’re It!” I shrieked. 

Spork gasped in surprise. His big paws shot up into the air. I 
thought he was about to faint! 

“Tve done it! I’ve done it!” I cried happily. 

I was free! 

Nat was free! 

Spork grunted and raised himself up. He towered over me. He 
didn’t seem the least bit upset. But he had just lost the game. 

“You're It!” I repeated. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 

Spork raised a paw lazily and scratched his open eye socket. 

I felt a chill of fear. What if Spork refused to obey the rules? 

“Sorry,” Spork said softly. “Not this time.” 

“Hey—!” I shouted angrily. “You have to obey the rules! I tagged 
you, fair and square!” 

Spork stared at me as if I were being very funny. Something was 
wrong. But what? What was it? Why didn’t he say something? Spork’s 
lips curled into a nasty grin. 


25 


“You tagged me from the west,” Spork whispered. “It doesn’t count.” 

I could feel the blood rush to my face. “No fair! I tagged you! I 
tagged you!” I wailed. 

Spork shrugged. 

“You have to tag me from the east. Remember?” Spork’s little 
eyes nearly disappeared as his face crumpled in laughter. “You're still 
the Beast from the East!” 

I groaned. 

How could I have forgotten? That was the most important rule of 
all. 

How was I supposed to know which way was east? I couldn’t even 
see the sun anymore! 

My head throbbed. My whole body ached. I was sore and hungry. 

Spork stood there, shaking with silent laughter. 

I glanced at the darkening sky. 

Wait a minute! 

I climbed up on the boulder. The sun was setting behind me. That 
was the west. In front of me was east. 

I studied Spork. Without Fleg around, the big beast seemed less 
menacing. Harmless almost. 

After all, he was supposed to be baby-sitting. And what had 
happened? He’d lost the little beast. 

And now he was so busy laughing at my mistake, he had 
practically forgotten about me. 

“Hey, Spork,” I called. “Do you want to play one of my games 
now?” 

“But we’re still playing this one.” Spork blinked in surprise. 

“PIL pause it. It’s kind of boring anyway, isn’t it?” I asked. “My 
game is lots more fun.” 

Spork scratched the hole where his eye used to be. He pulled a 
big, black bug out of it, and tossed the bug away. “What’s your game 
called?” 

“Freeze Frame,” I answered quickly. 

Nat and Pat loved to play this game. 

“We spin around and when I say stop, we freeze—and see if one 
of us can keep our balance and not fall over.” 

“Sounds fun,” Spork agreed. “Why not?” 

“Okay then,” I said. “Let’s try it. Spin!” I shouted. 


We both started to spin. 

I peeked at Spork. His arms swung out as he whirled around. 

“Faster!” I called out. “Much faster.” 

Spork whirled faster and faster as he turned around in circles. 

His tail swished against the bushes. I jumped out of the way. 

Spork started to wobble. 

“Game—unpaused!” I shouted. 

Spork didn’t seem to hear me. He teetered and stumbled into a 
tree. 

“Freeze!” I shouted. 

Spork froze in place. 

I leaped at him and tagged him. Hard. 

From the east. 

“You're It!” I shouted. I backed away. “I tagged you from the east! 
This time you’re really It!” 

Spork placed both paws against his head and closed his eyes. I 
could tell he was still dizzy. He spread his legs and balanced himself 
against the tree. 

He bopped himself in the face with his paw. “You did it,” he 
agreed. He ran his bumpy tongue over his lips. He exhaled a deep 
breath. “I’m It,” he admitted. 

“Yes. Yes. Yes!” I cried. I jumped up in excitement. 

Spork plopped down against the boulder. 

‘Tm free!” I shrieked. “The game is over.” I clenched my hand 
into a fist and pumped my arm. 

“I’m going to rescue Nat,” I said. “Which way is he?” 

Spork pointed his clawed finger to my right. 

“We’re outta here!” I shouted. 

Td never been so happy in all my life. 

“Well, Spork old pal,” I said, beaming at him. “This is good-bye. 
See you!” 

“Not so quick,” Spork said. “I’m afraid you can’t leave.” 


26 


“Forget it,” I said. “You can’t change the rules again! No way.” 

“You can’t leave,” he repeated. “The game continues until 
sunset.” He glared at me stubbornly. 

I gazed at the sky. The purple was fading to gray. Not much time 
left. But enough. 

I wasn’t going to be It again. 

I could hide until dark. But where? 

“Don’t just stand there,” Spork warned. “You could be tagged 
again.” 

“Never,” I insisted. “I won’t let that happen.” 

Before I could move, Fleg stomped from behind a tree. The flabby 
skin under his chin swung from side to side. 

Gleeb crept behind him. 

“She tagged me!” Spork told them. 

“I knew it!” Fleg stared at me. “I knew you played this game 
before.” 

I balled my hands into fists. I was angry. I’d had enough. 

They forced me to play their stupid game. But I wasn’t going to 
lose now. 

Fleg waved me away. “You have until I count to trel,” he said. 
“Then we’re allowed to come after you again.” 

He turned his back and covered his eyes. “Gling... proo... zee... 
freen... trel,” he counted. 

I had no choice. I ran. 

Don’t stop, I told myself. Don’t think about anything. Run. Find a 
place to hide. 

“Ready or not—here we come!” I heard Fleg cry. 

Behind me, the beasts growled and grunted in excitement. 

I hurled myself off the path and pushed through the tall, scratchy 
grass between the trees. I jumped over a clump of cabbage plants. 

My legs ached. My feet burned. 

But I couldn’t stop. 

Not until I reached a hiding place. 

I skidded to a stop when I heard rushing water. I nearly fell into 
the stream. A large blue fish leaped out of the water and snapped at 
my ankles. 

This was no place to hide. I turned back into the woods. 

A cold wind blew in my face. The gourds whistled their strange 


melody. 

“Here I come!” Spork shouted off to my left. 

I pushed myself faster. No way he was going to tag me. 

I glanced around. Which way? 

The rock tunnel! I saw it only a few feet away. 

I darted into the darkness. Without the beasts yelling and 
shouting, it was eerily quiet inside. I slowed down and tiptoed 
through the tunnel. 

When I reached the other side, I crept into the dense trees. I 
slumped against a tree and waited, trying to keep quiet. I was 
breathing so hard I was afraid the beasts could hear me! 

A moment passed. 

I felt the trembling that meant the beasts were approaching. 

I held my breath and ducked beneath an umbrella plant. 

Seconds later, Fleg, Spork, and Gleeb burst out of the tunnel and 
raced down the path. Four more beasts followed behind them. They 
passed the bush where I hid. Crashed into the woods. And kept going. 

I waited to make sure they were gone. 

Silence. 

I breathed a sigh of relief. 

I scrambled to my feet and stretched. 

Something rushed at me from behind. 

“No!” I cried in terror. 

Two arms wrapped around my waist. And a creature threw me to 
the ground. 


27 


I thrashed and kicked wildly. 

“Stop it. Cut it out!” a familiar voice demanded. 

“Nat!” I screamed. I whirled around. “Nat! You’re safe! How did 
you get out of the cage?” 

“Cage? What cage?” My brother squinted at me. 

“The penalty cage,” I declared. “Nat—how did you escape? Did 
they let you go?” 

“Tm not Nat. It’s me. Pat.” 

“Pat?” I stared at him in confusion. Then I threw my arms around 
his neck. I’d never been so happy to see him. 

“Where have you been?” I demanded. 

“Where have I been?” Pat cried. “Where have you been? I’ve been 
searching everywhere for you guys. These woods are creepy.” 

He glanced around. “Where’s Nat, anyway?” 

“Trapped.” I started to explain. “See, the beasts got him. After you 
ran into the woods, we had to play this game and...” 

“A game?” Pat cried. He shook his head in disbelief. “I was lost in 
the woods—and you two are playing a game?” 

“It’s not what you think,” I said. 

I checked the trees around us for any sign of the creatures. 

“They forced us to play,” I told Pat, lowering my voice to a 
whisper. “It’s like tag—only they play for keeps. I was the Beast from 
the East and—” 

“Right.” Pat rolled his eyes. 
“Really,” I insisted. “This game is deadly. You have to believe 
me.” 

“Why?” Pat shrugged. “You never believe me. Why should I 
believe you?” 

“Because if we lose, they’ll eat us!” I told him. 

Pat burst out laughing. 

“Tm serious!” I grabbed Pat’s shoulders and shook him hard. “I’m 
telling the truth! It’s dangerous here. Fleg and Spork are after me, 
right now.” 

Pat twisted out of my grasp. “Right. Fleg and Spork. Woof woof!” 
Pat barked. 

“Shhh,” I hissed. “Keep quiet!” I pulled him behind an umbrella 
plant. “Pat, you have to believe me. They’re all around us. They could 
get us if we’re not careful.” 


“And I suppose this game was their idea?” he asked. 

“Yes,” I answered. 

“And I suppose they can talk,” Pat went on. “In English.” 

“Yes. Yes. Yes,” I insisted. 

“You’re weirder than I thought,” Pat said, shaking his head. “So 
where’s Nat? For real?” 

“Grrravgh!” 

A deep growl echoed off the nearby rocks. “This way!” A beast 
bellowed. “Near the tunnel!” 

Heavy footsteps pounded closer. The ground shook under our 
feet. 

Pat’s eyes widened in shock. He reached for my arm. 

“Tt’s them!” I exclaimed. “Now do you believe me?” 

Pat swallowed hard and nodded his head. “Yes. I believe you,” he 
choked out. 

“She’s over here!” a beast shouted. 

“He heard us,” I whispered in Pat’s ear. “Run!” 

Pat and I took off. 

We raced through the woods, leaping over fallen logs, pushing 
sharp branches out of our faces. 

“This way!” I called. I grabbed Pat’s hand. “Stay low.” 

We ducked into a thick clump of trees. 

Spork thudded past us. 

I could hear him sniffing the air. 

“Can he smell us?” Pat asked in a whisper. 

“Sshh!” I pressed my finger to my lips. 

We crept between the bushy plants. 

Fleg appeared, stomping in our direction. 

I dropped to my hands and knees. I pulled Pat down beside me. 

Fleg thudded past us. 

I knew we weren’t safe. More beasts would follow. And one of 
them might find us. 

I motioned for Pat to follow me. 

We scrambled deeper into the woods. 

The trees were close together here. The bushes were so thick I 
couldn’t see between them. I flung out an arm, feeling my way. 

My hand brushed against something. 

Something big. 

And warm. 

And furry. 


28 


I leaped back. Crashed into Pat. 

What had I touched? 

The bushes parted and a strange creature bounced out. 

I had never seen anything like it. 

It had the body of a dog, as big as a German shepherd, and the 
face of a squirrel. 

I don’t believe this! I thought. 

It could talk, too. “In here! Quick!” the creature urged in a 
scratchy, squeaky voice. 

Its squirrel-nose twitched. Its bushy dog tail thrashed from side to 
side. 

Could we trust it? 

“In here!” it squeaked. 

It waved a paw in the air. Pointed to a bush of big orange leaves. 

Pat held back, but I crept forward. I spotted the entrance to a 
cave hidden behind the leaves. 

“Its a good hiding place,” I told Pat. 

“Its the Hiding Cave,” the squirrel-dog announced. “The Hiding 
Cave is the place to hide. Quick!” The animal held the leaves aside for 
us. 

The ground shook. I turned and saw furry blue beasts in the 
distance. They were moving quickly toward us. 

“Better do it, Pat,” I said. 

Pat hesitated. 

I yanked his hand and pulled him after me. I bent down to enter 
the Hiding Cave. 

I suddenly remembered what happened when Nat touched the 
penalty rock. The thought made me shiver. Would we really be safe in 
the Hiding Cave? 

Thump. Thump. 

The beasts drew closer. 

Pat hesitated and held back. 

“Where are they?” a beast shouted. I recognized Fleg’s voice. 

“They must be nearby,” Spork answered. 

The squirrel-dog stayed outside. It let go of the orange leaves. 
They sprang back into place, hiding the entrance to the cave. 

Pat and I crouched inside, hidden from view. 

We huddled close together. The air felt damp inside. It had a sour 


smell that I tried to ignore. 

I slumped against the wall of the cave and wiped the sweat off my 
forehead. I tucked my feet under me. “Try to get comfortable,” I 
whispered to Pat. “We might be here for a long time.” 

Something tickled my neck. I reached to scratch it. 

Something tickled my ear. 

I shivered. 

I brushed my hand against my ear and felt something crawl onto 
my cheek. 

“Ow!” I cried out as I felt a sharp bite on my shoulder. 

I turned to Pat. He was slapping at his ears and neck. 

Something buzzed past my ear. 

Something skittered through my hair. I shook my head hard. 

My whole body itched and tingled. Every inch of me! 

Beside me, Pat squirmed, and wriggled, scratched and slapped at 
himself. 

I leaped to my feet. “Help!” I cried. “What is happening? What is 
going on in here?” 


29 


“Help!” I cried, scratching desperately. “Help us!” 

The squirrel-dog’s face poked into the entrance. 

“What is happening to us?” I cried, squirming and scratching. 

“I forgot to tell you,” the strange creature whispered. “The Hiding 
Cave is also a hiding place for bugs!” 

Bugs! 

“Ohhh!” Pat let out a low moan. He rubbed his back against the 
cave wall. Scratched his hair. 

The bugs were everywhere. Crawling on the walls. Flying through 
the air. Buzzing. Whistling. Clicking. 

They crawled up and down my legs and arms. Over my face. In 
my hair. 

I picked some kind of worm off my cheek. I dragged my hand 
down my arms and my bare legs, brushing bugs onto the cave floor. 

Pat squirmed next to me. “Get them off me, Ginger,” he wailed. 
“Helllp!” 

“Sshhh!” The squirrel-dog stuck his nose back into the cave. 
“Quiet! Here comes the Beast from the East. Don’t make a sound or 
he’ll find you!” 

Pat and I drew closer together. 

I held my breath and tried not to move. 

I counted to ten. Silently. I pretended there were no bugs on me. 

I shut my eyes and pictured my bedroom. The posters on the wall. 
My comfortable canopy bed. I thought of being under the covers. 
Going to sleep. 

And then I thought about bedbugs! 

I couldn’t ignore the insects crawling over me. It was impossible 
not to think about them. 

I couldn’t stand it. I needed to scratch. I needed to scream! 

I couldn’t sit there another second. 

I heard a beast stomp close to the cave opening. 

I recognized Spork’s voice. “Hey—!” he snarled at the squirrel- 
dog. “Have you seen strangers here?” 

Did Spork know this creature? 

Were they friends? 

“Answer me,” Spork demanded. 

I waited for the squirrel-dog’s answer. Please don’t tell them we’re 
hiding in here, I prayed. Please. 


A fat, wet bug landed on my face. I picked at it with my fingers. It 
clung to my cheek. I pulled harder. I couldn’t tug it loose. 

I felt a scream building up inside me. 

I couldn’t take it another second. 

My mouth opened. 

I had to scream. I had to! 


30 


“Ah—” 

I clamped my hand over my mouth. 

I let out a tiny squeak. 

The orange leaves rustled. Fleg’s paw pushed into the cave 
entrance. 

I froze. I heard Pat gasp. 

“What’s in there?” I heard Fleg ask the squirrel-dog. 

“Bugs,” the squirrel-dog replied. “Thousands of them.” 

Millions! I thought bitterly. The bugs crawled over my face, my 
arms, my legs. They buzzed in my ears. 

Fleg pushed his nose into the cave. 

I stopped breathing. 

Fleg sniffed. “What’s that awful smell?” he complained. 

“Insects,” I heard the squirrel-dog answer. 

“They stink!” Fleg muttered. He let go of the leaves and they 
snapped back into place. “Only bugs in there,” Fleg reported to Spork. 
“No humans.” 

“Of course not,” the squirrel-dog said calmly. “The humans went 
the other way.” 

“Why didn’t you say so?” Fleg exploded. 

Spork shouted to the other beasts. “They’re not here! The other 
way, quick! Only trel minutes left to play.” 

“PIL find her,” I heard Spork tell the others. “I have to tag her 
back! No human is going to make me Beast from the East!” 

I heard their footsteps pound in the other direction. 

Only trel minutes! I didn’t exactly know what trel meant. But I 
knew the game was nearly over. If Spork didn’t tag me back, my 
brothers and I would be free! 

But I couldn’t take another second in this bug-infested cave. 

I moved to the entrance on trembling legs. I itched so badly, I 
could barely control my muscles! 

I peered out of the cave. “Are they all gone?” I whispered to the 
squirrel-dog. 

“For now,” he answered. 

“Let’s get out of here!” I called back to Pat. I sprang out of the 
cave. He jumped out after me. 

We frantically brushed bugs off our skin and clothes. I scratched 
my head and rubbed my back up against a tree. 


Pat stomped his feet. “They’re even in my boots!” he wailed. He 
untied his laces and pulled off his boot. He shook it upside down. A 
hundred black bugs poured onto the ground and scurried away. 

“I’m never going to stop itching!” I wailed. “I’m going to itch for 
the rest of my life!” 

“You’d better hide,” the squirrel-dog warned. “They could be 
back. And you’re only allowed to use the Hiding Cave once a game.” 

Pat and I thanked the strange creature. Then we plunged back 
into the woods. 

I hadn’t been in this part of the forest before. Pat and I pushed 
our way past a row of high bushes. I stopped. 

A giant willow tree stood up ahead. Its branches spread low, 
sweeping against the ground. 

The Gulla Willow? 

It had to be. 

I glanced around, searching for a hiding place. A long, low rock 
stretched beyond the tree. 

Only a few minutes left. 

“Quick,” I whispered, grabbing Pat. I pulled him behind the rock. 

“That must be the Gulla Willow,” I told him. “When the sun sets 
behind it, we’ll be safe.” 

Pat nodded but didn’t reply. He was breathing hard. He scratched 
his cheeks. Still itchy. We were both still itchy. 

“Stay down,” I warned him. “And don’t touch the rock.” 

We crouched together in silence. 

And waited. 

My heart slammed against my chest. My skin tingled. I huddled 
beside my brother—and listened. 

Silence. 

The whisper of the wind through the trees. No other sound. 

“Are we safe now?” Pat asked in a trembling whisper. 

“Not yet,” I answered. I raised my eyes to the charcoal gray sky. A 
last ray of purple light spread over the top of the willow. 

Hurry! I urged the sun. Go down! What are you waiting for? 

The sky darkened. The purple light faded behind the Gulla 
Willow. 

Only gray sky now. Night sky. 

The sun was down. 

“Were safe!” I cried, jumping to my feet. I turned and hugged 
Pat. “We’re safe! We made it.” 

I stepped out from behind the rock. 

A heavy hand slapped me hard. On the shoulder. 


“You're It!” Spork bellowed. “You’re the Beast from the East!” 


31 


“Huh?” 

I gasped in shock. I could still feel the beast’s stinging slap on my 
shoulder. 

“No fair!” Pat cried. “No fair!” He stared as the beasts circled us. 
Pat had never seen them close-up before. 

“Its dark! The sun is down!” I protested. “You can’t tag me now!” 

“Game Over! Game Over!” Fleg shouted. He stepped out of the 
woods and hurried toward the circle of beasts. 

I pointed angrily at the Gulla Willow. “The sun set behind the 
tree. You can’t tag me!” 

“The game hadn’t been called yet,” Spork said calmly. “You know 
the rule. Fleg has to shout out ‘Game Over’ before the game can end.” 

The beasts all murmured agreement. 

I clenched my fists. “But... but...” I stammered. I lowered my 
head in defeat. I knew they wouldn’t listen to me. 

Pat gulped. “What will they do now, Ginger?” he whispered 
softly. “Will they hurt us?” 

“I already told you,” I whispered back. “They’re going to eat us.” 

Pat let out a cry. He started to say something. But there wasn’t 
time. 

Fleg stepped forward and grabbed me by the waist. He tossed me 
over his shoulder. 

The blood rushed to my head and I felt dizzy. The ground was so 
far away! 

Spork hoisted Pat over his shoulder. 

“Hey—whoa!” I protested. “Put my brother down!” 

“He was your Helper,” Spork replied. “We always eat the Helper, 
too!” 

“Put me down!” Pat shrieked. “Let me go.” 

But the huge beast ignored him. 

They carried us both into a small clearing. 

A large stone pit sat in the center. A raging fire burned inside the 
pit. Yellow and blue flames leaped at the sky. 

Fleg lowered me onto a tree stump. Spork set Pat down beside 
me. 

The beasts circled around us. Drooling. Licking their lips. 

I thought I heard thunder. But I soon realized it was the sound of 
their stomachs growling. 


“Its Flelday,” Spork said, smiling. “On Flelday we always 
barbecue.” 

I swallowed hard. And stared at the flames leaping against the 
sky. I wrapped my arms around my chest and hugged myself. 

Spork poked at the fire with a long metal rod. 

He pointed the rod at me. “Yum yum.” He grinned, rubbing his 
stomach. 

I felt sick. 

Gleeb lugged a huge pot over to the fire. He set it down in the 
middle of the flames. 

Fleg pulled some gourds off the nearby trees. He cracked them 
open and poured their yellow juice into the pot. He collected sticks 
and leaves and tossed them in, too. 

Gleeb stirred and stirred. A sour, rotting stench rose up from the 
pot. 

“The broth is ready,” Gleeb announced. 

I turned to Pat. “I’m sorry,” I said in a trembling voice. “Sorry I 
lost the game.” 

‘Tm sorry, too,” he whispered, his eyes on the flames. 

The beasts began chanting. “Flelday. Flelday. Flelday.” 

“Who brought the barbecue sauce?” Spork asked. “I’m starving!” 

Fleg lifted me in his arms. And carried me toward the cooking 
pot. 


32 


“Whoa! Wait! Stop!” 

A familiar voice shouted across the clearing. 

I jerked my head around. “Nat!” I screamed. 

“Ginger!” Nat cried. He ran toward us, waving his arms. “What’s 
going on? What are they doing?” 

Fleg lowered me to the ground. “Nat—!” I screamed. “Run! Find 
help! Hurry!” 

He stopped halfway across the clearing. “But, Ginger—” 

“They'll eat you, too,” I shrieked. “Run!” 

“Capture him!” Spork shouted to the other beasts. 

Gleeb and several others took off after Nat. 

Nat spun around. He darted for the woods and disappeared into 
the trees. 

I watched helplessly as the beasts plunged into the woods after 
him. 

Don’t find him, I prayed, crossing my fingers. All ten of them! 

Nat will escape, I told myself. He’ll climb a tree. He'll get away 
from them. Then he’ll run and find help. 

Pat and I stared at the dark trees. And waited. 

“Oh, nooo!” I uttered a long wail when the beasts returned from 
the woods. And one of them carried Nat over his shoulder. 

Nat kicked and punched. But he couldn’t free himself. 

The beast dumped Nat beside Pat and me. Nat landed hard, face- 
down on the ground. 

Now they had all three of us. A feast! 

Spork and Fleg gazed at us hungrily. Gleeb ran his tongue over 
his long fang. 

I dropped down beside Nat. “How did you get out?” I asked him. 
“How did you get out of that cage?” 

Nat rolled over and sat up. “It wasn’t that hard,” he said, 
groaning. “The boards were weak. I worked and worked—until I 
pushed enough boards out. Then I broke out.” 

“You should have stayed away,” I told him. “You should have 
run. Now they’re going to eat you, too.” 

Nat raised his eyes to the cook pot and the blazing fire. “I—I 
don’t want to play anymore,” he stammered. 

“Nat,” I whispered sadly, “I’m afraid the game is just about over.” 


33 


“Quiet!” Fleg demanded. “Dinner—stop talking!” He stared at Nat. 

Fleg’s eyes narrowed. He tilted his head. He whispered to Spork 
and Gleeb. 

The other beasts moved closer. They were all moving their eyes 
from Pat to Nat. They began murmuring to each other, shaking their 
big, furry heads. Their snouts waved up and down as they talked. 

“You doubled!” Spork said to Pat. “You did a Classic Clone!” 

I stared at the beasts. Studied their startled expressions. Hadn’t 
they ever seen twins before? 

“You doubled yourselves!” Fleg declared. “That’s a Classic Clone. 
Why didn’t you tell us?” 

“Uh... tell you what?” I asked. 

Fleg glared at me. “Why didn’t you tell us that you are Level 
Three players?” 

My brothers and I exchanged confused glances. 

“You’re in the wrong game,” Spork announced, shaking his head. 

“If you can double yourselves, that means you belong in Level 
Three,” Fleg said. He slapped his furry forehead. “I’m so embarrassed! 
Why didn’t you tell us sooner?” 

“Well, I told you we didn’t want to play,” I replied sharply. “But 
you wouldn’t listen.” 

“I’m so sorry,” Fleg apologized. “We’re only Level One players. 
Were just beginners. We’re not experts like you.” 

“Experts?” Pat muttered. He turned to me and rolled his eyes. 

“That’s why we have to play in the daytime,” Fleg explained. 
“We’re not ready to play at night.” 

All around us, the beasts were muttering and shaking their heads. 

“Of course, we'll have to let you go now,” Fleg said. He scratched 
at his flabby chin. 

“Well, of course,” I cried. I wanted to jump up and down and 
shout for joy. But somehow I kept myself in control. 

“That’s it?” Nat cried to Fleg. “We're free?” 

“Yes. Good-bye.” Fleg scowled. He rubbed his belly. I heard it 
growl. 

“Don’t ask again,” I told Nat. “Let’s just get out of here!” 

“Good-bye,” Fleg repeated. He waved his paws as if he were 
trying to shoo us away. 

I jumped to my feet. I didn’t feel tired or scared or itchy or dirty 


anymore. 

This time the game was really over! 

“How do we find our parents?” I asked. 

“That’s easy,” Fleg replied. “Follow that path.” He pointed. 
“Follow it through the trees. It leads back to your world.” 

We shouted good-bye—and took off. The narrow dirt path twisted 
through the trees. Silvery moonlight danced over the ground. 

“I am so glad you guys are twins!” I exclaimed. 

I had never said that before! But I really meant it. They had saved 
our lives! 

The trees thinned out. I could see a full moon climbing up over 
the dark treetops. I felt as if we were running to it, running into its 
warm, white light. 

“Mom and Dad will never believe this story,” I said. I planned to 
tell them every gory detail. 

“They have to believe us,” Pat declared. “It’s all true.” 

I put on a burst of speed. My brothers ran harder to keep up with 
me. 

I couldn’t wait to get back. Mom and Dad must be so worried. 

“Oh!” I gasped and skidded to a stop. 

Pat and Nat stumbled into me. All three of us struggled to stay on 
our feet. 

A huge beast had stepped out from behind a tree, blocking the 
path. 

He crossed his furry arms over his enormous chest. His snout 
flared as he stared down at us with cold marble eyes. He opened his 
lips and growled, exposing his long fang. 

I wasn’t afraid. Not this time. 

“Step aside,” I ordered him. “You have to let us go by. My 
brothers and I are Level Three players.” 

“You’re Level Three? Hey—that’s great! So am I!” the beast 
exclaimed. “Tag! You’re It.” 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
SAY CHEESE AND DIE—AGAIN! 


mS OCHO AS TLC 


» 
EÀ ae AÁ d Hr ge y el 
1 : $ d Ww | 4 f ; i J ‘ X $ 3 : X 
Ea \ g a 


Smile for the camera 


SAY CHEESE AND DIE—AGAIN! 


MSCHALASTIC 


SAY CHEESE AND 
DIE—AGAIN! 


Goosebumps - 44 


R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


1 


1 


“Greg Banks!” 


A shiver ran down the back of my neck as Mr. Saur called my name. I 
had been 


slumping low in my seat in the last row of the classroom. I tried to 
hide behind Brian 


Webb, the big gorilla of a kid who sits in front of me. 


And I folded my hands and prayed that Mr. Saur wouldn’t call on me 
to give my 


report next. 
“Greg Banks!” he called. 


I felt another cold shiver. Then my legs started to shake as I climbed 
to my feet. 


Then my throat tightened until I could barely breathe. 
I hate giving reports in front of the whole class. 


Especially when I haven’t had much time to practice. Especially when 
we're not 


allowed to have notes. Especially when half of our grade in English 
depends on how 


we do on this report. 


I cleared my throat and made my way up to the front of the 
classroom. I was 


halfway there when Donny Greene stuck his big white sneaker into 
the aisle and 


tripped me. 


I stumbled—but didn’t fall. The whole class exploded in laughter, 
anyway. 


Mr. Saur frowned at Donny. “Donny, do you have to trip every person 


who walks 

by you?” he demanded. 

“Yes,” Donny replied with a straight face. 

And once again, the whole class burst out laughing. 
Everyone thinks Donny is a riot. Everyone but Mr. Saur. 


Mr. Saur doesn’t think anyone is funny. That’s why we call him 
Sourball Saur. 


He probably wouldn’t think that was funny, either! 


Mr. Saur is tall and thin and nearly bald. He never kids around. He 
never smiles. 


His mouth is always puckered, as if he’s just bitten into a lemon. 
Sourball Saur. 


He’s sort of a legend at Pitts Landing Middle School. Everyone tries 
not to get 


him. My best friends—Michael, Bird, and Shari—were lucky. They’re 
in Miss 


Folsom’s class. I was the only one who got stuck with the Sourball. 


I stepped up beside his desk and cleared my throat again. I wondered 
if everyone 


could see my knees shaking. My face felt burning hot. My hands were 
cold as ice. 


Does everyone get this nervous when they stand in front of the class? 


Mr. Saur folded his pale, skinny hands on his desk and cracked his 
knuckles. 


“Okay, Greg, let’s hear your true story,” he said. 


I cleared my throat for the thousandth time. I took a deep breath. 
Then I started to 


tell the story of what happened to my friends and me last summet.... 


2 


“T was hanging out with my friends. Bird, Michael, and Shari. We had 
nothing to 


do, and we were kind of bored. So we dared each other to do 
something exciting. We 


dared each other to sneak into the Coffman house.” 


Mr. Saur raised a hand to interrupt me. He frowned his sour frown. 
“What’s the 


Coffman house?” 
“Its a haunted house!” Donny Greene called out. 


“It's where Donny lives!” Brian Webb mumbled, loud enough for 
everyone to 


hear. It got a big laugh. 


Mr. Saur raised both hands for quiet and gave everyone his lemon 
expression. 


“Tt’s a deserted, old house in my neighborhood,” I told him. “We went 
inside. 


Down to the basement. And we found an old camera. And that’s what 
my true story 


is about. Because the camera had evil powers.” 


Mr. Saur groaned and rolled his eyes. Some kids laughed. But I took 
another deep 


breath and continued my story. 


“It was an instant camera. The picture popped right out. But it was 
never the 


picture we snapped. It always showed something terrible happening. 


“I took the old camera home. I snapped a photo of my dad’s new 
station wagon. 


The photo slid out. In the photo, the station wagon was totaled. 


Completely wrecked. 


And then, a few days later, my dad was in a terrible accident. The 
photo came true.” 


I glanced around the room to see how my story was going over. A few 
kids were 


laughing. Others were staring at me hard. Trying to decide if I was for 
real. 


Brian Webb tried to make me lose it. He stuck his two pointer fingers 
into his 


nostrils and twirled them around. He thinks he’s funny, but he’s just 
gross. 


“I took a snapshot of my friend Bird Arthur,” I continued. “At his Little 
League 


game. Bird smiled and posed for the camera. But the photo showed 
him lying 


unconscious on the ground. 


“Then, a few minutes later, a kid hit a line drive. It smacked Bird in 
the head. 


And Bird fell unconscious on the ground. Just like in the photo.” 


I heard some nervous giggles from the back of the room. I glanced up 
to see 


puzzled expressions on a lot of faces. Brian still had his fingers in his 
nose. I turned 


away. No way was I going to laugh at that. 


Mr. Saur had his elbows on the desk and his round, bald head buried 
in his hands. 


His face was hidden. So I couldn’t tell if he liked my report or not. 


“Then something even more scary happened,” I continued. “I brought 
the camera 


to Shari Walker’s birthday party. I snapped Shari’s picture, standing 


next to a tree. 


“When the photo popped out, it showed the tree—but no Shari. It was 
like she 


was invisible or something. And then, a few minutes later, Shari 
disappeared.” 


A few kids gasped. Some others laughed. Mr. Saur still had his face 
buried in his 


hands. 


“A couple of days later, Shari came back,” I told them. “But now we 
were too 


frightened to keep the camera. So we took it back to the Coffman 
house. And we met 


this strange guy, dressed all in black. He was the inventor of the 
camera. He told us 


that the camera had a curse on it, and—” 


To my surprise, Mr. Saur jumped to his feet. “That will be enough,” he 
snapped. 


“Excuse me?” I wasn’t sure I heard him correctly. 
3 
The room went silent. 


Mr. Saur shook his head. Then he narrowed his watery brown eyes at 
me. “Greg,” 


he said, “I have some very bad news for you.” 


4 


2 


The lunch bell rang. 


“We'll hear more reports tomorrow,” Mr. Saur announced. “Class 
dismissed.” 


Chairs scraped the floor as everyone stood up. I watched the other 
kids gather up 


their books and backpacks and head for the door. Freedom. 


I had an urge to run after them. But Mr. Saur kept his eyes locked on 
me, holding 


me in place with those cold eyes. 


I waited until the classroom had emptied out. Then I turned to the 
lemon-faced 


teacher. “What’s the bad news?” I gritted my teeth. 
“Tm giving you an F,” Sourball said. 

“Huh?” 

“Tm failing you on that report, Greg.” 


I felt my knees give. I had to grab the chalk tray to keep myself from 
collapsing 


in a quivering heap on the floor. “B—but—but— why?” I choked out. 


He crossed his bony arms over the front of his yellow alligator-shirt. I 
wished the 


alligator would reach up and bite him. 
“You didn’t do the assignment,” he said. 


“But—but—but—” I still gripped the chalk tray. My legs were shaking 
too hard 


to stand up. 


“Greg, you were supposed to share a true story,” Mr. Saur scolded. 


“Instead, you 


came in here with that wild tale. It was completely silly. I don’t know 
what you were 


thinking!” 
“But it’s true!” I wailed. “The camera—” 


He waved a hand in my face. “Silly,” he repeated. “You came in here 
with a wild, 


silly story. Something you probably read in a comic book.” 


“Mr. Saur—!” I started. I let go of the chalk tray and balled my hands 
into tight 


fists. “You have to believe me. The camera is real. I didn’t make up 
the story.” 


I took a deep breath. Then I struggled to keep my voice low and calm. 
“You can 


ask my friends,” I told him. “They’re in Miss Folsom’s class. They’! tell 
you it really 


happened.” 


“Pm sure they will.” He smirked at me. “I’m sure your friends will tell 
me 


whatever you want them to tell me.” 
“No. Really—!” I protested. 


Mr. Saur shook his head. “You didn’t take the assignment seriously, 
Greg. You 


treated it like a big joke. So I have to give you an F.” 
I raised my fists and let out a loud groan. 

Greg, get control, I warned myself. Get control. 

5 


But how could I get control? The grade was so unfair. And it meant so 


much to 
me. 
It was a matter of life or death! 


“Mr. Saur—you can’t give me an F!” I wailed. I felt like dropping to 
my knees 


and begging for mercy. “You will ruin my life!” 
He stared coldly at me. He didn’t say a word. 


“If I don’t get better grades, I can’t visit my cousins this summer,” I 
explained. 


“You see, my cousins live near Yosemite. In California. And my 
parents said that if I 


get a better grade in your English class, I can spend the summer with 
them.” 


He didn’t move. His cold frown didn’t budge. His eyes didn’t blink. 
“If you give me an F, II be stuck all summer in Pitts Landing!” I cried. 


Finally, Mr. Saur moved. An unpleasant smile spread over his face. His 
wet 


brown eyes flashed. “Then you’ll have plenty of time to make up more 
crazy stories,” 


he said. 


He turned away from me and started scribbling notes in his black 
grade book. 


“Mr. Saur—please!” I begged. “You’ve got to believe me. My story is 
true. I 


didn’t make it up. Please—” 
He raised his eyes from the grade book. “Okay. Prove it.” 
My mouth dropped open. “Huh?” 


“Bring in the camera,” he said. “Bring it in and prove that it’s evil. 


Prove that 
your story is true—or else I have to fail you.” 
I stared at him, studying his face. Was he serious? 


He stared back for a moment, daring me with his eyes. Then he 
shooed me away 


with both hands. “Go to lunch, Greg. Maybe next time you'll take my 
assignment 


seriously.” 


I gathered up my backpack and slung it over my shoulder. Then I 
slumped out of 


the room, thinking hard. 

Could I go back to that creepy old house and dig out that camera? 
No. No way. 

The camera was too dangerous. Too frightening. Too evil. 

But I needed a good grade. I needed it desperately. 

What should I do? 


6 


3 


I found my friends at our usual table in the corner of the lunchroom. I 
dropped my 


tray down with a sigh, and spilled half my drink. 


“Greg—what’s your problem?” Bird looked up from his sandwich. He 
had egg 


salad all over his chin and cheeks. 
“Are you eating that sandwich or wearing it?” Shari asked him. 
“Excuse me?” Bird didn’t understand. 


Michael inflated his brown paper sandwich bag and popped it 
between his hands. 


Then he crushed his chocolate milk carton flat. He always gulps his 
milk down first, 


then crushes the carton. We’re not sure why. 
Michael is a little weird. 


I dropped into my chair. I didn’t start to eat. I didn’t even look at my 
food tray. I 


just stared at the wall until the tiles became a green blur. 


“What’s your problem?” Bird repeated. Now he had egg salad on his 
forehead, 


too! I don’t know how he does it. 


Bird’s real name is Doug Arthur. But he looks so much like a bird, 
everyone calls 


him Bird. Even his parents. 


He has small, birdlike brown eyes, close together over a long, beak- 
shaped nose. 


And he has a short tuft of feathery brown hair on top of his head. He’s 
tall and thin 


and sort of bobs up and down like a flamingo when he walks. 


Michael poked a finger through his sandwich. He always makes a hole 
in the 


center of his sandwich and eats it inside out. “Bad day, Greg?” 
“For sure,” I muttered. I sighed again. 


Shari wore a pale blue T-shirt over faded jeans. She tossed back her 
black hair. 


She was busy pulling the bright red pepperoni off her pizza slice. 
“Come on, Greg. 


Spill,” she urged without looking up. 


I took a deep breath. Then I told them what had happened to me in 
English class. 


Bird dropped his sandwich onto the table. “Sourball didn’t believe 
you?” he 


cried. He slapped his forehead. When he pulled his hand away, his 
fingers were 


smeared with egg salad. 

“Well, we could all go tell him it’s true,” Shari suggested. 

I shook my head. “He won’t believe you, either,” I moaned. 
“But we all saw it!” Michael protested. “We all know it’s true.” 


“Yeah. It’s four against one,” Bird added. He was wiping egg salad off 
the front 


of his shirt. “He’ll have to believe us.” 


“He won't,” I sighed. “You know Sourball. He said I have to bring in 
the camera 


and prove to him that it’s evil.” 
“But you can’t!” Michael and Shari cried together. 


7 


I glanced over their shoulders. Brian and Donny were grinning at me 
from the 


next table. Brian and Donny are the two biggest guys at Pitts Landing 
Middle School. 


We call them Sumo One and Sumo Two—because they’re both shaped 
a little like 


sumo wrestlers. 


Of course, no one has ever called them Sumo One or Sumo Two to 
their faces. 


When Donny and Brian get angry, they sit on kids and squash them 
like bugs. 


And now, they had followed me from Mr. Saur’s class and were 
grinning at me 


from the next table. When they saw me watching, they formed little 
square cameras 


with their fingers and raised them in front of their eyes. 

“Click! Click!” Brian called. “I’ve got an evil camera here!” 

“Say cheese!” Donny shouted. “Say cheese—and die! Ha-ha-ha!” 
“Click. Click. Click.” They clicked their air cameras. 

“Watch the birdie!” Donny cried. 

“Watch the birdbrain!” Brian yelled. 


They both tossed back their heads and laughed like lunatics, slapping 
each other 


high fives. 
“Funny, guys,” I said, rolling my eyes. “Real funny.” 


“You two should do stand-up,” Michael told them. “You should stand 
up in the 


corner!” 


No one laughed. No one ever laughs at Michael’s jokes. His jokes are 
never 


funny. In fact, they are embarrassing. 


Michael has short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He 
isn’t exactly 


fat—but no one would ever call him skinny. 


One of these days, he’s going to surprise us and make a joke that isn’t 
totally 


lame. 


But I was in no mood for jokes, anyway. My summer was about to be 
ruined. My 


three friends all had plans to go away. No way I wanted to be left all 
alone in Pitts 


Landing with nothing to do for three months! 


If I had to bring in that camera to prove to Mr. Saur that I was telling 
the truth... 


I'd do it! 


Shari must have read my thoughts. She reached across the table and 
grabbed my 


arm. “Greg—you can’t,” she said. “That camera is too dangerous.” 


Bird agreed. “I’m not going back to that weird house,” he said, 
shaking his head. 


“Never again.” 

“Hey—what about your brother?” Michael asked me. 

I turned to him, confused. “What about my brother?” 
“Isn’t he working in a camera store?” Michael demanded. 


I nodded. My older brother, Terry, was working at Kramer’s Photo 
Store after 


school. “Yeah. He’s at Kramer’s. He works in the developing lab. So 
what?” 


“Maybe Terry could borrow an old camera from the store,” Michael 
suggested. 


“You can bring it in and tell Mr. Saur it’s the evil camera.” 


“Just one problem,” I told Michael. “I have to prove the camera is evil. 
How do I 


do that?” 
Michael thought about it. And thought. 
8 


“It wont work,” I sighed. “We have to go get the real camera.” I 
glanced around 


the table. “Who will go with me?” 


No one answered. Bird concentrated on getting the egg salad out from 
under his 


fingernails. Shari twisted a lock of black hair around one finger. 
Michael stared at the 


floor. 
“Don’t all volunteer at once,” I grumbled. 
They still didn’t move. 


“T just need the camera for one day,” I added. “Then we’ll return it 
and never take 


it out again.” 


No one replied. Bird raised his beady little eyes to the ceiling and 
started 


whistling to himself. 
I sneered at them. “Okay, wimps. I’ll go by myself.” 


“Don’t do it,” Shari warned again. “Not even for a day. Something 


horrible will 
happen. I know it will.” 
If only I had listened to her. 


9 


4 


The rest of the afternoon, I barely heard a word anyone said. I think I 
had a spelling 


quiz. I think we played volleyball in gym. I think someone slammed 
the ball onto my 


head. 
Did it hurt? Did I have to leave the game for a while? 
I really don’t remember. 


In music class, Miss Jakes caught me staring out the window, a dazed 
look on my 


face. She thought it was because of the volleyball accident. She 
wanted to send me to 


the nurse. 
But I explained that I was okay. I told her I wasn’t hurt—I was only 
daydreaming. 


I didn’t explain that I was thinking hard. Thinking about that evil 
camera hidden 


away in the Coffman house. 


Thinking about how I was going to sneak out after dinner. Ride my 
bike up the 


hill to the deserted old house. Creep down to the basement—and pull 
the camera 


from its hiding place in the wall. 


I’m going to prove the camera is evil, Sourball. ’m going to prove 
you're wrong 


and unfair! I thought bitterly. 


I’m going to prove it to Brian and Donny and all the other kids who 
laughed at 


my story. 
I’m going to get an A for my report. Not an F. 
I thought about all that. And I thought about Shari, Michael, and Bird. 


I didn’t blame my friends for being scared. I was scared, too. I 
promised myself 


Pd be really careful. 


rll bring it to school. But I won’t take anyone’s picture with it, I 
decided. 


Then how would I prove to Mr. Saur that the camera is evil? 


I thought hard. Pll take a snapshot of the empty classroom, I decided. 
Or maybe 


the lunchroom or the gym when no one is there. 


As soon as Mr. Saur changes my grade to an A, Pll return the camera, I 
promised 


myself. Pll shove it back into its hiding place. And Pll never take it out 
again. 


After school, I searched for Shari. She lives next door, so we usually 
walk home 


together. But I didn’t see her anywhere. 


I crossed the street, kicking a bottle cap I found at the curb. Thinking 
about my 


plan. Thinking about the camera. 


I had walked about half a block when I heard voices behind me. 
“Greg! Hey— 


Greg!” 
Two hands grabbed my shoulders and spun me around hard. 
Brian Webb! 


10 


“Greg—Donny and I went to the Coffman house!” he exclaimed, 
grinning, 


holding me in place. “We found the evil camera!” 
“Say cheese!” Donny cried. 
He pointed the camera and flashed it in my face. 


11 


5 


I uttered a hoarse cry. 
And shut my eyes against the white flash. 
Something horrible is going to happen to me now, I realized. 


The picture is going to show me in pain. In agony. In terrible trouble. 
And then 


it’s going to come true! 


When I opened my eyes, Brian and Donny were laughing. They 
slapped each 


other a high five. 

I stared at the camera in Donny’s hand. 

A yellow cardboard camera. One of those cheap throwaway cameras. 
Not the evil camera. Not the old camera from the Coffman house. 


“Good joke, guys!” I said sarcastically. I blinked several times, trying 
to make the 


yellow dots disappear. “You guys are a riot.” 


“You're the funny one!” Brian shot back. “That was such a funny story 
you told 


in class!” 
“Yeah. It had us all laughing,” Donny chimed in. 


I stared angrily at them. My heart thumped loudly. Sumo One and 
Sumo Two. 


They were so big, they nearly blocked out the sunlight! 


I knew they wanted to keep on teasing me. Have some more laughs at 
my 


expense. Maybe get into a fight. 


But I didn’t have time to fight with them. 


“Maybe you won’t be laughing tomorrow,” I murmured. Then I 
turned, jogged 


across the street, and headed for home. 


At dinner, I stared down at my plate. I was too nervous to eat. My 
stomach felt as if it 


were tied in a tight knot. 


“Pass the potatoes,” my brother, Terry, said with a mouth full of 
chicken. 


“Its not potatoes. It’s turnips,” Mom corrected him. 


Terry shrugged. “Whatever.” He scooped a pile onto his plate and 
began 


spooning them quickly into his mouth. 


“Slow down, Terry,” Dad scolded. “You’re eating so fast, you don’t 
know what 


you're eating!” 
“Sure, I do,” Terry protested. “I’m eating dinner!” 
Mom and Dad laughed. 


Terry looks a lot like me—blond hair, green eyes, kind of a goofy 
smile. We 


could almost be twins, except that he’s sixteen, four years older than 
me. 


“Why are you in such a hurry?” Mom asked him. 
12 


Terry burped. “Excuse me.” He licked chicken grease off his fingers. “I 
have to 


get back to work. A lot of special orders came in today. So I promised 
Mr. Kramer 


Pd put in a few extra hours in the developing lab.” 

“You're learning a lot about photography—aren’t you?” Dad said. 
“Yeah. A lot.” 

Oh, please! I thought. Please don’t talk about photography! 


I knew that soon after dinner, I’d be sneaking out to that creepy old 
deserted 


house. I didn’t want to think about cameras or photography. 


Terry’s chair scraped the floor as he jumped to his feet. He tossed his 
greasy 


napkin onto the table. “Got to run. See you later.” He loped to the 
door. 


“Don’t you have any homework tonight?” Mom called after him. 


“No,” he shouted from the front hall. “They don’t give homework in 
high 


school!” The front door slammed behind him. 
“What a comedian,” Dad muttered, shaking his head. 


They both suddenly remembered that I was at the table, too. “Greg— 
you haven’t 


touched your chicken!” Mom said, staring at my full plate. 
“T ate too much junk after school,” I lied. “I’m not too hungry.” 


“Your mom and I are going over to Alana’s after dinner,” Dad told me. 
Alana is 


Mom’s sister. “Alana still isn’t feeling well. Do you want to come with 
us?” 


“Uh... no,” I replied, thinking hard. “I’ve got too much homework. I’m 
going to 


be studying all night.” 


I don’t like to lie to Mom and Dad—if I can help it. 


Tonight I couldn’t help it. 
“How are your grades this semester?” Mom asked. 


“Yes, how are they?” Dad repeated, leaning closer. “Pete and Alice out 
in 


Yosemite called me this afternoon. They asked if you are coming to 
visit them this 


summer. I told them we’d know as soon as your next report card 
arrives.” 


“Uh... Pm doing real well,” I told them, staring down at my chicken 
and turnips. 


I'll be doing real well after tomorrow, I thought. My stomach knotted 
even 


tighter. 


Mom and Dad stood up to clear the table. “Pete and Alice said to be 
sure to bring 


a camera,” Dad said. “It’s such beautiful country out there.” 


“Maybe Terry can get you a good camera at the store,” Mom 
suggested. 


Please stop talking about cameras! I thought, gritting my teeth. “Maybe 
he can,” 


I said. 


I waited till Mom and Dad drove off for Alana’s house. Then I waited 
ten minutes 


more. Sometimes they forget something, turn around, and come back 
home. 


I peered out the window. Under the white moonlight, the bare trees 
were bending 


and shaking. A breezy night. Still cold even though spring was only a 
few weeks 


away. 


I pulled a long-sleeved flannel shirt over my T-shirt. Tucked a pocket 
flashlight 


into my jeans. And headed out to the garage to get my bike. 


The swirling wind felt heavy and wet. I glanced up at the sky, hoping 
it wasn’t 


getting ready to rain. A pale half-moon floated over the quivering 
trees. 


13 


The front tire on my bike was a little low. But I guessed I could make 
it up the 


hill to the Coffman house. I walked the bike out of the garage, then 
climbed on. 


I'd left all the lights on in the house. From the driveway, it looked so 
bright and 


warm and safe. For a moment, I was tempted to go back inside and 
forget about the 


evil camera. 


But my mind was made up. I desperately wanted to visit my cousins 
this summer. 


No way I could do that if I got an F from Mr. Saur on my report. 


I took a deep breath. Clicked on the bike headlight. And pedaled down 
to the 


street. 


It was lucky that Mom and Dad had to go away, I told myself. At least 
I didn’t 


have to sneak out of the house. 


“That’s it, Greg,” I said out loud, pedaling harder. “Look on the bright 
side.” 


The street seemed darker than usual. Glancing up, I saw that two 
streetlights were 


out. 


The wind swept toward me. On both sides, the trees appeared to be 
shivering. I 


swerved to miss a sheet of old newspaper fluttering across the street. 


I shifted gears as the street sloped uphill. I pictured the ramshackle 
old Coffman 


house. Hidden behind ancient oak trees at the top of a weed-choked 
lawn. 


I remembered that it stood three stories tall, gray shingle, with a 
wraparound 


screened porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. 


Many years ago, it must have been a really fancy house. But no one 
had lived in 


it for dozens of years. And the house had crumbled and decayed until 
it looked like a 


wreck. 


I crossed a street, pedaling smoothly and steadily uphill. Familiar 
houses rolled 


past in the darkness. And then a small wooded area. 
I felt my throat tighten. And my hands grow cold. 
The house—the Coffman house—stood just beyond the woods. 


The tree branches swayed, glowing gray—the color of bone—under 
the cold 


moonlight. 

I squeezed the brake as I rolled past the woods. 
Past the sloping lawn. Past the ancient oak trees. 
Up to the old house—and gasped in shock. 


14 


6 


The house was gone. 


I jumped off my bike and let it fall to the sidewalk. I uttered a low cry 
of surprise. 


Then I blinked several times. Tried to make the big, old house appear 
where it 


belonged behind the oak trees. 
But no. 


The trees rose up over the lawn, silvery-gray in the moonlight. Now 
they 


protected only scattered piles of boards and shingles. 
The house had been torn down. 
Totaled. 


Dazed, I stood at the curb, staring up to where the house should be. 
Staring hard. 


Trying to force it to come back. 


A minute or two later, I felt a stab of pain—and slapped a mosquito on 
my 


forehead. It’s too early in the spring for mosquitoes, I thought. I felt 
wet blood on my 


forehead. 


Rubbing the bite, I turned to the gravel driveway. And saw a stenciled 
sign near 


the street: SOLD. 
So the Coffman house had been sold. 
And the new owner tore it down. 


I rubbed the mosquito bite, thinking hard. The house was gone. But 


what about 
the basement? 


What about the basement workshop? I remembered it so well. I 
remembered the 


worktable. And I remembered the hiding place in the wall above it. 
The small 


compartment where the camera lay hidden away. 
What about the basement? 


Before I even realized it, my feet were carrying me up the hill. My 
sneakers slid 


over the slick, tall grass. I inhaled the fresh dew. I kept my eyes locked 
on the 


trembling silver trees. 


I stepped around a pile of rusted nails and bolts. Jumped over a low 
stack of 


rotted shingles. Shingles that had been pulled off the house. 


Halfway up the lawn, I could see what else was left of the house. 
Wooden doors 


stacked in a high pile. Broken glass over the ground. Window frames 
leaning against 


a wall of rotting boards. Cracked shingles everywhere. A white sink on 
its side 


against a tree. An old washtub resting beside it. 
But what about the basement? 


I crept closer. My legs suddenly felt heavy. My whole body felt heavy 
—as if 


some invisible force were pushing me back, pushing me away. 


15 


A deep shadow ran along the ground behind the round, old oaks. At 
first glance, I 


thought I was staring at a pool of water. A small lake. 


But as I made my way closer, I saw that the deep shadow was a hole. 
A huge, 


square pit in the ground. 
The basement. 
Nothing but a hole now. 


I stopped at the edge, my body feeling even heavier. Heavy with 
disappointment. 


I stopped and stared down into the deep hole. 


The trees shut out most of the moonlight. With a trembling hand, I 
pulled out my 


pocket flashlight and clicked it on. I aimed the narrow beam of yellow 
light into the 


hole. 


Empty down there. The light slid over the dirt. On one side, thick tree 
roots poked 


into the open square. 


I ran the light over the pit walls. Tangles of roots spread over the 
smooth, black 


dirt. 


Nothing left. The basement had been completely cleared out. Even the 
concrete 


floor had been broken up and carted away. 
And where was the camera? 
Where? 


Had someone found it? Pulled it out and kept it? 


Or had it been crushed when the workers smashed the concrete? 
Crushed and 


destroyed forever? 


I moved the beam of light back and forth along the far wall. I’m not 
sure what I 


expected to see. 


Did I think I’d find the camera hidden in its square hole in the pit 
wall? Did I 


think I would see it in a corner of the muddy floor? 

The light swept over dirt and knots of tree roots. 

Nothing else. 

I clicked off the flashlight and shoved it into my pocket. 

I turned away from the hole, side-stepping a pile of broken shingles. 


A strong gust of wind made the old trees groan and creak. I barely 
noticed the 


eerie sounds. 
I’m going to get an F, I thought unhappily. 
The camera is gone forever, and I’m going to get an F. 


My summer is ruined. And the other kids in class will never believe 
me. They 


will laugh at me and click cameras at me forever. 
I let out a long, glum sigh. 


Angrily, I kicked a broken board out of my path and started down the 
lawn to my 


bike. 


I had taken four or five steps when a shrill voice yelled, “Caught you! 
You're not 


going anywhere!” 


16 


7 


The high voice in the night air startled me. Without thinking, I started 
to run. Then 


stopped. 
I spun around, my heart heaving against my chest. 


And saw a boy. About my age. He had picked up a board from the 
ground and 


held it high, as if ready to swing it. 


He wore a black sweatshirt over faded jeans, holes in both knees. His 
dark hair 


was cut very short. He glared at me with dark, tense eyes. 


“Dad—I caught him!” he shouted. He had a high, shrill voice that 
made him 


sound like a little kid. 
“Whoa. What do you mean?” I cried. “Caught me?” 


“Don’t move,” he ordered me, raising the board higher. He took a step 
closer. 


Then another. His eyes burned hard into mine. 
“T wasn’t doing anything!” I told him. “I—I was just looking.” 


As he stepped up to me, I saw his expression change. The anger faded 
from his 


eyes. His mouth slid open. 
“You—youw’re not him!” he stammered. 
“Huh? Who?” I cried. “I’m not who?” 


“Hey—I’m sorry,” he said, shaking his head. “I thought you were 
someone else.” 


“Well... Pm not someone else!” I replied. “I’m me.” 


“There’s a kid who lives down the block,” the boy explained, 
scratching his dark 


crew cut. “He’s been sneaking over here at night and stealing stuff 
from the yard.” 


My eyes wandered over the cluttered lawn. “What was he stealing? 
There isn’t 


much left.” 


The boy nodded. He tossed away the board he planned to use as a 
weapon. It 


clattered against a pile of boards beside me. “He was taking lumber 
and stuff. I 


thought you were him.” 


“Did your family buy the Coffman house?” I asked. Even though it was 
such a 


cool, windy night, my forehead was all sweaty. I reached up and 
mopped the sweat 


with the back of my hand. 


“Yeah. We bought it,” he replied. “But Dad said the house was too 
wrecked to fix 


up. So he had it torn down. We're going to build a new house.” 


The wind made the trees creak again. I glanced down to the street and 
saw the 


back wheel of my bike spinning. 


“People told us the Coffman house was haunted,” the boy said. “So I’m 
glad Dad 


tore it down.” He kicked at a shingle on the ground. “My name is Jon. 
What’s 


yours?” 


“Greg. I—I live down at the bottom of the hill. A few blocks past the 
school.” 


17 


I gazed to where the house had stood. “My friends and I used to sneak 
into the 


old house,” I told him. “You know. Just for fun. For excitement. I 
think it was 


haunted. Really.” 


He narrowed his eyes at me, studying me. “What were you doing 
here?” he 


demanded. “Why did you come up here tonight?” 


I decided to tell him the truth. “I was looking for something,” I said. 
“A camera.” 


He scratched his short hair again. “An old camera?” 


“Yes!” I cried excitedly. “An old camera. It was hidden down in the 
basement. 


Did you see it?” 


“Yeah,” Jon replied. “The men dug it up when they pulled out the 
basement.” 


“Oh, wow!” I cried. I couldn’t hide my excitement. “Where is it, Jon? I 
mean— 


what did they do with it? Do you know where it is?” 


He pointed over my shoulder toward the street. “Probably over there,” 
he said. “I 


don’t think they emptied it yet.” 


I spun around and saw a big Dumpster on the other side of the 
driveway. “They 


threw it in there?” I demanded. 


I didn’t wait for him to answer. I started running full speed through 
the tall weeds 


to the street. I stopped in front of the big steel Dumpster. I could see 


all kinds of junk 
piled over the top. 
“Ts it okay to look for it?” I called back to Jon. 


He came walking slowly down to me, hands shoved in his pockets. 
“Sure. Go 


ahead. Why do you want a stupid old camera, anyway?” 
I didn’t answer him. No time for answering questions. 


I lifted both hands to the top of the Dumpster. It was pretty high. It 
took me three 


tries to pull myself up and in. 


A street lamp across the street cast a glow of dim yellow light over the 
Dumpster. 


My eyes wandered quickly over the trash. All stuff from the basement, 
I realized. 


I saw rusted old tools from the workshop. Part of an ancient vacuum 
cleaner. The 


spin cylinder from a dryer. Old clothes. Torn suitcases. 
Is it here? I asked myself. Is the camera in here? 


I pulled away a broken suitcase and tossed it aside. I grabbed stacks of 
old 


magazines and shoved them out of the way. 


I’m going to search every inch of this Dumpster till I find it, I told 
myself. 


I pulled away a torn section of a garden hose. Then I pawed through a 
pile of old 


clothes. 
Where is it? Where? 


I dropped onto my hands and knees and dug deeper into the garbage. 


The stale 


odor of dust and decay floated up to me, swept over me. I held my 
breath and kept 


pawing away. 

I had to find it. I had to. 

I didn’t stop until I saw the two eyes staring up at me. 

Two eyes. Yellow in the pale light. 

Staring up at me from the trash. Staring up at me without blinking. 
I’m not alone in here! I realized. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill, terrified scream. 

18 


19 


8 


The eyes stared up at me without blinking. Yellow and cold. 
A chill tightened the back of my neck. 


I stared down at them, waiting for them to move. Waiting for 
something to jump 


up at me. 


“What’s wrong? Did you find the camera?” Jon called from the 
sidewalk. 


“No. I—uh—I—” 


I reached my hand down toward the glassy yellow eyes. And felt 
bristly fur. 


My heart pounding, I pushed some junk aside. 

And without thinking, I picked up the staring creature. 

Felt its body, stiff and hard beneath bristly brown and black fur. 
A dead raccoon. 


Its sour odor reached my nostrils. “Oooooh, yuck!” I let out a groan— 
and heaved 


the smelly creature out of the Dumpster. 
“Hey, Greg—” Jon called up to me. 


“T found a dead raccoon,” I told him, holding my nose. “It smelled so 
bad, I—” 


I stopped when I saw the camera. 


It had been hidden beneath the raccoon’s body. The glow from the 
street lamp 


spilled over it. The glass of the camera lens reflected the light like a 
single, shining 


eye. 


I grabbed it. Pulled it up from the trash. 


Then I climbed to my feet. Leaning over the Dumpster, I held it up to 
Jon. “I 


found it!” I cried happily. “Here it is. I can’t believe I found it!” 
Jon wrinkled his face up at me. “Great,” he said, without enthusiasm. 


I strapped the camera around my neck. Then, holding on to the top of 
the 


Dumpster, I lowered myself to the ground. 


My shirt and jeans were covered with dust and sticky grease. But I 
didn’t care. I 


had the camera in my hands. 


“What’s so great about it?” Jon demanded. He squinted down at it. 
Rubbed a 


hand over the top. “Does it work?” 


I didn’t want to tell him the story of the camera. I knew he wouldn’t 
believe it, 


anyway. I didn’t want to scare him. And mainly, I wanted to get home 
with it as fast 


as I could. 


“Yeah. It works,” I replied, dusting off the back with my hand. “It 
takes pretty 


good pictures.” 


“But why do you want it so much?” Jon asked, studying it as I worked 
to clean 


the dust off. 
20 


“Oh... well. I promised to show it to someone. In school,” I told him. 
“T kind of 


need it for a project.” 


Jon scratched his short, dark hair. “Maybe I should show the camera 
to my dad,” 


he said, motioning behind him. “He might not want you to take it.” 


“But you threw it in the trash!” I cried. I held the camera tightly in 
both hands, 


afraid he was going to try to grab it away. 


“But we didn’t know it works,” Jon replied in his high, shrill voice. “Is 
it 


valuable? Maybe it’s valuable. An antique or something.” 

“No way. It’s not valuable,” I insisted. “Please, Jon. I—” 

“We'd better show it to Dad,” Jon said. He reached for the camera. 
I pulled away. 

I grabbed the camera tighter. 

Heard a click. 

A white flash of light startled us both. 

“Oh, noooo!” I let out a cry, realizing I had pushed the shutter. 
And snapped a picture of Jon. 


21 


9 


“Hey—why did you do that?” Jon demanded. 


“It—it was an accident,” I stammered. I pulled the picture from the 
slot at the 


bottom of the camera. “I didn’t mean to. Really.” 


Jon and I both blinked several times, trying to get the flashing lights 
to fade from 


our eyes. “It’s an instant camera?” Jon demanded. “It looks too old to 
be an instant 


camera.” 


“Yeah. I know,” I replied. I held up the photo to watch it develop. 
Silently, I 


prayed that the photo wouldn’t show anything terrible. 
Please, please—let Jon be okay in the snapshot, I pleaded. 


With my free hand, I pulled the little flashlight from my pocket. I 
beamed it down 


on the photo as it slowly developed. 


As I stared at the small, square snapshot, I could see Jon’s face come 
into view. 


His eyes were closed. His mouth was open, twisted in a strange 
expression. 


Before I could really see what was going on, Jon grabbed the photo 
away from 


me. He raised it close to his face and studied it. 
“Hey—what’s with this camera?” he demanded. 
I stepped up behind him to see the snapshot. “Oh, nooooo,” I groaned. 


The photo came out very clear and bright. It showed Jon howling in 
pain. His 


eyes shut. His mouth open in a scream. 
His leg was raised. He was holding on to his sneaker with both hands. 


He was holding on to his sneaker because a huge nail was sticking up 
from the 


top. An enormous carpenter’s nail—nearly as big as a pencil—shoved 
up through the 


center of Jon’s foot! 


Jon laughed. He turned to me. “What is this? Some kind of joke 
camera?” 


I swallowed hard. I knew it wasn’t a joke. 
The horrifying photos always came true. 


How could I keep Jon from having a nail jammed in his foot? What 
could I do? 


I decided I had to warn him. I had to tell him the truth about the 
camera. 


“This is cool!” Jon exclaimed, studying the photo. “It really looks like 
me. I 


wonder how it works.” 


“It—it isn’t cool,” I stammered. “It’s really kind of scary, Jon. The 
camera is evil. 


It has a curse on it. The photos always come true.” 

He laughed. “For sure!” 

I knew he wouldn’t believe me. 

“Well, just be careful—okay?” I insisted. “The photo isn’t a joke.” 
He laughed again. 

22 


A gust of wind sent the tall weeds swaying. Snakes of black cloud 
slithered over 


the moon. Darkness swept over us. 
“T need to borrow the camera,” I told Jon. “Just for one day.” 


“Its such a cool camera,” he replied. “I don’t know. Maybe I should 
take it 


home.” 


“TIl bring it back tomorrow afternoon,” I promised. “I just have to 
take it to 


school.” 


He twisted his mouth, thinking hard. “Pd better ask my dad.” He 
pointed toa 


wall of lumber under the trees. “He’s back there with the architect, 
talking about the 


new house.” 
“No. Wait!” I cried. 
But Jon took off, running up the hill through the swaying weeds. 


I started after him—but stopped when I heard a shrill bleat. And then 
Jon’s 


horrifying roar of pain soared out over the lawn. 


23 


10 


My breath caught in my chest. I stumbled forward through the weeds. 
And saw Jon holding his sneaker, his face twisted in pain. 


Even in the dim moonlight, I could see the huge nail pushing up 
through his foot. 


“Jon!” I shouted. “I'll get your dad!” 


I didn’t need to find him. Two men—one tall and thin, the other 
chubby and 


short—rushed out from behind the lumber pile. I guessed they were 
the architect and 


Jon’s dad. 
“Jon? What’s wrong?” the chubby one—Jon’s dad—called. 
Jon tossed back his head in another scream of pain. 


“He’s got a nail in his foot!” I shouted, running up to them, pointing 
frantically. 


Both men ran past me. “Oh, good heavens!” Jon’s dad moaned. 


They grabbed Jon under the arms. The tall man held Jon’s injured foot 
above the 


ground. “Into my car,” he urged. “I have a towel. We can wrap the 
foot. He’s losing a 


lot of blood.” 

“Should we pull out the nail?” Jon’s dad asked in a quivering voice. 
“No. Too dangerous,” the other man replied. 

“Don’t pull it out! Don’t!” Jon pleaded. “It’ll hurt too much!” 

“We can’t even take off the sneaker!” Jon’s dad cried. 


“The hospital is that way,” the architect said, pointing. “Only a few 
minutes 


away.” 
“Owwww. It hurts! It hurrrrts!” Jon wailed. 


The two men lifted him off the ground. And half-walking, half- 
running, they 


carried him down to a car parked across from the Dumpster. 


I watched from the weeds as they gently lowered Jon into the 
backseat. I saw 


them struggle with a long white towel. Finally, they had it tightly 
wrapped around the 


foot and sneaker. 


They closed Jon’s car door. Then they quickly slid into the front. A 
few seconds 


later, the car roared off into the darkness. 


I stood in the middle of the yard, feeling the swaying weeds brush 
against my 


jeans legs. I swallowed hard. My mouth suddenly felt as dry as cotton. 
“Poor Jon,” I murmured out loud. 
The camera was as evil as ever. Tonight it had found another victim. 


It’s all my fault, I thought sadly. It was an accident. I didn’t mean to 
press the 


shutter. But I pressed it. 


The two men hadn’t even looked at me. They were so upset about Jon, 
I don’t 


think they saw me. 
24 


I glanced down and realized that I still gripped the camera in my 
hands. I had a 


strong urge to heave it to the ground. To stomp on it again and again 


until I smashed 
it forever. 


My eye caught something fluttering in the tall grass. I bent and picked 
it up. The 


snapshot. 
I squinted once again at Jon, holding his foot, shrieking in pain. 


I tucked the snapshot into the pocket of my flannel shirt. Pll bring it in 
to Mr. 


Saur, I decided. Pll bring in the camera and the photo of Jon. I'll tell 
him exactly 


what happened to Jon tonight. 

I won’t have to snap a picture in school. 

I have this picture as proof. 

So it won’t be dangerous. It won’t be dangerous at all. 


25 


11 


The next morning, I gulped down my breakfast. Then I pulled on my 
backpack, 


strapped the camera around my neck, and hurried out the door. 


I left the house fifteen minutes early. I didn’t want to run into Shari, 
or Michael, 


or Bird. 


I stepped out into a warm day. The air smelled fresh and sweet. I saw 
a row of 


tulips poking up through the ground along the side of the house. First 
flowers of 


spring. 


I loped down the driveway and turned at the sidewalk. The camera 
felt heavy 


against my chest. I reached up to adjust the strap—and heard a voice 
calling me. 


“Greg! Hey, Greg—wait up!” 

Shari. 

I spun the camera behind me and tried to hide it under my arm. 
Too late. She had already spotted it. 


“I don’t believe you!” Shari cried, running up beside me. “You’re 
unreal! You 


pulled that thing from the Coffman house?” She stared at the camera, 
shaking her 


head. 
“Well... not exactly,” I replied. “How come you’re so early, Shari?” 


“I was watching out the window for you,” she confessed. “I wanted to 
see if you 


were crazy enough to get that camera.” 
I frowned at her. “You were spying on me? Why?” 


“Because I’m not letting you take that evil thing to school.” She 
stepped in front 


of me, blocking my way. 


I snickered. “Who made you queen of the world?” I sneered. “It’s a 
free country, 


you know.” 


She crossed her arms over the front of her plaid vest. “I’m serious, 
Greg. You 


can’t take it. I won’t let you.” 
I faked to the left and tried to edge past her on the right. 


But she stayed in front of me. I bumped into her—then backed up a 
step. 


“Tm serious,” she repeated. “Take the camera home.” 


“Shari, you’re being a real jerk,” I muttered. “You can’t tell me what 
to do.” 


Her expression changed. She uncrossed her arms and tugged her black 
hair back 


over her shoulders. “Don’t you remember how dangerous that camera 
is? Don’t you 


remember all the horrible things it did to us?” 


I gripped the camera in both hands. It suddenly felt very heavy. The 
metal felt 


cold against the front of my T-shirt. 
26 


“Don’t you remember, Greg?” Shari pleaded. “I disappeared because 
of that 


camera. Disappeared into thin air! You don’t want that to happen to 
someone else— 


do you? Think how terrible you’d feel.” 
I swallowed hard, remembering the night before. 
The camera had already injured someone. 


“Pm not going to take any pictures,” I told her. “Really. I’m just going 
to show it 


to Mr. Saur so he’ll change my grade.” 


“Why will seeing an old camera make him change your grade?” Shari 
demanded. 


“Because I have a photo to show him, too,” I declared. I pulled the 
snapshot of 


Jon out of my pocket and flashed it in front of her face. 


“Oooh—gross!” she cried, shoving the photo away with both hands. 
“That is 


sick!” 


“T know,” I agreed, sliding the photo back in my pocket. “The poor 
kid. I took 


this picture. Then, a minute later, it really happened to him.” 


“So I’m right!” Shari declared, her eyes narrowed at the camera in my 
hands. 


“You just proved my point—didn’t you, Greg! I’m right!” 


A car rumbled past, filled with kids on their way to school. A small 
brown dog 


stuck its head out the back window and barked at us. 


I glanced at my watch. If we stayed here arguing another few minutes, 
Shari and I 


would be late for school. 


“We’ve got to go,” I told her. I started walking, taking long strides. But 
she 


hurried to block my way. 
“No, Greg. I can’t let you. I can’t.” 
I rolled my eyes. “Shari, give me a break.” 


“It’s too dangerous,” she insisted. “I know I’m right. I know it will get 
you into 


big trouble.” 

“Get out of my way, Shari.” 

“Give me the camera.” 

“No way!” I cried. 

She grabbed for it with both hands. And yanked it off my shoulder. 
I grabbed it back. 

And the camera flashed in Shari’s face. 


27 


12 


Shari blinked. Her hands shot away from the camera. She let out a 
startled cry. 


“Oh! Sorry!” I cried, backing away. “Sorry! Really! I’m sorry! I didn’t 
mean to— 


2) 


The camera felt warm in my hands. I reached for the square photo 
that slid from 


the slot. 


“Give me that!” Shari demanded. She swiped the snapshot away from 
me. “What 


have you done to me?” 
“It was an accident!” I shouted. “You know I didn’t mean to snap it.” 


Shari stared down at the square as it started to develop. “What have 
you done? 


What have you done?” she repeated. Her voice trembled more each 
time she said it. I 


saw that her hand was shaking. 


“I told you not to bring out the camera,” Shari cried. “I begged you to 
leave it at 


home.” 


“Shari, Pm sorry,” I apologized again. “Maybe it won’t be so bad. 
Maybe—” 


She swallowed hard. “Maybe I'll disappear again, Greg. Maybe Ill 
disappear 


forever.” 
“No!” I cried. “Don’t say that. Please—” 


We both stared down at the photo. It developed so slowly. First, the 


yellow 

darkened over the white square. I began to see Shari’s face. 
Was she screaming? Was she howling in pain? 

I couldn't tell. 


The blue tint filled in over the yellow. I could see Shari’s face outlined 
in green. 


“You look okay,” I told her. “I think you’re okay.” 


“Wait,” she said softly. She bit her lower lip. She didn’t blink. Her eyes 
squinted 


hard as the red and blue tints spread. 
The picture darkened. Darkened to black. 


I could see Shari’s face clearly now. She wasn’t smiling. She didn’t 
look happy. 


But she wasn’t screaming, either. 
Darker. 

“Hey!” Shari cried. “It’s a negative.” 
“Huh?” I didn’t understand. 


“Its not a photo,” Shari replied, holding the square up to me. “It’s a 
negative. 


The photo didn’t come out. It’s all reversed.” 
I stared at it. She was right. Everything was reversed. 


“Maybe the camera is broken,” I said. I let out a long sigh of relief. 
“You're okay, 


Shari. The camera doesn’t work.” 
28 


“Maybe,” she said. She handed me the negative. I slid it into my 
pocket. When I 


looked up, she had a strange smile on her face. 
An evil smile. 
“Shari—what’s your problem?” I asked. 


I should have known. I should have guessed what she planned to do. I 
should 


have moved faster. 


She grabbed the camera with both hands. Spun it around. Pointed it in 
my face. 


And flashed a picture. 

“Hey!” I tried to duck away from the lens. 

Too late. She caught me. 

“Shari—that’s not funny!” I cried. 

“It won’t hurt you,” she replied. “The camera is broken—remember?” 
I pulled the square from the slot in front of the camera. 


My throat suddenly felt dry. Is it broken? I wondered. Will this one be 
a negative, 


too? 


Or will it show me howling in pain with a nail through my foot—or 
something 


even worse? 


As I stared at the small square, my imagination ran wild. I pictured 
my body 


stretched out like a rubber band. I pictured myself tugging at an arrow 
through my 


chest. I pictured myself lying mashed under a huge steamroller. 


“Shari—how could you do this to me?” I groaned, watching the colors 
darken. 


Her dark eyes flashed. “You’re really scared,” she said. “Admit it, 


Greg. You’re 


really scared. Now maybe you get it. Maybe you see why I didn’t want 
you to bring 


the camera to school.” 

My hand trembled. I gripped the snapshot with both hands. 
The colors darkened. 

“Tt’s not a negative,” I said. 

Shari stepped up behind me and stared down at the photo. 
“Oh, noooo!” we both cried at the same time. 

Shari started to laugh. 

“T don’t believe this!” I wailed. 


29 


13 
“This is horrible!” I shrieked. 
I recognized my face. But I didn’t recognize my body. 


At first, I thought my head was resting on top of a giant balloon. Then 
I realized 


that the giant balloon was me. 
In the photo, I weighed about four hundred pounds! 
No joke. Four hundred pounds! 


I gaped at the photo, studying my round face and my even rounder 
body. I had 


about eight chins. My cheeks were puffed way out. The collar of my T- 
shirt was 


hidden under one of my flabby chins. The shirt was stretched tight 
over my chest and 


only came down to my belly, which bulged nearly to the ground. 
I looked like a really gross mountain of pudding! 
“Stop laughing!” I snapped at Shari. “It isn’t funny!” 


“It’s very funny,” she insisted. She grabbed the photo, raised it to her 
face, and 


started laughing all over again. “You’re bigger than Sumo One and 
Sumo Two!” she 


exclaimed. 


I grabbed the photo back. I stared at the folds of flab hanging down 
from my 


cheeks. My face was so huge and puffy, my eyes looked like tiny pig 
eyes. 


And my stomach! My stomach hung down over my fat knees! 


“Are you still going to bring the camera to school?” Shari asked. “You 
won't 


change your mind?” 


“T have to show it to Mr. Saur,” I told her. “I’m just going to show him 
the 


camera. And the picture of Jon.” 
“And the picture of you?” she asked, grinning. 


“No way.” I shoved it into my jeans pocket. “I don’t want anyone to 
see it. Ever.” 


Shari glanced at her watch. “Come on,” she said. “We’d better hurry! 
Were 


late.” 
She started to run down the sidewalk, and I followed her. 


All the way to school, I kept picturing my photo. Kept picturing my 
flabby face, 


my enormous four-hundred-pound body. 

Don’t worry about it, I told myself. 

The camera is broken. There’s nothing to worry about. 
Nothing to worry about. 

But guess what? I was worried. 


The halls were nearly empty when Shari and I arrived at school. The 
first bell had 


already rung. 
30 


I hid the camera under a bunch of stuff on the floor of my locker. I 
didn’t have 


Mr. Saur’s English class until just before lunch. And I didn’t want to 
take a chance of 


Brian or Donny or somebody else grabbing the camera and messing 
around with it. 


I slammed the locker shut and locked it. Then I waved to Bird and 
Michael, who 


were hurrying into their classroom. 


I wanted to tell them I had the camera. And I wanted to tell them 
about Jon and 


the nail in his foot. 
But I decided I’d better keep quiet. 


Michael and Bird agreed with Shari. They didn’t want me to take the 
camera out 


again. They were too afraid of it. 
And, they were probably right. 


I slid into class just as the final bell rang. I ducked low in my seat, 
trying not to 


be noticed. I had a long time to wait until Mr. Saur’s class. 


Today was the first day ever that I couldn’t wait for Sourball’s class to 
begin! 


Once again, I didn’t hear a word my other teachers said. In social 
studies, Mrs. 


Wackman was rattling on about bauxite production in South America. 
I wanted to 


raise my hand and ask her what bauxite is! I’ve always wondered 
about bauxite. I 


think it’s some kind of South American car. But I’m not sure. 


Her voice faded into the background. My mind was busy practicing 
my speech to 


Mr. Saur. 


“Mr. Saur,” I planned to say, “you made a terrible mistake yesterday. 


But I’m not 


going to hold it against you. I know you will be fair and change the 
grade on my 


report as soon as I show you this.” 
Whoa. 


That’s too stiff, I told myself. That doesn’t sound like me at all. PI 
never be able 


to get those words out. 


I tried a different approach. “Here’s the evil camera, Mr. Saur. And 
here’s a 


picture it took of a boy I met. A minute later, the picture came true. 
You asked me to 


bring in proof—and here it is.” 

That’s better, I decided. It’s straight to the point. 
Will he believe me? 

He’ll have to, I thought. Photos don’t lie. 

He’ll have to change my grade. 


I stared at the wall clock over the chalkboard. Why was it moving so 
slowly? 


Why? 


Finally, the bell rang. I jumped up, ran out the door, and dove for my 
locker. Bird 


called to me from down the hall. But I pretended I didn’t hear him. 


I pulled the camera from its hiding place and slammed the locker door 
shut. I 


tucked it carefully under my arm, protecting it. 


I saw Sumo One and Sumo Two across the hall. They were shoving a 
fifth grader 


up against a locker. Making him bounce back like a yo-yo. That’s their 
hobby. 


Making kids bounce. 

And guess who is one of their favorite bouncers? 
That’s right. Me. 

31 


I spun around and hurried the other way. I didn’t feel like bouncing 
today. And I 


didn’t want Brian and Donny to set their eyes on the camera. 


I took the long way around to Mr. Saur’s class, jogging the whole way. 
I held the 


camera snugly and practiced my speech. 


A group of kids were talking in front of the classroom, blocking the 
door. “Make 


way!” I cried, pushing through them. I wanted to see Mr. Saur before 
the bell rang. 


I stepped into the room. Blinked against the bright sunlight streaming 
through the 


windows. 

I turned and ran breathlessly toward Mr. Saur’s desk. 
But I stopped halfway there. 

My heart skipped a beat. And I let out a cry of dismay. 


32 


14 


“May I help you?” asked the young woman sitting behind Mr. Saur’s 
desk. “Are you 


okay?” 


I stared at her with my mouth hanging open to my knees. I didn’t 
answer her 


questions. I gripped the camera tightly in both hands, afraid I might 
drop it. 


“Where—where’s Mr. Saur?” I finally managed to choke out. 

“He’s not feeling well,” she replied, studying me. “I’m Ms. Rose. Pm 
substituting today.” 

“He—he’s not here?” I stammered in a high, shrill voice. 


She nodded. “TIl be teaching the class today. Is there anything I can 
help you 


with?” 


I glanced down at the camera. “No,” I muttered unhappily. “No. You 
can’t help 


me. 


The room was never this noisy when Mr. Saur sat behind the desk. 
Kids were 


shouting and laughing. Someone tossed a balled-up piece of paper at 
me. It bounced 


off my shoulder and onto Ms. Rose’s desk. I heard loud laughter from 
the back of the 


room. 
We always give substitutes a really hard time. 


When a teacher doesn’t show up, it’s always time to celebrate. But I 
didn’t feel 


like celebrating today. I was so disappointed. 


I started to my seat—then turned back to Ms. Rose. “Can I put this in 
my 


locker?” I asked, holding up the camera. “It will only take a second. 
My locker is 


right out there.” I pointed to the hall. 


The final bell rang. She held her hands over her ears. The bell was on 
the ceiling 


right over her desk. 


“Okay,” she said when the clanging stopped. “But hurry back. I’m 
going to be 


talking about the subjunctive tense today. And you don’t want to miss 
that.” 


Thrills and chills, huh? 


I thanked her and hurried to the door. The long hall stood empty. 
Everyone was 


in class. 


My sneakers thudded loudly on the hard floor. My mind was racing. 
Thinking 


about Mr. Saur. And about the camera. I’ll have to leave it in my 
locker until he gets 


back, I decided. 

I promised Jon I’d keep it only for one day. 

But what choice did I have? 

I turned the corner—and bumped into Brian and Donny. 
“Hey—” Brian grunted. 

“Hey—” Donny greeted. 

33 


They say “Hey” a lot. I think it’s their favorite word. 
“You guys are late,” I said, trying to hurry past them. 
But they blocked my way with their big, wide bodies. 


“Sourball isn’t here,” Donny said, grinning. “He’s sick or something. 
So we’ve 


got a substitute.” 
“Tell me something I don’t know,” I muttered. 


“So we’re in no hurry,” Brian said. “Why should we hurry for a 
substitute?” 


I tried to slip between them. But they were too quick for me. They 
squeezed 


together, and I bounced back off them. 


“We’re going to switch places.” Brian grinned. “I’m going to tell her 
Pm Donny. 


And Donny is going to say he’s me.” 


“Good joke,” I replied, rolling my eyes. “Very original. Now, can I get 
by?” 


“No way,” Donny said, puffing up his big chest and leaning over me 
menacingly. 


“You have to pay a toll if you want to pass,” Brian demanded. He 
stuck out his 


big paw for money. 
“How much is the toll?” I sighed. 
“How much have you got?” Brian shot back. 


They both guffawed and slapped high fives. They really think they’re 
funny. 


“Tve got to get to my locker,” I insisted. 


I tried once again to push past them—and Brian grabbed the camera. 


“Hey!” I reached for it with both hands. But Brian raised it high over 
his head. 


“Look—Greg brought his magic camera to school,” he told Donny. 


“Oooh—I’m scared!” Donny replied sarcastically. He pretended to 
shiver and 


shake. 


“But the camera is bad!” Brian exclaimed, holding it out of my frantic 
reach. “It’s 


cursed, Donny! You remember Greg’s report.” 

Donny’s ugly grin grew wider. “You mean the report he got an F on?” 
They both had another good laugh. 

“Let’s check it out,” Brian declared. “Say cheese, Greg.” 

He lowered the camera to his eye and aimed it at me. 

“No—please!” I pleaded. I made another grab for the camera. 


But Donny grabbed me and pinned my arms behind my back. “Go 
ahead. Snap 


it,” he told Brian. “Let’s put a curse on Greg. Snap his picture.” 


34 


15 


“No—please!” I begged. 


Donny wrapped his huge paws tightly around me and pinned my arms 
against my 


back. 


“The camera really is cursed!” I protested. “You don’t know what 
you're doing! 


Stop!” 


Brian ignored me, of course. He held the camera to his eye—and 
raised his finger 


over the shutter button. 

“Brian—please!” I wailed. 

I saw his finger lower over the button. 

Then a loud voice called, “What’s going on here, guys?” 


Brian cried out and nearly dropped the camera. Donny dropped my 
arms and 


stumbled back against the wall. 
“Mr. Grand!” I exclaimed. 


He’s the principal of Pitts Landing Middle School. Mr. Grand is young 
and has 


blond wavy hair and a really good tan. He looks more like a surfer 
than a principal. 


The girls in our school all have crushes on him. 
For once, I was glad to see him. 


“Where should you guys be right now?” he asked, glancing up at the 
clock on the 


wall. 


“Uh... we’re going to Mr. Saur’s class,” Donny replied, turning bright 
red. 


“We were just helping Greg with his camera,” Brian added. He handed 
the 


camera back to me. 


“That looks like a valuable old camera,” Mr. Grand said to me. “You 
should be 


careful with that, Greg.” 
“Tm trying,” I said. “I’m going to lock it in my locker right now.” 


I pushed past Sumo One and Sumo Two and hurried down the hall. As 
I reached 


my locker, I heard Mr. Grand scold them: “Get to class, guys. And 
don’t give your 


substitute a hard time—okay?” 
“Okay,” Brian promised. 
“No problem,” Donny agreed. 


I met Shari after school, and we walked home together. “What’s up?” I 
asked. 


“T got an A on my math test,” she announced. 
“Big surprise. You always get As in math,” I reminded her. 
“So? Maybe I like to brag.” 


I felt a little strange. Tired. Kind of weak. I stopped about half a block 
from my 


house and tugged off my backpack. 
35 


“What’s your problem?” Shari demanded. “Why do you keep fiddling 
with that 


backpack?” 


“T think someone messed with it,” I said, loosening the straps. “I had it 
just right. 


And now it’s too tight.” 


“Why would anyone mess with your backpack?” Shari demanded. She 
blew a 


bubble-gum bubble nearly as big as her head. 
I stuck out a finger and popped it. 


“Yuck!” she cried out as it stuck all over her face. “Are you impressed? 
That was 


my biggest one ever,” she declared. “Wish I had a picture of it.” 


“Don’t say picture,” I grumbled. “Don’t say the words picture or 
camera.” I had 


already told her at lunch about Mr. Saur not showing. 
“Where is the camera?” she asked, pulling gum from her hair. 


“Locked up safe in my locker,” I said. I turned and saw Michael and 
Bird running 


down the sidewalk toward us. 
“Did you tell Michael and Bird I have the camera?” I asked Shari. 


She shook her head. “No. They’d be too upset. After all the horrible 
things it did 


last summer, they never want to see that camera again. And neither 
do I,” she added, 


glaring at me. 


“Hey—what’s up?” Bird called. He slapped me on the back so hard, I 
stumbled 


off the curb. 
Michael laughed. “You guys doing anything?” 


“Not much,” I replied, straightening my backpack. I still couldn’t get it 


comfortable. 


“Get your bikes,” Michael urged. “Come on. It’s a great day to ride 
around.” 


“Sounds good,” I agreed. Anything to get my mind off Mr. Saur and 
that stupid 


camera. 


“Let’s meet at my house,” Shari suggested. “I have to ask my mom 
first.” 


Michael and Bird jogged toward their houses. Shari and I crossed the 
street and 


headed to our homes, which are side by side. 


Mom and Dad were at work. Terry wasn’t home from high school yet. 
I dropped 


the backpack in the front hall. Pulled a box of juice from the 
refrigerator and drank it 


in two long sips from the straw. 


I still felt weak. Kind of lifeless. I thought maybe a long bike ride 
would help get 


my energy back. 


My jeans felt uncomfortable. A little tight. I ran to my room and 
pulled on my 


pair of really baggy shorts. Mom and Dad always teased me about 
these shorts. They 


say there’s room enough for a friend inside them. 


But I like them. I think they’re cool. And they’re really comfortable. I 
usually 


don’t wear them when I ride my bike. They’re so long and baggy, 
sometimes the 


cuffs get caught in the chain. 


I hurried outside and found Shari, Michael, and Bird waiting for me 
on their 


bikes. “Let’s go, Greg,” Bird urged. “It’s starting to get cloudy.” 


I pulled open the garage door and stepped inside, careful to walk 
around the black 


oil stains on the concrete floor. I took my bike from against the wall 
and walked it 


out onto the driveway. 
36 


Then, I did my high-flying circus riding trick. It’s my favorite way of 
getting on 


my bike. I lean on the handlebars and heave myself up in the air. Then 
I come flying 


down on the seat. 

Up I went. Pushed my body into the air. 

Swung my legs in the air. Dropped onto the seat. 
And both tires popped. 


I heard the explosion and then a whoosh of air as the tires flattened 
against the 


drive. 
“Hey—what’s going on?” I cried. 


37 


16 

“Whoa!” Shari cried. 

Michael and Bird burst out laughing. 

“Nice tires,” Michael said. 

“Maybe you should go on a diet!” Bird exclaimed. 


“Huh? A diet?” I repeated, swallowing hard. I knew that Bird was only 
joking. 


But his words sent a chill down my back. 


The snapshot flashed into my mind. The ugly snapshot from the evil 
camera. 


I saw myself all bloated and huge. Like an enormous saggy water 
balloon. 


I felt my face go hot and knew that I was blushing. I saw my friends 
staring at 


me. I climbed off my bike. “Guess I jumped too hard,” I murmured. 
“Maybe you need a tricycle,” Michael cracked. 
No one laughed. Michael’s jokes never make any sense. 


I squatted down and examined the tires. I ran my hands along the 
rubber—and 


found two big holes. Two blowouts. And they were new tires, too. 


I dragged the bike back into the garage. “I’ll take Terry’s old bike,” I 
told my 


friends. 


I actually like my brother’s bike better than mine. It’s a twelve-speed, 
and mine is 


only ten. He hardly ever rides it now that he’s got his driver’s license. 
But he doesn’t 


like me riding it. 


“Better not sit on it!” Bird suggested. “Maybe you should just walk it!” 
He and 


Michael laughed and slapped each other’s hands. 

“Ha-ha,” I said. “You guys are as funny as a flat tire.” 

“No. We’re as funny as two flat tires!” Michael joked. 

“Maybe you need a mountain bike,” Bird said. “Something sturdy.” 
“Maybe you need a sturdy punch in the face,” I threatened. 


“Just don’t sit on me!” Michael exclaimed, raising both hands in front 
of him as if 


to shield himself from me. 


“Are we going to ride or not?” Shari demanded, sighing. She glanced 
up at the 


graying sky. “If we don’t hurry, we’re going to get caught in the rain.” 


I eased myself carefully onto Terry’s bike. Then I followed them down 
the 


driveway and into the street. 


We rode aimlessly around town. When we reached the long, narrow 
park a few 


blocks from school, we bumped onto the grass and raced as fast as we 
could. 


Bird has the best bike and the longest legs. So he always wins our 
races. 


After about an hour, it started to drizzle, so we turned for home. I was 
glad. My 


legs felt heavy. My muscles ached. 


As we pedaled through the raindrops, I caught Shari watching me. 
Studying me. 


38 


Despite the sweat rolling down my forehead, I suddenly felt cold all 
over. Why is 


she staring at me like that? I wondered. 
Why? 
The next morning, I woke up with two words on my lips: Mr. Saur. 


Today is the day I show him the camera, I told myself, stretching and 
yawning. 


And today is the day I get my grade changed. 


I stood up, still yawning. Rubbed my eyes. And saw that my pillow 
had fallen to 


the floor during the night. 


When I bent over to pick it up, I felt a tug on the front of my pajama 
shirt. The 


buttons all popped off and scattered over the floor. 


“Huh?” I opened my mouth in surprise—and heard a long rrrrrrip. It 
took a few 


seconds to realize that my pajama bottoms had ripped right up the 
back. 


“Oh, nooooo.” I opened my mouth in a long, low moan. 


The collar of the pajama shirt dug tightly into my neck. I tried to 
loosen it—and 


both sleeves ripped at the shoulder! 


My heart pounding, I straightened up and crossed the room to the 
mirror. 


My whole body was trembling as I stepped up to the mirror. 
I shut my eyes. I couldn’t bear to look. 


But I had no choice. I had to see. I had to know. 


Slowly, slowly, I opened one eye, then the other. I took a deep breath 
and gazed 


at my reflection. 
Had the snapshot come true? Did I weigh four hundred pounds? 


39 


17 


I leaned into the mirror and stared at myself. 
No. Not four hundred pounds. 


I didn’t look too different. A little puffy. My cheeks were a little 
rounder. My 


shoulders were broader. 


I stepped back to check out the rest of my body—and Mom came 
walking into 


the room. “Greg, what are you doing? You’re going to be late for 
school.” 


I spun away from the mirror. “Mom—I grew last night!” I blurted out. 
“=I 


ripped my pajamas.” 


She narrowed her eyes at the torn pajama top. “Greg, you didn’t grow 
overnight,” 


she said calmly. “Those pajamas always were a little small on you.” 
I turned back to the mirror. “They were?” 


Maybe Mom was right. Maybe I wasn’t growing huge. Maybe it was all 
in my 


imagination. 

I turned back to her. “How do I look?” 

She shrugged. “You look fine.” 

“I mean, do I look fatter to you?” 

She studied me for a moment. “Well, actually...” Her voice trailed off. 
“Actually what?” I demanded. 


“Maybe Ill put skim milk on your cereal this morning,” she replied. 


“Hi, Greg. Putting on a little weight?” 


That’s how Mr. Saur greeted me when I hurried up to his desk before 
English 


class. 


His words sent a cold shiver down the back of my neck. But I ignored 
them. I 


held up the camera. “Mr. Saur, I want to show you something.” 


He lowered his eyes to the camera and frowned at it. “You want to 
take my 


picture? I already had my photo taken for the yearbook, Greg.” 


“No,” I replied. “This is the camera, Mr. Saur. This is the camera that 


2) 


He raised a hand to tell me to stop talking. “Not right now, Greg,” he 
said, 


climbing up from his desk chair. 
“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. 


He was gazing over my shoulder. I turned and saw Mr. Grand standing 
in the 


classroom doorway. Mr. Saur hurried over to talk to him. 


They talked until the bell rang. Then Mr. Saur returned to the front of 
the room to 


begin class. “I’m sorry I wasn’t here yesterday,” he announced. “I 
understand you 


had a wonderful time learning the subjunctive tense.” 
40 


I was still standing beside his desk, the camera in my hands. He 
stepped up to the 


chalkboard, turned, and saw me. 


“Greg, take your seat, please,” he said. “We have a lot to do today.” 
“But, Mr. Saur—” I protested. I raised the camera. 
“Take your seat,” he insisted. 


I had no choice. I sighed and trudged to my chair near the back of the 
room. 


How can I prove that my report was true if he won’t even listen to 
me? I asked 


myself unhappily. 


“Today, we’re going to hear more of your reports about true things 
that happened 


to you,” Mr. Saur told the class. He turned to a girl in the front row. 
“Marci, I believe 


it is your turn. What is your report about?” 


Marci Ryder stood up. “It’s about my cat, Waffles. It’s about all the 
funny things 


Waffles does around the house.” 
I groaned. Bor-ring! I thought. A few other kids groaned, too. 
But Mr. Saur actually smiled. The first time ever! 


He practically purred! “I like cats,” he told Marci. “I have six of them 
myself.” 


Oh, yuck! I thought. Six cats! 
I can’t sit through a boring report about a boring cat! I told myself. 


I shot my hand into the air and waved it frantically. “Mr. Saur? Mr. 
Saur?” 


The teacher’s smile faded. “Greg—now what?” he demanded. 


“Uh... before Marci starts,” I said, “can I show you the camera? You 
know. The 


one from my report? You said if I brought it in and proved that it’s 


evil, you’d 
change my grade.” 


Mr. Saur rubbed his chin and frowned at me. “It’s Marci’s turn,” he 
replied 


coldly. “I know we all want to hear about Waffles.” 

“But, Mr. Saur—you promised!” I cried. 

A few kids snickered. My voice was so high, only dogs could hear it. 
“Greg, you’re not going to change my mind,” Mr. Saur insisted. 
“But I can prove it!” I pleaded. “I can prove the camera is evil.” 

A few more kids snickered. 

“Greg is evil!” Donny shouted. 

It got a big laugh. 

“Greg is baaaaad!” some other kid shouted. 

Another big laugh. 


Mr. Saur slammed the chalkboard with his wooden pointer. “Quiet, 
everyone.” 


He sighed and motioned me forward. “Okay, Greg. One minute. It isn’t 
fair to the 


others to give you extra time. But I’ll give you one minute to show off 
your camera.” 


One minute! 
I knew that’s all I needed. 


I felt my shirt pocket to make sure I had the snapshot of Jon inside. I 
knew that 


once Sourball saw that photo and heard what happened to Jon that 
night, he’d believe 


me. 


ay 


“Come on, Greg,” the teacher urged. “Get up here. One minute. 
“Coming,” I said. I eagerly tried to stand up. 

41 

Tried again. 

Again. 

We have those chairs with the desk attached to the front. 

And I was stuck in the chair. Too fat to get out! 


42 


18 


What is happening to me? I wondered, feeling panic creep up from my 
stomach. My 


big blobby stomach. 


I climbed into this chair without any problem. That was less than an 
hour ago. 


And now I’m stuck in here. I must have put on a hundred pounds while 
I was sitting 


here! 


“Greg, were waiting.” Mr. Saur rolled his eyes and tapped the 
chalkboard 


impatiently with the pointer. 


On the fourth try, I finally managed to slide out of the seat. Carrying 
the camera 


carefully, I tromped up to the front of the room. 


“This is the camera,” I told Mr. Saur. “My friends and I found it in a 
deserted 


house. Just as I said in my report. The camera has a curse on it, and 


2) 


He took the camera from my hands and examined it. He rolled it over 
and over. 


He brought it up close to his face. He raised the viewfinder to his eye. 
“No—don’t!” I shrieked. “Don’t take a picture!” 


He lowered the camera. “If I don’t take a picture, how will I know if 
the camera 


is evil or not?” 


I reached into my shirt pocket. “I brought a photo,” I told him. “This 
will prove 


I’m telling the truth.” 


My fingers were so fat, I had trouble poking them into the pocket. My 
hands felt 


like squishy balls of dough. They were too blobby to make a fist! 


I nearly pulled the pocket off as I struggled to take out the snapshot of 
Jon. 


Finally, I pulled it out and shoved it in Mr. Saur’s face. “Here. Look!” 
He took the snapshot and studied it. 


“That boy is named Jon,” I told him. “I took his picture two nights 
ago. He was 


perfectly okay. But the photo showed him with a nail through his foot. 
Two minutes 


later, it came true. Jon got a nail in his foot, and his dad had to rush 
him to the 


hospital.” 

Mr. Saur burst out laughing. 

Another first. The first time he’d ever laughed in class! 

“Tt’s not funny,” I insisted. “Poor Jon was in so much pain. He—” 
“Tve seen those trick nails,” Mr. Saur said, his eyes on the photo. 
“Huh?” I didn’t understand him. 


He handed the photo back to me. “I used to have a fake arrow,” he 
said. “When I 


slid it on, it looked as if I had an arrow going straight through my 
head. So I 


understand how you made it appear that this boy has a nail through 
his foot.” 


“No! It’s real! It’s real!” I cried. “Look how much pain Jon is in! Look 
at his 


face!” 
43 
“Your friend is a good actor,” Mr. Saur replied. 


“No!” I shrieked. “He isn’t my friend! I don’t even know him! You’ve 
got to 


believe me! You’ve got to!” 
Mr. Saur glanced up at the clock. “Your minute is up.” 
“But you promised—!” I cried. 


“Greg, go sit down,” he ordered. “You’re not going to fool me with an 
old 


camera and a joke snapshot.” 
“You lose, Greg!” Donny shouted. 
“You're evil, Greg!” Brian chimed in. 


Everyone laughed. I could feel my face growing hot. I knew I must be 
beet-red. 


I felt ready to explode. I was embarrassed and hurt and angry—all at 
the same 


time. 


“Pd give you an A for effort,” Mr. Saur said cruelly. “But I’m still 
giving you an 


F for your report. F for fake!” 

Everyone laughed again. 

I couldn’t take it anymore. 

I let out a cry of fury—and went running for the door. 


At least, I tried to run. But I was too heavy to move fast. I could only 
waddle. 


“Greg—where are you going?” I heard Mr. Saur call. 


I pretended I didn’t hear him and lumbered to the door. I had the 
camera tucked 


under one flabby arm. I pulled the door open with the other. 
And bounced out into the silent, empty hall. 


I could hear Mr. Saur calling me from the classroom. And I could hear 
the kids 


laughing and talking excitedly. 
I slammed the door shut behind me and kept moving. 


I didn’t know where I was going. I didn’t have a plan. I was so angry. I 
wanted to 


scream and cry and punch the walls. 
I turned the corner—and saw Shari down the hall. 
“Greg!” she called, surprised to see me. “What’s going on?” 


She was wearing a short black skirt over blue tights. She started to run 
down the 


hall toward me. 
She took about four steps—and then cried out as her skirt fell down! 


44 


19 

“T don’t believe this!” Shari wailed. 

We both stared down at her skirt, which had fallen around her ankles. 
She dropped her books and bent to pull it up. 


Normally, I would have burst out laughing. But she seemed so upset, I 
just stood 


there. 


“Im losing weight,” she stammered, straightening the skirt around 
her waist. 


“I weighed myself this morning. I’ve lost eight pounds!” 
“Oh, wow!” I shook my head. Why was she losing weight? 


I tried to cheer her up. “Uh... eight pounds isn’t so much,” I said. I 
knew it was 


lame. But I couldn’t think of anything else. 


“Greg—I only weighed ninety to start!” she replied sharply. “Now I’m 
down to 


eighty-two. I can’t keep my skirt up. All my clothes hang on me!” 
“Maybe if you eat a really big lunch...” I started. 
“Yow’re no help!” she snapped. 


“Look at me!” I cried, holding my arms out so she could see my big 
stomach. “I 


think I put on two hundred pounds overnight! A few minutes ago, I 
couldn’t get out 


of my chair!” 


Her eyes checked me out. She was so upset about being skinny, she 
hadn’t even 


looked at me. 


She squinted hard at me. Then she burst out laughing. “Oh, gross. You 
look really 


weird!” 
“Thanks a bunch,” I sighed. 


“What are we going to do?” she demanded. “Why is this happening to 
us?” 


I started to answer—but I heard footsteps approaching from down the 
hall. 


Shari heard them, too. “Let’s go,” she urged. “Quick—help me pick up 
my 


books.” 


I bent to pick up the books—and the back of my jeans burst open with 
a loud 


rrrrrrip. 


After school, Bird and Michael and some other kids started up a 
softball game on the 


diamond behind school. I didn’t want to play. I didn’t want them to 
see how huge I 


was getting. 
But they pulled me onto the diamond and forced me to play first base. 


Maybe they won’t notice anything different, I thought. I crossed my 
fingers and 


hoped. Maybe they won’t notice that I’ve filled out a bit—since this 
morning! 


My T-shirt was stretched against my bulging stomach. The shirt was so 
tight, I 


could barely move my arms. My ripped jeans fit over my legs like 
tights. 


45 


Maybe they won’t notice, I told myself as I tried to trot out to first 
base. Maybe 


they won’t notice. 


“Hey, Greg—” Bird called from the pitcher’s mound. “Have you been 
super- 


sizing all your meals?” 


Everyone whooped and laughed. A few guys rolled around on the 
grass, giggling 


like hyenas. 

Michael pointed at me. “Hey—it’s Sumo Three!” he yelled. 
“It’s Sumo Three and Four!” someone else called out. 
More loud whooping and laughing. 

“Give me a break,” I muttered angrily. 

“Give him a lunch break!” Michael called. 

It wasn’t funny. But everyone laughed, anyway. 


They gathered around me in a wide circle. They shook their heads. 
“Weird,” Bird 


muttered. “How did you put on two hundred pounds since yesterday?” 


I didn’t want to talk about it. “Are we going to play ball or what?” I 
demanded. 


I had a strong urge to tell Bird and Michael why I was ballooning up 
so fast. I 


wanted to tell them that I had taken out the evil camera. That Shari 
had taken my 


picture. That it showed me weighing at least four hundred pounds. 
And now it was coming true. 


But I didn’t dare tell them. They had warned me not to go back to the 
Coffman 


house. And they had begged me not to take out the camera. 
If I told them the truth, they’d think I was a total jerk. 
So I kept my mouth shut and tried to concentrate on the game. 


I did pretty well until I went to bat in the third inning. I hit the ball 
over the 


second baseman’s head and trotted to first base with a single. 


I was totally out of breath by the time I reached the base. But the ball 
was still 


rolling around in the outfield. “Keep running!” my teammates 
shouted. “Greg—go to 


second!” 


So, huffing and puffing, I lifted my heavy legs and made my way to 
second. 


“Slide! Slide!” everyone was shouting. 
So I slid into second. Safe! 
And then I couldn’t get off my back. 


I wasn’t strong enough to pick up my heavy body. I must look like 
Humpty- 


Dumpty! I realized. 
I tried rolling. I tried rocking back and forth. 
And then I tried calling my friends for help. 


kk x 


I was exhausted by the time I pulled my huge body to my house. 
Sweat poured off 


my forehead and rolled down my round cheeks and chins. 


My clothes were stretched so tight, I could barely breathe. My jeans 
were ripped. 


My shirt pressed against my skin. Even my sneakers pinched my feet! 


This is horrible! I’ve got to get into something comfortable, I decided. 
46 


I remembered my huge, baggy shorts. The ones I wore to go bike 
riding the other 


day. 


I carried my bulky body over to the dresser. Bent over with a groan 
and pulled 


out the big shorts. 

I tugged them on, eager to get comfortable. 
Tugged. Tugged harder. Then gasped in horror. 
The huge, baggy shorts were skintight! 


47 


20 


I put on nearly three hundred pounds that day. By evening, I could 
barely walk. 


“Tt’s an allergic reaction,” Mom said. 
I stared at her. “Excuse me? What’s that?” 


“You ate something you’re allergic to,” she answered. “A person 
doesn’t swell up 


like a balloon overnight.” 


Dad squinted at me. He was trying to look calm, but I could see how 
worried he 


was. “Do you eat a lot of candy bars after school?” he asked. 


Mom shook her head at Dad. “He could eat a thousand candy bars a 
day! They 


wouldn’t make him this huge!” she declared. 


“We'd better take him to an allergy doctor,” Dad murmured, rubbing 
his chin. 


“We'll take him to Dr. Weiss first,” Mom argued. “Dr. Weiss can tell us 
what 


kind of doctor to take him to.” 
They started to argue about what kind of doctor I needed. 


I waddled out of the room. It took all my strength just to raise my 
enormous legs. 


My chins sagged down over my neck. My big stomach bounced out of 
the room 


ahead of me. 


I knew that no doctor could help me. I knew I didn’t have an allergy. 
And I knew 


I didn’t become a blimp because of candy bars. 


The snapshot from the evil camera made me look as big as a 
mountain. And the 


snapshot had come true. 
No doctor could slim me down. No diet would work. 


Later, I begged Mom and Dad to let me stay home. “Please don’t make 
me go to 


school tomorrow like this,” I pleaded. “The kids will laugh at me. ll 
be so 


embarrassed.” 


“You can’t miss school,” Dad insisted. “What if it takes weeks and 
weeks to get 


you back to normal?” 


“The kids won’t laugh at you,” Mom added. “Your friends will 
understand that 


youre sick.” 


I begged and whined. I even got down on my fat knees to plead with 
them. 


But would they listen? No. 


“Don’t be embarrassed,” Dad said as I waddled out the door to go to 
school the next 


morning. 

Don’t be embarrassed? 

I wore one of his baggy running suits—and it was tight on me! 
48 


I felt embarrassed just walking down the street. When cars drove past, 
I knew the 


people inside were staring at me. Laughing at the big mound of Jell-O 
bouncing 


along the sidewalk. 


I didn’t want to walk to school. But my parents have a Honda Civic— 
and I didn’t 


fit in the car! 


Kids were staring as I squeezed through the front door of Pitts Landing 
Middle 


School. But everyone was kind. No one made jokes. In fact, no one 
said a word to 


me. 


I think they were afraid to come up to me. Afraid I might fall on them! 
I really 


did look like one of the balloons in the Thanksgiving Day parade! 


The morning went pretty well. I kept to myself and tried to hide in 
corners. It 


wasn’t easy to hide. But everyone left me alone. 
Until I stepped into Mr. Saur’s class. 


He was as sour as ever. And he embarrassed me in front of the whole 
class. 


“Greg, I don’t think you'll fit into a chair,” he said, rolling his wooden 
pointer 


between his hands. “Why don’t you just stand by the window.” 
I didn’t say anything. I waddled over to the side of the room. 


The room fell silent. The other kids didn’t laugh. They could see that 
there was 


something seriously wrong with me. 
But Mr. Saur insisted on giving me a hard time. 


“Greg, forget the window,” he said. “If you stand there, I’m afraid 
you'll block 


out all the sunlight.” Then he smiled. 


Again, no one laughed. I think the other kids felt sorry for me. Even 
Donny and 


Brian weren’t cracking jokes. 


“Greg, I want you to go see the nurse,” Mr. Saur ordered. “I want her 
to discuss 


the four food groups with you. I think you’ve been eating too much of 
all four!” 


I think that was supposed to be a cruel joke. But no one laughed. 


I turned my bulk around and stared at him. Was he serious? Was he 
really 


sending me to the nurse? 
“Get going,” he said, pointing to the door. 


I turned and shuffled heavily out of the classroom. I expected Donny 
to stick out 


his big foot and try to trip me, the way he always does. 


But he stared straight ahead, as silent and still as everyone else in the 
class. 


I was glad. If he tripped me, I knew Id never be able to get up. 


I pulled myself down the hall, thinking angry thoughts about Mr. 
Saur. Why did 


he make fun of me in front of everyone? Why was he so cruel? 


I couldn’t answer my questions. Besides, I felt too angry to think 
clearly. Pll pay 


him back some day. That’s what I told myself. I’ll do something mean 
to him. PH 


embarrass old Sourball in front of everyone. 


My angry thoughts followed me to the nurse’s office. But I instantly 
forgot them 


when I saw the girl huddled in the chair in the waiting room. I 
stopped outside the 


door and gaped at her in shock. 

Shari! 

It took me a few seconds to recognize her. 
49 


Her jeans and T-shirt appeared to be about ten sizes too big! Her arms 
were as 


thin as toothpicks. Her face was pale and puckered. Her head had 
shrunk. It looked 


like a tiny lemon on her frail, noodlelike body. 
“Greg,” she whispered weakly. “Is that you in that big body?” 
“Shari!” I cried. “How much weight have you lost?” 


“J—I don’t know,” she stammered. “Look at me! I’m shrinking away. 
I’m so 


light. It took me hours to walk to school this morning because the 
wind kept pushing 


me back!” 
“Are you sick?” I cried. 


She frowned at me. “I’m not sick, and neither are you,” she replied in 
a tiny, frail 


voice. “I’m shrinking away, and you're bloating up—and it’s because 
of those photos 


we took.” 


I sighed and lifted my huge stomach with both hands so that I could 
get through 


the doorway. “What are we going to do, Shari?” I whispered. “It’s 
those photos. 


You're right. But what are we going to do?” 


50 


21 


Dad picked me up after school. He had rented a van since I couldn’t fit 
into the car. 


Dad helped me squeeze through the door. My body took up the entire 
backseat. 


The seat belt wouldn’t stretch over my stomach. So we had to forget 
about it. 


“Pm sure Dr. Weiss will have you back to normal in no time,” Dad 
said. He was 


trying to be cheerful. But I could tell he was really upset and worried. 


He drove slowly to Dr. Weiss’ office across town. The van couldn’t 
pick up 


speed because of all the weight it carried—me! 


Dr. Weiss is a nice elderly man with bright blue eyes and a long mane 
of white 


hair. He talks to all the kids as if they’re two years old. He still gives 
me a lollipop 


after each visit, even though I’m twelve! 
But I didn’t think he’d give me a lollipop today. 


He tsk-tsked as I climbed on the scale. But he couldn’t get my weight. 
The scale 


didn’t go high enough! 


He had trouble listening to my heartbeat. His stethoscope got stuck in 
the folds of 


flab over my chest. 


He took all kinds of tests, his expression tense and thoughtful. “We’ll 
send the 


blood samples to the lab,” he told me. “We should have some answers 
in a few 


days.” 


He shook his head and frowned. His blue eyes appeared to fade. “I’ve 
never seen 


anything like it, Greg,” he said softly. “I’m completely stumped.” 
I wasn’t stumped. I knew exactly what the problem was. 


As soon as I got home, I lumbered to my room and grabbed the phone. 
It took all 


my strength to raise my huge, flabby arm and hold the receiver up to 
the bulging 


flesh of my face. 


I punched in Shari’s number. It took three tries. My finger was so fat, 
it kept 


hitting two numbers at once. 


She answered on the third ring. “Hello?” Her voice floated out so tiny 
and weak, 


I could barely hear her. 
“Pm coming over,” I announced. “And I’m bringing the camera.” 


“You don’t have to shout!” she squeaked. And then she added, “Hurry, 
Greg. I’ve 


lost five more pounds. I’m so light, I’m afraid I’m going to float away.” 


“Tll be right there,” I told her. “We’ll figure out a way to save 
ourselves.” 


I hung up the phone. Then I carefully dug the camera out from its 
hiding place in 


my underwear drawer. I had to bend over to reach into the drawer. I 
was huffing and 


puffing, gasping for breath. 


If I get any fatter, Pll explode, I thought unhappily. 


51 


Carefully gripping the camera, I lowered my bulk down the stairs. 
“Tm going to 


Shari’s,” I called to my parents. 

They were in the den, discussing what Dr. Weiss had told Dad. 
“It started to rain,” Mom called. “Take an umbrella.” 

“Tm only going next door!” I shouted back. 

Besides, an umbrella wouldn’t cover all of me. 

I peeked outside. It was only drizzling. Not much of a rain at all. 


I tucked the camera under the folds of my arm, pulled open the front 
door, and 


started to step out. But I stopped when I saw the dark-haired boy 
walking up the 


driveway. 
Jon! 


“Oh, no!” I murmured. I knew why he had come. He wanted his 
camera back. 


But I couldn’t give it back. I needed it to save Shari and me. 
I watched him walking slowly, his head down because of the rain. 


What am I going to do? I asked myself. I can’t let him take back his 
camera. I 


can’t! 

Pll duck back inside and hide, I decided. 

I tried to back up. Tried to back my heavy bulk into the house. 
Too late. 

Jon saw me. 


52 


22 


He waved to me and started jogging toward the house. 


I had the camera in my hand. I carefully lowered it to the porch and 
stepped in 


front of it. I knew it would be hidden behind my enormous body. 


But what was I going to say to Jon? How could I convince him to let 
me keep the 


camera for a while longer? 
“Hi!” he called. 


“Hi,” I answered, my voice muffled by the thick folds of flab around 
my face. 


“Pm looking for a boy who lives around here,” Jon said, stepping up 
to the porch. 


“His name is Greg, and he’s blond, and he’s about my age. Do you 
know him? He 


has a camera of mine.” 


I stared at him. My mouth dropped open. I could feel my chins drop 
onto my 


chest. 
“What’s his name?” I choked out. 


“Greg,” Jon repeated. “I don’t know his last name. Does he live 
around here?” 


He doesn’t recognize me! I realized. I’m so huge, he doesn’t know that 
Pm me! 


“Uh... yeah. I think I know who you mean,” I told him. “There’s a kid 
named 


Greg who lives over there.” I pointed up the street. 


“Do you know which house?” Jon asked, turning to where I pointed. 


“Its about four blocks that way,” I lied. “A big redbrick house. You 
can’t miss it. 


It’s the only brick house on the block.” 


“Hey, thanks,” Jon said. The rain started to come down harder. He 
turned quickly 


and jogged down the driveway. 
A close call, I thought. 


I felt bad about lying to Jon. But I had to lie. I couldn’t give him back 
the 


camera—ever. It was too dangerous. 


I watched him until he disappeared behind some hedges. Then, I 
reached my 


flabby hand down, picked up the camera, and bounced across the 
front yard to 


Shari’s house. 


Shari greeted me at her front door. I could see the shock in her eyes 
when she saw 


how huge I had become. 


I was shocked, too. I cried out in surprise. She was starting to look like 
a stick 


figure! 


As she led the way to her room, she kept tripping over the cuffs of her 
jeans, 


which sagged down over her feet. She had tied a knot in the belt 
around her tiny 


waist, an attempt to keep the jeans from falling off. 
“If I get any smaller, Pll have to wear doll clothes!” she wailed. 


53 


“Did your parents take you to a doctor?” I asked, huffing and puffing 
as I tried to 


drag my weight after her. 


“Of course,” she replied in her tiny, weak voice. “The doctor said to 
make me 


drink milk shakes five times a day!” 
“T wish my doctor said that.” I sighed. 


I lowered myself carefully onto her bed. I didn’t want the bed to 
collapse under 


me. But as soon as I sat down, I heard a crunching sound. The sound 
of wood 


splintering. 
And the bed crashed loudly to the floor. 


“Don’t worry about it,” Shari said softly. “I don’t have the strength to 
climb up to 


bed, anyway.” 


“If I get any bigger,” I moaned, “I won’t be able to get out of the 
house. I really 


won’t fit through the door.” 


She folded her hands in front of her. Her fingers were so skinny, they 
looked like 


bird claws. With her black hair hanging down from her tiny, round 
head, and her 


straight pole of a body, she looked more like a mop than a person! 
“What are we going to do?” she wailed. 


I patted the camera with a fat, spongy hand. “I brought this,” I said. “I 
thought 


maybe—” 


“What good will that stupid camera do?” Shari cried. “I wish I’d never 
seen it! 


Never! Never!” 
“T have an idea,” I told her. I flicked a fly off one of my chins. 


She hugged herself, wrapping her skinny arms around her toothpick 
body. “What 


kind of an idea?” 


“Let’s take new pictures of ourselves,” I said. “Maybe the new pictures 
will show 


us looking normal. Maybe the new pictures will change us back to the 
way we were 


before.” 


She raised her eyes to mine. I could see her thinking about it, thinking 
hard. “It’s 


kind of risky—isn’t it?” she said finally. 
“Do you have a better idea?” I asked. 


She thought hard again. Then she lowered her eyes to the camera. 
“Okay,” she 


agreed. “Let’s do it.” 


54 


23 


I struggled to climb to my feet. But my arms and legs were barely 
strong enough to 


push up my huge body. 


Before I could move, Shari flew across the room. She grabbed the 
camera from 


my lap. 
“Oh!” she cried out as she nearly dropped it. “It feels so heavy!” 


“That’s because you're so light,” I told her. I tried again to lift my bulk 
off the 


bed. And failed again. 
“Sit still,” Shari ordered. “Ill take your picture first.” 


“Okay,” I agreed. “I hope the new photo shows me skinny.” I tried to 
cross my 


fingers. But they were too fat to cross! 
“Say cheese,” Shari said, aiming the camera at me. 
“Don’t be funny,” I snapped. “Just take the picture.” 


She stared through the viewfinder. Raised her finger over the shutter 
button. 


Then she lowered the camera with a sigh. “It—it’s too dangerous,” she 
stammered. 


“Shari—take my picture!” I insisted. “Look at us! We couldn’t be any 
worse 


off—could we?” 


She nodded in agreement. Then, with a sigh, she raised the camera to 
her eye 


again. It felt so heavy in her skinny arms, she had to hold it up with 


both hands. 
“Here goes,” she said softly. “I hope it shows you normal again, Greg.” 
She snapped the picture. The flash made me blink. 


A second later, the white square slid out from the front of the camera. 
She carried 


it over to the bed and dropped lightly down beside me. 
“Let’s see it!” I cried, eagerly grabbing for it. 
“Careful!” Shari warned. “If you fall over, you'll crush me!” 


I gasped. She was right. Sitting next to me could be extremely 
dangerous. 


“Maybe you’d better stand up,” I suggested. 


She climbed to her feet, swaying because she wasn’t used to being so 
light. “It’s 


starting to develop,” she announced. 


She held the snapshot in front of me so we could both watch it. The 
yellow filled 


in first. I squinted to see if I could make out my face. 
Was it fat in the photo? Or back to normal? 
The yellow was too pale. I couldn’t see my face at all. 


Shari and I both were frozen there, staring at the small square. Not 
moving a 


muscle. Not blinking. Watching it darken. 

And suddenly, I could see myself. 

My huge blobby face. My round, balloon body. 
55 

Still enormous. Still enormously fat. 


“Noooooooo!” I let out a long cry of horror. “Noooooooo! I want to be 


changed 
back!” 


Shari was shaking her tiny head sadly, still staring at the darkening 
photo. 


“What’s that on your face?” she cried. “Yuck!” 


I grabbed the snapshot from her and held it close. “Oh, no!” I groaned. 
“My 


skin—it’s all scaly. I look like an alligator or something!” 


Shari grabbed back the photo and studied it. “The scaly stuff is on 
your arms, 


too,” she said. “It looks like reptile skin or something.” 
And as she said that, I started to itch. 


I glanced down and saw red scales covering my arms. Itchy red 
patches. I started 


to scratch. But the scratching made the scales itch even more. 
My skin flaked off under my fingernails. 
“Oh, yuck!” I moaned. “It itches so bad!” 


I scratched my arms. Then I scratched my face. More dry skin peeled 
off as I 


scratched. Chunks of skin. 


Shari took a step back. She let the new photo fall to the carpet. “Oh, 
this is so 


horrible!” she declared. “You’re still huge—and now all your skin is 
cracking off!” 


“Ohh! My back itches so bad!” I wailed. “But I can’t reach it.” 


“Pm not going to scratch it for you!” Shari declared. “It—it’s too 
gross!” 


I pulled a chunk of scaly, red skin off the back of my hand. “Do you 


want me to 


take a new picture of you?” I asked Shari. “Maybe you’ll have better 
luck.” 


“No! No way!” she cried. She took another few steps back. “No new 
picture. It 


will only make things worse.” 


Her face twisted in disgust. She swallowed hard. “I’m sorry, Greg,” she 
choked 


out. “But you look so gross, I think I’m going to be sick.” 


I tried to scratch the back of my neck. But my arms were too fat. I 
couldn’t reach 


back there. 


I rubbed my forehead. A big chunk of skin dropped off and bounced 
on the 


carpet. 
“Let’s just rip up the photos!” Shari declared. 
“Huh?” I gaped at her. 


She bent to pick up the scaly new picture of me. “Let’s rip them all 
up,” she 


urged. “I’ll bet as soon as we rip them up, our bodies will return to 
normal.” 


I stopped my frantic scratching for a moment. “Do you think so? Do 
you think 


that’s all we have to do?” 
“Maybe,” Shari replied. “It’s worth a try—don’t you think?” 


I pulled the first two photos from my pocket. The negative of Shari 
and the first 


fat photo of me. 


“TIl rip these two up,” I said. “You tear that one. We’ll see what 
happens.” 


We both held the photos up. I started to tear mine—then stopped. 
“Maybe if we rip them up, we’ll disappear completely!” I exclaimed. 


Shari and I stared at each other. Our hands stayed in the air, ready to 
tear the 


snapshots to pieces. 
56 
Should we do it? 


57 


24 
“No!” Shari cried. “Don’t do it!” 
We both lowered the snapshots. 


“You’re right,” I said. My whole body was shaking. “It’s too 
dangerous.” 


“If we tear the photos to pieces, we might be torn to pieces, too,” 
Shari said. “Or 


we might disappear completely and never come back.” 


I shuddered. “Let’s not talk about what might happen to us,” I moaned. 
“Look at 


us. What could be worse?” 


“A lot of things,” Shari sighed. “We’ll think of something to save 
ourselves, 


Greg. We just have to think positive.” 

I stared at her. “What did you say?” 

“T said, think positive,” she repeated. 

Think positive. 

“Shari—you just gave me a really good idea!” 


I cried. 


We carried the snapshots to Kramer’s, the photo store where my 
brother works. 


It wasn’t easy to walk there. I had to stop to catch my breath every 
few steps. 


And I had to scratch my scaly, peeling skin. And I had to hold on to 
Shari to keep the 


wind from blowing her away. 


The walk was only about eight blocks. But it took us more than an 
hour. 


When we finally stepped inside the store, my heart sank to my knees. I 
didn’t see 


Terry. 


“He’s in the developing lab,” Mr. Kramer told me. He kept staring at 
Shari and 


me. I guess we looked pretty weird. A stick figure and an elephant. 


I pulled Shari to the lab in the back of the store and knocked on the 
door. You 


can’t just open the door and walk into the developing lab. If you let in 
the light, you 


destroy the film in there. 


We waited about five minutes. Then Terry came out. At first, he didn’t 
recognize 


me. I think he forgot that I had put on four hundred pounds in the 
past few days. 


“Yuck. What happened to your skin, Greg?” he demanded, making a 
disgusted 


face. “Have you got a rash or something?” 
“I don’t know,” I replied glumly. “Can you do me a favor, Terry?” 
He shrugged. “What’s the favor?” 


I held up the first two snapshots. The negative of Shari, and the 
positive of me 


weighing a ton. “Can you reverse these for us?” I asked. 
58 


He squinted at the two squares for a long while. “I don’t get you,” he 
said finally. 


I sighed. “Can you take the negative and make a positive of it? And 


can you take 

the positive and make a negative?” 

Shari let out a sharp cry. She realized what my plan was. 
Maybe if we reversed the pictures, it would reverse our bodies. 


Terry would make a positive of Shari’s negative, and she’d grow back 
to her 


normal size. Then he’d make a negative of my picture, and Pd shrink 
the way Shari 


had. 
It seemed to make sense. Was it worth a try? 
Definitely. 


Terry took the two snapshots. He studied them closely. He scratched 
his head. “I 


guess I could do it,” he said. “But I’m really busy in there. When do 
you need it?” 


“NOW!” Shari and I both cried. 
Terry stared at us, then down at the two photos. 


I scratched the back of my neck. My arms were so fat, I could barely 
lift them 


that high. In a few hours, I knew, I’d be too heavy to walk. Someone 
would have to 


wheel me around in a wheelbarrow. No—make that two 
wheelbarrows! 


“Please!” I begged. 
“I just don’t have time,” Terry said. 
“TIl give you my allowance for the next two months!” I cried. 


“Okay. I guess I can find the time. It’s a deal,” Terry replied. “Wait out 
here.” 


He disappeared into the lab. We stood outside the door and waited. 
And waited. 

And waited. 

The longest half hour of my life. 


Mr. Kramer kept staring back at us from the front counter. Shari and I 
tried to 


ignore him. 


I wanted to sit down. Carrying so much weight made my feet hurt. But 
I was 


afraid if I took a seat, ld break it. And I wouldn’t be able to get back 
up. 


So Shari and I stood outside the door to the lab. And thought about 
this new plan. 


Would it work? Would reversing the photos reverse us? 


Finally, the door swung open and Terry stepped out. “Here,” he 
grunted. He 


handed me the new prints. “Don’t forget what you said about your 
allowance.” 


“I won't,” I promised. “Thanks, Terry.” 


I gazed at the new prints. Terry had done it right. A positive of Shari, 
smiling into 


the camera. A negative of me, weighing four hundred pounds. 


“Now, get lost,” Terry said, glancing up to the front desk. “Go ahead. 
Beat it. 


Before you make me lose my job.” 
I took Shari’s hand and started to pull her to the front of the store. 


Poor Shari. She really did feel light as a feather. She looked even paler 
and 


skinnier than when we came into the store. Her hand felt like brittle 
bones. 


We stepped out of the store and stopped on the corner. I held the new 
prints up so 


we both could see them. 

“Ts it working?” I asked her. “Do you feel any different?” 

59 

“Not yet,” she replied softly. 

“Neither do I,” I moaned. 

We stared at the new prints. And waited. 

We stood on that corner for at least half an hour. Staring and waiting. 
Waiting to feel different. Waiting for our bodies to change. 

But nothing happened. 

We didn’t change at all. 

“We’re doomed,” I murmured sadly. “Doomed.” 

A chunk of skin peeled off my forehead and dropped to the sidewalk. 


60 


25 


The next morning, I woke up early, before my alarm. I stretched and 
yawned. Then I 


turned and struggled to pull my huge body out of bed. 
“Heave-ho!” I cried, straining every muscle. 
And I went flying across the room! 


“Oww!” I groaned as I hit the wall. I bounced off. Dropped to the 
floor. Bounced 


up again. 
“What’s going on?” I cried out loud. 


And scrambled to the mirror. And stared at the reflection of my old 
face. My old 


body. 


No folds of sagging flesh. No puffed-out cheeks or bulging balloon of a 
belly. 


Me! 

I was back! 

I squeezed my arms. I rubbed my face. I pulled my hair. 
I felt so happy to see myself! 


I leaped onto the bed and started jumping up and down, tossing up 
my arms, and 


whooping and cheering at the top of my lungs. 
“It worked! It worked!” 

Reversing the photo had reversed me! 
“Yaaaaay!” I let out a cheer for myself. 


Mom and Dad burst into the room, still in their bathrobes. Frightened 


expressions 
on their faces. “Greg—what’s wrong?” 
And then they both froze with bulging eyes and opened mouths. 


Mom uttered a squeak of surprise. Dad goggled at me in shocked 
silence. 


“You—you’re you again!” Mom stammered finally. 


“You—you—you—” Dad struggled to say something, but he couldn't. 
He 


pointed a finger at me and stuttered. 
And then they both rushed over and wrapped me in a tight hug. 


“I knew it was something you ate,” Mom said happily. “Some kind of 
food 


poisoning.” 


“Just an allergic reaction,” Dad added, finally able to speak. “I knew 
you’d be 


fine in a day or two.” 

“We knew you’d be fine,” Mom declared. 
“Yeah. Me, too,” I said. 

What a lie! 


“You were very good during all this trouble, Greg,” Mom said, wiping 
away a 


tear from her eye with the back of her hand. “You had such a good 
attitude.” 


61 
“Yeah. Well... I always try to think positive,” I told her. 


I gobbled down my breakfast and hurried next door to Shari’s house. 
As I ran up to 


the back door, she stepped out, grinning, waving her arms in the air in 


triumph. 
“Tt worked! It worked, Greg!” she cried happily. 


She came running toward me, her black hair flying behind her head, 
laughing and 


cheering. Back to normal. 
Back to normal! 


Whooping and shouting, the two of us did a wild “Back to Normal” 
dance in her 


backyard. 


When we stopped to catch our breath, Shari turned to me. “We’d 
better hurry. 


Were going to be late for school. I can’t wait to show everyone that 
Pm me again.” 


“Me, too!” I cried. “But wait right here. I have to get something in my 
room. Pll 


be right back.” 

I turned and started jogging quickly across the grass to my house. 
“What are you getting?” Shari called, following me. 

“The camera,” I shouted back. 


She ran faster. Caught up with me. Grabbed my shoulders and pulled 
me toa 


stop. “Greg—the camera? Why do you need the camera?” 


I narrowed my eyes at her. My expression turned serious. I lowered 
my voice toa 


whisper. 
“For revenge,” I replied. 


62 


26 


“Greg—don’t!” Shari pleaded. 
I ignored her. I knew what I wanted to do. I knew what I had to do. 


I ran into the house. Took the stairs two at a time up to my room. 
Pulled the 


camera from its hiding place. And hurried back outside. 


Shari was waiting for me on the sidewalk. “Greg—this is crazy,” she 
insisted. 


“What are you going to do?” 


I couldn’t stop an evil smile from spreading across my face. “I’m going 
to take 


Mr. Saur’s picture,” I told her. 

“NO!” she gasped. “Greg—you can’t!” 
“Watch me,” I replied, still grinning. 
“But—but—but—.” she sputtered. 


I started walking toward school, taking long strides. I gripped the 
camera tightly 


in both hands. 
“Greg—something terrible will happen!” Shari protested. 
“T know,” I said, unable to stop grinning. “Old Sourball deserves it.” 


“But, Greg—” She tried to stop me. But I jogged faster, moving away 
from her. 


“He deserves it,” I repeated. “He refused to believe a true story. He 
called me a 


liar in front of the whole class. And he gave me an F. An F for a really 
good report.” 


“But, Greg—” Shari started. 


I didn’t let her get a word in. I was too worked up. The closer we 
came to school, 


the more excited I got about my revenge plan. 


“He’s going to ruin my whole summer,” I continued. “And he’s wrong, 
wrong, 


wrong! And then, when I got so huge, Sourball was really cruel. He 
made jokes about 


me in front of everyone. He embarrassed me, Shari. He totally 
embarrassed me.” 


“Greg—” 


“He wanted to hurt my feelings,” I declared. I could see our school 
through the 


trees in the next block. “He wanted to embarrass me in front of the 
whole class. He 


deserves what he’s going to get.” 
“So what are you going to do?” she demanded breathlessly. 


I stopped at the corner. “He dared me to prove that the camera is evil. 
So ’m 


going to prove it—and get my revenge at the same time.” 


*** 


I slipped into class just as the final bell rang. The other kids were 
already in their 


seats, just getting quiet. 


Mr. Saur had his back turned. He was writing something on the 
chalkboard. 


63 


I stepped up behind him. And waited for him to turn around. 


My heart thudded in my chest. My hands were shaking so much, I 
could barely 


hold the camera. 

I took a deep breath and held it. 

This was my big moment. My big chance. 
“Mr. Saur—?” I called softly. 


He spun around, as if I had shouted. “Greg!” he cried. “You’re looking 
very 


slender.” 

I ignored his words. I raised the camera to my eye. 

Time for revenge, I thought. 

“I brought the camera,” I told him. My voice came out high and shrill. 


“Remember? The camera from my report? You asked me to prove that 
it’s evil. So 


here goes!” 

I centered his startled face in the viewfinder. 
I raised my finger over the shutter button. 
He grabbed the camera from my hands. 


“Oh, yes! The evil camera!” he declared, staring down at it. “Don’t 
waste it on 


me. Let’s take everyone’s picture!” 


“No!” I cried. 


He waved his hand. “Donny and Brian—move in closer.” Then he 
shoved me in 


front of him. “Get in the shot, Greg.” 
“No!” I pleaded. “Mr. Saur—no!” 
“Say cheese, everyone!” 

The camera flashed. 

The white square photo slid out. 


Mr. Saur smiled at me. “I think I got everyone in class in the shot,” he 
said. “Now 


what’s going to happen?” 

I swallowed hard. “Uh... we’ll see,” I replied. “We'll see.” 
Scanning, formatting and 

proofing by Undead. 


64 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
~ 4 $} 
, RAE 
Be oll that you con't see! > d 
ee ee 
e 
\ 1 
a 


aa Sc 


hae ! Ge 
wo 


LS H 
Y listings for deto) 
wo eo 


GHOST CAMP 


Þ ASTI 


HOI 


GHOST CAMP 


Goosebumps - 45 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


“You know I get bus sick, Harry,” Alex groaned. 

“Alex, give me a break.” I shoved my brother against the window. 
“We’re almost there. Don’t start thinking about getting bus sick now!” 

The bus rumbled over the narrow road. I held onto the seat in 
front of me. I gazed out the window. 

Nothing but pine trees. They whirred past in a blur of green. 
Sunlight bounced off the dusty glass of the window. 

We’re almost to Camp Spirit Moon, I thought happily. 

I couldn’t wait to get off the bus. My brother, Alex, and I were the 
only passengers. It was kind of creepy. 

The driver was hidden in front of a green curtain. I had glimpsed 
him as Alex and I climbed on board. He had a nice smile, a great 
suntan, curly blond hair, and a silver earring in one ear. 

“Welcome, dudes!” he greeted us. 

Once the long bus ride began, we didn’t see him or hear from him 
again. Creepy. 

Luckily, Alex and I get along okay. He’s a year younger than me. 
He’s eleven. But he’s as tall as I am. Some people call us the Altman 
twins, even though we’re not twins. 

We both have straight black hair, dark brown eyes, and serious 
faces. Our parents are always telling us to cheer up—even when we’re 
in really good moods! 

“I feel a little bus sick, Harry,” Alex complained. 

I turned away from the window. Alex suddenly looked very 
yellow. His chin trembled. A bad sign. 

“Alex, pretend you’re not on a bus,” I told him. “Pretend you’re in 
a car.” 

“But I get carsick, too,” he groaned. 

“Forget the car,” I said. Bad idea. Alex can get carsick when Mom 
backs down the driveway! 

It’s really a bad-news habit of his. His face turns a sick yellow. He 
starts to shake. And then it gets kind of messy. 

“You’ve got to hold on,” I told him. “We’ll be at camp soon. And 
then you'll be fine.” 

He swallowed hard. 

The bus bounced over a deep hole in the road. Alex and I 
bounced with it. 

“T really feel sick,” Alex moaned. 


“I know!” I cried. “Sing a song. That always cures you. Sing a 
song, Alex. Sing it really loud. No one will hear. We’re the only ones 
on the bus.” 

Alex loves to sing. He has a beautiful voice. 

The music teacher at school says that Alex has perfect pitch. I’m 
not sure what that means. But I know it’s a good thing. 

Alex is serious about his singing. He’s in the chorus at school. Dad 
says he’s going to find a voice teacher for Alex this fall. 

I stared at my brother as the bus bounced again. His face was 
about as yellow as a banana skin. Not a good sign. 

“Go ahead—sing,” I urged him. 

Alex’s chin trembled. He cleared his throat. Then he began to sing 
a Beatles song we both really like. 

His voice bounced every time the bus bumped. But he started to 
look better as soon as he started to sing. 

Pretty smart idea, Harry, I congratulated myself. 

I watched the pine trees whir past in the sunlight and listened to 
Alex’s song. He really does have an awesome voice. 

Am I jealous? 

Maybe a little. 

But he can’t hit a tennis ball the way I can. And I can beat him in 
a swim race every time. So it evens out. 

Alex stopped singing. He shook his head unhappily. “I wish Mom 
and Dad signed me up for the music camp.” He sighed. 

“Alex, the summer is half over,” I reminded him. “How many 
times do we have to go over this? Mom and Dad waited too long. It 
was too late.” 

“T know,” Alex said, frowning. “But I wish—” 

“Camp Spirit Moon was the only camp we could get into this late 
in the summer,” I said. “Hey, look—!” 

I spotted two deer outside the window, a tall one and a little baby 
one. They were just standing there, staring at the bus as it sped by. 

“Yeah. Cool. Deer,” Alex muttered. He rolled his eyes. 

“Hey—lighten up,” I told him. My brother is so moody. 
Sometimes I just want to shake him. “Camp Spirit Moon may be the 
coolest camp on earth,” I said. 

“Or it may be a dump,” Alex replied. He picked at some stuffing 
that poked up from a hole in the bus seat. 

“The music camp is so great.” He sighed. “They put on two 
musicals each summer. That would have been so awesome!” 

“Alex, forget about it,” I told him. “Let’s enjoy Camp Spirit Moon. 
We only have a few weeks.” 


The bus suddenly screeched to a stop. 

Startled, I bounced forward, then back. I turned to the window, 
expecting to see a camp out there. But all I could see were pine trees. 
And more pine trees. 

“Camp Spirit Moon! Everybody out!” the driver called. 

Everybody? It was just Alex and me! 

The driver poked his blond head out from behind the curtain. He 
grinned at us. “How was the ride, dudes?” he asked. 

“Great,” I replied, stepping into the aisle. Alex didn’t say 
anything. 

The driver climbed out. We followed him around to the side of 
the bus. Bright sunlight made the tall grass sparkle all around us. 

He leaned into a compartment and pulled out our bags and 
sleeping bags. He set everything down on the grass. 

“Uh... where’s the camp?” Alex asked. 

I shielded my eyes with my hand and searched around. The 
narrow road curved through a forest of pine trees as far as I could see. 

“Right through there, dudes,” the driver said. He pointed to a dirt 
path that cut through the trees. “It’s a real short walk. You can’t miss 
it.” 

The driver shut the baggage compartment. He climbed back onto 
the bus. “Have a great time!” he called. 

The door shut. The bus roared away. 

Alex and I squinted through the bright sunlight at the dirt path. I 
swung my duffel bag over my shoulder. Then I tucked my sleeping 
bag under one arm. 

“Shouldn’t the camp send someone out here to greet us?” Alex 
asked. 

I shrugged. “You heard the driver. He said it’s a very short walk.” 

“But still,” Alex argued. “Shouldn’t they send a counselor to meet 
us out here on the road?” 

“It’s not the first day of camp,” I reminded him. “It’s the middle of 
the summer. Stop complaining about everything, Alex. Pick up your 
stuff, and let’s get going. It’s hot out here!” 

Sometimes I just have to be the big brother and order him 
around. Otherwise, we won’t get anywhere! 

He picked up his stuff, and I led the way to the path. Our 
sneakers crunched over the dry red dirt as we made our way through 
the trees. 

The driver hadn’t lied. We’d walked only two or three minutes 
when we came to a small, grassy clearing. A wooden sign with red 
painted letters proclaimed camp spirit moon. An arrow pointed to the 
right. 


“See? We’re here!” I declared cheerfully. 

We followed a short path up a low, sloping hill. Two brown 
rabbits scurried past, nearly in front of our feet. Red and yellow 
wildflowers swayed along the side of the hill. 

When we reached the top, we could see the camp. 

“It looks like a real camp!” I exclaimed. 

I could see rows of little white cabins stretching in front of a 
round blue lake. Several canoes were tied to a wooden dock that stuck 
out into the lake. 

A large stone building stood off to the side. Probably the mess 
hall or the meeting lodge. A round dirt area near the woods had 
benches around it. For campfires, I guessed. 

“Hey, Harry—they have a baseball diamond and a soccer field,” 
Alex said, pointing. 

“Excellent!” I cried. 

I saw a row of round red-and-white targets at the edge of the 
trees. “Wow! They have archery, too,” I told Alex. I love archery. I’m 
pretty good at it. 

I shifted the heavy duffel bag on my shoulder. We started down 
the hill to the camp. 

We both stopped halfway down the hill. And stared at each other. 

“Do you notice anything weird?” Alex asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. I do.” 

I noticed something very weird. Something that made my throat 
tighten and my stomach suddenly feel heavy with dread. 

The camp was empty. 

No one there. 


“Where is everyone?” I asked, moving my eyes from cabin to cabin. 
No one in sight. 

I squinted at the lake behind the cabins. Two small, dark birds 
glided low over the sparkling water. No one swimming there. 

I turned to the woods that surrounded the camp. The afternoon 
sun had begun to lower itself over the pine trees. No sign of any 
campers in the woods. 

“Maybe we’re in the wrong place,” Alex said softly. 

“Huh? Wrong place?” I pointed to the sign. “How can we be in 
the wrong place? It says Camp Spirit Moon—doesn’t it?” 

“Maybe they all went on a field trip or something,” Alex 
suggested. 

I rolled my eyes. “Don’t you know anything about camp?” I 
snapped. “You don’t go on field trips. There’s nowhere to go!” 

“You don’t have to shout!” Alex whined. 

“Then stop saying such stupid things!” I replied angrily. “We’re 
all alone in the woods in an empty camp. We’ve got to think clearly.” 

“Maybe they’re all in that big stone building over there,” Alex 
suggested. “Let’s go check it out.” 

I didn’t see any signs of life there. Nothing moved. The whole 
camp was as still as a photograph. 

“Yeah. Come on,” I told Alex. “We might as well check it out.” 

We were still about halfway down the hill, following the path 
through the tangles of pine trees—when a loud cry made us both stop 
and gasp in surprise. 

“Yo! Hey! Wait up!” 

A red-haired boy, in white tennis shorts and a white T-shirt, 
appeared beside us. I guessed he was sixteen or seventeen. 

“Hey—where did you come from?” I cried. He really startled me. 
One second Alex and I were alone. The next second this red-haired 
guy was standing there, grinning at us. 

He pointed to the woods. “I was gathering firewood,” he 
explained. “I lost track of the time.” 

“Are you a counselor?” I asked. 

He wiped sweat off his forehead with the front of his T-shirt. 
“Yes. My name is Chris. You’re Harry and you’re Alex—right?” 

Alex and I nodded. 

“Tm sorry I’m late,” Chris apologized. “You weren’t worried, were 


you?” 

“Of course not,” I replied quickly. 

“Harry was a little scared. But I wasn’t,” Alex said. Sometimes 
Alex can really be a pain. 

“Where is everyone?” I asked Chris. “We didn’t see any campers, 
or counselors, or anyone.” 

“They all left,” Chris replied. He shook his head sadly. When he 
turned back to Alex and me, I saw the frightened expression on his 
face. 

“The three of us—we’re all alone out here,” he said in a trembling 
voice. 


“Huh? They left?” Alex cried shrilly. “But—but—where did they go?” 

“We can’t be all alone!” I cried. “The woods—” 

A smile spread over Chris’ freckled face. Then he burst out 
laughing. “Sorry, guys. I can’t keep a straight face.” He put his arms 
around our shoulders and led us toward the camp. “I’m just joking.” 

“Excuse me? That was a joke?” I demanded. I was feeling very 
confused. 

“It’s a Camp Spirit Moon joke,” Chris explained, still grinning. 
“We play it on all the new campers. Everyone hides in the woods 
when the new campers arrive at camp. Then a counselor tells them 
that the campers all ran away. That they’re all alone.” 

“Ha-ha. Very funny joke,” I said sarcastically. 

“You always try to scare the new campers?” Alex asked. 

Chris nodded. “Yeah. It’s a Camp Spirit Moon tradition. We have 
a lot of great traditions here. You’ll see. Tonight at the campfire—” 

He stopped when a big black-haired man—also dressed in white 
—came lumbering across the grass toward us. “Yo!” the man called in 
a booming, deep voice. 

“This is Uncle Marv,” Chris whispered. “He runs the camp.” 

“Yo!” Uncle Marv repeated as he stepped up to us. “Harry, what’s 
up?” He slapped me a high five that nearly knocked me into the trees. 

Uncle Marv grinned down at Alex and me. He was so huge—he 
reminded me of a big grizzly bear at the zoo back home. 

He had long, greasy black hair that fell wildly over his face. Tiny, 
round blue eyes—like marbles—under bushy black eyebrows. 

His arms bulged out from under his T-shirt. Powerful arms like a 
wrestler’s. His neck was as wide as a tree trunk! 

He reached down and shook Alex’s hand. I heard a loud crunch 
and saw Alex gasp in pain. 

“Good firm handshake, son,” Uncle Marv told Alex. He turned to 
me. “Did Chris play our little ‘Alone in the Woods’ joke on you guys?” 
His voice boomed so loud, I wanted to cover my ears. 

Does Uncle Marv ever whisper? I wondered. 

“Yeah. He fooled us,” I confessed. “I really thought there was no 
one here.” 

Uncle Marv’s tiny blue eyes sparkled. “It’s one of our oldest 
traditions,” he said, grinning. What a grin! It looked to me as if he had 
at least six rows of teeth! 


“Before I take you to your cabin, I want to teach you the Camp 
Spirit Moon greeting,” Uncle Marv said. “Chris and I will show it to 
you.” 

They stood facing each other. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Uncle Marv bellowed. 

“Yohhhhhhbhh, Spirits!” Chris boomed back. 

Then they gave each other a left-handed salute, placing the hand 
on the nose, then swinging it straight out in the air. 

“That’s how Camp Spirit Moon campers greet each other,” Uncle 
Marv told us. He pushed Alex and me together. “You two try it.” 

I don’t know about you, but this kind of thing embarrasses me. I 
don’t like funny greetings and salutes. It makes me feel like a jerk. 

But I had just arrived at camp. And I didn’t want Uncle Marv to 
think I was a bad sport. So I stood in front of my brother. 
“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” I shouted. And I gave Alex a sharp nose salute. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” Alex showed a lot more enthusiasm than I 
did. He likes this kind of thing. He flashed me a sharp salute. 

Uncle Marv tossed back his head in a loud, bellowing laugh. 
“Very good, guys! I think you’re both going to be great Camp Spirit 
Moon campers.” 

He winked at Chris. “Of course, the campfire tonight is the real 
test.” 

Chris nodded, grinning. 

“The campfire tonight?” I asked. “A test?” 

Uncle Marv patted my shoulder. “Don’t worry about it, Harry.” 

Something about the way he said that made me worry a lot. 

“All new campers come to a Welcoming Camp-fire,” Chris 
explained. “It’s a chance to learn our Camp Spirit Moon traditions.” 

“Don’t tell them any more about it,” Uncle Marv told Chris 
sharply. “We want them to be surprised—don’t we?” 

“Surprised—?” I choked out. 

Why did I suddenly have such a bad feeling? Why did my throat 
tighten up again? Why did I have a fluttering feeling in my chest? 

“Do we sing camp songs at the Welcoming Campfire?” Alex 
asked. “I’m really into singing. I take voice lessons back home and—” 

“Don’t worry. You'll sing. Plenty,” Uncle Marv interrupted in a 
low, almost menacing voice. 

I caught the cold look in his tiny eyes—cold as blue ice. And I felt 
a shiver roll down my back. 

He’s trying to scare us, I thought. It’s all a joke. He’s having fun 
with us. He always tries to scare new campers. It’s a Camp Spirit 
Moon tradition. 


“I think you boys will enjoy the campfire tonight,” Uncle Marv 
boomed. “If you survive it!” 

He and Chris shared a laugh. 

“Catch you later,” Chris said. He gave Alex and me a nose salute 
and vanished into the woods. 

“This will be your bunk,” Uncle Marv announced. He pulled open 
the screen door of a tiny white cabin. “Whoa!” He nearly pulled the 
door off its hinges. 

Alex and I dragged our duffels and sleeping bags into the cabin. I 
saw bunk beds against three of the walls. Narrow wooden chests of 
drawers. Cubbyholes for storing things. 

The walls were white. A light dangling from the ceiling cast a 
bright glow. The afternoon sun sent orange rays through a small 
window above one of the bunk beds. 

Not bad, I thought. 

“That bunk is free,” Uncle Marv told us, pointing to the bed 
against the window. “You can decide who gets the top and who gets 
the bottom.” 

“I need the bottom,” Alex said quickly. “I toss and turn a lot at 
night.” 

“And he sings in his sleep,” I told Uncle Marv. “Do you believe it? 
Alex is so into singing, he doesn’t even stop when he’s sleeping!” 

“You will have to try out for the talent show,” Uncle Marv told 
Alex. And then he repeated in a low voice, “If you survive tonight.” 
He laughed. 

Why did he keep saying that? 

He’s kidding, I reminded myself. Uncle Marv is just kidding. 

“The boys’ cabins are on the left,” Uncle Marv told us. “And the 
girls’ cabins are on the right. We all use the lodge and mess hall. It’s 
that big stone building near the woods.” 

“Should we unpack now?” Alex asked. 

Uncle Marv pushed back his greasy black hair. “Yes. Use any 
cubbies that are empty. You’d better hurry, guys. The rest of the 
campers will be back from the woods soon with firewood. It will be 
time for our campfire.” 

He gave us a “Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” and a sharp nose salute. 

Then he turned and lumbered away. The screen door slammed 
hard behind him. 

“Fun guy,” I muttered. 

“He’s kind of scary,” Alex admitted. 

“He’s just joking,” I said. “All summer camps try to terrify the 
new campers. I think.” I dragged my duffel bag over to the bed. 

“But it’s all in fun. There’s nothing to be scared about, Alex,” I 


told my brother. “Nothing at all.” 

I tossed my sleeping bag into the corner. Then I started toward 
the low dresser to see if I could find an empty drawer. 

“Whoa—!” I cried out as my sneaker stuck on something. 

I peered down. 

A blue puddle. 

My sneaker had landed in a sticky blue puddle. 

“Hey—” I tugged my sneaker out. The blue liquid was thick. It 
stuck to the bottom and sides of my shoe. 

I glanced around the room. 

And saw more blue puddles. A sticky blue puddle in front of 
every bed. 

“What’s going on here? What is this stuff?” I cried. 


Alex had his bag open and was pulling stuff out and spreading it on 
the bottom bed. “What’s your problem, Harry?” he called without 
turning around. 

“Its some kind of blue slime,” I replied. “Check it out. There are 
puddles all over the floor.” 

“Big deal,” Alex muttered. He turned and glanced at the blue 
liquid stuck to my sneaker. “It’s probably a camp tradition,” he joked. 

I didn’t think it was funny. “Yuck!” I exclaimed. I reached down 
and poked my finger into the tiny, round puddle. 

So cold! 

The blue slime felt freezing cold. 

Startled, I pulled my hand away. The cold swept up my arm. I 
shook my hand hard. Then I rubbed it, trying to warm it. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

Of course, everything got a lot weirder. In a hurry. 


“Campfire time!” 

Uncle Marv’s cry through the screen door shook our cabin. 

Alex and I spun to face the door. It had taken us forever to 
unpack our stuff. To my surprise, the sun had lowered. The sky 
outside the door was evening gray. 

“Everyone is waiting,” Uncle Marv announced. A gleeful smile 
spread over his face. His tiny eyes practically disappeared in the smile. 
“We all love the Welcoming Campfire.” 

Alex and I followed him outside. I took a deep breath. The air 
smelled fresh and piney. 

“Wow!” Alex cried out. 

The campfire was already blazing. Orange and yellow flames 
leaped up to the gray sky. 

We followed Uncle Marv to the round clearing where the fire had 
been built. And saw the other campers and counselors for the first 
time. 

They sat around the fire, all facing us. Watching us. 

“They’re all dressed alike!” I exclaimed. 

“The camp uniform,” Uncle Marv said. “Pll get you and Alex your 
camp uniforms tonight after the campfire.” 

As Alex and I neared the circle, the campers and counselors rose 
to their feet. A deafening “YOHHHHHHHHHH, SPIRITS!” shook the 


trees. Then a hundred left-handed nose salutes greeted us. 

Alex and I returned the greeting. 

Chris, the red-haired counselor, appeared beside us. “Welcome, 
guys,” he said. “We’re going to roast hot dogs on the fire before the 
campfire activities begin. So grab a stick and a hot dog, and join in.” 

The other kids were lining up in front of a long food table. I saw a 
huge platter of raw hot dogs in the center of the table. 

As I hurried to get in line, several kids said hi to me. 

“You’re in my cabin,” a tall boy with curly blond hair said. “It’s 
the best cabin!” 

“Cabin number seven rules!” a girl shouted. 

“This is an awesome camp,” the kid in front of me turned to say. 
“You’re going to have a great time, Harry.” 

They seemed to be really nice kids. Up ahead, a boy and a girl 
were having a playful shoving match, trying to knock each other out 
of line. Other kids began cheering them on. 

The fire crackled behind me. The orange light from its flames 
danced over everyone’s white shorts and shirts. 

I felt a little weird, not being dressed in white. 

I was wearing an olive-green T-shirt and faded denim cutoffs. I 
wondered if Alex felt weird, too. 

I turned and searched for him in the line. He was behind me, 
talking excitedly to a short blond boy. I felt glad that Alex had found a 
friend so fast. 

Two counselors handed out the hot dogs. I suddenly realized I 
was starving. Mom had packed sandwiches for Alex and me to eat on 
the bus. But we were too excited and nervous to eat them. 

I took the hot dog and turned to the crackling fire. Several kids 
were already huddled around the fire, poking their hot dogs on long 
sticks into the flames. 

Where do I get a stick? I asked myself, glancing around. 

“The sticks are over there,” a girl’s voice called from behind me— 
as if she had read my mind. 

I turned and saw a girl about my age, dressed in white, of course. 
She was very pretty, with dark eyes and shiny black hair, pulled back 
in a ponytail that fell down her back. Her skin was so pale, her dark 
eyes appeared to glow. 

She smiled at me. “New kids never know where to find the 
sticks,” she said. She led the way to a pile of sticks leaning against a 
tall pine tree. She picked up two of them and handed one to me. 

“Your name is Harry, right?” she asked. She had a deep, husky 
voice for a girl. Like she was whispering all the time. 

“Yeah. Harry Altman,” I told her. 


I suddenly felt very shy. I don’t know why. I turned away from 
her and shoved the hot dog onto the end of the stick. 

“My name is Lucy,” she said, making her way to the circle of kids 
around the fire. 

I followed her. The kids’ faces were all flickering orange and 
yellow in the firelight. The aroma of roasting hot dogs made me feel 
even hungrier. 

Four girls were huddled together, laughing about something. I 
saw a boy eating his roasted hot dog right off the stick. 

“Gross,” Lucy said, making a disgusted face. “Let’s go over here.” 

She led me to the other side of the campfire. Something popped 
in the fire. It sounded like a firecracker exploding. We both jumped. 
Lucy laughed. 

We sat down on the grass, raised the long sticks, and poked our 
hot dogs into the flames. The fire was roaring now. I could feel its 
heat on my face. 

“I like mine really black,” Lucy said. She turned her stick and 
pushed it deeper into the flames. “I just love that burnt taste. How 
about you?” 

I opened my mouth to answer her—but my hot dog fell off the 
stick. “Oh no!” I cried. I watched it fall into the sizzling, red-hot 
blanket of flames. 

I turned to Lucy. And to my surprise—to my horror—she leaned 
forward. 

Stuck her hand deep into the fire. 

Grabbed my hot dog from the burning embers and lifted it out. 


I jumped to my feet. “Your hand!” I shrieked. 

Yellow flames leaped over her hand and up her arm. 

She handed me the hot dog. “Here,” she said calmly. 

“But your hand!” I cried again, gaping in horror. 

The flames slowly burned low on her skin. She glanced down at 
her hand. Confused. As if she didn’t know why I was in such a panic. 

“Oh! Hey—!” she finally cried. Her dark eyes grew wide. “Ow! 
That was hot!” she exclaimed. 

She shook her hand hard. Shook it until the flames went out. 

Then she laughed. “At least I rescued your poor hot dog. Hope 
you like yours burned!” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. I stared at her hand and arm. The 
flames had spread all over her skin. But I couldn’t see any burns. Not a 
mark. 

“The buns are over there,” she said. “You want some potato 
chips?” 

I kept staring at her hand. “Should we find the nurse?” I asked. 

She rubbed her arm and wrist. “No. I’m fine. Really.” She wiggled 
her fingers. “See?” 

“But the fire—” 

“Come on, Harry.” She pulled me back to the food table. “It’s 
almost time for the campfire activities to start.” 

I ran into Alex at the food table. He was still hanging out with the 
short blond boy. 

“I made a friend already,” Alex told me. He had a mouthful of 
potato chips. “His name is Elvis. Do you believe it? Elvis McGraw. 
He’s in our cabin.” 

“Cool,” I muttered. I was still thinking about the flames rolling up 
and down Lucy’s arm. 

“This is a great camp,” Alex declared. “Elvis and I are going to try 
out for the talent show and the musical.” 

“Cool,” I repeated. 

I grabbed a hot dog bun and tossed some potato chips on my 
plate. Then I searched for Lucy. I saw her talking to a group of girls by 
the fire. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” a deep voice bellowed. No way anyone 
could mistake that cry. It had to be Uncle Marv. 

“Places around the council fire, everyone!” he ordered. “Hurry— 


places, everyone!” 

Holding plates and cans of soda, everyone scurried to form a 
circle around the fire. The girls all sat together and the boys all sat 
together. I guessed each cabin had its own place. 

Uncle Marv led Alex and me to a spot in the middle. 

“Yohhhhhhhh, Spirits!” he cried again, so loud the fire trembled! 

Everyone repeated the cry and gave the salute. 

“We'll begin by singing our camp song,” Uncle Marv announced. 

Everyone stood up. Uncle Marv started singing, and everyone 
joined in. 

I tried to sing along. But of course I didn’t know the words. Or the 
tune. 

The song kept repeating the line, “We have the spirit—and the 
spirit has us.” 

I didn’t really understand it. But I thought it was pretty cool. 

It was a long song. It had a lot of verses. And it always came back 
to: “We have the spirit—and the spirit has us.” 

Alex was singing at the top of his lungs. What a show-off! He 
didn’t know the words, either. But he was faking it. And singing as 
loud as he could. 

Alex is so crazy about his beautiful singing voice and his perfect 
pitch. He has to show it off whenever he can. 

I gazed past my brother. His new friend, Elvis, had his head 
tossed back and his mouth wide open. He was singing at the top of his 
lungs, too. 

I think Alex and Elvis were having some kind of contest. Seeing 
who could sing the leaves off the trees! 

The only problem? Elvis was a terrible singer! 

He had a high, whiny voice. And his notes were all coming out 
sour. 

As my dad would say, “He couldn’t carry a tune in a 
wheelbarrow!” 

I wanted to cover my ears. But I was trying to sing along, too. 

It wasn’t easy with the two of them beside me. Alex sang so loud, 
I could see the veins in his neck pulsing. Elvis tried to drown him out 
with his sour, off-key wails. 

My face felt hot. 

At first, I thought it was the heat from the blazing campfire. But 
then I realized I was blushing. 

I felt so embarrassed by Alex. Showing off like that on his first 
night at camp. 

Uncle Marv wasn’t watching. He had wandered over to the girls’ 


side of the fire, singing as he walked. 

I slipped back, away from the fire. 

I felt too embarrassed to stay there. Pll sneak back into place as 
soon as the song is over, I decided. 

I just couldn’t sit there and watch my brother act like a total jerk. 

The camp song continued. “We have the spirit—and the spirit has 
us,” everyone sang. 

Doesn’t the song ever end? I wondered. I backed away, into the 
trees. It felt a lot cooler as soon as I moved away from the fire. 

Even back here, I could hear Alex singing his heart out. 

I’ve got to talk to him, I told myself. I’ve got to tell him it isn’t 
cool to show off like that. 

“Ohh!” I let out a sharp cry as I felt a tap on my shoulder. 

Someone grabbed me from behind. 

“Hey—!” I spun around to face the trees. Squinted into the 
darkness. 

“Lucy! What are you doing back here?” I gasped. 

“Help me, Harry,” she pleaded in a whisper. “You’ve got to help 


2) 


me. 


A chill ran down my back. “Lucy—what’s wrong?” I whispered. 

She opened her mouth to reply. But Uncle Marv’s booming voice 
interrupted. 

“Hey, you two!” the camp director shouted. “Harry! Lucy! No 
sneaking off into the woods!” 

The campers all burst out laughing. I could feel my face turning 
hot again. I’m one of those kids who blushes very easily. I hate it—but 
what can I do? 

Everyone stared at Lucy and me as we made our way back to the 
fire. Alex and Elvis were slapping high fives and laughing at us. 

Uncle Marv kept his eyes on me as I trudged back. “I’m glad you 
make friends so easily, Harry,” he boomed. And all the campers 
started laughing at Lucy and me again. 

I felt so embarrassed, I wanted to shrivel up and disappear. 

But I was also worried about Lucy. 

Had she followed me to the woods? Why? 

Why did she ask me to help her? 

I sat down between Lucy and Elvis. “Lucy—what’s wrong?” I 
whispered. 

She just shook her head. She didn’t look at me. 

“Now I’m going to tell the two ghost stories,” Uncle Marv 
announced. 

To my surprise, some kids gasped. Everyone suddenly became 
silent. 

The crackling of the fire seemed to get louder. Behind the pop 
and crack of the darting flames, I heard the steady whisper of wind 
through the pine trees. 

I felt a chill on the back of my neck. 

Just a cool breeze, I told myself. 

Why did everyone suddenly look so solemn? So frightened? 

“The two ghost stories of Camp Spirit Moon have been told from 
generation to generation,” Uncle Marv began. “They are tales that will 
be told for all time, for as long as dark legends are told.” 

Across the fire, I saw a couple of kids shiver. 

Everyone stared into the fire. Their faces were set. Grim. 
Frightened. 

It’s only a ghost story, I told myself. Why is everyone acting so 
weird? 


The campers must have heard these ghost stories already this 
summer. So why do they look so terrified? 

I snickered. 

How can anyone be afraid of a silly camp ghost story? 

I turned to Lucy. “What’s up with these kids?” I asked. 

She narrowed her dark eyes at me. “Aren’t you afraid of ghosts?” 
she whispered. 

“Ghosts?” I snickered again. “Alex and I don’t believe in ghosts,” I 
told her. “And ghost stories never scare us. Never!” 

She leaned close to me. And whispered in my ear: “You might 
change your mind—after tonight.” 


The flames flickered, crackling up to the dark, starry sky. Uncle Marv 
leaned into the orange firelight. His tiny, round eyes sparkled. 

The woods suddenly became quiet. Even the wind stopped 
whispering. 

The air felt cold on my back. I scooted closer to the campfire. I 
saw others move closer, too. No one talked. All eyes were on Uncle 
Marv’s smiling face. 

Then, in a low voice, he told the first ghost story.... 


A group of campers went into the woods for an overnight. They 
carried tents and sleeping bags. They walked single file along a 
narrow dirt path that twisted through the trees. 

Their counselor’s name was John. He led them deeper and deeper 
into the woods. 

Dark clouds floated overhead. When the clouds covered the full 
moon, the darkness swept over the campers. They walked close 
together, trying to see the curving path. 

Sometimes the clouds moved away, and the moonlight poured 
down on them. The trees glowed, silvery and cold, like ghosts 
standing in the forest. 

They sang songs at first. But as they moved deeper into the 
woods, their voices became tiny and shrill, muffled by the trees. 

They stopped singing and listened to the scrape of their footsteps 
and the soft rustlings of night animals scampering through the weeds. 

“When are we going to stop and set up camp?” a girl asked John. 

“We have to go deeper into the woods,” John replied. 

They kept walking. The air became colder. The trees bent and 
shivered around them in a swirling breeze. 

“Can we set up camp now, John?” a boy asked. 

“No. Deeper,” John replied. “Deeper into the forest.” 

The path ended. The campers had to make their way through the 
trees, around thorny bushes, over a deep carpet of crackling dead 
leaves. 

Owls hooted overhead. The campers heard the flutter of bat 
wings. Creatures scratched and slithered around their feet. 

“We're really tired, John,” a boy complained. “Can we stop and 
set up the tents?” 

“Deeper into the woods,” John insisted. “An overnight is no fun 


unless you are deep, deep in the woods.” 

So they kept walking. Listening to the low hoots and moans of the 
night animals. Watching the old trees bend and sway all around them. 

Finally they stepped out into a smooth, wide clearing. 

“Can we set up camp now, John?” the campers begged. 

“Yes,” John agreed. “We are deep in the woods now. This is the 
perfect place.” 

The campers dropped all the bags and supplies in the middle of 
the clearing. Silvery moonlight spilled all around them, making the 
smooth ground shimmer. 

They pulled out the tents and started to unfold them. 

But a strange sound made them all stop their work. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“What was that?” a camper cried. 

John shook his head. “Probably just the wind.” 

They went back to the tents. They pushed tent poles into the soft, 
smooth ground. They started to unfold the tents. 

But the strange sound made them stop again. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

A chill of fear swept over the campers. 

“What is that sound?” they asked. 

“Maybe it’s some kind of animal,” John replied. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“But it sounds so close!” a boy cried. 

“It’s coming from right above us,” another boy said. “Or maybe 
beneath us!” 

“It’s just a noise,” John told them. “Don’t worry about it.” 

So they set up the tents. And they spread sleeping bags inside the 
tents. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

They tried to ignore the sound. But it was so close. So close. 

And such a strange—but familiar—sound. 

What could it be? the campers wondered. What on earth makes a 
sound like that? 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

The campers couldn’t sleep. The noise was too loud, too 
frightening—too near. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

They burrowed deep into their sleeping bags. They zipped 
themselves in tight. They covered their ears. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

It didn’t help. They couldn’t escape the sound. 


“John, we can’t sleep,” they complained. 

“T can’t sleep, either,” John replied. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

“What should we do?” the campers asked the counselor. 

John didn’t get a chance to answer. 

They heard another Ka-thump ka-thump. 

And then a deep voice growled: “WHY ARE YOU STANDING ON 
MY HEART?” 

The ground shook. 

The campers suddenly realized what the frightening sound was. 
And as the ground rose up, they realized—too late—they had camped 
on the smooth skin of a hideous monster. 

“I guess we went too deep into the woods!” John cried. 

His last words. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. 

The monster’s heartbeat. 

And then its huge, hairy head lifted up. Its mouth pulled open. 
And it swallowed John and the campers without even chewing. 

And as they slid down the monster’s throat, the sound of the 
heartbeat grew louder and louder. 

Ka-thump ka-thump. Ka-thump ka-thump. Ka-THUMP! 


Uncle Marv shouted the last Ka-thump at the top of his lungs. 

Some campers screamed. Some gazed at Uncle Marv in silence, 
their faces tight with fear. Beside me, Lucy hugged herself, biting her 
bottom lip. 

Uncle Marv smiled, his face flickering in the dancing orange 
flames. 

Laughing, I turned to Elvis. “That’s a funny story!” I exclaimed. 

Elvis narrowed his eyes at me. “Huh? Funny?” 

“Yeah. It’s a very funny story,” I repeated. 

Elvis stared hard at me. “But it’s true!” he said softly. 


I laughed. “Yeah. For sure,” I said, rolling my eyes. 

I expected Elvis to laugh. But he didn’t. The firelight flickered in 
his pale blue eyes as he stared at me. Then he turned to talk to my 
brother. 

A chill ran down my back. Why was he acting so weird? 

Did he really think Pd believe a crazy story like that was true? 

I’m twelve years old. I stopped believing in things like the Easter 
Bunny and the Tooth Fairy a long time ago. 

I turned to Lucy. She was still hugging herself, staring intently 
into the fire. 

“Do you believe him?” I asked, motioning to Elvis. “Is he weird or 
what?” 

Lucy stared straight ahead. She seemed so deep in thought, I don’t 
think she heard me. 

Finally she raised her head. She blinked. “What?” 

“My brother’s new friend,” I said, pointing to Elvis again. “He 
said that Uncle Marv’s story was true.” 

Lucy nodded, but didn’t reply. 

“I thought it was a funny story,” I said. 

She picked up a twig and tossed it on the fire. I waited for her to 
say something. But she seemed lost in thought again. 

The flames of the campfire had died down. Sparkling red embers 
and chunks of burning wood spread over the ground. Chris and 
another counselor carried fresh logs into the meeting circle. 

I watched them rebuild the fire. They piled armfuls of twigs and 
sticks onto the burning embers. When the sticks burst into flames, the 
two counselors lowered logs over them. 

Then they stepped back, and Uncle Marv took his place in front of 
the fire. He stood with his hands in the pockets of his white shorts. 
The full moon floated behind his head, making his long black hair 
shine. 

He smiled. “And now I will tell the second traditional story of 
Camp Spirit Moon,” he announced. 

Once again, the circle of campers grew silent. I leaned back, 
trying to get my brother’s attention. But Alex was staring across the 
fire at Uncle Marv. 

Alex probably thought the first ghost story was kind of dumb, I 
knew. He hates ghost stories even more than I do. He thinks they’re 


silly baby stuff. And so do I. 

So what was Elvis’ problem? 

Was he goofing? Just teasing me? Or was he trying to scare me? 

Uncle Marv’s booming voice interrupted my thoughts. “This is a 
story we tell every year at Camp Spirit Moon,” he said. “It’s the story 
of the Ghost Camp.” 

He lowered his deep voice nearly to a whisper, so that we all had 
to lean closer to hear him. And in hushed tones, he told us the story of 
the Ghost Camp. 


The story takes place at a camp very much like Camp Spirit Moon. On 
a warm summer night, the campers and counselors met around a 
blazing council fire. 

They roasted hot dogs and toasted marshmallows. They sang the 
camp songs. One of the counselors played a guitar, and he led them in 
singing song after song. 

When they were tired of singing, the counselors took turns telling 
ghost stories. And telling the legends of the camp, legends that had 
been passed on from camper to camper for nearly a hundred years. 

The evening grew late. The campfire had died low. The moon 
floated high in the sky, a pale full moon. 

The camp director stepped forward to end the council meeting. 

Suddenly, darkness swept over the circle of campers. 

They all looked up—and saw that the moon had been covered by 
a heavy blanket of black clouds. 

And swirls of fog came drifting over the camp. A cold, wet fog. 
Cloudy gray at first. Then darkening. 

And thickening. 

Until the fog swept over the camp, billowing like black smoke. 

Tumbling and swirling, the cold wet fog rolled over the dying 
campfire. Rolled over the campers and counselors. Over the cabins 
and the lake and the trees. 

A choking fog, so thick and dark the campers couldn’t see each 
other. Couldn’t see the fire. Or the ground. Or the moon in the sky. 

The fog lingered for a short while, swirling and tossing, low over 
the ground. Wet, so wet and silent. 

It moved on just as silently. 

Like smoke blown away. 

The moonlight shone through. The grass sparkled as if a heavy 
dew had settled. 

The fire was out. Dark purple embers sizzled over the ground. 

The fog swirled away. Swept over the trees. And vanished. 


And the campers sat around the dead campfire. Their eyes blank. 
Their arms limp at their sides. 

Not moving. Not moving. Not moving. 

Because they were no longer alive. 

The fog had left a ghost camp in its wake. 

The campers, the counselors, the camp director—they were all 
ghosts now. 

All spirits. All ghosts. Every last one of them. 

They climbed to their feet. And returned to their bunks. 

They knew the ghost camp was their home now—forever! 


With a smile, Uncle Marv stepped back from the fire. 

I glanced around the circle. The faces were so solemn. No one 
smiled or laughed. 

It’s a pretty good story, I thought. Kind of scary. 

But it doesn’t have much of an ending. 

I turned to see what Alex thought. 

And gasped when I saw the terrified expression on his face. “Alex 
—what?” I cried, my voice cutting through the silence of the circle. 
“What’s wrong?” 

He didn’t reply. His eyes were raised to the sky. He pointed up. 

I gazed up too—and let out a cry of horror. 

As a black, swirling fog came sweeping over the camp. 


My mouth dropped open as I watched the fog roll closer. It darkened 
the ground as it moved steadily toward us. 

Darkened the trees. Darkened the sky. 

This is crazy, I told myself. 

This is impossible! 

I scooted next to Alex. “It’s just a coincidence,” I told him. 

He didn’t seem to hear me. He jumped to his feet. His whole body 
trembled. 

I stood up beside him. “It’s only fog,” I said, trying to sound calm. 
“It gets foggy out here in the woods all the time.” 

“Really?” Alex asked in a tiny voice. 

The black smoky fog swirled over us. 

“Of course,” I replied. “Hey—we don’t believe in ghosts, 
remember? We don’t think ghost stories are scary.” 

“But—but—” Alex stuttered. “Why is everyone staring at us?” he 
finally choked out. 

I turned and squinted through the thick fog. 

Alex was right. All around the circle, the other campers had their 
eyes on Alex and me. Their faces appeared to dim behind the curtain 
of dark mist. 

“I—II don’t know why they’re watching us,” I whispered to my 
brother. 

Fog billowed around us. I shivered. It felt cold against my skin. 

“Harry—I don’t like this,” Alex whispered. 

The fog was so thick now, I could barely see him, even though he 
stood close beside me. 

“I know we don’t believe in ghosts,” Alex said. “But I don’t like 
this. It—it’s too creepy.” 

From the other side of the circle, Uncle Marv’s voice broke the 
silence. “It’s a beautiful fog tonight,” he said. “Let’s all stand up and 
sing the Camp Spirit Moon song.” 

Alex and I were already standing. The other campers and 
counselors obediently climbed to their feet. 

Their pale faces shimmered in and out of the fog. 

I rubbed my arms. Cold and wet. I dried my face with the front of 
my T-shirt. 

The fog grew even heavier and darker as Uncle Marv began to 
sing. Everyone joined in. Beside me, Alex began to sing, quieter this 


time. 

Our voices were muffled by the heavy mist. Even Uncle Marv’s 
booming voice sounded smaller and far away. 

I tried to sing too. But I didn’t know the words. And my own 
voice came out choked and small. 

As I stared into the swirling fog, the voices faded. Everyone sang, 
but the sound sank into the fog. 

The voices vanished. All of them. All except for Alex’s. 

He seemed to be the only one still singing, his voice pure and soft 
beside me in the dark mist. 

And then Alex stopped singing, too. 

The fog swept on. The darkness lifted. 

Silvery moonlight washed down on us once again. 

Alex and I gazed around in surprise. 

No one else remained. 

Alex and I were all alone. All alone in front of the dying fire. 


10 


I blinked. And blinked again. 

I don’t know what I expected. Did I think they would all appear 
again? 

Alex and I gazed across the circle in stunned silence. 

They had vanished with the fog. The campers. The counselors. 
Uncle Marv. 

A chill ran down my back. My skin still felt damp and cold from 
the heavy mist. 

“Wh-where—?” Alex choked out. 

I swallowed hard. 

A burned log crumbled into the purple embers. The soft thud 
startled me. 

I jumped. 

And then I started to laugh. 

Alex squinted at me, studying me. “Harry—?” 

“Don’t you see?” I told him. “It’s a joke.” 

He squinted at me harder. “Huh?” 

“It’s a camp joke,” I explained. “It’s a joke they probably always 
play on new campers here.” 

Alex twisted up his whole face. He was thinking about it. But I 
don’t think he believed me. 

“They all ran off into the woods,” I told him. “They hid behind 
the fog and ran away. They were all in on the joke. Ill bet they do it 
to every new kid.” 

“But—the fog—” Alex choked out. 

“PIL bet the fog was a fake!” I exclaimed. “They probably have 
some kind of smoke machine. To help them with the joke.” 

Alex rubbed his chin. I could still see the fear in his eyes. 

“They probably do this all the time,” I assured him. “Uncle Marv 
tells the story. Then somebody turns on the smoke machine. The black 
smoke rolls over the campfire circle. And everyone runs and hides.” 

Alex turned and stared into the woods. “I don’t see anyone hiding 
back there,” he said softly. “I don’t see anyone watching us.” 

“PIL bet they’re all back at the cabins,” I told him. “Pll bet they’re 
waiting for us. Waiting to see the looks on our faces.” 

“Waiting to laugh at us for falling for their dumb joke,” Alex 
added. 

“Let’s go!” I cried. I slapped him on the shoulder. Then I started 


running across the wet grass toward the row of cabins. 

Alex ran close behind. The moon sent a silvery path across the 
grass in front of us. 

Sure enough—as we came near the cabins, the campers all came 
running out. They were laughing and hooting. Slapping each other 
high fives. 

Enjoying their joke. A joke they play on new campers when the 
fog rolls in, they told us. 

I saw Lucy laughing along with a bunch of girls. 

Elvis grabbed Alex and wrestled him playfully to the ground. 

Everyone teased us and told us how scared we looked. 

“We weren’t scared even for a second,” I lied. “Alex and I figured 
it out before the fog cleared.” 

That made everyone start laughing and cheering all over again. 

“Qwoooooooh!” 

Some of the kids cupped their hands around their mouths and 
made ghost howls. 

“Qwoooooooh!” 

That led to more laughing and joking. 

I didn’t mind the teasing. Not a bit. 

I felt so relieved. My heart was still pounding like crazy. And my 
knees felt kind of weak. 

But I felt so happy that it was all a joke. 

Every summer camp has its jokes, I told myself. And this is a 
pretty good one. 

But it didn’t fool me. Not for long, anyway. 

“Lights Out in five minutes,” Uncle Marv’s booming command 
stopped the fun. “Lights Out, campers!” 

The kids all turned and scurried to their bunks. 

I stared down the row of cabins, suddenly confused. Which one 
was ours? 

“This way, Harry,” Alex said. He tugged me toward the third 
cabin down the path. Alex has a better memory than I do for things 
like that. 

Elvis and two other guys were already in the cabin when Alex and 
I came in. They were getting changed for bed. The other guys 
introduced themselves. Sam and Joey. 

I made my way to the bunk bed and started to undress. 

“Owoooooooh!” A ghostly howl made me jump. 

I spun around and saw Joey grinning at me. 

Everyone laughed. Me, too. 

I like camp jokes, I thought. They’re mean. But they’re kind of 


fun. 

I felt something soft and gooey under my bare foot. Yuck! I 
glanced down. 

And saw that I had stepped in a fresh puddle of blue slime. 

The cabin lights went out. But before they did, I saw blue puddles 
—fresh blue puddles—all over the floor. 

The cold blue stuff stuck to the bottom of my foot. I stumbled 
through the dark cabin and found a towel to wipe it off. 

What are these blue puddles? I asked myself as I climbed up to 
my top bunk. 

I glimpsed Joey and Sam in the bunk against the wall. 

I gasped. 

They stared back at me, their eyes shining like flashlights! 

What is going on here? I wondered. 

What are the sticky blue puddles all over the floor? 

And why do Sam and Joey’s eyes glow like that in the dark? 

I turned my face to the wall. I tried not to think about anything. 

I had almost drifted to sleep—when I felt a cold, slimy hand 
sliding down my arm. 


11 


“Huh?” 

I shot straight up. Still feeling the cold, wet touch on my skin. 

I stared at my brother. “Alex—you scared me to death!” I 
whispered. “What do you want?” 

He stood on his mattress, his dark eyes staring at me. “I can’t 
sleep,” he moaned. 

“Keep trying,” I told him sharply. “Why are your hands so cold?” 

“I don’t know,” he replied. “It’s cold in here, I guess.” 

“You'll get used to it,” I said. “You always have trouble sleeping 
in new places.” 

I yawned. I waited for him to drop back onto the bottom bunk. 
But he didn’t move. 

“Harry, you don’t believe in ghosts—do you?” he whispered. 

“Of course not,” I told him. “Don’t let a couple of silly stories 
creep you out.” 

“Yeah. Right,” he agreed. “Good night.” 

I said good night. He disappeared back to his bed. I heard him 
tossing around down there. He had a very squeaky mattress. 

Poor guy, I thought. That dumb Ghost Camp joke with the fog 
really messed him up. 

He'll be fine in the morning, I decided. 

I turned and gazed across the dark cabin toward Joey and Sam’s 
bunk. Were their eyes still glowing so strangely? 

No. 

Darkness there. 

I started to turn away—then stopped. 

And stared hard. 

“Oh no!” I murmured out loud. 

In the dim light, I could see Joey. Stretched out. Asleep. 

Floating two feet above his mattress! 


12 


I scrambled to climb out of bed. My legs tangled in the blanket, and I 
nearly fell on my head! 

“Hey—what’s up?” I heard Alex whisper below me. 

I ignored him. I swung myself around, and leaped to the floor. 

“Ow!” I landed hard, twisting my ankle. 

Pain shot up my leg. But I ignored it and hobbled to the door. I 
remembered the light switch was somewhere over there. 

I had to turn on the light. 

I had to see for sure that I was right. That Joey slept floating in 
the air above his bed. 

“Harry—what’s wrong?” Alex called after me. 

“What’s up? What time is it?” I heard Elvis groan sleepily from 
the bunk against the other wall. 

I pulled myself across the cabin. My hand fumbled against the 
wall until I found the light switch. 

I pushed it up. 

The overhead light flashed on, flooding the tiny cabin in white 
light. 

I raised my eyes to Joey’s bunk. 

He lifted his head from the pillow and squinted down at me. 
“Harry—what’s your problem?” he asked. He was sprawled on his 
stomach, on top of his blanket. 

Not floating in the air. Not floating. 

Resting his head in his hands, yawning and staring down at me. 

“Turn off the light!” Sam barked. “If Uncle Marv catches us with 
the light on...” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Turn it off!” Elvis and Sam both insisted. 

I clicked off the light. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “I thought I saw something.” 

I felt like a jerk. Why did I think I saw Joey floating in the air? 

I must be as creeped out as Alex, I decided. Now I’m seeing things! 

I scolded myself and told myself to calm down. 

You're just nervous because it’s your first day in a new camp, I 
decided. 

I started slowly across the cabin to my bed. Halfway there, I 
stepped in a cold, sticky puddle of goo. 


The next morning, Alex and I found our white Camp Spirit Moon 
uniforms—white shorts and T-shirts—waiting for us at the foot of our 
beds. 

Now we won’t stand out like sore thumbs, I thought happily. 

Now we can really be part of Camp Spirit Moon. 

I quickly forgot about my fears from the night before. I couldn’t 
wait for the camp day to get started. 

That afternoon, Alex tried out for the Camp Spirit Moon talent 
show. 

I had to be at the soccer field. A bunch of us were supposed to 
practice putting up tents. We were getting ready for an overnight in 
the woods. 

But I stopped in front of the outdoor stage at the side of the lodge 
to listen to Alex sing. 

A counselor named Veronica, with long, copper-colored hair all 
the way down her back, was in charge of the tryouts. I leaned against 
a tree and watched. 

A lot of kids were trying out. I saw two guitar players, a boy with 
a harmonica, a tap dancer, and two baton twirlers. 

Veronica played a small upright piano at the front of the stage. 
She called Alex up and asked him what song he wanted to sing. 

He picked a Beatles song he likes. My brother doesn’t listen to any 
new groups. He likes the Beatles and the Beach Boys—all the groups 
from the sixties. 

He’s the only eleven-year-old I know who listens to the oldies 
station. I feel kind of sorry for him. It’s like he was born in the wrong 
time or something. 

Veronica played a few notes on the piano, and Alex started to 
sing. 

What a voice! 

The other kids had all been laughing and talking and messing 
around. But after Alex sang for a few seconds, they got real quiet. 
They huddled close to the stage and listened. 

He really sounded like a pro! I mean, he could probably sing with 
a band and make a CD. 

Even Veronica was amazed. I could see her lips form the word 
“Wow!” as she played the piano for Alex. 

When Alex finished singing, the kids all clapped and cheered. 
Elvis slapped Alex a high five as he hopped off the small stage. 

Veronica called Elvis up next. He told her he wanted to sing an 
Elvis song, since he was named after Elvis Presley. 

He cleared his throat and started to sing a song called 
“Heartbreak Hotel.” 


Well... it really was a heartbreak—because Elvis couldn’t sing a 
single note on key! 

Veronica tried to play along with him. But I could see that she 
was having trouble. I think she probably wanted to stop playing the 
piano and cover her ears! 

Elvis had a high, scratchy voice. And the notes came out really 
sour. Sour enough to make your whole face pucker up. 

The kids around the stage started grumbling and walking away. 

Elvis had his eyes shut. He was so wrapped up in his song, he 
didn’t even see them! 

Doesn’t he know how bad he is? I wondered. Why does he want 
to enter a talent show when he sounds like a squealing dog? 

Elvis started to repeat the chorus. I decided I had to get away 
from there before my eardrums popped. 

I flashed Alex a thumbs-up and hurried to the soccer field. 

Sam, Joey, and a bunch of other kids were already unfolding 
tents, getting ready for tent-raising practice. Chris, the counselor, was 
in charge. 

He waved to me. “Harry—unroll that tent over there,” he 
instructed. “Let’s see how fast you can put it up.” 

I picked up the tent. It was bundled tightly, no bigger than a 
backpack. I turned it over in my hands. I’d never set up a tent before. I 
wasn’t even sure how to unwrap it. 

Chris saw me puzzling over it and walked over. “It’s easy,” he 
said. 

He pulled two straps, and the nylon tent started to unfold. “See? 
Here are the poles. Just stretch it out and prop it up.” 

He handed the bundle back to me. 

“Yeah. Easy,” I repeated. 

“What’s that noise?” Joey asked, looking up from his tent. 

I listened hard. “It’s Elvis singing,” I told them. 

The sour notes floated over the soccer field from the stage. 

Sam shook his head. “It sounds like an animal caught in a trap,” 
he said. 

We all laughed. 

Joey and Sam took off their sneakers and went barefoot. I took 
mine off, too. The warm grass felt good under my feet. 

I unfolded the tent and spread it out on the grass. I piled the tent 
poles to the side. 

The sun felt hot on the back of my neck. I slapped a mosquito on 
my arm. 

I heard a shout and glanced up to see Sam and Joey wrestling 


around. They weren’t fighting. They were just goofing. 

They both picked up tent poles and started dueling with them, 
having a wild sword fight. They were laughing and having fun. 

But then Sam tripped over a tent. 

He lost his balance. Stumbled forward. Fell hard. 

I let out a scream as the tent pole went right through his foot. 


13 


My stomach lurched. I felt sick. 

The pointed pole had pierced the top of Sam’s foot, nailing his 
foot to the ground. 

Joey gaped, openmouthed, his eyes wide with surprise. 

With a gasp, I searched for Chris. I knew Sam needed help. 

Where had Chris wandered off to? 

“Sam—” I choked out. “PI get help. ’—” 

But Sam didn’t cry out. He didn’t react at all. Didn’t even 
grimace. 

He calmly reached down with both hands—and pulled the pole 
from his foot. 

I let out a groan. My foot ached! In sympathy, I guess. 

Sam tossed the pole aside. 

I stared down at his foot. No cut. No blood. 

It wasn’t bleeding! 

“Sam!” I cried. “Your foot. It’s not bleeding!” 

He turned and shrugged. “It missed my toes,” he explained. 

He dropped onto his knees and started propping up the tent. 

I swallowed hard, waiting for my stomach to stop churning. 

Missed his toes? I thought. Missed his toes? 

I saw the pole sink right into his foot! 

Or was I seeing things again? 


For the rest of the afternoon, I tried not to think about it. I worked on 
the tent. Once I got it spread out, it was easy to set up. 

Chris had us fold and unfold them a few times. Then we had a 
race to see who could set up a tent the fastest. 

I won easily. 

Sam said it was beginner’s luck. 

Chris said I was definitely ready for the overnight. 

“Where do we go for the overnight?” I asked. 

“Deep, deep into the woods,” Chris replied. He winked at Sam 
and Joey. 

I felt a chill, thinking about Uncle Marv’s ghost story. 

I shook the chill away. No way I was going to let myself get 
scared by a silly camp story. 

We had instructional swim at the waterfront. The lake was clear 
and cold. I’m up to Junior Lifesaver. Joey and I took turns rescuing 


each other. 

I didn’t think about Sam driving the pole through his foot. I 
forced it from my mind. 

After the swim, I returned to the bunk to get changed for dinner. 
There were fresh puddles of blue goo on the cabin floor. 

Nobody made a big deal about them. I didn’t want to, either. So I 
tried hard not to think about them. 

Alex came in, very excited. “I’m going to be the first act in the 
talent show!” he announced. “And Veronica liked my singing so much, 
she wants me to star in the camp musical.” 

“Way to go!” I cried. I slapped him a high five. Then I asked, 
“What about Elvis?” 

“He’s going to be in the show, too,” Alex replied. “He’s going to 
be stage manager.” 

I pulled on my white Camp Spirit Moon shorts and T-shirt and 
headed to the mess hall for dinner. 

I saw a group of girls come out of the cabins on the other side. I 
searched for Lucy, but didn’t see her. 

I was feeling pretty good. 

Not thinking about the strange things Pd seen. 

Not thinking about the blue puddles of slime. The mysterious 
black fog. 

Not thinking about the ghost story that Elvis said was true. 

Not thinking about Lucy sticking her hand into the fire and 
pulling out my flaming hot dog. 

Not thinking about Joey floating above his bed. Or Sam jamming 
a thick pole through his foot. 

And not bleeding. Not crying out. 

So totally calm about it. As if he couldn’t feel it, couldn’t feel any 
pain. 

I was starving. Looking forward to dinner. Not thinking about any 
of these puzzling things. 

Feeling really good. 

But then Joey ruined my good mood at dinner. And forced all the 
scary thoughts back into my mind. 

The food had just been served. Chicken in some kind of creamy 
sauce, spinach, and lumpy mashed potatoes. 

I didn’t care what it was. I was so hungry, I could eat anything! 

But before I had a chance to eat, Joey called out to me from 
across the table. “Hey, Harry—look!” 

I glanced up from my plate. 

He picked up his fork—and jammed it deep into his neck! 


14 


“Ohhh.” I let out a groan. My fork fell from my hand and clattered to 
the floor. 

Joey grinned at me. The fork bobbed up and down, stuck in his 
neck. 

I felt sick. My heart started to pound. 

He pulled the fork out with a hard tug. His grin didn’t fade. “You 
try it!” he called. 

“Joey—stop it!” Elvis cried from across the table. 

“Yeah. Give us a break,” Sam agreed. 

I stared at Joey’s neck. No cut. No fork marks. No blood. 

“How—how did you do that?” I finally stammered. 

Joey’s grin grew wider. “It’s just a trick,” he replied. 

I glimpsed Alex at the end of the table. Had he seen Joey’s 
“trick”? 

Yes. Alex looked green. His mouth had dropped open in horror. 

“Here. I'll show you how to do it,” Joey offered. 

He raised the fork again—but stopped when he saw Uncle Marv 
leaning over his shoulder. 

“What’s going on, Joey?” Uncle Marv demanded sharply. 

Joey lowered the fork to the table. “Just kidding around,” he 
replied, avoiding the camp director’s hard stare. 

“Well, let’s eat our dinner, guys,” Uncle Marv said sternly. 
“Without kidding around.” His stubby fingers tightened over Joey’s 
shoulders. “We have a night soccer game, you know. Boys against the 
girls.” 

Uncle Marv loosened his grip on Joey’s shoulders and moved on 
to the next table. A food fight had broken out there. And the mashed 
potatoes were flying. 

Joey mumbled something under his breath. I couldn’t hear him 
over all the noise. 

I turned to see how Alex was doing at the end of the table. He 
had his fork in his hand, but he wasn’t eating. He was staring hard at 
Joey. My brother had a very thoughtful expression on his face. 

I knew he was wondering exactly the same thing I was. 

What is going on here? 

Joey said the fork-stabbing was just a trick. But how did he do it? 
Why didn’t it hurt? Why didn’t he bleed? 

“Night soccer games are cool!” Elvis declared. He was stuffing 


chicken into his mouth. The cream sauce ran down his chin. 

“Especially boys against the girls,” Sam agreed. “We’ll kill them! 
They’re pitiful.” 

I glanced at the girls’ table across the room. They were chattering 
noisily. Probably about the soccer game. 

I saw Lucy in the shadows near the wall. She didn’t seem to be 
talking to anyone. She had a solemn expression on her face. 

Did she keep looking over at me? 

I couldn’t really tell. 

I ate my dinner. But my appetite had disappeared. 

“How did you do that fork thing?” I asked Joey. 

“I told you. It’s just a trick,” he replied. He turned away from me 
to talk to Sam. 

Dessert was little squares of red, yellow, and green Jell-O. It was 
okay. But it needed some whipped cream. 

As I was finishing my dessert, I heard some squeals from the front 
of the big room. I turned toward the cries—and saw a bat swooping 
wildly back and forth over the mess hall. 

Some of the younger kids were screaming. But everyone stayed 
calm at my table. 

The bat fluttered noisily, swooping and diving, darting from one 
end of the hall to the other. 

Uncle Marv followed it with a broom. And after only a minute or 
two, he gently pinned the bat to the wall with the straw broom head. 

Then he lifted the bat off the wall, carrying it in one hand. 

It was so tiny! No bigger than a mouse. 

He carried it out the door and let it go. 

Everyone cheered. 

“That happens all the time,” Sam said to me. “It’s because there 
aren’t any screens on the mess hall doors.” 

“And the woods are full of bats,” Joey added. “Killer bats that 
land in your hair and suck the blood out of your head.” 

Sam laughed. “Yeah. Right.” He grinned at me. “That’s what 
happened to Joey. That’s why he acts so weird now.” 

I laughed along with everyone else. 

But I wondered if Sam was really joking. 

I mean, Joey did act weird. 

“Soccer field, everyone!” Uncle Marv boomed from the mess hall 
door. “Check with the sports counselors. Alissa and Mark will set up 
the teams.” 

Chairs scraped over the stone floor as everyone jumped up. 

I saw Lucy waving to me. But Sam and Joey pulled me away. 


Into a cool, cloudy night. The full moon hidden behind low 
clouds. The grass already wet with a heavy dew. 

The counselors divided up the teams. Alex and I were on the 
second team. That meant we didn’t play the first period. Our job was 
to stand on the sidelines and cheer on the boys’ first team. 

Two floodlights on tall poles sent down wide triangles of white 
light over the field. It wasn’t really enough light. Long shadows spread 
over the field. 

But that was part of the fun. 

Alex stood close beside me as the game began. The girls’ team 
scored a goal in less than a minute. 

Girls on the sidelines went wild. 

The players on the boys’ team stood around, scratching their 
heads and muttering unhappily. 

“Lucky break! Lucky break!” yelled Mark, a tall, lanky boys’ 
counselor. “Go get them, guys!” 

The game started up again. 

The light from the floodlights appeared to dim. I raised my eyes 
to the sky—and saw fog rolling in. 

Another swirling fog. 

Mark jogged past us, looking like a big stork. “Going to be 
another foggy night,” he said to Alex and me. “Night games are more 
fun in the fog.” He shouted instructions to the boys’ team. 

The thick fog swept over us quickly, driven by a gusting wind. 

Alex huddled close to me. I turned and caught his worried 
expression. 

“Did you see what Joey did at dinner?” he asked softly. 

I nodded. “He said it was a trick.” 

Alex thought about that for a moment. “Harry,” he said, keeping 
his eyes on the game. “Don’t you think some of these kids are a little 
weird?” 

“Yeah. A little,” I replied. I thought about the tent pole going 
through Sam’s foot. 

“Something happened at the waterfront,” Alex continued. “I can’t 
stop thinking about it.” 

I watched the game, squinting into the drifting fog. It was getting 
hard to see the players. 

Cheers rang out from the girls’ side. I guessed they had scored 
another goal. Layers of heavy fog blocked my view. 

I shivered. “What happened?” I asked my brother. 

“I had free swim. After tryouts for the show,” he said. “There was 
my group and a couple of girls’ groups. Younger girls, mostly.” 


“The lake is nice,” I commented. “It’s so clear and clean. And not 
too cold.” 

“Yeah. It’s good,” Alex agreed. He frowned. “But something 
strange happened. I mean—I think it was strange.” 

He took a deep breath. I could see he was really upset. 

“Let’s go, guys! Go, go, go!” Mark shouted to the team. 

The glow from the floodlights twisted and bent in the fog, sending 
strange shadows over the playing field. The fog was so thick now, I 
had trouble telling the players from the shadows. 

“T was floating on top of the water,” Alex continued, wrapping his 
arms around his chest. “Sort of taking it easy. Moving slowly. Stroke... 
stroke... very slow. 

“It was free swim. So we could do what we wanted. Some of the 
guys were having a back-floating race near the shore. But I floated out 
by myself. 

“The water was so clear. I put my face in the water, and I stared 
down to the bottom. And—and I saw something down there.” 

He swallowed hard. 

“What was it? What did you see?” I asked. 

“A girl,” Alex replied with a shudder. “One of the girls from the 
younger group. I don’t know her name. She has short, curly black 
hair.” 

“She was under the water?” I demanded. “You mean, swimming 
underwater?” 

“No.” Alex shook his head. “She wasn’t swimming. She wasn’t 
moving. She was way underwater. I mean, near the bottom of the 
lake.” 

“She dove down?” I asked. 

Alex shrugged. “I got so scared!” he cried over the shouts of the 
two teams. “She wasn’t moving. I didn’t think she was breathing. Her 
arms floated up and down. And her eyes—her eyes stared out blankly 
into the water.” 

“She drowned?” I cried. 

“That’s what I thought,” Alex said. “I panicked. I mean, I didn’t 
know what to do. I couldn’t think. I didn’t think. I just dove down.” 

“You dove down to the bottom to get her?” I asked. 

“Yeah. I didn’t really know if I was too late. Or if I should get a 
counselor. Or what,” Alex said, shuddering again. 

“I swam down. I grabbed her arms. Then I gripped her under the 
shoulders. I pulled her up. She floated up easily. Like she was 
weightless or something. 

“I pulled her up to the surface. Then I started to drag her to the 
shore. I was gasping for breath. Mostly from panic, I think. My chest 


felt about to burst. I was so scared. 

“And then I heard laughing. She laughed at me. I was still holding 
her under the shoulders. She turned—and spit water in my face!” 

“Oh, wow!” I gasped. “Wow, Alex. You mean she was okay?” 

“Yeah,” Alex replied, shaking his head. “She was perfectly okay. 
She was laughing at me. She thought it was really funny. 

“I just stared at her. I couldn’t believe it. I mean, she had been 
way down at the bottom. For a long, long time. 

“I let go of her. She floated away from me, still laughing. 

“I said, ‘How did you do that?’ That’s what I asked her. I asked, 
‘How long can you hold your breath?’ 

“And that made her laugh even harder. ‘How long?’ I asked. 

“And she said, ‘A long, long time.’ 

“And then she swam back to the other girls.” 

“And what did you do?” I asked Alex. 

“I had to get out of the water,” he replied. “I was shaking all over. 
I couldn’t stop shaking. I—I thought...” His voice trailed off. 

“At least she was okay,” he murmured after a while. “But don’t 
you think that was weird, Harry? And then at dinner, when Joey stuck 
that fork in his neck—” 

“It’s weird, Alex,” I said softly. “But it may just be jokes.” 

“Jokes?” he asked. His dark eyes stared hard into mine. 

“Kids always play jokes on new campers,” I told him. “It’s a camp 
tradition. You know. Terrify the new kids. It’s probably just jokes. 
That’s all.” 

He chewed his bottom lip, thinking about it. Even though he was 
standing so close to me, the swirling black fog made him appear far 
away. 

I turned back to the game. The boys were moving across the grass 
toward the goal. Passing the ball, kicking it from player to player. 
They looked unreal, moving in and out of the swirling shadows. 

Jokes, I thought. 

All jokes. 

I squinted into the fog. And saw something that couldn’t be a joke. 

A boy kicked the ball to the net. The girls’ goalie moved to block 
the shot. 

She wasn’t fast enough. Or she stumbled. 

The ball hit her smack in the forehead. 

It made a sickening thud. 

The ball bounced onto the ground. 

And her head bounced beside it. 


15 


I gasped. And started to run. 

Through the thick wisps of black fog. 

The swirling, dark mist seemed to float up from the ground and 
sweep down from the trees. It felt cold and wet on my face as I 
hurtled toward the girl. 

Squinting into the heavy darkness, I could see her sprawled on 
her stomach on the ground. 

And her head... 

Her head... 

I bent down and grabbed it. I don’t know what I was thinking. 

Did I plan to plop it back on her shoulders? 

In a total panic, trembling with horror, I bent into the swirling 
mist—and picked up the head with both hands. 

It felt surprisingly hard. Inhumanly hard. 

I raised it. Raised it close to my face. 

And saw that I held a soccer ball. 

Not a head. Not a girl’s head. 

I heard a groan. And gazed down to see the girl climb to her 
knees. She muttered something under her breath and shook her head. 

Her head. The head on her shoulders. 

She stood and frowned at me. 

I stared at her face, her head. My whole body was still shaking. 

“Your head—” I choked out. 

She tossed back her straight blond hair. Brushed dirt off her white 
shorts. Then she reached for the ball. 

“Harry—yourre not on the first team!” I heard a boy call. 

“Get off the field!” another boy demanded. 

I turned and saw that the players had all gathered around. 

“But I saw her head fall off!” I blurted out. 

I instantly regretted it. I knew I shouldn’t have said it. 

Everyone laughed. They tossed back their heads and laughed at 
me. Someone slapped me on the back. 

Their grinning, laughing faces floated all around me. For a 
moment, it looked to me as if all their heads had come off. I was 
surrounded by laughing heads, bobbing in the eerie, shadowy light 
from the floodlights. 

The girl raised her hands to the sides of her head and tugged up. 
“See, Harry?” she cried. “See? It’s still glued on!” 


“Someone better check Harry’s head!” a boy cried. 

Everyone laughed some more. 

A kid came up, grabbed my head, and tugged it. 

“Ow!” I screamed. 

More wild laughter. 

I tossed the goalie the soccer ball. Then I slunk off the field. 

What is wrong with me? I wondered. Why am I so messed up? 

Why do I keep seeing things? 

Am I just nervous because I’m in a new camp? Or am I totally 
losing it? 

I trudged to the sidelines and kept walking. I didn’t know where I 
was going. I just knew I wanted to get away from the laughing kids, 
away from the soccer game. 

The heavy fog had settled over the field. I glanced back. I could 
hear the players’ shouts and cheers. But I could barely see them. 

I turned and started toward the row of cabins. The dew on the tall 
grass tickled my legs as I walked. 

I was halfway to the cabins when I realized I was being followed. 


16 


I spun around. 

A face floated out of the darkness. 

“Alex!” I cried. In all the excitement over the soccer ball and the 
goalie’s head, I had forgotten all about him. 

He stepped close to me, so close I could see beads of sweat on his 
upper lip. “I saw it, too,” Alex whispered. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I didn’t understand. “You saw what?” 

“The girl’s head,” Alex said sharply. He turned back to the soccer 
field. To see if anyone had followed him, I guess. 

Then he turned back to me and tugged my T-shirt sleeve. “I saw 
her head fall off, too. I saw it bounce on the ground.” 

I swallowed hard. “You did? Really?” 

He nodded. “I thought I was going to puke. It—it was so gross.” 

“But—it didn’t fall off!” I cried. “Didn’t you see? When I ran onto 
the field? I picked up the ball. Not her head.” 

“But I saw it, Harry,” Alex insisted. “At first I thought it was just 
the fog. You know. My eyes playing tricks on me because of the heavy 
fog. But—” 

“It had to be the fog,” I replied quietly. “That girl—she was 
perfectly okay.” 

“But if we both saw it...” Alex started. He stopped and sighed. 
“This camp—it’s so weird.” 

“That’s for sure,” I agreed. 

Alex shoved his hands into the pockets of his shorts. He shook his 
head unhappily. “Elvis says the ghost stories are true,” he said. 

I put my hands on Alex’s shoulders. I could feel him trembling. 
We don’t believe in ghosts—remember?” I told him. “Remember?” 

He nodded slowly. 

The first howl made us both jump. 

I turned to the woods. Another eerie howl rose up from the same 
spot. 

Not an animal howl. Not an animal cry at all. 

A long, mournful howl. A human howl. 

“Owwo00000000000000.” 

Another deeper cry made me gasp. 

Alex grabbed my arm. His hand felt cold as ice. 

“What is that?” he choked out. 

I opened my mouth to reply—but another mournful howl 


interrupted. 

“Oww000000000000. ” 

I heard two creatures howling. Maybe three. 

Maybe more. 

The eerie wails floated up from behind the trees. Until it sounded 
as if the whole woods were howling. 

Inhuman howls. Ghostly howls. 

“We’re surrounded, Harry,” Alex whispered, still gripping my 
arm. “Whatever it is, it’s got us surrounded.” 


17 


“Owwo0000000. ” 

The frightening wails rose up from the trees. 

“Run!” I whispered to Alex. “To the main lodge. Maybe we can 
find Uncle Marv. Maybe—” 

Heading into the fog, we started running toward the lodge. 

But the howls followed us. And grew louder. 

I heard the heavy thud of footsteps behind us, tromping over the 
grass. 

We can’t escape, I realized. 

Alex and I both turned at the same time. 

And saw Elvis, Sam, and Joey—grinning as they ran after us. 

Sam cupped his hands around his mouth and let out a long, 
ghostly howl. Laughing, Elvis and Joey tossed back their heads and 
howled too. 

“You jerks!” I screamed, swinging a fist at them. 

I could feel the blood rushing to my face. 

I felt ready to explode. I wanted to punch those three clowns. And 
kick them. And pound their grinning faces. 

“Gotcha!” Elvis cried. “Gotcha!” He turned to Sam and Joey. 
“Look at them! They’re shaking! Oh, wow! They’re shaking!” 

Sam and Joey laughed gleefully. “Did you think there were 
wolves in the woods?” Sam asked. 

“Or ghosts? Did you think we were ghosts?” Joey demanded. 

“Shut up,” I replied. 

Alex didn’t say a word. He lowered his eyes to the ground. I could 
see that he was as embarrassed as I was. 

“Owwoo00000!” Elvis uttered another high-pitched howl. He threw 
his arms around my brother’s waist and wrestled him to the ground. 

“Get off. Get off!” Alex cried angrily. 

The two of them wrestled around in the wet grass. 

“Did I scare you?” Elvis demanded breathlessly. “Admit it, Alex. 
You thought it was a ghost, right? Right?” 

Alex refused to reply. He let out a groan and heaved Elvis off him. 
They wrestled some more. 

Sam and Joey stepped up beside me, grinning. Very pleased with 
themselves. 

“You guys aren’t funny,” I grumbled. “That was so babyish. 
Really.” 


Joey slapped Sam a high five. “Babyish?” he cried. “If it was so 
babyish, why did you fall for it?” 

I opened my mouth to reply—but only a choking sound came out. 

Why did I fall for it? I asked myself. 

Why did I let myself get scared by three guys standing behind 
trees and making howling sounds? 

Normally, I would have laughed at such a dumb joke. 

As the five of us walked to the cabin, I thought hard about it. The 
campers and counselors had all been trying to scare Alex and me since 
we arrived, I realized. Even Uncle Marv had tried to scare us with his 
creepy stories. 

They must have a tradition of trying to scare new campers at 
Camp Spirit Moon, I decided. 

And it works. It really has scared Alex and me. It has made us 
tense. Jumpy. Ready to leap out of our skins at the slightest noise. 

We stepped into the cabin. I clicked the light on. 

Elvis, Sam, and Joey were still laughing, still enjoying their joke. 

Alex and I have got to get it together, I decided. 

We’ve got to shove all the stupid stuff about ghosts out of our 
heads. 

We don’t believe in ghosts, I told myself. 

We don’t believe in ghosts. We don’t believe in ghosts. 

I repeated that sentence over and over. Like a chant. 

Alex and I don’t believe in ghosts. We’ve never believed in ghosts. 

Never. Never. 

One night later... after a short hike through the woods—I did 
believe in ghosts! 


18 


Alex and I took a lot of teasing the next day. 

Coming out of the mess hall after breakfast, someone tossed a 
soccer ball at me and screamed, “My head! Give me back my head!” 

We had instructional swim in the morning. Joey and Sam and 
some of the other guys started howling like ghosts. Everyone thought 
it was a riot. 

I saw Lucy hanging out on the shore with some girls from her 
cabin. The other girls were laughing at the ghostly howls. Lucy was 
the only one who didn’t laugh. 

In fact, she had a solemn expression on her face. A thoughtful 
expression. 

Several times, I caught her staring at me. 

She’s probably thinking about what a total baby I am, I told 
myself unhappily. Pll bet she feels sorry for me. Because I acted like 
such a jerk in front of everyone on the soccer field last night. 

After instructional swim, I dried myself off. 

Then I wrapped the towel around myself and walked over to Lucy 
at the little boat dock. 

The other girls had wandered away. Lucy stood in her white 
shorts and T-shirt. She had one foot on a plastic canoe, making it bob 
up and down in the shallow water. 

“Hi,” I said. I suddenly realized I didn’t know what to say. 

“Hi,” she replied. 

She didn’t smile. Her dark eyes locked on mine. 

To my surprise, she turned quickly—and ran off. 

“Hey—!” I called. I started to run after her. But stopped when my 
legs got tangled in my towel. “Hey—what’s your problem?” 

She vanished behind the Arts and Crafts cabin. She never looked 
back. 

I know what her problem is, I told myself sadly. She doesn’t want 
to be seen talking to a total nutcase. To someone who thinks that a 
girl’s head can roll off. And who thinks there are howling ghosts 
lurking in the woods. 

I wrapped the towel around me. Sam and Joey and some other 
guys were staring at me from the shore. I could see by the grins on 
their faces that they had seen Lucy run away from me. 

“Maybe it’s your breath!” Joey teased. 

They all fell on the ground, howling. 


After lunch, we had letter-writing time. The counselors made sure we 
all stayed in our bunks and wrote letters home to our parents. 

It was a camp rule that we had to write home once a week. “So 
your parents won’t worry about you,” Uncle Marv announced at 
lunch. “We want them to know that you’re having the best summer of 
your lives—right?” 

“Yohhhhhhhhhh, Spirits!” everyone cheered. 

I wasn’t exactly having the best summer of my life. 

In fact, so far, this was one of the worst. 

But I decided not to write that in my letter home. 

I climbed up to my top bunk and started to think about my letter 
to Mom and Dad. 

Please come and get me, I thought I might write. 

Everyone is weird here. Alex and I are both scared out of our wits. 

No. No way. I couldn’t write that. 

I leaned over the side of the mattress and peered down at my 
brother. He was sitting on his bunk, crouched over his letter. I could 
see him scribbling away. 

“What are you writing?” I called down. 

“Tm telling them about the Camp Spirit Moon talent show,” he 
replied. “How I’m going to be the star. And how I’m going to be in the 
musical next week.” 

“Nice,” I muttered. 

I decided I’d tell my parents only good things, too. Why worry 
them? Why make them think that I’m losing it? 

If Alex isn’t writing about all the weird things, I won’t either, I 
decided. 

I leaned over my sheet of paper and started my letter: 

Dear Mom and Dad, 

Camp Spirit Moon is a lot more exciting than I ever dreamed.... 


“Tonight’s after-dinner activity is a night hike,” Uncle Marv 
announced. 

A cheer shook the wooden rafters of the huge mess hall. 

“Where are we going to hike?” someone called out. 

Uncle Marv grinned. “Deep, deep into the woods.” 

Of course, that answer reminded everyone of Uncle Marv’s ghost 
story. Some kids cheered. Others laughed. 

Alex and I exchanged glances. 


But the hike turned out to be fun. A full moon made the woods 
glow. We followed a path that curved around the lake. 

Everyone seemed in a good mood. We sang the camp song so 
many times, I almost learned the words! 

About halfway around the lake, two deer stepped out onto the 
path. A mother and her doe. 

The little one was so cute. It looked just like Bambi. 

The two deer stared at us. They turned up their noses, as if to say, 
“What are you doing in our woods?” 

Then they calmly loped into the trees. 

The path headed through a small, round clearing. As we stepped 
out of the trees, the ground appeared to light up. The moonlight 
poured down so brightly, I felt as if I could see every bush, every 
weed, every blade of grass. 

It was really awesome. 

I started to relax. Sam, Joey, and I walked along singing, making 
up funny words to songs we knew. We sang “On Top of Spaghetti” 
about twenty times—until kids begged us to stop singing it! 

Why have I been so crazy? I asked myself. 

I’ve made some cool new friends here at Camp Spirit Moon. I’m 
having an excellent time. 

I felt great until we returned to camp. 

The black fog had started to roll in. It greeted us, wrapping its 
cold, wet mists around us, darkening the sky, the ground, the whole 
camp. 

“Lights Out in ten minutes,” Uncle Marv announced. 

Kids scampered to their cabins. 

But two strong arms held me from behind. Held me back. 

“Hey—!” I cried out. I felt myself being pulled into the trees. 

“Ssshhhhh,” someone whispered in my ear. 

I spun around to find Lucy holding onto me. “What are you 
doing?” I whispered. “We have to go to our bunks. We have to get 
ready for—” 

“Ssshhhhhh,” she hissed again in my ear. 

Her dark eyes searched my face. Were those tears staining her 
pale cheeks? 

Clouds of fog rolled around us. 

She loosened her grip on my arms. But her eyes stayed on mine. 
“Harry, you’ve got to help me,” she whispered. 

I swallowed hard. “Lucy, what’s wrong?” 

“I think you know,” she said softly. “It’s all true. What you think. 
It’s true.” 


I didn’t understand. I stared back at her with my mouth open. 

“Were ghosts, Harry,” Lucy told me. “We're all ghosts at this 
camp.” 

“But, Lucy—” I started. 

“Yes.” She nodded sadly. “Yes. Yes. Yes. I’m a ghost too.” 


19 


The trees disappeared behind the fog. The moonlight made Lucy’s eyes 
sparkle like dark jewels. But the light faded from her eyes as the fog 
covered the moon. 

I didn’t blink. I didn’t move. I suddenly felt as wooden as the trees 
hiding behind the swirling fog. 

“You—you’re joking, right?” I stammered. “This is one of those 
great Camp Spirit Moon jokes?” 

But I knew the answer. 

I could read the answer in her dark eyes. In her trembling mouth. 
In her pale, pale skin. 

“Pm a ghost,” she repeated sadly. “The stories—they’re true, 
Harry.” 

But I don’t believe in ghosts! 

That’s what I almost blurted out. 

But how could I not believe in ghosts when one stood right in 
front of me, staring into my face? 

How could I not believe in Lucy? 

“I believe you,” I whispered. 

She sighed. She turned her face away. 

“How did it happen?” I asked. 

“Just as Uncle Marv told in the story,” she replied. “We were 
sitting around the campfire. All of us. Just like the other night. The 
fog rolled in. Such a dark, heavy fog.” 

She sighed again. Even in the darkness, I could see the tears 
glistening in her eyes. 

“When the fog finally floated away,” Lucy continued, “we were 
all dead. All ghosts. We’ve been out here ever since. I can’t explain 
any more. I don’t know any more.” 

“But—when did it happen?” I demanded. “How long... how long 
have you been a ghost, Lucy?” 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. I’ve lost track of time. There is no 
time when you're a ghost. There’s just one day and then the next. And 
then the next. Forever, I guess.” 

I stared at her without speaking. 

Chill after chill swept down my back. My whole body was 
shaking. I didn’t even try to stop it. 

I reached out and grabbed her hand. 

I guess I wanted to see if she was real or not. One last test to see 


bi 


if she was pulling a joke. 

“Oh!” I dropped her hand as its icy cold shot through me. So cold. 
Her hand—as cold as the black fog. 

“You believe me now?” she asked softly. Once again her dark eyes 
studied my face. 

I nodded. “I—I believe you,” I stammered. “I believe you, Lucy.” 

She didn’t reply. 

I could still feel the cold of her hand on my fingers. 

“The blue puddles,” I murmured. “The sticky blue puddles on the 
cabin floor. Do you know what they are?” 

“Yes,” she replied. “Those puddles are drops of protoplasm.” 

“Huh? Protoplasm?” 

She nodded. “The puddles are made when we materialize. When 
we make ourselves visible.” 

She twisted her face into a sorrowful frown. “It takes so much 
strength to make ourselves visible. So much energy. The protoplasm 
puddles are made when we use that energy.” 

I didn’t really understand. 

But I knew when I stepped in them that the slimy blue puddles 
were something strange. Something inhuman. 

Traces of ghosts. 

“And the things Alex and I saw?” I demanded. “Kids floating 
above their bunks? Their eyes glowing like spotlights? Kids stabbing 
themselves and not bleeding? Not crying out in pain?” 

“Some of the kids tried to scare you,” Lucy confessed. “They only 
wanted a little fun, Harry. It isn’t fun being a ghost. Believe me. It 
isn’t fun spending day after day after day out here, knowing you aren’t 
real anymore. Knowing you will never grow. Knowing you will never 
change.” She uttered a loud sob from deep in her chest. “Knowing you 
will never have a life!” 

“J—I’m so sorry,” I stammered. 

Her expression changed. 

Her eyes narrowed. Her mouth twisted into an unpleasant sneer. 

I took a step back, suddenly afraid. 

“Help me, Harry,” Lucy whispered. “I can’t stand it anymore. 
You’ve got to help me get away from here.” 

“Get away?” I cried, taking another step back. “How?” 

“You’ve got to let me possess your mind,” Lucy insisted. “You’ve 
got to let me take over your body!” 


20 


“No!” I gasped. 

Panic shot through my body. I felt every muscle tense. The blood 
throbbed at my temples. 

“I need to take over your mind, Harry,” Lucy repeated, stepping 
toward me. “Please. Please help me.” 

“No!” I uttered again. 

I wanted to turn and run. But I couldn’t move. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My whole body shook. 

I don’t believe in ghosts. 

That thought flashed into my mind. 

But it wasn’t true anymore. 

I stood at the edge of the woods—staring at Lucy. Staring at 
Lucy’s ghost. 

The fog swept around us. 

Again, I tried to run. But my legs wouldn’t cooperate. 

“Wh-what do you want to do to me?” I finally choked out. “Why 
do you have to take over my mind?” 

“It’s my only way to escape,” Lucy replied. Her eyes locked on 
mine. “My only way.” 

“Why don’t you just run away?” I demanded. 

She sighed. “If I try to leave the camp by myself, I’ll disappear. If 
I try to leave the others, I’ll fade away. I’ll join the mist, be part of the 
fog.” 

“I—II don’t understand,” I stammered. 

I took a step back. The fog seemed to tighten around me, cold and 
wet. 

Lucy stood two feet in front of me. But I could barely see her. She 
seemed to shimmer in and out with the fog. 

“T need help.” Her voice floated softly. I had to struggle to hear 
her. “The only way a ghost can escape is to take over the mind of a 
living person.” 

“But—that’s impossible!” I screeched. 

What a dumb thing to say, I scolded myself. Seeing a ghost is 
impossible! Everything happening to me is impossible. 

But it’s happening. 

“T need to possess the mind and body of a living boy or girl,” Lucy 
explained. “I need to take over your body, Harry. I need you to take 
me away from here.” 


“No!” I screamed again. “I can’t! I mean...” My heart thudded so 
hard, I could barely speak. 

“I can’t let you take over my mind,” I finally managed to say. “If 
you do that, I won’t be me anymore.” 

I started to back away. 

I have to get to the cabin, I decided. I have to get Alex. We have 
to run away from this camp. As fast as we can. 

“Don’t be scared,” Lucy pleaded. She followed me. The fog circled 
us, as if holding us inside. 

“Don’t be scared,” Lucy said. “As soon as we are far away from 
here, Ill get out. Pll leave your mind. Pll leave your body. I promise, 
Harry. As soon as we escape this camp, I'll go away. You will be 
yourself again. You will be perfectly okay.” 

I stopped backing up. My whole body trembled. The fog washed 
its cold mist over me. 

“Please, Harry,” Lucy begged. “Please. I promise you’ll be okay. I 
promise.” 

I squinted at her through the rising mists. 

Should I do it? 

Should I let Lucy take over my mind? 

Will she give it back? 

Can I believe her? 


21 


Lucy floated in front of me. Her dark eyes pleaded with me. “Please,” 
she whispered. 

“No. I’m sorry. I can’t.” The words escaped my lips almost before 
I thought them. “I can’t, Lucy.” 

She shut her eyes. I could see the muscles in her jaw tighten as 
she gritted her teeth. 

“I’m sorry,” I repeated, backing up. 

“I’m sorry too,” she said coldly. Her eyes narrowed. Her lips 
formed a sneer. “I’m really sorry, Harry. But you don’t have a choice. 
You have to help me!” 

“No! No way!” 

I turned and tried to run. 

But something held me back. The fog. It tightened around me. 

The thick, wet mist. A choking mist. It drew around me, pushing 
me, holding me in place. 

I tried to scream for help. But the fog muffled my cry. 

Lucy vanished behind the black fog. 

And then I felt something cold on the top of my head. 

My hair tingled. 

I reached up with both hands. And felt ice. As if a frost had 
settled over my hair. 

“No!” I screamed. “Lucy—no!” 

The cold sank down. My scalp itched. My face froze. 

I rubbed my cheeks. 

Numb. 

Cold and numb. 

“Lucy—please!” I begged. 

I could feel her—so light, so cold—settling into my body. Sinking 
into my brain. 

I could feel her. And I could feel myself slipping away. 

Slipping... slipping... 

As if drifting into a deep sleep. 

The cold spreading over me. Sweeping down my neck. Down my 
chest. 

“Nooooo!” I uttered a long howl of protest. 

I shut my eyes tight. I knew I had to concentrate. I had to think 
hard. I had to keep awake. I couldn’t let myself fade away. 

I couldn’t let her take over. 


I couldn’t let her shove my mind aside. And take control. Take 
control of my body. 

I set my jaw hard. And kept my eyes shut. And tightened every 
muscle. 

No! I thought. No—you can’t do this to me, Lucy! 

You can’t take my mind! 

You can’t take over. You can’t—because I won’t let you! 

The cold settled over me. My skin tingled. I felt numb all over. 

And so sleepy... so sleepy... 


22 


“Nooooo!” I tossed back my head in another long howl. 

If I can keep screaming, I can keep awake, I told myself. 

And I can fight Lucy off. I can force her away. 

“Noooooooo!” I wailed into the spinning, whirling fog. 

“Noooooooo!” 

And I felt the cold start to lift. 

“Noooooo!” 

I squeezed my arms. Rubbed my cheeks. And knew the feeling 
was returning. 

“Noooooo!” 

I suddenly felt lighter. And totally alert. 

I did it! I realized. I fought her off! 

But how long did I have before she tried to take over again? 

I took a deep breath. Then another. 

I’m breathing, I told myself. I’m me—and I’m breathing. 

I felt stronger now. I lowered my head and darted into the fog. 

My sneakers pounded the ground. I made my way to the cabin. 

The lights were out. The other guys were in their bunks. 

I burst inside and let the screen door slam behind me. 

“What’s up?” Sam demanded. 

I didn’t answer him. I ran across the room. Grabbed my brother. 
Shook him hard. “Come on. Hurry,” I ordered. 

“Huh?” Alex squinted up at me sleepily. 

I didn’t say another word. I tossed him his shorts and his 
sneakers. 

I heard the other guys stirring. Joey sat up in his bed. “Harry— 
where were you?” he asked. 

“Lights Out was ten minutes ago,” Sam said. “You’re going to get 
us all in trouble.” 

I ignored them. “Alex—hurry!” I whispered. 

As soon as he had his sneakers tied, I grabbed his arm and tugged 
him to the door. “Harry—what’s wrong?” he asked. 

“Where are you two going?” I heard Joey call. 

I pulled Alex outside. The screen door slammed behind us. 

“Run!” I cried. “Pll explain later. We have to get out of here— 
now!” 

“But, Harry—” 


I pulled Alex over the grass. The fog had parted enough to let a 
trail of moonlight slip through. We followed the trail to the woods. 

Our sneakers slipped and slid over the wet grass. The only other 
sound was the chirp of crickets and the rush of wind rattling the pine 
trees. 

After a minute or two, Alex wanted to stop to catch his breath. 

“No,” I insisted. “Keep moving. They’ll follow us. They’ll find us.” 

“Where are we going?” Alex demanded. 

“Deep into the woods,” I told him. “As far away from that camp 
as we can.” 

“But I can’t keep running, Harry,” Alex cried. “My side hurts and 


RT 


“They’re all ghosts!” I blurted out. “Alex—I know you won’t 
believe me—but you’ve got to try. The kids. The counselors. Uncle 
Marv. They’re all ghosts!” 

Alex’s expression grew solemn. “I know,” he replied in a tiny 
voice. 

“Huh? How do you know?” I demanded. 

We squeezed between two tangled tree trunks. Over the chirp of 
crickets, I could hear the lake washing over the shore just beyond 
some tall shrubs. 

We’re still too close to the camp, I told myself. 

I pulled my brother in the other direction. Away from the lake. 
Pushing aside tall weeds and shrubs, we made our own path, deeper 
into the woods. 

“Alex—how do you know?” I repeated. 

“Elvis told me,” he replied, wiping sweat off his forehead with his 
arm. 

We ducked under a tall thorn bush. Thorns scraped the top of my 
head. I ignored the pain and kept moving. 

“Elvis said the ghost story about the fog was true,” Alex 
continued. “I thought he was just trying to scare me. But then he—he 
—” Alex’s voice trailed off. 

We ran into a small clearing. Moonlight made the grass glow like 
silver. My eyes flashed in one direction, then the other. I couldn’t 
decide which way to run. 

I swatted a mosquito off my arm. “What did Elvis do?” I asked 
Alex. 

Alex raked back his dark hair. “He tried to take over my mind,” 
he told me in a trembling voice. “He floated into the fog. And then I 
started to feel really cold.” 

Twigs snapped. Dry leaves crackled. 

Footsteps? 


I shoved Alex back into the trees. Out of the clearing. 

We pressed against a wide tree trunk and listened. 

Silence now. 

“Maybe it was a squirrel, or a chipmunk, or something,” Alex 
whispered. 

“Maybe,” I replied, listening hard. 

Moonlight trickled through the treetops. It made shadows dance 
over the smooth clearing. 

“We have to keep going,” I said. “We're still too close to the 
camp. If the ghosts follow us...” 

I didn’t finish my thought. I didn’t want to think about what 
would happen if the ghosts followed us. If they caught us... 

“Which way is the highway?” Alex asked, his eyes searching the 
trees. “It isn’t too far from the camp—right? If we can get to the 
highway, someone will give us a ride.” 

“Good idea,” I said. Why hadn’t I thought of that? 

Now here we were, in the middle of the woods. Far from the 
highway. 

I didn’t even know which direction to go to find it. 

“It must be back that way,” Alex suggested, pointing. 

“No. That’s the way back to the camp,” I argued. 

Alex started to reply—but a loud thumping sound made him stop. 
“Did you hear that?” he whispered. 

I did. 

And then I heard it again. 

A loud thump. Very close by. 

“Is it an animal?” I cried softly. 

“I—I don’t think so,” Alex stammered. 

KA-THUMP. 

Louder. 

Is it a ghost? I wondered. 

Has one of them found us? 

“Quick—this way!” I urged. I grabbed Alex by the wrist and 
tugged him hard. 

We had to get away from whatever was making that frightening 
noise. 

KA-THUMP. 

Louder. 

“We’re going the wrong way!” I cried. 

We spun around and darted back into the clearing. 

KA-THUMP. 

“Which way?” Alex screeched. “Which way? It—it’s everywhere!” 


KA-THUMP. 
And then—from somewhere just ahead of us—a deep, booming 
voice growled, “WHY ARE YOU STANDING ON MY HEART?” 


23 


The ground tumbled and shook. 

Alex and I both let out terrified cries. 

But our cries were drowned out by a rumbling sound that quickly 
rose to a roar. 

The ground gave way beneath us. 

We both raised our arms high as we toppled over. 

I landed on my hands and knees. Alex fell onto his back. The 
ground trembled and tossed, tumbling us around. 

“It—it’s the monster!” Alex shrieked. 

But that’s impossible! I thought, struggling to my feet. 

That monster is from a story. A dumb camp ghost story. 

It can’t be here in the woods. 

I helped pull Alex up. But the ground shook again, and we both 
fell to our knees. 

KA-THUMP. KA-THUMP. 

“It can’t be real!” I cried. “It can’t—” 

My mouth dropped open in horror as a huge, hairy head raised 
itself in front of us. Its eyes glowed as red as flames—round, 
terrifying, glowing eyes set deep in an ugly, growling face. The 
creature glared furiously at us. 

“Th-the monster!” Alex stuttered. 

We were both on our knees, bouncing helplessly on the rolling, 
tossing ground. 

Was it the ground? Or the monster’s chest? 

The creature opened an enormous cavern of a mouth. It flashed 
rows and rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

Slowly it raised its head, moving closer. Closer. 

Opening its hairy jaws wide. Preparing to swallow us as we 
frantically struggled to scramble away. 

“Harry—! Harry—!” Alex shrieked my name. “It’s going to eat us! 
It’s going to swallow us whole!” 

And then—in a flash—I had an idea. 


24 


The huge monster uttered a low growl. 

Its hairy mouth opened wider. An enormous purple tongue rolled 
out. I gasped when I saw that the tongue was covered in prickly burrs. 

“Look out, Alex!” I cried. 

Too late. 

The ground tossed, bouncing us both into the air. We landed with 
a hard plop on the tongue. 

“Owwww!” we both howled. It felt like a cactus! 

Slowly, the prickly purple tongue began to slide, carrying us into 
the creature’s open mouth. 

“We don’t believe in monsters,” I told Alex. 

I had to shout over the bellowing of the hungry monster. The 
tongue carried us closer. Closer to the rows of jagged yellow teeth. 

“We don’t believe in this monster!” I shouted. “It is just made up. 
Part of a story. If we don’t believe in it, it can’t exist!” 

Alex’s whole body shook. He hunched over, making himself into a 
tight ball. “It looks pretty real!” he choked out. 

The tongue dragged us closer. I could smell the monster’s foul 
breath. I could see black stains on its jagged teeth. 

“Concentrate,” I instructed my brother. “We don’t believe in you. 
We don’t believe in you.” 

Alex and I began chanting those words, over and over. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

The purple tongue carried us into the huge mouth. I tried to grab 
onto the teeth. But they were too slippery. 

My hands slid off. I felt myself being swallowed. 

Down, down. Into sour darkness. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” Alex and I 
continued to chant. 

But our voices were muffled as we slid down the creature’s 
throbbing throat. 

“Harry—it swallowed us!” Alex wailed. 

“Keep chanting,” I ordered him. “If we don’t believe in it, it can’t 
exist!” 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

A glob of thick saliva rolled over me. I gagged as it clung to my 
clothes, my skin—hot and sticky. 

The walls of the throat throbbed harder. 


Pulling us down. Down. 

Down into the vast, churning gurgling pit of a stomach below. 

“Ohhhh.” Alex let out a long, defeated sigh. He sank to his knees. 
He was covered in thick saliva too. 

“Keep chanting! It’s got to work! It’s got to!” I screamed. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

“We don’t believe in you!” 

Alex and I both opened our mouths in screams of horror as we 
began to fall. 

Falling, falling, into the churning stomach below. 


25 


I shut my eyes. 

And waited for the splash. Waited for the crash. 

Waited to hit the stomach floor. 

Waited. 

When I opened my eyes, I was standing on the ground. Standing 
next to Alex in a grassy clearing. 

The pine trees shivered in the breeze. A full moon poked out from 
behind wispy clouds. 

“Hey—!” I cried. I was so happy to hear my own voice! 

So happy to see the sky. The ground. So happy to breathe the cool 
air. 

Alex started spinning. Spinning like a top. Laughing at the top of 
his lungs. “We didn’t believe in you!” he cried gleefully. “We didn’t 
believe in you—and it worked!” 

We were both so thrilled. So excited that the monster had 
vanished. 

Poof! A puff of imagination. 

I started to spin with Alex. Spinning and laughing. 

We stopped when we realized we were no longer alone. 

I let out a startled cry when I saw the faces all around us. The 
pale, pale faces with their glowing eyes. 

I recognized Sam, and Joe, and Lucy, and Elvis. 

I moved close to Alex as the campers—the ghost campers—moved 
to form a circle around us. To trap us. 

Uncle Marv moved into the circle. His tiny eyes glowed red as 
fire. He narrowed them angrily at Alex and me. 

“Capture them!” he bellowed. “Take them back to camp. No one 
ever escapes Camp Spirit Moon.” 

Several counselors moved quickly to grab us. 

We couldn’t move. There was nowhere to run. 

“What are you going to do to us?” I cried. 


26 


“We need living kids,” Uncle Marv boomed. “We cannot allow living 
kids to escape. Unless they carry one of us with them.” 

“Noooo!” Alex wailed. “You can’t take over my mind! You can’t! I 
won’t let you!” 

The ghostly circle tightened. The ghost campers moved in on us. 

I tried to stop my legs from shaking. Tried to slow my pounding 
heart. 

“Alex—we don’t believe in them, either,” I whispered. 

He stared at me, confused for a moment. Then he understood. 

We made the monster vanish by not believing in him. We could 
do the same thing to the ghost campers. 

“Grab them. Take them back to camp,” Uncle Marv ordered the 
counselors. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you,” Alex and I 
started to chant. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

I stared hard at the circle of ghostly faces. Waited for them to 
disappear. 

I chanted with my brother. Chanted faster. Chanted louder. 

“We don’t believe in you. We don’t believe in you.” 

I shut my eyes. Shut them tight. 

And when I opened them... 

The ghosts were still there. 

“You can’t make us disappear, Harry,” Lucy said, stepping into 
the circle. She narrowed her eyes at me. They glittered cold and 
silvery in the moonlight. 

“You made the monster disappear because it wasn’t real, just one 
of our ghost tricks,” Lucy explained. “We made you see it. But we’re 
all real! All of us! And we’re not going to vanish in a puff of smoke.” 

“We’re not going away,” Elvis added, moving close to my brother. 
“In fact, we’re coming closer. A lot closer.” 

“Tm taking over your mind,” Lucy whispered to me. “I’m going to 
escape Camp Spirit Moon inside your mind and body.” 

“Nooo! No—please!” I protested. 

I tried to back up. But the other ghost campers had me trapped. 

“You can’t! I won’t let you!” I shrieked to Lucy, frozen in terror. 

“Go away!” Alex shouted at Elvis. 

The woods darkened as clouds swept over the moon. All around 


me, the ghostly eyes appeared to glow brighter. 

I saw Elvis reach for my brother. 

And then my view was blocked by Lucy. She floated up. Up off 
the ground. Up over me. 

“No! Stay away! Stay away!” I screamed. 

But I felt my hair tingle. 

I felt the cold sweep down over me. Down, down. 

I felt Lucy’s ghostly cold. Felt her slipping into my mind. 

Slipping down, down. Taking over. 

And I knew I couldn’t escape. 


27 


“Get away, Lucy. I’m going first!” I heard a voice shout. 

“No way!” a boy cried. “Move out of the way. Uncle Marv said I 
could be first!” 

I could feel the cold sweep up from my body. I opened my eyes— 
and saw Lucy back on the ground. 

Other kids tugged her away. 

“Let go of me!” Lucy screamed, pulling back. “I saw him first!” 

“Finders keepers!” another ghostly girl cried. 

They are fighting over me, I realized. 

They pulled Lucy away. And now they’re fighting to see who will 
take over my mind. 

“Hey—let go!” I heard a ghostly girl cry. I saw her wrestling with 
another girl. 

The ghosts were wrestling and fighting, shoving and clawing at 
each other. I saw the counselors join the fight. 

“Stop this! Stop this!” Uncle Marv bellowed. 

He tried to pull the fighting campers apart. 

But they ignored him and continued to battle. 

And as I stared in horror, they began to spin around me. Faster 
and faster. A ghostly circle of wrestling, fighting, shrieking campers. 
Boys and girls, counselors and Uncle Marv, spinning, struggling, 
clawing. 

Faster. Faster. 

They spun around and around my brother and me. 

Until they became a swirl of white light. 

And then the light faded. Faded to gray smoke. 

Wisps of smoke that floated to the trees. And disappeared in the 
trembling branches. 

Alex and I stood watching until the last wisp of smoke had floated 
away. 

“They're gone,” I choked out. “They fought each other. And 
they’re gone. All of them.” 

I shook my head. I drew in a deep breath of fresh air. 

My heart was still pounding. My whole body trembled. 

But I was okay. Alex and I were okay. 

“Are they really gone?” Alex asked in a tiny voice. 

“Yes. Let’s go,” I said, taking his arm. “Come on. Hurry. Let’s get 
away from here.” 


He followed me eagerly. “Where are we going?” 

“To the highway,” I said. “We’ll walk past the camp to the 
highway. And we’ll stop the first car that comes by. We’ll get to a 
phone. We’ll call Mom and Dad.” 

I slapped my brother on the back. “We’ll be okay, Alex!” I cried 
happily. “We’ll be home before you know it!” 

We walked quickly through the woods. Pushing bushes and weeds 
out of the way. Making our own path. 

As we made our way to the highway, Alex started to hum a song 
to himself. 

“Whoa!” I cried. “Alex, what’s wrong?” 

“Huh?” He stared at me in surprise. 

I stopped and held him in place. “Sing that again,” I ordered. 

He sang a little more. 

Horrible! His singing was horrible. Totally off-key and sour. 

I stared hard into my brother’s eyes. “Elvis—is that you in there?” 
I cried. 

Elvis’ voice came out of Alex’s mouth. “Please, Harry, don’t tell,” 
he begged. “I swear I'll never sing again—if you promise not to tell!” 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
PORTERS 
p emae Of 


BEWARE, THE SNOWMAN 


Goosebumps - 51 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 
Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 


Why did that rhyme return to me? 

It was a rhyme my mother used to whisper to me when I was 
a little girl. I could almost hear Mom’s soft voice, a voice I haven’t 
heard since I was five.... 

Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 

Mom died when I was five, and I went to live with my aunt 
Greta. I’m twelve now, and my aunt never read that rhyme to me. 

So what made it run through my mind as Aunt Greta and I 
climbed out of the van and gazed at our snow-covered new 
home? 

“Jaclyn, you look troubled,” Aunt Greta said, placing a hand 
on the shoulder of my blue parka. “What are you thinking about, 
dear?” 

I shivered. Not from Aunt Greta’s touch, but from the chill of 
the steady wind that blew down from the mountain. I stared at 
the flat-roofed cabin that was to be our new home. 

Beware, the snowman. 

There is a second verse to that rhyme, I thought. Why can’t I 
remember it? 

I wondered if we still had the old poetry book that Mom used 
to read to me from. 

“What a cozy little home,” Aunt Greta said. She still had her 
hand on my shoulder. 

I felt so sad, so terribly unhappy. But I forced a smile to my 
face. “Yes. Cozy,” I murmured. Snow clung to the windowsills and 
filled the cracks between the shingles. A mound of snow rested on 
the low, flat roof. 

Aunt Greta’s normally pale cheeks were red from the cold. 
She isn’t very old, but she has had white hair for as long as I can 
remember. She wears it long, always tied behind her head in a 
single braid that falls nearly all the way down her back. 


She is tall and skinny. And kind of pretty, with a delicate 
round face and big, sad dark eyes. 

I don’t look at all like my aunt. I don’t know who I look like. I 
don’t remember my mom that well. And I never knew my father. 
Aunt Greta told me he disappeared soon after I was born. 

I have wavy, dark brown hair and brown eyes. I am tall and 
athletic. I was the star basketball player on the girls’ team at my 
school back in Chicago. 

I like to talk a lot and dance and sing. Aunt Greta can go a 
whole day without barely saying a word. I love her, but she’s so 
stern and silent.... Sometimes I wish she were easier to talk to. 

I’m going to need someone to talk to, I thought sadly. We had 
left Chicago only yesterday. But I already missed my friends. 

How am I going to make friends in this tiny village on the 
edge of the Arctic Circle? I wondered. 

I helped my aunt pull bags from the van. My boots crunched 
over the hard snow. 

I gazed up at the snow-covered mountain. Snow, snow 
everywhere. I couldn’t tell where the mountain ended and the 
clouds began. 

The little square houses along the road didn’t look real to me. 
They looked as if they were made of gingerbread. 

As if I had stepped into some kind of fairy tale. 

Except it wasn’t a fairy tale. It was my life. 

My totally weird life. 

I mean, why did we have to move from the United States to 
this tiny, frozen mountain village? 

Aunt Greta never really explained. “Time for a change,” she 
muttered. “Time to move on.” It was so hard to get her to say 
more than a few words at a time. 

I knew that she and Mom grew up in a village like this one. 
But why did we have to move here now? Why did I have to leave 
my school and all of my friends? 

Sherpia. 

What kind of a name is Sherpia? Can you imagine moving 
from Chicago to Sherpia? 

Lucky, huh? 

No way. 

It isn’t even a skiing town. The whole village is practically 
deserted! I wondered if there was anyone here my age. 

Aunt Greta kicked snow away from the front door of our new 
house. Then she struggled to open the door. “The wood is 
warped,” she grunted. She lowered her shoulder to the door—and 


pushed it open. 

She’s thin, but she’s tough. 

I started to carry the bags into the house. But something 
standing in the snowy yard across the road caught my eye. 
Curious, I turned and stared at it. 

I gasped as it came into focus. 

What is that? 

A snowman? 

A snowman with a scar? 

As I squinted across the road at it, the snowman started to 
move. 


I blinked. 

No. The snowman wasn’t moving. 

Its red scarf was fluttering in the swirling breeze. 

My boots crunched loudly as I stepped up to the snowman 
and examined it carefully. 

What a weird snowman. It had slender tree limbs for arms. 
One arm poked out to the side. The other arm stood straight up, 
as if waving to me. Each tree limb had three twig fingers poking 
out from it. 

The snowman had two dark, round stones for eyes. A crooked 
carrot nose. And a down-turned, sneering mouth of smaller 
pebbles. 

Why did they make it so mean looking? I wondered. 

I couldn’t take my eyes off the scar. It was long and deep, cut 
down the right side of the snowman’s face. 

“Weird,” I muttered out loud. My favorite word. Aunt Greta 
is always saying I need a bigger vocabulary. 

But how else would you describe a nasty-looking, sneering 
snowman with a scar on its face? 

“Jaclyn—come help!” Aunt Greta’s call made me turn away 
from the snowman. I hurried back across the road to my new 
house. 

It took a long while to unpack the van. When we lugged the 
final carton into the cabin, Aunt Greta found a pot. Then she 
made us hot chocolate on the little, old-fashioned stove in the 
kitchen. 

“Cozy,” she repeated. She smiled. But her dark eyes studied 
my face. I think she was trying to see if I was unhappy. 

“At least it’s warm in here,” she said, wrapping her bony 
fingers around the white hot-chocolate mug. Her cheeks were still 
red from the cold. 

I nodded sullenly. I wanted to cheer up. But I just couldn't. I 
kept thinking about my friends back home. I wondered if they 
were going to a Bulls game tonight. My friends were all into 
basketball. 

I wont be playing much basketball here, I thought 
unhappily. Even if they play basketball, there probably aren’t 
enough kids in the village for a team! 

“You'll be warm up there,” Aunt Greta said, cutting into my 


thoughts. She pointed up to the low ceiling. 

The house had only one bedroom. That was my aunt’s room. 
My room was the low attic beneath the roof. 

“Pm going to check it out,” I said, pushing back my chair. It 
scraped on the hardwood floor. 

The only way to reach my room was a metal ladder that 
stood against the wall. I climbed the ladder, then pushed away 
the flat board in the ceiling and pulled myself into the low attic. 

It was cozy, all right. My aunt had picked the right word. 

The ceiling was so low, I couldn’t stand up. Pale, white light 
streamed in through the one small, round window at the far end 
of the room. 

Crouching, I made my way to the window and peered out. 
Snow speckled the windowpane. But I could see the road and the 
two rows of little houses curving up the mountainside. 

I didn’t see anyone out there. Not a soul. 

TIl bet they’ve all gone to Florida, I thought glumly. 

It was midwinter break. The school here was closed. Aunt 
Greta and I had passed it on our way through the village. A small, 
gray stone building, not much bigger than a two-car garage. 

How many kids will be in my class? I wondered. Three or 
four? Just me? And will they all speak English? 

I swallowed hard. And scolded myself for being so down. 

Cheer up, Jaclyn, I thought. Sherpia is a beautiful little 
village. You might meet some really neat kids here. 

Ducking my head, I made my way back to the ladder. I’m 
going to cover the ceiling with posters, I decided. That will 
brighten this attic a lot. 

And maybe help cheer me up, too. 

“Can I help unpack?” I asked Aunt Greta as I climbed down 
the ladder. 

She pushed her long, white braid off her shoulder. “No. I 
want to work in the kitchen first. Why don’t you take a walk or 
something? Do a little exploring.” 

A few minutes later, I found myself outside, pulling the 
drawstrings of my parka hood tight. I adjusted my fur-lined 
gloves and waited for my eyes to adjust to the white glare of the 
snow. 

Which way should I walk? I wondered. 

I had already seen the school, the general store, a small 
church, and the post office down the road. So I decided to head 
up the road, toward the mountaintop. 

The snow was hard and crusty. My boots hardly made a dent 


in it as I leaned into the wind and started to walk. Tire tracks cut 
twin ruts down the middle of the road. I decided to walk in one of 
them. 

I passed a couple of houses about the same size as ours. They 
both appeared dark and empty. A tall, stone house had a Jeep 
parked in the driveway. 

I saw a kid’s sled in the front yard. An old-fashioned wooden 
sled. A yellow-eyed, black cat stared out at me from the living- 
room window. 

I waved a gloved hand at it. It didn’t move. 

I still hadn’t seen any other humans. 

The wind whistled and grew colder as I climbed. The road 
grew steeper as it curved up. The houses were set farther apart. 

The snow sparkled as clouds rolled away from the sun. It was 
suddenly so beautiful! I turned and gazed down at the houses I 
had passed, little gingerbread houses nestled in the snow. 

It’s so pretty, I thought. Maybe I will get to like it here. 

“Ohh!” I cried out as I felt icy fingers wrap themselves 
around my neck. 


I spun around and pulled free of the frozen grip. 

And stared at a grinning boy in a brown sheepskin jacket and 
a red-and-green wool ski cap. “Did I scare you?” he asked. His 
grin grew wider. 

Before I could answer, a girl about my age stepped out from 
behind a broad evergreen bush. She wore a purple down coat and 
purple gloves. 

“Don’t mind Eli,” she said, tossing her hair off her face. “He’s 
a total creep.” 

“Thanks for the compliment,” Eli grinned. 

I decided they must be brother and sister. They both had 
round faces, straight black hair, and bright, sky-blue eyes. 

“Youre new,” Eli said, squinting at me. 

“Eli thinks it’s funny to scare any new kids,” his sister told 
me, rolling her eyes. “My little brother is a riot, isn’t he?” 

“Being scared is about all there is to do in Sherpia,” Eli said. 
His grin faded. 

What a weird thing to say, I thought. 

I introduced myself. “I’m Jaclyn DeForest,” I told them. Their 
names were Rolonda and Eli Browning. 

“We live there,” Eli said, pointing to the white house. “Where 
do you live?” 

I pointed down the road. “Farther down,” I replied. I started 
to ask them something—but stopped when I saw the snowman 
they were building. 

It had one arm out and one arm up. It had a red scarf 
wrapped under its head. And it had a deep scar cut down the 
right side of its face. 

“That s-snowman—” I stammered. “It looks just like one I 
saw across the street from me.” 

Rolonda’s smile faded. Eli lowered his eyes to the snow. 
“Really?” he muttered. 

“Why did you make it like that?” I demanded. “It’s so strange 
looking. Why did you put that scar on its face?” 

They glanced at each other tensely. 

They didn’t reply. 

Finally, Rolonda shrugged. “I really don’t know,” she 
murmured. She blushed. 


Was she lying? Why didn’t she want to answer me? 

“Where are you walking?” Eli asked, tightening the 
snowman’s red scarf. 

“Just walking,” I told him. “Do you guys want to come with 
me? I thought I’d walk up to the top of the mountain.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. His blue eyes widened in fear. 

“You can’t!” Rolonda cried. “You can’t!” 


“Excuse me?” 

I gaped at them in shock. What was their problem? 

“Why can’t I go up to the top?” I demanded. 

The fear faded quickly from their faces. Rolonda tossed back 
her black hair. Eli pretended to be busy with the red snowman 
scarf. 

“You can’t go because it’s closed for repairs,” Eli finally 
replied. 

“Ha ha. Remind me to laugh later,” Rolonda sneered. 

“So what’s the real reason?” I demanded. 

“Uh... well... we just never go up there,” Rolonda 
stammered, glancing at her brother. She waited for Eli to add 
something. But he didn’t. 

“Its kind of like a tradition,” Rolonda continued, avoiding 
my eyes. “I mean... well... we just don’t go up there.” 

“It’s too cold,” Eli added. “That’s why. It’s just too cold up 
there for humans to survive. You would turn to ice in thirty 
seconds.” 

I knew he was lying. I knew that wasn’t the real reason. But I 
decided to drop the subject. They suddenly seemed so tense and 
worried. 

“Where are you from?” Rolonda asked. She dug her gloved 
hands deep into her coat pockets. “The next village?” 

“No. Chicago,” I told her. “We lived in an apartment right on 
the lake.” 

“And you moved here?” Eli cried. “From Chicago to Sherpia? 
Why?” 

“Good question,” I muttered, rolling my eyes. “I live with my 
aunt, see. And Aunt Greta decided to move here. So...” I couldn’t 
keep the sadness from my voice. 

We talked for a few more minutes. I learned that they had 
lived in Sherpia their entire lives. “It isn’t so bad. You get used to 
not seeing many people,” Rolonda told me. 

“And it’s nice if you like snow,” Eli added. “Lots and lots of 
snow!” 

We all laughed. 

I said, “See you guys later,” and started walking up the road. 

“You’re not going to the top—are you?” Eli called. He 


sounded really frightened again. 

“No,” I called back. I pulled my hood tight. “It’s getting kind 
of windy. I’ll just go a little farther.” 

The road curved higher. I crunched my way past a wide, 
woodsy lot filled with pine trees nearly as thin as pencils. The 
trees tilted at all angles. Not one of them stood straight up. 

I saw animal tracks in the snow. Raccoon or squirrel? No. 
Too big. Deer tracks? I couldn’t tell. 

I raised my eyes—and cried out in surprise. 

Another sneering snowman stared back at me with its twisted 
carrot nose and coal-black eyes. 

Its red scarf fluttered in the strong wind. 

I stared at the long scar cut deep in its face. 

Its twig arms waved in the wind, as if greeting me. 

“Why do they build these creepy snowmen?” I asked out 
loud. 

I turned—and saw another one in the front yard across the 
street. Same tree-branch arms. Same red scarf. Same scar. 

It must be some kind of village decoration, I decided. 

But why didn’t Rolonda and Eli want to tell me about it? 

Heavy gray clouds rolled over the sun. The snowman’s 
shadow appeared to stretch until it swept over me. 

I felt a sudden chill. I stepped back. 

The sky quickly turned evening dark. I gazed up to the top of 
the mountain. Clumps of pine trees hid the top from view. 

Should I head back or keep going? 

I remembered the fear on Eli’s face when I said I was 
climbing to the top. And I remembered Rolonda’s cry: “You 
can’t!” 

It only made me more curious. 

What were they afraid of? What was up there? 

I decided to keep going. 


A van in the next driveway was buried under a thick sheet of 
snow. It looked as if it hadn’t been driven all winter. 

I followed the road as it curved away from the houses. The 
snow became deeper and softer. My boots sank in as I walked. 

I imagined that I was walking on another planet, a planet 
never explored before. 

The road climbed steeper. Large white rocks jutted up from 
the snow. Clumps of slender pine trees tilted in every direction. 

There were no houses up this high. I could see only trees and 


snow-covered shrubs and jutting rocks. 

The road curved again. The wind whistled. I rubbed my 
cheeks and nose to warm them. Then I leaned into the wind and 
kept walking. 

I stopped when a small log cabin came into view. I shielded 
my eyes with a gloved hand and stared at it. 

A cabin way up here? 

Why would anyone want to live this high up, away from 
everyone? 

The cabin stood in a square, cleared-out area, surrounded by 
scraggly, tilting pine trees. I didn’t see any car or sled. I didn’t see 
any boot-prints in the snow. 

I crept closer to the cabin. 

The windows were steamed over. I couldn’t tell if there were 
lights on inside or not. 

I stepped closer, my heart pounding. I leaned my arms on a 
windowsill and pressed my nose against the glass. But I couldn’t 
see in. 

“Anyone home?” I called. 

Silence. The wind whistled around the corner of the cabin. 

I knocked on the door. “Hello?” 

No reply. 

“Weird,” I muttered. 

I tried the door. I just pushed it lightly. 

Maybe I shouldn’t have. But I did. 

The door slid open. 

I felt a rush of warm air from inside. 

“Anyone home?” I called in. 

I peeked beyond the door. Dark in there. 

“Hello?” 

I stepped inside. Just to take a look. 

The snow had been so bright outside. My eyes adjusted 
slowly to the dim light. 

And before I could focus, I saw a white blur. 

A growling white blur. It leaped on me. 

Hot breath. Hot breath on my face. 

And a snarling, white creature tackled me to the floor. 


“Down! Down, Wolfbane!” 

The snarling stopped instantly. 

The creature backed off. 

“Down, Wolfbane!” a man’s voice ordered sternly. 

Gasping for breath, I wiped hot saliva off my face. And 
realized I was staring up at a white-furred wolf. 

The wolf was breathing hard, too, jaws open, tongue snaking 
down nearly to the cabin floor. Its head was lowered as if 
preparing to attack again. Its round, dark brown eyes locked on 
me suspiciously. 

“Down, Wolfbane. It’s okay, boy.” 

I rolled away from the panting creature and climbed to my 
knees. Two hands reached down to grab my hands and tug me to 
my feet. 

“Are you okay?” The man studied me with round, silver-gray 
eyes. He was tall and thin, dressed all in denim. He had long, gray 
hair tied back in a short ponytail. And a thick, pure-white beard. 

His eyes glowed like steel marbles. I could almost feel them 
burning into me. 

“Ts that... really a wolf?” I demanded. 

He nodded, his expression stern, his eerie eyes not moving, 
not blinking. “He won’t hurt you. Wolfbane is well trained.” 

“But he—” My mouth suddenly felt so dry it was hard to talk. 

“You startled us,” the man said, still not blinking, not looking 
away. “We were in the back room.” He motioned toward a 
doorway in the back wall. 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “I didn’t know anyone was in here. I 
thought—” 

“Who are you?” the man demanded angrily. He narrowed his 
silvery eyes at me. Behind the bushy white beard, his slender face 
reddened. 

“I didn’t mean to—” 

“Who are you?” he repeated. 

“I was taking a walk,” I struggled to explain. If only my heart 
weren’t pounding so hard. If only my mouth weren’t so dry. 

The white wolf uttered a low growl. It stood tensely, head 
lowered, eyes locked on me, as if waiting for a command to 
attack. 


“Why did you break into my house?” the man demanded, 
taking a step toward me. 

He’s dangerous, I realized. 

There’s something very strange about him. Something very 
angry. 

“T didn’t break in,” I started. “I just—” 

“You broke into my house,” he insisted. “Don’t you realize 
how dangerous that is? Wolfbane is trained to attack strangers.” 

“S-sorry—!” I choked out. 

He took another step toward me. He still hadn’t blinked those 
weird, round eyes. 

My chest tightened in fright. 

What did he plan to do? 

I didn’t want to find out. 

I took a deep breath. Then I spun around—and ran out the 
door. 

Could I get away? 


Behind me, the door slammed hard against the cabin wall. 

I glanced back—and saw him burst out of the cabin after me. 
“Where are you going?” he cried. “Hey—stop! Where are you 
going?” 

I pointed. “Up to the top!” I cried. 

“No, youre not!” he shouted back furiously. “You will not go 
up there!” 

He’s crazy! I realized. 

He has no right to shout at me like that! 

I can go anywhere I want to! 

He’s crazy. 

It had started to snow, large wet flakes, blowing hard in 
swirls of wind. 

I brushed a snowflake from my forehead and ran to the road. 

To my horror, the bearded man followed me, half-walking, 
half-running over the deep snow. 

“Beware, the snowman!” he called. 

“Huh?” I turned back to face him. “What did you say?” I 
cried breathlessly. 

The old rhyme flew through my mind for the second time 
that day... 


When the snows blow wild 

And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 
Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold. 


I don’t believe this! I thought. I haven’t thought about that 
rhyme since I was five. And now it has run through my mind 
twice in one day! 

We stood staring at each other from opposite sides of the 
road. I saw the man shiver. He wore only his denim workshirt, no 
coat. Big snowflakes clung to his gray hair and his shoulders. 

“What did you say?” I asked. 

“The snowman lives in the ice cave,” he called, cupping his 
hands around his mouth to be heard over the wind. 

“Huh? A snowman?” 


He’s really nuts! I decided. Why am I standing here listening 
to him? 

The man lives in a cabin on a mountaintop all by himself 
except for a white wolf! And now he’s yelling insane things about 
a snowman! 

“Beware, the snowman!” he repeated. “You cannot go up to 
the top! You cannot!” 

“Why not?” I demanded. My voice came out higher and more 
shrill than I had intended. 

“You do not want to meet the snowman!” the man cried. The 
big snowflakes covered his beard. His silvery eyes glowed eerily. 

“If you meet the snowman,” he called, “you will never return!” 

Totally nuts, I realized. 

That’s why he lives all alone up here. 

I spun away. I knew I had stayed too long. 

Slipping and sliding, I ran through the deep snow. 

Ran as fast as I could. Cold snowflakes slapping my hot face. 
Heart pounding. 

Down the road. Down the curving mountain road. 

Panting... panting. 

Was that me breathing so hard? 

Were those my thudding footsteps? 

No. 

Glancing back, I saw the white wolf chasing me. Gaining fast. 

Teeth bared. Head lowered to attack. 

“Noooo!” I wailed. The big snowflakes stung my eyes as I 
ran. The white ground tilted. I stumbled but kept running. 

I suddenly felt as if I were trapped in one of those glass balls 
that snows inside when you shake them. 

I tumbled downhill. The snowflakes flew at me in all 
directions. The whole mountainside seemed to quiver and shake. 

The road! Where was the road? 

I lost it in the falling snow. My boots sank into deep drifts. 

But I kept running. Down... down. 

The steady thud of the wolf’s heavy paws in my ears. 

I glanced back and saw it gaining on me, moving 
rhythmically, easily over the snowdrifts. Its teeth were bared. 
Puffs of steam rose from its open mouth. 

Running hard, I didn’t see the smooth rocks jutting up along 
the side of the road. 

My boot caught on one. 

“Ohhhh!” I let out a cry as pain shot up my leg. I lost my 


balance. Stumbled forward. 
Landed hard on my stomach in the deep snow. 
I gasped for breath. The fall knocked the wind out of me. 
Scrambling to my knees, I watched helplessly as the white 
wolf closed in on me. 


To my surprise, the wolf stopped a few feet away. 

It lowered its head and stared, breathing hard. Beneath the 
thick, white fur, its chest heaved up and down. Snowflakes 
melted on its tongue. 

Staring at it in fear, I pushed myself to my feet. I brushed my 
hair back, and brushed snow off the front of my parka. 

Was the wolf just catching its breath? Would it attack the 
moment I tried to run? 

“Go home, boy,” I whispered. “Go home.” 

My voice barely carried over the wind and snow. The white 
wolf stared up at me, still panting. 

I started to back up. I was afraid to take my eyes off it. 

I took one step back. Then another. 

The wolf watched me but didn’t move. 

My boots crunched onto the road. Yes! I had found the road! 
I kept backing up. 

The wolf stood taller. Lowered its tail. Tensed its back. 

Its brown eyes followed me. Such human eyes. 

What was it thinking? Why did it chase after me? 

Was it just making sure that I went down the mountain? Did 
the strange man send it to keep me from heading to the 
mountaintop? 

I took another step back. Then another. 

The wolf didn’t move. 

The snow-covered road curved away. I kept backing up until 
I was out of the creature’s sight. 

“Whew!” I uttered a loud sigh of relief. Turned. And 
continued walking fast toward the village and my new house. 

Every few seconds, I glanced back. But the wolf didn’t follow 
me. 

The snow came down hard. I pulled my parka hood over my 
hair. I held it with both hands and started to trot along the road. 

I wondered if Aunt Greta would be worried about me. I had 
been gone a lot longer than I had planned. 

Low snow clouds hid the sun. The sky became nearly as black 
as night. 

I started to pass houses on both sides of the road. I could see 
lights on in some of them. One house had a blazing fire going in a 


fireplace. Black smoke curled up from the chimney. 

I passed one of the strange, scar-faced snowmen. His tree- 
limb arms trembled in the wind. He appeared to be waving at me 
as I passed. 

I broke into a run. 

Another snowman greeted me as I rounded the next curve. 

I hate this village! I thought. 

It’s too weird. Too weird! 

I’m never going to be happy here. Never! 

Why did Aunt Greta bring us here? 

A thudding sound behind me forced away my unhappy 
thoughts. 

I’m being followed! I realized. 

The wolf? 

No. These heavy footsteps were different. 

Human footsteps. 

The crazy, bearded man—he followed me! 

“Ohhh!” A frightened moan escaped my lips. 

Taking a deep breath, I spun around to face him. 


“Jaclyn—hi!” 

I gasped—and stared through the falling snow at Rolonda. 
She jogged across the road to me. Snowflakes dotted her black 
hair. 

“You ran right past our house,” she said breathlessly, 
pointing to her yard. “Didn’t you see us?” 

I glanced over her shoulder and saw her brother, Eli, waving 
to me from their driveway. 

“No. I... uh... the snow was falling so hard, and—” I 
stammered. 

“Are you okay?” Rolonda demanded. 

“Well...” I hesitated. “A white wolf chased me,” I blurted out. 
“A crazy man. He has a cabin near the top. His wolf chased me 
and he—” 

“You ran into Conrad?” Rolonda cried. 

“Huh? Conrad?” The wind blew my hood off my head. I 
squinted hard at Rolonda. “Is that his name?” 

She nodded. “He has a cabin that he built himself. And he 
keeps a white wolf named Wolfbane. I meant to warn you before, 
Jaclyn—” 

“Warn me?” I interrupted. 

“Yeah. To stay away from him. He and that animal he keeps 
—they’re both really strange.” 

“Tell me about it!” I groaned. I rolled my eyes. “Is that why 
you and Eli never go up to the mountaintop?” 

Rolonda lowered her eyes. “Well... it’s one of the reasons.” 

I waited for her to go on. But she didn’t. She continued to 
stare down at the snow. She kicked a clump of wet snow off one 
boot with the other. Behind her, Eli stood watching us, his hands 
jammed into his coat pockets. 

“Well, why does Conrad live up there so far away from 
everyone?” I demanded. 

Rolonda hesitated. She glanced back tensely at her brother. 
“No one knows for sure,” she answered finally. “He—maybe he 
works for the snowman. I mean...” Her voice trailed off. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. I was sure I hadn’t heard her correctly. 
“What did you say, Rolonda? He works for the snowman? What do 
you mean? What does that mean?” 


She didn’t answer. Again, she glanced back nervously at Eli. 

“Come on, Rolonda. What do you mean?” I insisted. “What 
do you mean, he works for the snowman?” 

She backed away, brushing snowflakes from her hair. “I’ve 
got to go inside,” she said. “It’s almost dinnertime.” 

I followed after her. “But first you have to explain,” I 
demanded. 

“T can’t,” she whispered. “Because of Eli. He’s too frightened.” 

“But, Rolonda—” I started. I saw Eli watching us intently 
from the driveway. 

“Go home,” Rolonda snapped. “Just go home, Jaclyn.” 

“Not until you tell me what you meant.” I can be stubborn 
when I want to be. 

“Okay, okay,” she whispered, glancing over her shoulder at 
Eli. “Meet me tomorrow night, okay? Meet me tomorrow night at 
the church—and Pll tell you everything.” 


“Hi—I’m back!” 

I burst into the house. Aunt Greta was bending over a carton 
in the small kitchen, pulling out coffee mugs and placing them in 
a cabinet. She spun around as I walked in. 

“Ts it snowing?” she asked. 

I nodded my head furiously, tossing snowflakes from my hair. 
“The biggest flakes I ever saw,” I replied breathlessly. 

Aunt Greta frowned. “I’ve been so busy in here, I didn’t even 
look out the window.” 

I pulled off my coat and carried it to the front closet. But 
there were no hangers in the closet yet. So I tossed the wet coat 
on top of a stack of cartons. 

Then I walked back into the kitchen, rubbing the sleeves of 
my sweater. “Aunt Greta, do you know anything about a 
snowman?” I asked. 

I heard her gasp. 

But when she turned to me, her face was a blank. 
“Snowman?” 

“Do you know anything about a snowman on top of the 
mountain?” I asked. 

Aunt Greta bit her bottom lip. “No. No, I don’t, Jaclyn.” Her 
voice trembled. Why did she look so tense? 

She bent down to pull more mugs from the carton. I crossed 
the room to help her unpack them. 

“Someone told me I shouldn’t go to the top of the mountain 
because of a snowman,” I told her. “A snowman who lives up 
there.” 

Aunt Greta didn’t say anything. She handed me two mugs. I 
lifted them onto the cabinet shelf. 

“This man told me that if I met the snowman up there, I 
would never return,” I continued. 

My aunt let out a short, dry laugh. “Village superstition,” she 
muttered. 

I squinted at her. “Really?” 

“Of course,” she replied. “These tiny villages all have their 
scary stories. Someone was just having fun, giving you a little 
scare.” 

“Fun?” I frowned. “I don’t think so.” 


That weird, white-bearded guy, Conrad, had screamed at me 
that I couldn’t go up to the mountaintop. He wasn’t joking. I 
knew he wasn’t joking. 

He was serious. He was threatening me. He wasn’t having a 
little fun. No way. 

“Aunt Greta, do you remember a rhyme about a snowman?” I 
asked. 

She straightened up and stretched, pushing her hands against 
her back. “Rhyme?” 

“I remembered a rhyme today. From when I was little. It just 
popped into my head.” 

Aunt Greta chewed her lip again fretfully. “I don’t think I 
remember any rhyme,” she said. She glanced away, avoiding my 
eyes. 

“I only remember the first verse,” I told her. And then I 
recited it: 


“When the snows blow wild 
And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 
Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold.” 


When I finished, I looked up to find the strangest expression 
on Aunt Greta’s face. Her eyes had gone all watery. And her chin 
trembled. Her cheeks were even paler than usual. 

“Aunt Greta—are you okay?” I asked. “What’s wrong?” 

“Nothing,” she replied sharply, turning her face away from 
me. “Nothing at all, Jaclyn. But I don’t remember that rhyme. I 
don’t think I’ve ever heard it before.” 

She fiddled nervously with her long, white braid. 

“Are you sure?” I asked timidly. 

“Of course I’m sure,” she snapped. “Now, come on. Help me 
finish up in here so I can begin dinner.” 

What is wrong? I wondered. Why is she suddenly angry at 
me? 

And why do I have the feeling that she isn’t telling the truth? 

Aunt Greta has never lied to me before. 

Why is she acting so strange now? 


10 


I couldn’t sleep that night. 

My new bed felt hard. I kept imagining that the low ceiling 
was sinking, dropping down on me. 

The snow clouds had drifted away, and a half moon 
appeared, low in the sky. The moonlight washed in through my 
round window, casting long, shifting shadows over my room. 

I shuddered under my quilt. It was all so new and strange. I 
wondered if I’d ever be able to sleep up here. 

I shut my eyes and tried to think nice, soothing thoughts. I 
pictured my friends back in Chicago. I called up their faces one by 
one. I wondered what they were all doing today while I was 
having my frightening adventure on the mountain. 

I wondered if they missed me. 

I had just about fallen asleep when the howls began. 

Wolf howls? 

I climbed out of bed and made my way to the window. Down 
below, the moonlight made the snow sparkle, almost as bright as 
during the day. 

Bushes trembled in a soft breeze. The wind carried another 
frightening howl. I raised my eyes to the mountain. But I could 
see only houses, dark and silent, and the silvery road that curved 
its way to the top. 

My whole body tingled. I knew I couldn’t fall asleep. It was 
chilly up here in my little attic room, and the air felt heavy and 
damp. 

I decided to take a walk. Maybe it will help me relax, I told 
myself. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans and a sweatshirt. Then I crept 
downstairs—careful not to wake Aunt Greta—and found my 
parka and boots. 

Stepping out into the night, I silently closed the front door 
behind me. My eyes swept over the glittering snow of the small 
front yard. 

I made my way to the road, my breath streaming up in wisps 
of fog. “Wow!” I murmured. “Wow!” 

The cold, fresh air felt so good on my face. 

The wind had stopped. The whole world seemed still and 
silent. 


No cars, I realized. No horns honking. No buses roaring past. 
No people laughing and shouting on the street. 

I’m all alone out here, I told myself. The whole world is mine. 

A long, frightening howl brought me out of my crazy 
thoughts. 

I shivered and raised my eyes to the mountaintop. Was the 
white wolf howling up there? Did it howl like that every night? 

Why did the howls sound so human? 

I took a deep breath of cold air and held it. Then I began 
walking slowly along the road. My boots crunched on the hard, 
crusty snow. I passed a few houses and kept walking. 

I stopped as a shadow slid over my path. 


11 


I gasped. At first, I thought someone was following me. 

But then I realized I was staring at a long shadow of a 
snowman. The shadow tilted over the road. The tree branch arms, 
one raised, one out to the side, appeared long and menacing. 

I stepped over the shadow and crossed the street. But another 
shadow fell over me. 

Another snowman. An identical snowman. 

The shadows of the strange snowmen fell over each other. I 
suddenly felt as if I were walking in a black-and-white world of 
shadowy heads, fluttering scarves, and sticklike arms—all 
saluting, all waving. 

Why were there so many of them? 

Why did the people in this village build them all alike? 

Another howl made me raise my eyes from the crisscrossing 
shadows over the snow. This howl sounded closer. And it 
definitely sounded human! 

A chill ran down my back. 

I turned. Time to head home, I decided. 

My heart was pounding now. The howl—so near—had really 
frightened me. 

I started to walk fast, swinging my arms as I walked, leaning 
into the gusting wind. 

But I stopped when I saw the scarfaced snowman in the 
driveway up ahead. 

And I gasped when it nodded its head at me. 

“Noooo!” A low cry escaped my lips. 

It nodded. The snowman nodded! 

Then the head rolled to the ground. And cracked apart with a 
soft thud. 

And I realized the wind had made its head nod. The wind 
had blown the scarred head off the body. 

What am I doing out here? I asked myself. It’s late and it’s 
cold. 

And it’s weird. 

And some kind of creature nearby is howling its head off. 

I gazed across the yard at the headless snowman. The head 
was a shattered clump of white at the snowman’s base. But the 
scarf had remained on top of the round body. It flapped in a gust 


of cold wind. 

I felt another shiver. I turned and ran toward home. 

Ran through the blue-black shadows of snowmen. My boots 
crunched over the shadows of their waving arms, their scarred 
heads. 

A snowman in each yard. Snowmen lining the street like 
night watchmen. 

This walk was a crazy idea, I thought, feeling panic tighten 
my chest. I want to be home now. I want to be back in the safety 
of my new home. 

A snowman waved its three-fingered limb at me and sneered 
its coal-dark sneer as I ran past. And as I scrambled for home, the 
rhyme forced its way back into my mind.... 


“When the snows blow wild 
And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 
Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold.” 


My house came into view down the road. I sucked in a deep 
breath and ran harder. 

The old rhyme had been haunting me ever since I arrived in 
the village. The old rhyme had followed me from my childhood, 
followed me to my strange, new home. 

Why did I suddenly remember it today? 

What was it trying to tell me? Why had the cold words 
returned after being forgotten for so many years? 

I had to find the rest of it. I had to find the second verse of 
the poem. 

An eerie howl, rising like an ambulance siren, sounded so 
close behind me I spun around. 

I searched the road and the frozen yards. No one there. No 
wolf. No human. 

Another howl sounded even closer. 

Was someone following me? 

I held my hands over my ears to keep out the frightening 
sounds—and I flew over the snow, flew the rest of the way home. 

I reached the narrow front door as another long howl sent a 
chill down my body. 

Closer. It’s so close, I realized. 

Someone is following me! 


I grabbed the doorknob. Twisted it. Pushed. 
No! 

The door didn’t budge. 

I twisted again. This way. The other way. 
Pushed the door. Pulled it. 

Locked. 

I had locked myself out! 


12 


Another frightening howl. 

So close. From the side of my house! 

My whole body trembled. Panic tightened my throat. I 
stumbled back from the front door. 

And saw that the front window—the only window on this 
side of the house—was open a crack. Snow streaked the 
windowpanes and clumped on the narrow sill. 

I stared at the tiny opening at the window bottom. 

Then I sucked in a deep breath—and hurtled to the window. 

I grabbed the snowy wooden frame. Uttering a loud groan, I 
pushed. Pushed up with all my strength. 

To my surprise, the window slid up easily. 

I pushed it all the way up. Then I grabbed the sill with both 
hands. I hoisted myself up, up—as another howl rang through the 
night air. 

So close. 

So close and frightening. 

I tumbled headfirst into the house. Landed hard on my hands 
and knees on the wooden floor. 

With a gasp, I scrambled to my feet. Grabbed the window 
and pulled it shut. 

Then I stood, leaning against the wall, listening. Waiting to 
catch my breath. 

Had I awakened Aunt Greta? 

No. The house stood dark and silent. The only sound I could 
hear was my rapid, shallow breathing. 

Another howl, distant this time. 

Had I only imagined that I was being followed? Were the 
terrifying howls rolling down from the mountaintop, carried by 
the wind? 

Still breathing hard, I stepped away from the front wall. 
Making my way slowly through the darkness, I headed to the 
little back room where we had piled all of the packing cartons. 

My books were still stuffed in one of the cartons. 

I was sure that I had packed the old poetry book Mom used 
to read to me. 

White moonlight flooded in from the window against the 
back wall. I found the book carton on top of a stack and pulled it 


down to the floor. 

My hands trembled as I struggled to pull off the heavy 
packing tape and open the box. 

I have to find that poem, I told myself. I have to read the 
second verse of that rhyme. 

I tugged open the carton and began pulling out books. I had 
packed a bunch of paperbacks on the top. Underneath them, I 
found some textbooks and anthologies I had used at school. 

As I pulled them out and stacked them carefully on the floor, 
I heard a cough. 

And then a footstep. 

Someone else is in here! I realized. 

“Aunt Greta? Is that you?” I cried. 

But the voice that replied wasn’t Aunt Greta’s. 

“What are you doing?” a strange voice demanded in a raspy 
whisper. 


13 


The ceiling light flashed on. 

I blinked. 

Swallowed hard. 

And stared up at Aunt Greta. 

“You frightened me, Jaclyn!” she croaked. 

I jumped to my feet. “You frightened me, too!” I replied, 
waiting for my heart to stop pounding. “What happened to your 
voice?” 

Aunt Greta rubbed her pale throat. “I’ve lost it,” she rasped. 
“Horrible sore throat. It must be the cold. I’m not used to the cold 
of this village yet.” 

Her straight, white hair hung loose behind her. She tugged it 
off the collar of her flannel nightshirt, brushing out tangles with 
one hand. “What are you doing, Jaclyn? Why are you down here 
in the middle of the night?” she croaked. 

“That old poem,” I replied. “I want to find it. I can’t 
remember the second verse. I—” 

“We’ll unpack the books tomorrow,” she cut in. 

She yawned. “I’m so tired. And my throat hurts so badly. 
Let’s try to get some sleep.” 

She suddenly appeared so tiny and frail. 

“Pm sorry,” I said, following her from the room. “I didn’t 
mean to wake you up. I couldn’t sleep, so...” 

Her eyes fell on my parka, which I had tossed onto a living 
room chair. “You went out?” she cried, spinning to face me. I 
could see alarm on her face. 

“Well... yes,” I confessed. “I thought maybe a short walk...” 

“You shouldn’t go out in the middle of the night,” she 
scolded. She rubbed her sore throat. Her eyes narrowed at me. 

“Sorry,” I muttered. “What’s the big deal, anyway? What’s so 
terrible about going out at night?” 

She hesitated, chewing her lower lip the way she always does 
when she’s thinking hard. “It’s just dangerous. That’s all,” she 
whispered finally. “What if you fell in the snow or something? 
What if you broke your leg? There is no one outside to help you.” 

“Td roll home!” I joked. I laughed but she didn’t join in. 

I had the strong feeling she had something else on her mind. 
She wasn’t worried about me falling down. She was worried 


about something else. 

But she didn’t want to say it. 

Did it have anything to do with the animal howls? 

Did it have something to do with the snowman on the 
mountain that Conrad had warned me about? The snowman that 
Aunt Greta said was just a village superstition? 

I yawned. I finally felt sleepy. Too sleepy to think any more 
about these questions. 

I put my arm around Aunt Greta’s slender shoulders and 
walked her across the hall to her room. “Sorry I woke you,” I 
whispered. Then I said good night and climbed the ladder to my 
attic bedroom. 

Yawning, I pulled off my jeans and sweatshirt and tossed 
them on the floor. Then I jumped into bed and pulled the quilt up 
to my chin. 

Pale moonlight washed in from the round window at the 
other end of the room. I shut my eyes. No howls outside. No 
sounds at all. 

I snuggled my head into my soft pillow. My new bed still felt 
hard. But I was too tired to care. 

I had just about drifted off to sleep when the whispered 
words floated into the room.... 

“Beware, the snowman, Jaclyn.... Beware, the snowman....” 


14 


I sat straight up with a gasp. “Huh? Who’s there?” I choked out. 

I stared across the room at the window. The unfamiliar 
shapes of my furniture appeared silvery, ghostlike in the white 
moonlight. 

“Beware, the snowman...” the whispered words were repeated. 
“Jaclyn, beware, the snowman.” 

“Who are you?” I cried. “How do you know my name?” 

Sitting up in the strange bed, I grabbed the end of the quilt, 
gripping it tightly in both hands, squeezing it. 

And I listened. 

Silence now. 

“Who are you?” My cry so tiny and shrill. 

Silence. 

“Who are you?” 

Silence... 

I don’t know how long I sat there, waiting for a reply. But 
after a while, I somehow drifted off to sleep. 


The next morning I told Aunt Greta about the whispered warning. 
She sipped her coffee before replying. Then she reached 

across the table and squeezed my hand. “I had bad dreams, too, 

last night,” she said, still whispering because of her sore throat. 

“Dream?” I replied. “Do you think it was a dream?” 

Aunt Greta nodded and took another long sip of coffee. “Of 
course,” she croaked. 

I spent the day helping my aunt unpack the cartons and 
arrange our new house. I searched every carton for the poetry 
book, but I couldn’t find it. I didn’t realize how much stuff we had 
brought from our apartment in Chicago. Such a small house. It 
was a real struggle to find a place for everything. 

As we worked, I found myself thinking about Rolonda. She 
had promised to meet me at the little village church after dinner. 
She said she would tell me the truth about the snowman tonight. 

The truth... 

I pictured her brother Eli’s frightened expression as he stood 
in the snowy driveway, watching Rolonda and me. And I 
remembered how frightened they became when I told them I was 
walking to the mountaintop. 


So much fear here in this village. Was it all because of silly 
superstitions? 

After I washed and dried the dinner dishes, I pulled on my 
parka and my boots and prepared to meet Rolonda. I told Aunt 
Greta the truth. I told her I was meeting a village girl my age I’d 
met during my walk. 

“It’s snowing really hard,” Aunt Greta said in her raspy 
whisper. “Don’t stay out late, Jaclyn.” 

I promised ld be home before nine. Then I pulled up my 
hood, tugged on my gloves, and stepped outside. 

Does it snow here every day? I asked myself, shaking my 
head. 

I’ve always liked snow. But enough already! 

The snow came down hard, in sheets driven by a strong 
wind. I lowered my head and trudged down the road toward the 
church. Snowflakes blew into my face and stung my eyes. I could 
barely see. 

What a blizzard! 

I wondered if Rolonda would show up. 

The little stone church stood across from the post office. It 
wasn’t far down the road from my house. But walking into the 
blowing snow, it seemed miles away. 

Keeping my head down, I stepped into a deep drift. Cold 
snow dropped into my boot, soaking my sock. “Ohhh.” I let out a 
shuddering groan. “I’m going to freeze!” I cried out loud. 

There was no one around to hear me. The road stood empty. 
Nothing moved. I passed a brightly-lit house, but I couldn’t see 
anyone inside. 

The snow blew against my face, my coat, as if trying to push 
me back. As if trying to make me turn around. 

“This is crazy,” I murmured. “Crazy. No way Rolonda will 
meet me tonight.” 

Squinting into the gray evening light, I saw the steeple of the 
church, white against the falling snow. “I hope it’s open,” I said 
out loud. 

Ducking my head, I ran across the road—and thudded into 
something hard. And very cold. 

Evil black eyes glared into mine. 

And I started to scream. 


15 


A second later, hands jerked me away. 

And a voice cried, “Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

My scream caught in my throat. I stumbled back, my boots 
slipping in the slick, wet snow. 

I turned to see Rolonda, tugging on my coat sleeve. “I saw 
you run right into that snowman,” she said. “But why did you 
scream?” 

“J—I—” I sputtered. I squinted through the falling snow at 
the snowman, at his dark eyes, at the scar down his round face. “I 
—I just freaked,” I stammered. 

I scolded myself for acting so stupid. Now Rolonda must 
think I’m a real jerk, I thought unhappily. 

What is wrong with me, anyway? Screaming because I 
bumped into a snowman! 

“Why did someone build a snowman like that in front of the 
church?” I asked. 

Rolonda didn’t reply. Her dark eyes peered into mine. “Are 
you okay?” she asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. Fine. Let’s get out of this snow.” 

I took one last glance at the sneering snowman. Then I 
followed Rolonda to a wooden door on the side of the small 
church. We stepped inside and stamped the snow off our boots on 
a straw mat. 

“Does it ever stop snowing here?” I grumbled, pulling back 
my hood and unzipping my parka. 

“Sure. It stopped once for ten minutes. We all took a summer 
vacation!” Rolonda joked. She shook out her long, black hair. 

I glanced around. We were in some kind of waiting room. A 
long wooden bench stood against the back wall. Two lights 
shaped like old-fashioned gas lamps hung on the wall beside the 
bench, giving off a soft glow. 

We dropped our coats beside the bench and sat down. I 
rubbed my hands, trying to warm them. My cheeks burned. 

“Tt’s nice and warm in here,” Rolonda said, keeping her voice 
low. “The pastor keeps the heat up really high. He doesn’t like to 
be cold.” 

“Who does?” I murmured, rubbing my ears, trying to return 
some feeling to them. 


“Its a nice, quiet place to talk,” Rolonda continued. 
“Especially to talk about things that are... kind of scary.” 

“Scary?” I replied. 

She glanced around the small, white-walled room. She 
suddenly seemed tense. Uncomfortable. 

“Did your aunt tell you anything about the village?” Rolonda 
whispered. “Anything about the history of the village?” 

I had to lean closer to hear her. She was whispering so softly. 

Why is she so nervous? I wondered. We’re the only ones in 
the entire church. 

“No,” I replied. “Not a thing. I really don’t think Aunt Greta 
knows much about this village at all.” 

“Then why did you move here?” Rolonda demanded. 

I shrugged. “Beats me. Aunt Greta never explained. She said 
it was time for us to leave Chicago.” 

Rolonda leaned forward tensely and brought her face close to 
mine. “I'll tell you the story,” she whispered. “The history of this 
village is very strange. People don’t talk about it much.” 

“Why not?” I interrupted. 

“Because it’s so frightening,” Rolonda replied. “My brother, 
Eli, is terrified all the time. That’s why I met you here at the 
church. He doesn’t like for me to talk about any of this. He 
doesn’t like for me to talk about the snowman.” 

“Snowman?” I demanded. I stared at her eagerly. “What 
about the snowman?” 


16 


Rolonda shifted her weight. The wooden bench creaked beneath 
us. She took a deep breath and began her story. 

“Years ago, two sorcerers lived in this village. A man and a 
woman. Everyone knew they were sorcerers. But everyone left 
them alone.” 

“Were they evil sorcerers?” I interrupted. 

Rolonda shook her head. “No. I don’t think they were evil. At 
least, I don’t think they meant to be.” 

She glanced around the room again. I settled back against the 
bench and waited impatiently for her to continue. 

“One day, the two sorcerers were fooling around, having fun. 
They cast a spell on a snowman. And the snowman came to life.” 

I gasped. “Really?” 

Rolonda narrowed her eyes at me. “Please, don’t interrupt, 
Jaclyn. Please let me tell the whole story first.” 

I apologized. 

Leaning close to me, she continued her story in a whisper. 

“The sorcerers used their magic to bring the snowman to life. 
But then they lost control of it. 

“The snowman was powerful. And it was evil. The sorcerers 
had given it life. But they didn’t really know what they were 
doing. And they didn’t know that the snowman would try to 
destroy the village and everyone in it. 

“The sorcerers tried to use magic to put the snowman back to 
sleep. But their magic wasn’t powerful enough. 

“The villagers all gathered together. Somehow they managed 
to force the snowman up to the top of the mountain. 

“There is a big cave at the very top of the mountain. The 
cave is cut in ice. Everyone calls it the ice cave. 

“The villagers chased the evil snowman into the ice cave. 
Then most people moved away from the village. Few people 
wanted to stay, knowing that the evil creature was alive at the 
top of the mountain. 

“So most people left,” Rolonda continued, whispering so 
softly I could barely hear her. “The two sorcerers probably left, 
too. No one really knows what happened to them. 

“And that’s when Conrad comes into the story,” Rolonda 
said. 


I stared at her. “Conrad? The weird guy with the white 
beard?” 

Rolonda nodded. “After the evil snowman was chased into 
the ice cave, Conrad moved up there. He built a cabin just 
beneath the ice cave. No one could figure out why. 

“Is Conrad trying to protect the town?” Rolonda continued. 
“Does he work for the snowman? Does he help the snowman? Or 
does he think that living so close to the evil snowman will keep 
him safe? 

“No one knows. Conrad very seldom comes down from the 
mountaintop. And when he does come into the village, he doesn’t 
talk to anyone. 

“No one knows for sure who he is or why he stays up there,” 
Rolonda continued. “No one has anything to do with Conrad. We 
don’t know if he’s crazy or evil.” 

She sighed. Once again, her eyes darted around the room. 
She seemed so nervous, as if she didn’t want anyone else to know 
that she was telling me the history of the village. 

“Some nights,” she continued, “we can hear the snowman up 
there on top of the mountain. Some nights we can hear him 
roaring and bellowing with rage. Some nights, we can hear him 
howling, howling like a wolf. 

“We’ve all built snowmen. Snowmen that look like him. 
Everyone in the village builds them.” 

I jumped to my feet. “So that’s why I see those weird 
snowmen everywhere!” I cried. 

Rolonda raised a finger to her lips. She motioned for me to sit 
back down. 

I dropped back onto the bench. “Why do you build the 
snowmen?” I demanded. “Why is there one in just about every 
single yard?” 

“To honor him,” Rolonda replied. 

“Huh? Honor him?” I cried. 

“You know what I mean,” she said sharply. “People hope that 
if the evil snowman comes down from the ice cave, he’ll see the 
little snowmen that look like him. It will make him happy and 
keep him from doing any harm.” 

Rolonda squeezed my hand. Her dark eyes burned into mine. 
“Now do you understand?” she whispered. “Now do you 
understand why we’re all so afraid?” 

I stared back at her—and burst out laughing. 


17 


I shouldn’t have laughed. But I just couldn’t help it. 

I mean, Rolonda seemed like a really smart girl. She couldn’t 
really believe that story—could she? 

It’s a joke, I decided. A story the villagers tell to scare people 
who move here. 

I stopped laughing when I saw the startled expression on 
Rolonda’s face. “Hey, come on,” I said. “You’re kidding—right?” 

She shook her head solemnly. Her dark eyes glowed in the 
dim light. Such serious eyes. 

“You don’t really believe that a snowman can walk, do you?” 
I demanded. My voice echoed shrilly in the small room. “You 
don’t really believe that a snowman can be alive!” 

“T believe it,” Rolonda replied in a low, trembling voice. “It’s 
not a joke, Jaclyn. I believe it. And everyone in the village 
believes it.” 

I stared at her. The ceiling creaked, probably from the weight 
of the snow on the roof. I shifted my weight on the hard wooden 
bench. 

“But have you ever seen it?” I asked. “Have you ever seen the 
snowman walk?” 

She blinked. “Well... no,” she confessed. “But I’ve heard him 
late at night, Jaclyn. I’ve heard his howls and his angry cries.” 

She climbed to her feet. “I won’t go close enough to see him. 
I’m too afraid,” she said. “I won’t go up to the ice cave. No one 
will.” 

“But, Rolonda—’” I started. 

Then I stopped. Her chin trembled. I could see the fear in her 
eyes. 

Just talking about the snowman had frightened her. 

I wanted to tell her that the story couldn’t be true. I wanted to 
tell her that it sounded like a silly superstition. A fairy tale. 

But I didn’t want to insult her. 

She might be my only friend here, I thought. 

I stood up and pulled on my coat. Then the two of us made 
our way out of the church. 

The snow had stopped. But a gusting wind blew down from 
the mountain. The wind made the fresh snow swirl and dance 
around our boots. 


I pulled my hood over my hair and lowered my head into the 
wind. No way I could ever believe such a wild story, I thought. 
Why doesn’t Rolonda see how crazy it is? 

We made our way up the road, our boots sinking into the 
powdery, fresh snow. We didn’t talk. Our voices wouldn’t carry 
over the loud rush of the wind. 

I walked Rolonda home. We stopped at the bottom of her 
snow-covered driveway. “Thanks for telling me about the 
snowman,” I said. 

Her eyes locked on mine. “You had to be told,” she said 
solemnly. And then she added, “You’ve got to believe me, Jaclyn. 
It’s true. All of it.” 

I didn’t reply. I said good night. Then I turned and, leaning 
into the wind, headed for my house. 

I was nearly there when I heard a sound over the roaring 
wind. 

A heavy THUD THUD THUD coming up rapidly behind me. 


18 


I froze. 

For a moment, I thought it was my imagination. 

I pictured an enormous, evil snowman, as tall as a house, 
lumbering after me. 

“No!” I murmured. And spun around. And saw Rolonda’s 
brother, Eli, running up to me. 

His heavy workboots thudded over the snow. His sheepskin 
coat was open, flapping out as he ran. 

“Eli—it’s late!” I cried. “What are you doing out here?” 

He didn’t reply. Breathing hard, his chest heaving up and 
down under his sweater, he eyed me suspiciously. 

“She told you—didn’t she?” he demanded breathlessly. 

“Huh?” We moved behind a wide tree, out of the wind. “Eli— 
what is your problem?” I demanded. 

“Rolonda told you—didn’t she?” he repeated. “She told you 
about the snowman.” He pointed toward the mountaintop. 

“Well... yeah,” I replied. A clump of snow dropped from the 
tree onto the front of my parka. I brushed it away. 

“Eli, are you crazy? It’s freezing out here! Zip up your coat,” I 
scolded. 

“Rolonda doesn’t know one thing,” Eli continued, still 
breathing hard. “She doesn’t know that I saw it. I saw the 
snowman.” 

I stared at him. “You saw the snowman? You saw the living 
snowman?” 

Eli nodded. “Yes. I saw him. But that’s not the scary part.” 

“Eli—what is the scary part?” I demanded. 


19 


He stared at me. The wind ruffled his dark hair, but his eyes 
remained steady, hard. 

“What is the scary part?” I repeated. 

“The scary part,” Eli replied, “is that the snowman saw me!” 

The wind howled around the tree. I dragged Eli to the side of 
the nearest house. We pressed against the wall. Shivering, he 
finally zipped up his coat. 

“Eli—the story is crazy,” I insisted. “I really don’t think—” 

“Just let me tell you what happened,” he pleaded. “Then you 
can decide if it’s crazy or not.” 

He shivered again. “It saw me, Jaclyn. The snowman stared 
at me. It saw me. It knows who I am. It knows that I saw it. And 
that’s why I’m so afraid of it.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 

He raised a gloved hand to silence me. “Wait. Please.” He 
took a deep breath. “It happened a few weeks ago. My two friends 
and I—we climbed up the mountain. We wanted to see the ice 
cave. So we sneaked around Conrad’s cabin.” 

“T don’t get it,” I said. “What does Conrad have to do with 
it?” 

“He won’t let anyone near the ice cave,” Eli replied. “He 
keeps everyone away. Conrad is so weird. Some people think he 
works for the snowman. He protects the snowman by keeping 
everyone from the village away.” 

“But you sneaked past Conrad?” I asked. 

Eli nodded. “Yeah. My friends and I. And we climbed up 
close to the ice cave. I had never seen the cave before.” 

“What does it look like?” I asked. 

Eli made a sweeping motion with both hands, outlining the 
shape of the cave for me. “It’s a huge cave, cut into the side of the 
mountain,” he said. “It’s made of ice. All smooth and shiny. It 
looks like glass. 

“The cave entrance is wide and totally black. And it has huge 
icicles hanging down all along the front. With points as sharp as 
knives.” 

“Wow,” I murmured. “It sounds kind of pretty.” 

“Yeah. In a way,” Eli agreed. “But we didn’t think it was 
pretty when the snowman came out.” 


I stared hard at Eli, studying his face. “You really saw a 
snowman walking?” I demanded. 

Eli nodded. “We heard a rumbling sound. The ground started 
to shake. My friends and I got scared. We thought it was an 
earthquake or an avalanche or something. 

“My friends started to run down the mountain. But I stayed. 
And I saw it. The snowman poked his head out of the cave. He 
was as big as a grizzly bear. And he had a scar cut deep into his 
face. 

“His eyes searched around. Then they stopped on me. And 
his mouth opened in an angry roar. He—he—” 

Eli took a deep breath. Then he started again. “The snowman 
stepped out of the cave. The ground shook. It really did. Snow 
blew all over the place. 

“The snowman stared at me. And he roared again. And—and 
I took off,” Eli continued breathlessly. “I ran past Conrad’s cabin. 
I ran all the way down the mountain. And I never looked back.” 

“What about your friends?” I asked. 

“They were waiting for me down at the bottom,” Eli replied. 
“We just went to our houses. We never talked about it.” 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“Too afraid, I guess,” Eli said, glancing down. “We never 
talked about it. We never mentioned it. I never even told 
Rolonda. It was just too frightening to talk about.” 

He raised his eyes to me. “But now I have dreams,” he 
confessed. “Bad dreams about the snowman. Every night.” 

I stared at him, unsure of what to say. His whole body was 
trembling. From the cold? I wondered. Or from being so afraid? 

He gazed back at me, waiting for me to say something. “Eli, 
you didn’t tell Rolonda about this. Why are you telling me?” I 
asked. 

“So you will believe the story,” he replied solemnly. “You're 
new, Jaclyn. You probably think it’s all silly. But you have to stay 
away from the ice cave.” 

“But, Eli—” I started. 

“You didn’t believe my sister—did you!” he accused. “You 
didn’t believe her story.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“That’s why I waited for you,” he explained. “I waited to tell 
you my story. Do you believe me, Jaclyn? Do you believe that I 
saw the snowman?” 

“I—II don’t know,” I told him. 

The wind swirled around the wall of the house. I felt my nose 


and cheeks. My whole face was numb. “I’ve got to get home,” I 
said. 

Eli grabbed my parka sleeve. “Jaclyn, don’t go up to the ice 
cave,” he pleaded. “Please, believe my story. It’s true.” 

I pulled my arm away. Then I started to jog over the snow 
toward my house. “Go home, Eli,” I called back. “Go home before 
you freeze.” 

I jogged all the way home. It felt good to run and not think 
about anything. 

Jogging on fresh, powdery snow was difficult. My boots kept 
slipping on the slick, hard surface underneath. By the time I 
reached home, my legs ached. 

Breathing hard, I pushed open the front door. To my surprise, 
the house was totally dark. 

I pulled off a glove and squinted at my wrist-watch. Only 
nine o’clock. 

Did Aunt Greta go to bed so early? She usually stays up until 
at least midnight. 

I clicked on the ceiling light and glanced around the small 
living room. A magazine lay open on the couch. Nothing else was 
out of place. 

Leaning against the front door, I pulled off my wet boots and 
stood them in the corner. Then I tugged off my parka and 
dropped it onto the couch. 

My eyes stopped at the door to Aunt Greta’s bedroom. 

The door stood open. Darkness beyond the door. 

I quickly made my way across the room and peeked into my 
aunt’s bedroom. “Aunt Greta?” I called softly. 

No reply. 

I stepped into the room. “Aunt Greta? Are you in here?” 

I fumbled at the lamp on her dresser and finally managed to 
click it on. 

“Aunt Greta—?” 

No. Not in bed. Not in her room. 

“Aunt Greta—are you home?” I called loudly. 

I headed out of her room. “Ohh!” I cried out when I stepped 
in something. 

Something cold and wet soaked through my sock. 

“Huh?” I lowered my gaze to see a wide puddle of cold water 
on the bedroom floor. 

“How did that get there?” I murmured. 

I suddenly felt worried. 


“Aunt Greta?” I called, hurrying back into the living room. 
“Aunt Greta? Where are you?” 


20 


Panic swept over me. 

Where could she be? 

I started for the kitchen—when a rattling at the front door 
made me stop. 

Was someone breaking in? 

I gasped as the door slowly creaked open. 

And Aunt Greta came bustling in, brushing snow off her long, 
black coat. She smiled at me. But her smile instantly died when 
she saw my expression. 

“Jaclyn—what’s wrong?” 

“J—I—I—” I sputtered. “Aunt Greta—where were you? I got 
so scared.” 

She pulled off her coat. “Didn’t you see my note?” 

“Huh? Note?” 

“T left it for you on the refrigerator,” she said. “I met a nice 
couple this morning at the general store. They came by and 
invited me over for dessert and coffee.” 

“Oh. That’s nice,” I choked out. My heart still pounded in my 
chest. 

“Why did you get scared?” Aunt Greta demanded, hanging 
her coat in the front closet. She straightened her long, white braid 
behind her sweater. 

“Well, I was in your room. Looking for you. And I stepped in 
a cold puddle on the floor,” I replied. 

“Puddle? Show me,” Aunt Greta demanded. 

I led the way to the bedroom and pointed to the wide wet 
spot on the floor. Aunt Greta gazed up at the ceiling. “Maybe the 
roof leaks,” she murmured. “We’ll have to examine it tomorrow 
morning.” 

“I—I thought it was the snowman,” I blurted out. “I know it’s 
crazy, but I thought he had been here. I thought he’d broken into 
the house and—” 

I stopped when I saw the shock on my aunt’s face. Her mouth 
dropped open and she uttered a silent gasp. 

“Jaclyn—what are you talking about?” she demanded. “What 
have your friends been telling you? More nonsense about a 
snowman?” 

“Yes,” I confessed. “Rolonda and Eli, the two village kids I 


met. They both told me a crazy story about a living snowman 
who stays in an ice cave at the top of the mountain. They said—” 

“Its all superstition,” Aunt Greta interrupted. “It’s all old 
tales that have been handed down. None of it is true. You’re 
smart enough to know that, Jaclyn.” 

“Yes,” I agreed. “But Rolonda and Eli seem so frightened. 
They really believe the story. And Eli begged me not to go up to 
the ice cave.” 

“Probably good advice,” Aunt Greta said. She crossed the 
room and placed a hand tenderly on my shoulder. “You probably 
shouldn’t go up to the mountaintop, dear,” she said softly. 

“Why not?” I demanded. 

“There must be some kind of real danger up there,” she 
replied. “Not a living snowman. But something else dangerous.” 

She sighed. “That’s how these old stories get started. 
Something bad happened on the mountaintop. Then the story 
changed each time it was told. Years later, no one remembers 
what really happened. And now everyone believes a crazy story 
about a living snowman.” 

She shook her head. 

“Have you seen all the strange snowmen in this village?” I 
asked her. “All the snowmen with scars on their faces and red 
scarves? Don’t you think they’re spooky?” 

“It’s a strange village tradition,” Aunt Greta confessed. “Very 
quaint. I think they’re very interesting looking.” 

“Interesting?” I frowned at her. 

“Well, make me a promise,” she said, yawning. 

“Promise?” 

“Promise me you won’t go running up to the mountaintop to 
explore the ice cave. It probably is a very dangerous place.” 

“Well...” I hesitated. 

“Promise,” Aunt Greta urged sternly. 

“Okay. I promise,” I agreed, rolling my eyes. 

But a few minutes later, I decided to break that promise. 

I was lying in my attic bed, my eyes shut tight. Listening. 
Listening to the strange howls from the mountaintop. 

Were they animal? Were they human? 

I hate mysteries. I have to know the answers to things. 

I’m going up there, I decided. 

I don’t care what I promised my aunt. I’m climbing up to the 
ice cave. 

Tomorrow. 


21 


I didn’t dream of snowmen that night. I dreamed about fluffy 
white kittens with sky-blue eyes. Dozens of them. The whitest 
kittens I ever saw. 

They began climbing over one another. Silently at first. And 
then they started to screech and hiss. A frightening, ugly sound. 

Suddenly they all wore red scarves around their necks. 

They clawed at each other, arching their pure white backs. 
Hissing and screeching. 

Until I woke up. 

Yellow morning sunlight poured through the round window 
at the other end of my bedroom. I could smell bacon frying 
downstairs. Aunt Greta was already up and about. 

I decided to climb the mountain right after breakfast. I didn’t 
want to think about it anymore. I wanted to go up there and solve 
the mystery. 

I knew that strange, white-bearded guy Conrad was a 
problem. If he saw me, he’d try to stop me. He and his wolf. 

But I had a plan to take care of Conrad. 

If only Rolonda and Eli would help... 

As it turned out, I didn’t get out of the house till after lunch. 
Aunt Greta needed me to hang curtains with her. And then we put 
up the paintings and posters she had brought from Chicago. 

The house was tiny and cramped. But it was starting to feel a 
little more like home. 

“Where are you going?” Aunt Greta called as I pulled on my 
parka and gloves and started out the door. 

“Uh... nowhere really,” I lied. “Just going to hang out with 
Rolonda and Eli.” 

As I said their names, I saw them walking up my front yard. 

I closed the front door behind me and hurried out to greet 
them. Eli carried a snow shovel. Rolonda dragged two slender 
tree branches. She dropped them at my feet. 

“What’s that for?” I asked. “What are you guys doing here?” 

“We have to build your snowman,” Rolonda replied 
solemnly. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“You won’t be safe until you have a snowman in your yard,” 
Eli said. 


“Listen, guys...” I started. 

“The snow is very wet,” Rolonda reported. 

“Good packing snow. It shouldn’t take long. Eli and I brought 
everything we need.” 

“But I don’t have time to build a snowman,” I protested. “I 
want to climb up to the ice cave this morning.” 

They both gasped. Eli gripped the shovel handle and gaped at 
me. 

“You can’t—!” Eli cried. 

“Jaclyn, I warned you—” Rolonda said. 

“T have to see it for myself,” I told them. And then I added, “I 
want you to come with me.” 

“No!” Eli gasped. 

Rolonda just shook her head. “You know we won’t go up to 
the ice cave, Jaclyn. And we don’t want you to go, either.” 

“But if we all go together...” I urged. 

“No!” they both cried. 

I could see real fear on their faces. Staring at them, I 
suddenly had an idea. 

“Okay, okay,” I said. “Pll make a deal with you.” 

They eyed me suspiciously. “What kind of deal?” Rolonda 
demanded. 

“PIL stay here and build the snowman—if you will help me 
when we’re done,” I said. 

“No. We won’t go with you,” Rolonda insisted. “You can’t get 
us to go up to the ice cave, Jaclyn.” 

“No deal,” Eli added sternly. 

“You don’t have to go up to the ice cave,” I told them. “You 
just have to keep Conrad busy so I can sneak past him.” 

“Huh? How are we going to do that?” Eli asked, leaning on 
the shovel. 

“We'll think of something when we get up there,” I replied. 
“If you can keep him talking to you, maybe I can sneak past and 
get up to the cave.” 

“But we don’t want you to go to the ice cave!” Rolonda 
insisted. 

“Tm going to do it one way or the other,” I told her. “With or 
without you. So are you going to help me or not?” 

They glanced tensely at each other. Eli whispered something 
to his sister. Rolonda whispered something back. 

Then Rolonda turned to me. “Will you build the snowman 
first?” she asked. 


“You won't be safe without the snowman,” Eli added. 

I wanted to tell them that building a snowman wouldn’t 
protect me against anything. I wanted to tell them how silly the 
whole thing was. 

But I needed their help. I knew I could never get past Conrad 
and his wolf without them. 

“Okay. Fine. First, we’ll build the snowman,” I agreed. 

“Then Eli and I will help you,” Rolonda promised. 

“But we won’t go any farther than Conrad’s cabin,” Eli 
insisted in a trembling voice. 

“Great!” I replied. “Let’s get started.” 

I bent down and started rolling a snowball for the snowman’s 
body. Rolonda was right. It was good packing snow. I rolled the 
ball across my snowy yard until it was big enough for two of us to 
roll. Rolonda and I worked on the body. Eli worked on the 
snowball for the head. 

Building one of the strange snowmen gave me a creepy 
feeling. I felt as if I had become part of the superstition. I was 
taking part in some kind of ancient village tradition. A tradition 
built on fear. 

The people of the village all built these snowmen because 
they were afraid. And now here I was, building one, too. 

Should I be afraid? I wondered. 

I felt glad when the snowman was finished. Rolonda pulled a 
red scarf from her coat pocket, and we wrapped it under the 
scarred head. 

The snowman’s dark eyes seemed to glare at me. The mouth 
was turned down in an angry sneer. The arms bobbed softly in the 
wind. 

“Okay. Good job,” I told my two new friends. “Now let’s get 
going.” I motioned toward the mountaintop. 

“Are you sure you want to do this?” Eli asked in a tiny voice. 

“Sure, I’m sure!” I declared loudly. 

But as we started making our way along the road, I didn’t 
feel as sure as I pretended. 

The road curved up the mountain. Soon the houses ended 
and we were walking through snowy woods. 

We didn’t talk. We kept our eyes straight ahead. 

The afternoon sun was slowly lowering itself behind the 
trees. Blue shadows stretched over the snow. The air grew colder 
as we climbed. 

When Conrad’s low cabin came into view, my heart began to 
pound. 


I tried to keep my mind calm and clear. But question after 
question whirred through my brain. 

Was Conrad inside the cabin? 

Where was the white wolf? 

Would my plan work? 


22 


All three of us stopped at the end of the road and stared at the 
cabin up ahead. The late afternoon sun had fallen behind the 
trees. The snow billowed in front of us in shades of gray. 

To the left of the cabin, I saw a row of low evergreen shrubs, 
covered in snow. 

“PIL hide behind those shrubs,” I told Rolonda and Eli. “You 
run up to the cabin and keep Conrad and the wolf from seeing 
me.” 

“This isn’t going to work,” Eli muttered, his eyes on the 
cabin. 

“Its getting kind of dark,” Rolonda fretted. “Maybe we 
should come back in the morning.” 

“Maybe we should forget the whole idea,” Eli suggested. I 
saw his chin quiver. He shuddered. 

“Hey—you promised!” I exclaimed. “A promise is a promise 
—tright?” 

They didn’t reply. They both stared across the gray snow at 
the dark cabin up ahead. 

“T came this far. I’m not going back,” I said sharply. “Are you 
going to help me or not?” 

I gasped when I heard a low growl from the cabin. The wolf 
must have heard or smelled us. 

I knew it would come running out any second. 

“Come on!” I urged in a loud whisper. And I took off for the 
snow-covered shrubs. 

I ducked out of view just as Conrad and the wolf burst out of 
the cabin. 

“Hello!” Rolonda cried to Conrad. 

“Hi!” Eli echoed. 

I watched Rolonda and Eli go running up to Conrad. 

The wolf lowered its head, watching them carefully. 

I saw Rolonda and Eli, both talking at once, chattering with 
Conrad. I couldn’t hear what they were saying. 

They’re doing it! I told myself, my heart pounding. They’re 
keeping his attention. 

Time for me to move. 

Time for me to make a run for it. 

I could hear Rolonda talking to Conrad. I glanced over the 


top of the bush. The wolf had its back to me. 

Conrad was scratching his gray hair, listening to Rolonda. I 
couldn’t see his expression. But I imagined he was very confused 
and surprised. 

I knew he didn’t get any visitors. 

He must be wondering what Rolonda and Eli were doing up 
here! 

I forced all of these thoughts from my mind. 

It was time for me to make a run for it. 

I took a deep breath. 

Then, still crouching, I began to run. 

My legs felt like Jell-O. My boots sank into the deep snow. 

Ducking my head, I darted up the steep mountainside. 

Up, up. 

I had just passed the bushes when I heard Conrad’s angry 
shout—“Hey, wait!” 


23 


I stopped so suddenly, I fell over backward! 

I landed hard. The snow seemed to fly up in my face, sweep 
over me, surround me. Everything went white. 

I’m caught, I realized. 

My plan didn’t work. 

I stood up and turned to face Conrad. 

To my shock, he wasn’t coming after me. He and the wolf 
were running downhill. Chasing after Rolonda and Eli. 

I heard the wolf utter a high growl. Then they disappeared 
around a curve. 

I stood frozen in place, staring at the spot where they had 
just been. 

Would Conrad harm Rolonda and Eli? 

Should I run after them and try to help them? 

No. I had to keep going. 

This was the plan. This was my chance. 

Taking another deep breath, I turned and started to run up 
the mountainside. The climb was steep for a while. So steep I 
wasn’t sure I could make it. 

But then the ground leveled off. I found myself on a wide 
ledge. The ledge was slick. My boots slipped on the ice. 

I pressed my back against the mountain wall. 

And gazed up at the ice cave. 

Yes! 

There it stood above me. A cave as tall as a building. Smooth 
and glassy, it reflected the clouds in the sky above it. 

I couldn’t see the entrance from here. I was staring at one of 
the sides. 

The ledge narrowed as it curled up to the cave. 

I kept my back pressed against the wall and slowly—step by 
step—inched my way toward the top. 

“Don’t look down!” I murmured out loud. 

But as soon as I said it, I had to look. 

It was a deep drop from the ledge to the ground far, far 
below. 

If I slipped and fell... 

I’m not going to slip and fall! I told myself. 

A deep, rumbling sound made me jump! 


I grabbed the mountainside with both hands to keep from 
falling. 

The ledge trembled beneath me. 

Another low rumble made me cry out in fear. 

The ledge trembled again. The whole mountain seemed to 
shake! 

The sound came from the cave. 

Is something moving up there? I wondered. 

Or is it the normal sound of a mountaintop in the wind? 

I gathered my courage and moved forward. Inch by inch. 

I had come this far. I refused to retreat now. 

The ledge grew narrower, slipperier, as it curved around. 

Another rumbling noise made me gasp. 

Somehow I held on. And followed the ledge around. 

It seemed to take forever. But then the cave opening came 
into view. 

And after that, I saw the most terrifying sight of my life. 


24 


I didn’t see it at first. 

First, I saw the layer of solid ice that covered the ledge. The 
glassy cave rose up behind the ledge. The gaping entrance to the 
cave was blacker than the darkest night. 

I stood staring into the darkness. Trying to catch my breath. 
Trying to slow my pounding heart. 

Clouds reflected in the glassy ice drifted rapidly to the right. 
They made the cave appear to move. 

Sharply pointed icicles stabbed down from the roof of the 
cave opening. They reminded me of sharpened teeth about to 
close. 

I stared into the black cave opening and waited. Waited to 
see if anything would appear. 

I didn’t have to wait long. 

A rumble as loud as thunder made the ledge quake. 

Afraid I might slip off, I dropped to my knees. 

The rumble grew to a roar. 

And a tall, white figure lumbered out from the blackness of 
the cave entrance. An enormous snowman! 

I gasped—and stared in horror as the mountain of snow 
moved toward me. “Nooooo!” I wailed. 

I forgot where I was. Forgot I was perched on a narrow ice 
ledge. 

And started to back up, to back away from the tall creature. 

And I slipped. 

Slipped off the ledge. 

And felt myself fall. 


25 


My hands shot up. 

Shot up and dug into the ledge. 

I gripped the icy ledge. Held on. Held on. 

With a terrified groan, I scrambled back up to safety. 
Trembling. My entire body shaking. My breaths escaping in short, 
frantic gasps. 

I huddled on my knees on the icy ledge and watched the 
snowman as it glared down at me. Its blood-red scarf flapped in 
the wind. Its round, black eyes were as big as doorknobs. Its dark 
mouth turned down in a fierce, angry sneer. 

And the scar. The scar cut deeply into the side of its round 
head, long and curling, like a black snake. 

“Ohhhhhh.” I uttered another moan as its tree branch arms 
reached for me. 

I shivered in a sudden, deep cold. A cold I’d never felt before. 
I could see frozen waves floating from the snowman’s wide body. 

And then the big, round head tilted. The black eyes bulged 
even wider. 

And the snowman bellowed in a deep roar of a voice: “WHO 
ARE YOU?” 

I trembled in the waves of cold that floated off its body. 

It talks! 

The stories Rolonda and Eli told me are true. It’s all true. 

Its round eyes locked on mine, the big snowman moved 
closer. Closer. 

I wanted to stand up. I wanted to run. 

But it had me frozen there. 

I couldn’t stand. I couldn’t back up. I couldn’t escape from it. 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the snowman bellowed again. And the 
whole mountain shook. 

“J—I—” My voice came out in a quivering squeak. 

“Please—” I managed to choke out. “Please—I didn’t mean to 
bother you. I—” 

“WHO ARE YOU?” the huge snow creature thundered for the 
third time. 

“My name?” I squeaked. “My name is Jaclyn. Jaclyn 
DeForest.” 

The snowman’s tree branch arms shot up. Its dark mouth 


gaped open in surprise. 

“SAY IT AGAIN,” it ordered. 

I shivered in the waves of cold. “Jaclyn DeForest,” I repeated 
in my tiny, frightened voice. 

The snowman stared down at me in silence for a long while. 
It lowered its arms to its round, white sides. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” it demanded. 

I swallowed hard. The question took me totally by surprise. I 
opened my mouth to answer, but no sound came out. 

“DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM?” the snowman thundered. 

“No,” I squeaked. “Who are you?” 

“I AM YOUR FATHER!” the snowman cried. 


26 


“Nooooooo!” A long wail escaped my throat. 

I wanted to get away from there. I wanted to run. To slide 
down the mountain. To fly away. 

But I couldn’t move. 

The snowman trapped me in his icy grip. Held me there on 
the ledge. Froze me in wave after wave of cold. 

“Jaclyn—I am your father,” the snowman repeated, lowering 
his booming voice. He stared down at me with those frightening, 
round glassy eyes. “Believe me.” 

“Th-that’s impossible!” I stammered. I hugged myself, trying 
to stop my body from trembling. “You’re a snowman! You can’t be 
my father!” 

“Listen to me!” the snowman roared. “I am your father. Your 
mother was a sorceress. And so is your aunt. Your aunt practices 
all sorts of magic.” 

“No—!” I protested. His lies made me gather my courage. I 
climbed to my feet. 

“That’s not true!” I cried angrily. “I’ve never seen Aunt Greta 
do any magic. You’re lying!” 

The snowman bobbed from side to side. The ledge shook 
beneath me. I nearly lost my balance. 

“T do not lie, Jaclyn,” he insisted. His arms raised up, as if he 
were pleading with me. “I’m telling the truth.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Your mother did this to me,” the snowman said. “She used 
her magic and turned me into a snowman. You were two years 
old. She turned me into a snowman. She tried to turn me back. 
But she failed. Then she and your aunt Greta took you and ran 
away from the village.” 

“Your story doesn’t make any sense!” I cried. “If what you 
say is true, why did we move back here? Why did Aunt Greta 
bring us back to the village?” 

“Your aunt had a good reason for coming back,” the 
snowman explained. “She knows that after ten years, the magic 
spell starts to fade.” 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. My head felt frozen. It 
was hard to think. I struggled to make sense of what he was 
telling me. 

“After ten years, the spell fades,” the snowman repeated. 


“Your aunt came back to renew the spell. She wants me to stay a 
snowman. She wants to keep me prisoner up here forever. She 
wants to make sure I don’t tell the world what happened to me. 
And she wants to keep you to herself!” 

“Aunt Greta is not a sorceress!” I protested. “I’ve lived with 
her most of my life. And I’ve never seen her do any kind of magic. 
She doesn’t—” 

“PLEASE!” the snowman bellowed, raising a tree branch arm 
to silence me. “There isn’t much time. Pm your father, Jaclyn. 
Your real father. You’ve got to believe me.” 

“But, I—I—” I didn’t know what to say. I couldn’t think 
straight. It was all too... crazy. 

“You can get me out of this,” the snowman pleaded. “You can 
save me. But you’ve got to hurry. Your aunt Greta will renew the 
spell soon. If you don’t save me, I’ll be a snowman for another ten 
years.” 

“But what can I do?” I cried. “I’m not a sorceress. I can’t do 
magic. What can I do?” 

“You can save me,” the giant snow creature insisted. “But I 
cannot tell you how.” He uttered a bitter sigh. 

“Tf I tell you how to save me, it will only strengthen the spell,” 
he continued. “You’ve got to figure it out for yourself.” 

“Huh? But how?” I demanded. 

“I can give you a hint,” the snowman replied. “I cannot tell 
you how to save me. But I can give you a hint.” 

“Okay,” I said softly. I hugged myself more tightly. 

And I listened as, in his deep rumble of a voice, the snowman 
recited the familiar rhyme: 


“When the snows blow wild 
And the day grows old, 

Beware, the snowman, my child. 
Beware, the snowman. 

He brings the cold.” 


I stared up at him in shock. “You—you know the poem!” I 
stammered. 

“That is your clue,” the snowman said softly. “That is the 
only hint I can give you. Now you must figure out how to rescue 
me.” 

I already knew how to rescue him. 

I knew instantly when he recited the old rhyme. 

The second verse. The secret had to be in the second verse. 


The verse I couldn’t remember. 

“Please, Jaclyn.” The snowman gazed down at me, pleading. 
“Please. Help me. I’m your father, Jaclyn. I’m really your father.” 

I stared back at him. Trying to decide. Trying so hard to 
decide. 

Should I believe him? 

Should I help him? 


27 


Yes, I decided. 

Yes. Pll run home. Ill find the old poetry book. And Pll read 
the second verse of the rhyme. 

“Pm coming back!” I called up to the snowman. I spun away 
from him, pulled myself out of his invisible, cold grip. 

I started to run down the ledge. And gasped when I nearly 
ran into Aunt Greta! 

“Aunt Greta—!” I cried in shock. 

“T tried to warn you!” she called to me. “I tried to scare you, 
Jaclyn. To keep you from coming up here.” 

So, it was Aunt Greta who whispered up to my room late at 
night, who warned me to beware of the snowman! 

Her dark eyes were wild. Her normally pale face was bright 
red! Her long, black coat was open and flapped behind her in the 
wind. 

She raised a large, black book in one hand above her head. 
“Jaclyn—is this what you’re looking for?” she demanded shrilly. 

“The poetry book?” I cried. 

My aunt nodded. She held the book high above her. 

“Aunt Greta—is it true?” I asked, glancing back at the huge 
snowman. “Is he really my father?” 

My aunt’s face twisted in surprise. “Huh? Your father?” she 
cried. “What a lie! Is that what he told you? That he’s your father? 
It’s a lie. A horrible lie!” 

“NOOOOOO!” the snowman boomed. 

I jumped. But Aunt Greta ignored the thunderous cry. 

“Its a lie, Jaclyn,” she repeated, glaring angrily at the 
snowman. “He isn’t your father. He’s an evil monster!” 

“NOOOOO!” the snowman bellowed again. The whole 
mountain shook from his protest. 

“Your mother and father were sorcerers,” Aunt Greta 
continued, ignoring him. “They practiced their magic night and 
day. But they went too far. They created him accidentally.” 

Aunt Greta pointed to the snowman, her face bitter. “He’s an 
evil monster,” she repeated through gritted teeth. “When your 
parents saw what they had done, they were horrified. They froze 
the monster inside the snowman body. Soon after, your father 
disappeared. Your mother and I took you and ran from the 


village. We ran to be safe from the monster’s horrible evil!” 

“YOU ARE A LIAR!” the snowman raged. He waved his stick 
arms wildly in the air. His scarf blew out at his sides like hawk 
wings. Wave after wave of cold shot off his bulging body. 

“Jaclyn, don’t believe her!” the snowman pleaded. “Save me 
—please! I am your father.” 

His arms reached out to me. “Please,” he begged. “I know it 
is hard for you to believe. But your aunt is the evil one. She is a 
sorceress. She and your mother and I—we were all sorcerers. I am 
not evil. I am not a monster. Please—” 

“Liar!” Aunt Greta shrieked. She gripped the big book angrily 
in both hands, as if ready to throw it at him. “I know no magic!” 
Aunt Greta cried. “I know no spells! I am not a sorceress!” 

She opened the book and began frantically shuffling through 
the pages. “I’m not a sorceress. But I brought this book because I 
know its secret. I know what I need to do to make sure you stay 
frozen in that snowman body forever!” 

The snowman continued to reach out to me. “Jaclyn, save 
me. Save me now,” he pleaded. 

I turned from him to my aunt, then back to him. 

Who should I believe? 

Which one was telling the truth? 

Suddenly, I had an idea. 


28 


I grabbed the open poetry book from my aunt’s hands. 

“What are you doing?” she shrieked. 

She moved quickly to wrestle it away from me. 

We both tugged at it. The old pages tore and flew out. The 
heavy cover cracked. 

Aunt Greta made a desperate swipe at it. 

But I pulled it away from her. Then I backed up against the 
wall of the ice cave. 

Aunt Greta took a step toward me. Then she gazed up at the 
snowman and decided not to come that close to him. 

“Jaclyn—you’re making a big mistake!” Aunt Greta warned. 

Leaning against the smooth cave wall, I flipped frantically 
through the pages of the old book. “I’m going to find the poem,” I 
told her. “I’m going to read the second verse. It’s the only way to 
know the truth.” 

“THANK YOU, DAUGHTER!” the snowman bellowed. 

Aunt Greta uttered a wail of protest. “I’m telling you the 
truth, Jaclyn!” she cried. “I have taken care of you all these years. 
I would not lie to you.” 

But ld made up my mind. 

I had to read the second verse. It was the only way I could 
find out who was lying and who was telling the truth. 

“He’s a monster!” Aunt Greta cried. 

The snowman stood still and silent, watching me furiously 
shuffle through the pages. 

Where was that rhyme? Where? 

I glanced up. “Aunt Greta—?” 

She bent down and picked up a torn page from the snow. As 
her eyes moved over the page, a smile spread over her face. 

The wind blew her coat behind her. Her eyes were wild. The 
page fluttered in her hand. 

“Jaclyn, I can’t let you read the rhyme,” she said. 

“You—you have it in your hand?” I cried. 

“T can’t let you read it,” Aunt Greta repeated. 

And tossed the page over the ledge. 


29 


I let out a shriek. 

I watched the page float out over the ledge. I watched it fly 
up, then start to drop. 

It’s lost, I realized. 

The second verse is lost forever. 

The swirling wind will carry it down the mountain, down the 
steep drop. It will never be seen again. 

And then, I cried out again—as the wind carried the page up. 
Up. Back up. 

And into my hand! 

I grabbed it out of the air. 

I stared at it in amazement. 

And before Aunt Greta could grab it back, I raised the page to 
my face and started to read the second verse of the rhyme out 
loud: 


“When the snows melt 
And the warm sun is with thee, 
Beware, the snowman—” 


“Noooooo!” Aunt Greta wailed. She dove toward me. With a 
desperate swipe, she pulled the page from my hand. 

And ripped it to shreds. 

The snowman uttered a horrified groan. He bent. Reached 
out to grab Aunt Greta. 

Too late. 

The jagged strips of paper fluttered to the snow. 

“Aunt Greta—why?” I choked out. 

“T couldn’t let you do it,” she replied. “He’s a monster, 
Jaclyn. He’s not your father. I couldn’t let you free him.” 

“She’s lying,” the snowman insisted. “She does not want you 
to know me, Jaclyn. She doesn’t want you to know your own 
father. She wants to leave me trapped in this frozen cave forever.” 

I turned back to my aunt. Her face had grown stern and hard. 
She stared back at me coldly. 

I took a deep breath. “Aunt Greta, I have to know the truth,” 
I told her. 

“Tve told you the truth,” she insisted. 


“I have to know for myself,” I replied. “I—I saw the last line 
of the poem. Before you grabbed it and tore it up. I know the 
whole poem, Aunt Greta.” 

“Don’t—” my aunt pleaded, reaching out to me. 

But I backed up against the icy cave wall, and I recited the 
rhyme from memory: 


“When the snows melt 

And the warm sun is with thee, 
Beware, the snowman— 

For the snowman shall go free!” 


“No, Jaclyn! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta wailed. She pressed 
her hands to the sides of her face and repeated her cry. “No! No! 
No!” 

I turned to the snowman and saw him begin to melt. 

The white snow oozed down his face and body like melting 
ice cream. 

The black eyes dropped to the snow. The face melted, melted 
onto the body. The snow poured off the round body. The tree 
branch arms thudded heavily to the ground. 

Slowly his real face came into view. 

Slowly his body emerged from under the snow. 

I stared as the snow dripped away. 

And then I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 


30 


A monster! 

An ugly, snarling, red-skinned monster stomped out from 
under the oozing snow. 

Aunt Greta had told the truth. A monster was trapped inside 
the snowman. Not my father. 

Not my father. 

A monster... such a hideous monster! 

Its head and body were covered with crusty red scales. Its 
yellow eyes rolled wildly in its bull-shaped head. A purple tongue 
flapped from its jagged-toothed mouth. 

“No! No! No! No!” Aunt Greta chanted, still pressing both 
hands against her face. Tears ran down her cheeks and over her 
hands. 

“What have I done?” I wailed. 

The monster tossed back its head in a throaty laugh. He 
picked the poetry book off the snow in his scaly, three-fingered 
hands. And he heaved it over the side of the mountain. 

“You're next!” he roared at me. 

“No—please!” I begged. 

I grabbed Aunt Greta by the shoulders and tugged her away 
from the ledge. We pressed ourselves against the icy wall of the 
cave. 

“Good-bye,” the monster grunted. “Good-bye, all.” 

“But I saved you!” I pleaded. “Is that my reward? To be 
thrown over the side of the mountain?” 

The red-scaled beast nodded. An ugly grin revealed more 
jagged teeth. “Yes. That is your reward.” 

He picked me up in one powerful hand. Squeezing my waist. 
Squeezing it so tightly I couldn’t breathe. 

He picked Aunt Greta up in his other hand. 

Raised us above his head. 

Let out an ugly, raspy groan. 

And held us over the side of the mountain. 


31 


His powerful hands swung us out over the cliff edge. 

I peered down, down at the sheer drop, at the snowy ground 
that appeared to be miles below. 

To my surprise, the monster didn’t let go. 

He swung around and dropped my aunt and me back onto 
the ledge. 

“Huh?” I uttered a startled gasp. 

The monster was staring down the ledge now. He had 
stopped paying attention to Aunt Greta and me. 

Struggling to catch my breath, I turned and followed his 
gaze. 

And saw what had startled the monster. And saved my life. 

A parade! 

A parade of snowmen. 

All of the snowmen of the village. They were marching up to 
the ice cave in a single line. 

Their red scarves waved in the wind. Their sticklike arms 
bobbed up and down as they rumbled up the mountainside. 

Like soldiers, they came marching up to us. Bouncing, 
thudding, rumbling forward. All identical. All scarred and stern- 
faced and sneering. 

“J—I don’t believe it!” I stammered. I grabbed Aunt Greta’s 
arm. 

We stared at the marching snowmen in horror. 

“They’re all coming to serve the monster,” Aunt Greta 
whispered. “We’re doomed, Jaclyn. Doomed.” 


32 


The snowmen rumbled up the icy ledge. The steady thud thud thud 
grew louder as they neared. The sound echoed off the snowy 
mountaintop until it sounded as if a thousand snowmen were 
marching to attack us. 

Aunt Greta and I shrank back against the glassy cave wall. 

We had nowhere to run. The monster blocked the cave 
entrance. The marching snowmen cut off any escape down the 
ledge. 

Closer came the snowmen. Closer. Close enough to see the 
anger in their round, black eyes. Close enough to see the 
snakelike scars cut into their faces. 

Aunt Greta and I couldn’t move. We raised our hands as if to 
shield ourselves. 

And then we gasped in surprise as the snowmen marched 
right past us. 

They rumbled up to the monster. Bouncing fast. Thudding 
over the ice. Arms waving, dark eyes glowing. 

Bounced up to the startled monster. And pushed him. Pushed 
him back. 

The snowmen crushed up against him. One snowman. Then 
two. Then ten. 

They crushed against his scaly, red body. Pushing him back. 
Back. 

The monster tossed its head in an angry roar. 

But the roar was smothered as a snowman rolled over the 
monster’s head. 

Aunt Greta and I gasped in amazement as the snowmen 
swarmed over the monster. 

Pushed him back against the cave wall. 

We saw the monster’s powerful arms flail the air, thrashing 
wildly. Helplessly. 

And then the monster disappeared behind a crush of 
snowmen. 

The snowmen pushed forward. Pushed hard. Pushed silently. 

Like a silent avalanche. 

And when they finally stepped back, the monster stood 
frozen, arms stretched out as if to attack. Not moving. Frozen 
inside the ice wall. 


A prisoner. 

The snowmen had pushed him into the wall. Trapped him 
inside the glassy wall of ice. 

Aunt Greta and I stood trembling beside the cave entrance. 
We were still holding on to each other. My legs felt weak and 
rubbery. I could feel Aunt Greta trembling beneath her coat. 

“What brought all the snowmen up here?” I asked her. “Did 
you do it, Aunt Greta?” 

She shook her head, her eyes still wide with amazement. “I 
didn’t bring them here, Jaclyn,” she said softly. “I told you the 
truth. I have no magic. Your mother and father were sorcerers. 
But not me.” 

“Then who made them climb the mountain to rescue us?” I 
demanded. 

“T did!” a voice cried. 


33 


I turned to the ledge—and saw Conrad standing there. His gray 
hair blew wildly in the wind. The white wolf stood at his side. 

“You made the snowmen march?” I cried. “You are a 
sorcerer, too?” 

Conrad nodded. He gazed at the monster trapped in the ice 
and a smile spread over his face. “Yes. I sent them to rescue you,” 
he said. 

Aunt Greta narrowed her eyes at Conrad. As she studied his 
face, her mouth dropped open. “You!” Aunt Greta cried. “It’s 
you!” 

Conrad’s smile grew even wider. “Yes,” he told my aunt. 

“Who—who is he?” I demanded. 

Aunt Greta turned to me and placed a hand on my shoulder. 
“Jaclyn,” she said softly, “I moved back here because I thought he 
might still be here. And yes, I was right. He is here.” 

She squeezed my shoulder and smiled at me, tears welling in 
her eyes. “Conrad is your father,” Aunt Greta whispered. 

Conrad and I both cried out at the same time. 

He rushed across the icy ledge and wrapped me in a hug. His 
long beard scratched my face as he pressed his cheek against 
mine. 

“T don’t believe it!” he cried, stepping back with tears in his 
eyes. “It’s been so many years—I didn’t recognize you, Jaclyn. I’m 
so glad that Greta brought you back to the village.” 

“You—you’re really my father?” I stammered. 

Conrad didn’t have a chance to answer. Rolonda and Eli 
came running up to us. “Are you okay?” they cried. 

Conrad pointed to Rolonda and Eli. “They saved your lives!” 
he told Aunt Greta and me. “They told me that you planned to 
climb to the ice cave. As soon as I heard that, I worked my magic. 
I sent the snowmen up to rescue you.” 

“Wow!” Eli exclaimed, seeing the monster frozen in the ice. 
“Look at that!” 

“That was the evil snowman,” Conrad explained to them. 
“He’ll never threaten the village again.” 

Rolonda and Eli stepped closer to view the frozen monster 
close up. 

I turned to my father. “I don’t understand,” I said. “Why did 


you stay behind in the village when Mom and Aunt Greta left? 
Why do you live up here near the ice cave?” 

He scratched his beard and sighed. “It’s kind of a long story. 
When you were little, your mother and I were practicing powerful 
magic. Our magic got out of control. We accidentally created this 
monster.” 

He motioned to the monster and shook his head. “We froze 
the monster inside the body of a snowman,” he explained. “Your 
mother—she wanted to leave. She was so frightened and upset. 
She wanted to move as far away from the village as she could. 
She wanted to forget it ever happened.” 

“And why did you stay?” I demanded. 

“T stayed because I thought I owed it to the people of the 
village,” he explained. “I owed it to them to keep the snowman in 
his cave. To keep him from harming people.” 

He uttered another sad sigh. “And so I stayed up here, close 
to the monster we created. But... but... leaving you, Jaclyn, was 
the hardest thing I ever had to do!” 

He wrapped his arm around my shoulders. Again, his beard 
scratched my face. 

“T always dreamed that someday I could leave the mountain 
and go find you,” he said softly. “And now the monster is dead. 
The horror is finally over. And Greta has brought you back. 
Perhaps...” 

His voice broke. He smiled at Aunt Greta and then at me. He 
took a breath and tried again. “Perhaps... we can try to be a 
family again.” 

He kept his arm around me as we turned to go down the 
mountain. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as I saw the snowmen move to block our 
path. 

In all the excitement of finding my father, Id completely 
forgotten about all the snowmen! 

Now they circled us. Surrounded us. 

Staring at us with their glowing coal eyes. Staring at us so 
coldly. 

“Wh-what are they going to do?” I stammered. 

Before my father could answer, one of the snowmen came 
thumping out of the group. He rumbled up to us, arms twitching, 
eyes flashing. 

I grabbed Dad’s arm. The snowmen had us totally 
surrounded. 

Nowhere to move. No chance to run away. 


The snowman stopped inches from my father—and opened 
his mouth to speak. 

“Can we go back down now?” the snowman asked. “It’s 
really cold up here!” 


Scanning, formatting and basic 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
R.L. STINE 


——— 
` L E ET 
ee ae Po = Eras =, 


ec SER, 


A 


. 2 é we 
“wes | m- Say 


lt 


CHICKEN CHICKEN 


e= 
e 


RASCH ; 


CHICKEN CHICKEN 


Goosebumps - 53 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


I hate chickens. 

They are filthy creatures, and they smell like... like... chickens. 

“Crystal, it’s your turn to feed the chickens,” Mom says. My least 
favorite words. 

I carry the seed bucket out to the backyard, and they come 
scurrying over, clucking and squawking and flapping their greasy 
wings. I hate the way they brush up against my legs as they peck the 
seeds off the ground. Their feathers are so rough and scratchy. 

My brother, Cole, and I are always trying to convince my parents 
to get rid of the chickens. “Just because we live on a farm doesn’t 
mean we have to have chickens,” I always say. 

“Right! We’re not farmers!” Cole agrees. “So why do we have to 
have those smelly chickens?” 

“It’s always been our dream,” Mom always replies. Blah blah 
blah. 

Cole and I have heard the dream story a thousand times. 

We’ve heard how Mom and Dad grew up in the Bronx in New 
York City. How they hated the noise and the dirt and the concrete. 
How they dreamed of leaving the city for good and living on a farm 
near a small country town. 

So, when Cole was two and I was four, we moved to Goshen Falls. 
Lucky us! The whole town is three blocks long. We have a cute little 
farm with a cute little farmhouse. And even though Mom and Dad are 
computer programmers—not farmers—we have a backyard full of 
chickens. 

Cluck. Cluck. That’s their dream. 

My dream is that Cole gets punished for mouthing off the way he 
always does. And his punishment is that he has to feed the chickens 
for the rest of his life. 

Everyone has to have a dream—right? 

“OWW!” A chicken pecked my ankle. That hurt! Their beaks are 
so sharp. 

I tossed a final handful of seed on the ground and hopped 
backward, away from the gross, clucking creatures. Their little black 
eyes glinted in the sunlight as they strutted over the grass. Pecking 
each other. Bumping each other out of the way as they dipped their 
scrawny heads for the food. 

I dropped the bucket in the back of the little barn we also use as a 
garage. Then I washed my hands under the cold water spigot at the 


side of the barn. 

I heard a low roar. A shadow rolled over the barn. I gazed up to 
see a small plane dipping under the puffy afternoon clouds. 

I took a deep breath. The tangy aroma of potatoes floated in the 
air. 

That’s what the farmers grow around here. Mostly potatoes and 
corn. 

I dried my hands on the legs of my jeans and hurried off in search 
of my brother. It was a sunny Saturday afternoon. Most of my friends 
from school were away on a 4-H club trip. 

Mom asked me to keep an eye on Cole. He’s ten, two years 
younger than me. But sometimes he acts like a four-year-old. It seems 
like he’s always finding new ways to get into trouble. 

I wandered through town. No sign of him. I asked Mrs. Wagner at 
the bakery if she’d seen him. Cole likes to stop in there and beg her for 
free doughnuts. 

Mrs. Wagner said she saw Cole and his friend Anthony heading 
out of town in the direction of Pullman’s Pond. 

Uh-oh, I thought. What are they planning to do at the pond? I 
started to the door. 

“I just love your hair, Crystal,” Mrs. Wagner called. “It’s such a 
beautiful deep shade of red. You should be a model. Really. You’re so 
tall and thin.” 

“Thanks, Mrs. Wagner!” I called as the door closed behind me. I 
wasn’t thinking about my hair or being a model. I was thinking about 
Cole and Anthony and the pond. 

I trotted the rest of the way through town. Waved to Mr. Porter 
standing in the window of the Pic ’n’ Pay. Then I turned off the street 
and followed the dirt path that led to Pullman’s Pond. 

I didn’t have to go far to find Cole and Anthony. They were 
hiding behind the long hedge at the edge of Vanessa’s property. 

I gazed beyond the hedge to the falling-down old farmhouse 
where Vanessa lives. 

Who is Vanessa? I guess you might say she is the most interesting 
person in Goshen Falls. And the most weird. 

Actually, Vanessa is like someone from a horror movie. She is 
kind of pretty, with long, straight black hair and a pale, white face. 
She dresses all in black. She wears black lipstick and black fingernail 
polish. 

Vanessa is a mystery woman. No one knows if she’s young or old. 

She keeps to herself. I’ve hardly ever seen her in town. She lives 
in her old farmhouse right outside of town with her black cat. 

Naturally, everyone says she is some kind of sorceress. 


I’ve heard all kinds of stories about Vanessa. Frightening stories. 
Most of the kids in Goshen Falls are scared of her. But that doesn’t 
stop them from playing tricks on her. 

Kids are always daring each other to sneak up to Vanessa’s house. 
It’s kind of a game everyone plays. Sneak up to her house, tap on the 
window, make her cat screech. Then run away before Vanessa sees 
you. 

“Hey—Cole!” I called in a loud whisper. I ducked my head as I 
ran along the hedge. If Vanessa was home, I didn’t want her to see me. 

“Hey, Cole—what’s up?” 

As I came nearer, I saw that Cole and Anthony weren’t alone. Two 
other kids huddled behind the hedge. Franny Jowett and Jeremy 
Garth. 

Cole raised a finger to his lips. “Ssshhhh. Vanessa is in there.” 

“What are you doing?” I demanded. I saw that Franny and 
Jeremy held plastic water pitchers in their hands. “Is that lemonade or 
something?” 

They shook their heads solemnly. 

“Some kids dared them to fill Vanessa’s mailbox with water,” Cole 
explained. 

“Huh?” I gasped. I stared at Franny and Jeremy. “You’re not 
going to do it—are you?” 

“They have to,” Cole answered for them. “A dare is a dare.” 

“But that’s so mean!” I protested. 

My brother snickered. “The mailbox is right next to the front 
door. No way they won’t get caught.” 

Franny and Jeremy are blond and pale. Now they looked even 
paler than usual. Jeremy made a soft, choking sound. Franny gripped 
her pitcher tightly and peered over the hedge at the black metal 
mailbox on its tilted pole. 

“You accepted the dare. Are you going to wimp out?” Cole 
demanded. 

Franny and Jeremy glanced at each other nervously. They didn’t 
reply. 

“Don’t do it,” Anthony suddenly chimed in. 

We all turned to Anthony. He’s short and chubby and has a round 
face and very short black hair. He wears red-framed glasses that are 
always slipping down his little pug nose. 

“Don’t do it,” Anthony repeated. 

“Why n-not?” Franny stammered. 

“Didn’t you hear what happened when Vanessa caught Tommy 
Pottridge?” Anthony asked in a hushed whisper. “Didn’t you hear 
what she did to him?” 


“No!” Franny and Jeremy declared together. 
I felt a tremble of fear run down my back. “What did Vanessa do 
to Tommy?” I demanded. 


I peered over the tall hedge. Did something move in Vanessa’s front 
window? 

No. Just a glint of sunlight on the windowpane. 

We huddled closer to Anthony. Even though it was a warm spring 
day, I suddenly felt chilled. “What did Vanessa do to Tommy?” I 
repeated in a whisper. 

“She caught him sneaking up to her house,” Anthony reported. 
“She did some kind of magic spell on him. She made his head blow up 
like a balloon.” 

“Oh, come on!” I exclaimed, rolling my eyes. 

“No—really!” Anthony protested. “His head was huge. And it got 
all soft and squishy. Like a sponge.” 

Cole laughed. 

Anthony clamped a hand over Cole’s mouth. “It’s true!” he 
insisted. “Vanessa gave him a big, soft, spongy head. That’s why we 
don’t see Tommy around anymore!” 

“But the Pottridges moved away!” Franny cried. 

“That’s why they moved,” Anthony replied. “Because of Tommy’s 
head.” 

We all froze for a moment, thinking about Anthony’s story. I tried 
to picture Tommy with a big, squishy head. 

Cole broke the silence. “Give me that!” he cried. He grabbed the 
water pitcher from Jeremy’s hands. “PU fill up her mailbox. Pm not 
scared.” 

“No way!” Jeremy protested. He wrestled the pitcher away from 
my brother. Then he turned to Franny. “We’re doing it—right? We 
were dared, so we have to do it—right?” 

Franny swallowed hard. “I guess,” she choked out. 

“All right!” Cole cheered, slapping them both on the back. Franny 
nearly dropped her pitcher. “You can do it! Lots of kids play tricks on 
Vanessa. And they don’t get squishy heads.” 

“T still think it’s mean to fill someone’s mailbox with water,” I 
protested. “And it’s not worth the risk.” 

No one wanted to listen to me or my warnings. 

Franny and Jeremy tiptoed to the end of the hedge. Then they 
began slowly making their way over the tall, weed-choked grass. 

They carried their plastic water pitchers in both hands in front of 
them. And they kept their eyes on the tilted mailbox to the right of the 


front door of Vanessa’s farmhouse. 

Cole, Anthony, and I crept out from behind the hedge to watch. I 
held my breath and stared at the front window, looking out for 
Vanessa. 

But the glare of yellow sunlight filled the windowpane. I couldn’t 
see a thing. 

Franny and Jeremy seemed to be moving in slow motion. It was 
taking them forever to cross the lawn to the mailbox! 

A million tiny white gnats flew over the tall grass. Swirling and 
dancing in the sunlight, the gnats sparkled like jewels. 

Franny and Jeremy walked right through them. Their eyes didn’t 
leave the mailbox. 

The two boys and I stepped a little closer, eager to see better. 

No sign of anyone inside the house. 

We stepped even closer. 

At last, Jeremy pulled down the metal mailbox lid. He and Franny 
raised their plastic pitchers. 

They both lowered the pitchers to the mailbox. 

And poured. 

The water made a soft splashing sound as it hit the metal 
mailbox. 

Franny emptied her pitcher. Jeremy had nearly emptied his. 

Then the front door swung open—and Vanessa burst out. 

She wore a flowing black dress. Her straight black hair flew 
wildly behind her. Her black-lipsticked lips were open in an angry cry. 

The cat screeched shrilly from somewhere in the house. 

Franny dropped her pitcher. She bent to pick it up. 

Changed her mind. 

Ran. 

Jeremy was already diving into the bushes at the far side of the 
house. Franny ran close behind him. 

Cole, Anthony, and I hadn’t moved. 

We stood in the grass. Frozen. Watching Vanessa. 

I gasped when I saw Vanessa’s furious stare. 

I turned to Cole and Anthony. “Why is she staring like that at us?” 
I choked out. “Does she think we did it?” 


My whole body stiffened. As if Vanessa’s eyes were shooting out some 
kind of laser ray. 

I forced myself to spin away. And I started to run. 

Cole and Anthony were at my sides. Our sneakers thudded 
heavily over the dirt path. We kicked up clouds of dirt as we ran. A 
blur of green and brown, the fields appeared to tilt and sway around 
me. 

We ran through town without stopping. Without saying a word. 
Without even looking at each other! 

Mrs. Wagner stepped out of the bakery. She started to say hello. I 
caught the shocked expression on her face as the three of us ran past 
her without slowing down. 

We ran until we reached my house. We burst through the gate, 
slamming it open so hard, the whole fence shook. I pushed open the 
front door with my shoulder, and all three of us staggered into the 
living room. 

Gasping for breath, I dropped to my knees on the carpet. 

Cole and Anthony collapsed onto the couch. 

We struggled to catch our breath. I brushed my hair back off my 
sweaty forehead. The clock on the mantel chimed. Three o’clock. 

Cole and Anthony burst out laughing. 

I narrowed my eyes at them. “What’s so funny?” I demanded 
breathlessly. 

That made them laugh even harder. 

“What’s so funny, guys?” I repeated. I climbed to my feet and 
pressed my hands into my waist, waiting for an answer. “Why are you 
laughing?” 

“I don’t know!” Cole answered finally. 

“I don’t know, either!” Anthony echoed. 

And they both laughed again. 

“You’re crazy,” I muttered, shaking my head. “That wasn’t funny. 
It was scary.” 

Cole pulled himself up. His expression turned serious. “Did you 
see the way Vanessa stared at us?” 

“She didn’t see Franny and Jeremy,” Anthony said. “She only saw 
us.” He pulled off his glasses and cleaned them on his T-shirt sleeve. 
The short black hair on his round head glistened with sweat. 

I felt a chill. “What if Vanessa decides to do something terrible to 


us?” I demanded. “You two won't be laughing then.” 

Cole pulled himself up even straighter. He ran a hand back 
through his wavy blond hair. Cole is tall and even skinnier than me. 
Sometimes I think he looks like a grasshopper. 

“Crystal, what do you mean?” he demanded softly. 

“I mean, if Vanessa thinks we were the ones who filled her 
mailbox with water, maybe she’ll pay us back. You know. Make our 
heads swell up or something.” 

“But we didn’t do anything!” Anthony protested. “We have to tell 
her it was Franny and Jeremy.” 

“Snitch,” Cole muttered, grinning at his friend. 

“Maybe she won’t give us a chance to explain,” I said. “Maybe 
she’ll just do something horrible to us.” 

I started to the kitchen. “You guys want something to drink?” 

I didn’t hear their replies. 

I pulled open the fridge and took out a bottle of iced tea. 

A second later, I opened my mouth in a loud scream of pain. 


“Crystal—what happened?” Cole came running into the kitchen. 

I shuddered in pain. “Ohhhh.” 

“What happened?” he cried. 

I shook my hand, trying to shake away the throbbing. “The fridge 
door,” I managed to choke out. “I—slammed it on my hand.” 

I shook my hand some more. Then I tested each finger. I could 
move them. Nothing broken. 

I raised my eyes to Cole. “Why are you grinning?” I demanded. 

“You didn’t slam your hand,” he replied. “Vanessa did!” 

Anthony giggled from the doorway. 

“Cole—you’re not funny!” I screeched. I wrapped my fingers 
around his scrawny neck and pretended to strangle him. But my hand 
still hurt. I had to let go. 

“Vanessa cursed you,” Anthony said, picking up where Cole had 
left off. “Now your hand will probably swell up to the size of a 
cantaloupe.” 

“And it will get soft and squishy like Tommy’s head,” Cole added 
gleefully. “Soft and squishy—like your brain!” 

“Not funny! Not funny!” I insisted. I admit it. I felt a little afraid. I 
didn’t like kidding around about this stuff. 

My hand ached and burned. I opened the freezer and stuck it 
inside. “What if Vanessa really has powers?” I asked them. “What if 
she really did make me slam the door on my hand?” 

Cole and Anthony raised their hands in front of them and began 
moving them back and forth, as if casting spells on me. “You are a 
sponge head!” Cole cried, lowering his voice, trying to sound like a real 
sorcerer. “You will mop up the dinner dishes with your head!” 

That’s when Mom and Dad walked in. 

“What on earth—?” Mom cried. “Crystal—why do you have your 
hand in the freezer?” 

“Oh. Uh...” I slid my hand out and closed the freezer door. “Just 
cooling off,” I said. 

Mom narrowed her eyes at me. “Cooling off one hand?” 

“Actually, I slammed a door on it,” I told her. 

“Vanessa slammed a door on it,” Cole corrected. 

“Vanessa?” Dad asked, crossing to the sink. 

“You mean that strange woman who lives outside of town?” 

“Have you been pestering that poor woman again?” Mom 


demanded. “Don’t you kids have anything better to do than sneak 
around and play tricks on her?” 

“We didn’t do anything,” Cole said. “Really.” 

“That’s the truth,” Anthony chimed in. 

“Then why did you mention Vanessa?” Mom asked Cole. 

I decided I’d better change the subject. “Where were you two?” I 
asked my parents. 

“Out back. Trying to decide where to put the fence for the 
vegetable garden,” Dad replied. He was washing his hands in the 
kitchen sink, something Mom always scolds him for. 

“If we didn’t have chickens, you wouldn’t need a fence,” I 
grumbled. “I think you should get rid—” 

“That reminds me,” Mom interrupted. “Cole, some of the chickens 
wandered all the way to the back. Would you go out and round them 
up, please?” 

“Chicken Roundup!” I exclaimed gleefully. I slapped Cole on the 
back. “Congrats! Your favorite job!” 

“But that’s not fair! I did the chicken roundup last time!” Cole 
wailed. “It’s Crystal’s turn!” 

“I fed them this morning,” I declared. “And it wasn’t even my 
turn. Besides, it’s easier for you to round them up. Because you look 
like a big rooster!” 

Everyone laughed except Cole. He grumbled and shook his head. 
Then he grabbed Anthony and pulled him outside to help with the 
chicken roundup. 

A few seconds later, I could hear a lot of clucking and squawking 
back there. And I could hear the boys shouting and complaining. 

Did you ever try to herd chickens? 

It isn’t easy. 


My hand ached all day from slamming it in the fridge door. And every 
time it ached, I thought of Vanessa. 

And I pictured her cold eyes, staring at the boys and me. 

She isn’t going to do anything to us, I told myself. She can’t do 
anything to us. Those stories about Vanessa can’t be true. 

I kept repeating this to myself. But that night, I had trouble 
falling asleep. 

I kept seeing a shadow move against my bedroom wall. The 
shadow of a cat. 

I climbed out of bed and pulled down the window blind. Now the 
room was bathed in total darkness. No shadows on the wall. 

I still couldn’t fall asleep. 

I stared wide-eyed into the blackness. 


“Crystal, go to sleep,” I instructed myself. “You are scaring 
yourself for no reason.” 


A creaking sound made me jump. 

A crack of gray light at my bedroom door. 

Another creak—and the streak of light grew wider. 

I swallowed hard. 

I watched the door slowly slide open. 

Staring in silence, I realized that someone was creeping into my 
bedroom. 

Someone wearing a black veil. And a long black dress. 

Vanessa! 


I opened my mouth to scream. But only a low moan came out. 

I started to jump out of bed. But where could I run? 

She slid silently toward me, arms reaching out as if ready to grab 
me. Her face was hidden behind the heavy black veil. 

How did she get in the house? 

What is she going to do to me? 

The frightening questions fluttered through my mind. 

She leaned over my bed. Her hands moved to my throat. 

“No!” I choked out. 

I reached up. Pushed away her hands. Grasped her veil in both 
hands. And tugged it off. 

Cole! 

In the gray light from the open doorway, I could see his grin. 

“Cole—you jerk!” I shrieked. 

I tossed the veil down. Dove for him. Tried to tackle him to the 
floor. 

But I missed—and tumbled out of bed. 

“Cole—you creep! You scared me to death!” 

I don’t think he heard me over his gleeful laughter. 

I scrambled to my feet. He dodged away from me. Still cackling, 
he backed up to the doorway. “You really thought it was Vanessa!” he 
cried. 

“Did not!” I lied. “You just scared me, that’s all.” 

“Did too!” he insisted. “You thought it was Vanessa. You really 
thought she had come to pay you back!” 

“Did not! Did not!” I cried angrily. 

He made hand motions as if casting a spell. “Abracadabra! You’re 
a sponge head!” 

He started laughing again. He really thought he was a riot. 

“T’ll pay you back!” I promised him. “Really. ’m going to pay you 
back!” 

Shaking his head, he made his way out of the room, the long 
black skirt trailing over the floor. With an angry growl, I picked up 
the veil and heaved it after him. 

I punched my pillow furiously. Why did I let him fool me like 
that? Now he’d tell everyone in school that I thought Vanessa was 
sneaking into my room. 

My heart still pounding, I climbed back into bed. I felt so angry, it 


took me hours to fall asleep. And when I finally drifted off, I dreamed 
about a cat. 

An ugly black cat with bright yellow eyes and a blood-red tongue. 

The cat hunched in an all-white room. But then the room became 
my room. 

In the dream, the cat moved to the end of my bed. It opened its 
mouth wide. The bright red tongue darted over its yellow teeth. 

And then the cat began to screech. 

A sharp, painful sound—like fingernails dragged over a 
chalkboard. 

It screeched. And screeched. Its mouth opened wider. Its yellow 
eyes flamed. 

I couldn’t stand the sound. In the dream, I saw myself cover my 
ears with both hands. 

But the shrill screeching grew even louder. 

The cat floated closer. Closer. Opened its jaws wide, as if to 
swallow me. 

I woke up, stunned by the sudden silence. 

The dream had been so real. I expected to see the screeching cat 
standing on my bedcovers. 

Bars of yellow sunlight fell through the window blinds onto my 
floor. I saw the crumpled black veil beside the door. 

No cat. 

I stretched and climbed out of bed. Yawning, I got dressed for 
school. 

Mom was setting down a bowl of cornflakes and a glass of orange 
juice for me when I reached the kitchen. “Sleep well?” she asked. 

“Not at all,” I grumbled. I dropped into my seat at the breakfast 
table. “First I couldn’t get to sleep. Then I had an annoying 
nightmare.” 

Mom tsk-tsked. She crossed to the sink and began pouring water 
into the coffeemaker. 

I thought about telling her about Cole’s dumb joke. But I decided 
not to. Mom would only start asking us again about what we were 
doing at Vanessa’s house yesterday. 

“What are you doing after school, Crystal?” she asked, clicking on 
the coffeemaker. “Maybe you can come home and rest up then.” 

“No way,” I replied, swallowing a mouthful of cornflakes. “I’ve 
got basketball practice. Coach Clay says she’s going to give me extra 
playing time. I told her how tired I am of being the sixth girl. I want to 
be a starter. But I never get enough playing time to show how good I 
am.” 

Mom turned to me. She blew a strand of brown hair off her 


forehead. “Maybe that’s why you couldn’t sleep last night,” she said. 
“Maybe you were nervous about basketball practice.” 

I shrugged. I didn’t want to tell her the real reason. 

I heard Cole clomping down the stairs. Mom pulled out a cereal 
bowl for him. 

“When are you going to buy a birthday present for Lucy-Ann?” 
Mom asked me. “You know her birthday party is Saturday.” 

Lucy-Ann is one of my best friends. She has been talking about 
this birthday—her thirteenth!—for weeks. She’s so excited about 
becoming a teenager. 

“Maybe I'll go shopping tomorrow after school,” I replied. 

“What are you going to get her?” 

I opened my mouth to answer, but Cole came charging into the 
room. 

One look at his face—and Mom and I both gasped. 

“Cole!” Mom cried. 

“My f-face...” he stammered. 

His cheeks and forehead were covered with big sores. Ugly red 
blotches. 

“It... hurts...” he groaned. He turned to me. “Vanessa,” he 
murmured. “Vanessa did this to me.” 


Cole dropped to his knees and covered his face with his hands. 

I jumped up from my chair. “Cole—?” 

“PII call the doctor!” Mom cried. “Or should I dial 911?” She bent 
over Cole. “Does it really hurt? Are you really in pain?” 

Cole slowly lowered his hands. And as he did, I saw the broad 
grin on his face. 

And I saw that his hands had smeared the red blotches on his 
cheeks. 

“Cole!” I screamed furiously. 

Mom’s mouth dropped open. She had one hand on the phone, 
ready to call the doctor. 

“Red marker pen,” Cole said through his grin. Then he burst out 
laughing. 

“Aaaagggh!” I let out a furious cry—and heaved my cereal spoon 
at him. It bounced off his chest and clattered across the linoleum 
floor. 

“Not funny!” I screamed. 

Mom shook her head. “Cole, you really scared me.” She sighed. 

Cole stood up and pointed at me. “Crystal, you really believed 
Vanessa did it to me,” he accused. 

“Your jokes are just stupid!” I cried. “I’m never going to believe 
you again. Even if you get hit by a truck, I won’t believe you!” 

I spun around and stormed out of the kitchen. 

Behind me, I could hear Mom telling Cole, “You really have to 
stop scaring your sister.” 

“Why?” Cole asked. 

I grabbed my backpack, tore out of the house, and slammed the 
door behind me. 

I forced Vanessa from my mind. 

I didn’t think about her once that whole day. 

In fact, I didn’t think about her until the next time I saw her. 

And that’s when all the frightening stuff really started. 


“Ts that Lucy-Ann’s cake?” Cole asked. 

“Well, it says HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LUCY-ANN on it,” I replied. “So 
what’s your guess, genius?” 

Cole, Anthony, and I had our noses pressed against the window of 
the bakery. Several white-frosted birthday cakes were on display. 
Lucy-Ann’s stood in the middle of the shelf, ready to be picked up for 
her party on Saturday. 

I saw Mrs. Wagner waving to us from behind the counter inside 
the store. I waved back to her. Then I checked my watch. 

“Hey—I’m late,” I told the boys. “I’ve got to buy a present for 
Lucy-Ann. Then I’ve got to get home and study my math.” 

I hurried toward the Mini-Mart on the corner next to the grocery. 
My plan was to buy Lucy-Ann a new CD. At the end of the block, Mr. 
Horace’s old hound sprawled in the middle of Main Street, lazily 
scratching his mangy ear with a back paw, looking as if he owned the 
town. 

I heard Cole and Anthony laughing behind me. I turned and made 
a shooing motion with both hands. “Take a walk, guys. You don’t have 
to tag along with me.” 

They ignored me, as usual. 

Cole slipped an egg from his pocket. His eyes flashed 
mischievously. “Think fast!” he cried. He tossed the egg at Anthony. 

Anthony cupped his hands and caught the egg. Without a pause, 
he tossed it back to my brother. 

“Oh, please,” I begged. “Not this stupid game.” 

Cole had to stretch—but he caught the egg in one hand. 

This is one of their games that drives me crazy. They throw an 
egg back and forth, back and forth as they walk. Each time they throw 
it, they stand a little farther apart from each other. 

The idea is to see how far they can toss the egg without breaking 
it. 

The answer usually is: not too far. 

One of them always ends up with egg splattered all over him. 
Once I made the mistake of trying to dive between them and intercept 
the egg. Too bad I intercepted it with my forehead. 

“Please, guys,” I begged. “Go do your egg toss somewhere else— 
okay?” 

Cole backed up into the middle of the street. A few feet away, Mr. 


Horace’s old hound yawned and rolled onto his back. I saw two men 
in overalls pulling enormous burlap bags of feed from the Feed Store 
across the street. 

“Yo!” Cole called—and heaved the egg high in the air. 

Anthony raised a hand to shield his eyes from the sun. He backed 
up, back, back—nearly to the grocery store. 

And the egg plopped down on top of his head. 

What a disgusting craaack it made. Really gross. 

“Huh?” Anthony uttered a startled gasp. And yellow goo started 
to flow down his forehead and the sides of his hair. 

“Sorry. It got away from me!” Cole cried. But he couldn’t keep a 
straight face. He burst out laughing. 

Anthony let out an angry growl and charged at Cole. 

Cole dodged away from him and ran up onto the sidewalk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” I shouted. 

Roaring like an angry lion, Anthony dove at my brother and 
pinned him against the grocery store window. “You did that on 
purpose!” he shouted. 

“No way! It was an accident!” Cole replied, laughing. 

Anthony lowered his egg-gloppy head and head-butted Cole in 
the chest. 

“Ooof!” My brother let out a groan. 

Anthony pulled back his head and prepared another head butt. 

Cole glanced down at his T-shirt. It was drenched in sticky egg 
yolk. 

“Stop it! Stop it!” Shrieking at them, I dove between them. I 
grabbed Anthony’s shoulders and tried to tug him off Cole. 

I didn’t see Vanessa step out of the grocery store. 

None of us did. 

“Get off!” I begged Anthony. I gave him a hard tug. 

And all three of us bounced hard into Vanessa. 

First I saw her black dress. Then I saw her pale face. Saw her dark 
eyes go wide with surprise. 

I saw her mouth fall open. Her hands fly up. 

And two bags of groceries bounced to the sidewalk. 

I heard one bag rip. And I heard cans and bottles clatter onto the 
street. 

The sound of shattering glass made me turn to the street. I saw a 
puddle of deep red ketchup that had leaked from a broken ketchup 
bottle. A carton of eggs lay open and shattered in the gutter. 

I still had Anthony’s shoulders gripped in both hands. A shiver 
ran down his body. He pulled free of me with a hard jerk. 


“Sorry!” he cried to Vanessa. “I’m really sorry!” 

Then he jumped over some of her groceries—and went running 
into the street. 

“Whooooa!” Anthony cried out as he tripped over the hound dog. 
He went down face first on the pavement on top of the dog. 

The dog didn’t make a sound. It hardly moved. 

Anthony struggled to his feet. Then he roared off behind the Feed 
Store. He disappeared without ever looking back. 

“Oh, wow,” I murmured, staring down at the ruined groceries all 
over the street. “Oh, wow.” 

Cole stood beside me, breathing noisily, shaking his head. 

The dog loped over slowly, favoring one leg. He lowered his head 
and began licking egg yolk off the pavement. 

I turned to Vanessa and nearly gasped when I saw the look of fury 
on her cold, pale face. 

As her eyes locked on mine, I felt as if Pd been stabbed—by an 
icicle. 

A shiver of fear made me take a step back. I grabbed Cole’s arm. I 
started to pull him away. 

But Vanessa stepped forward, her long black dress sweeping along 
the sidewalk. She pointed to Cole with a slender finger tipped in black 
nail polish. Then she pointed at me. 

“Chicken chicken,” she whispered. 


A smile spread over Vanessa’s black-lipsticked lips as she rasped those 
words at us. 

“Chicken chicken.” 

I gasped as if I’d been slapped. 

The street tilted in front of me. Then it started to spin. 

What on earth did she mean? Why did she say that? 

Cole and I didn’t wait to ask her. Our sneakers thudded the 
pavement as we took off, running at full speed. 

I glimpsed the old hound dog, still lapping up egg yolk from the 
street. And I glimpsed Vanessa’s angry face for one more brief second. 

And then Cole and I whipped around the corner, sped past the 
post office and the dry cleaner, and ran all the way home. 

I didn’t glance back once. And I didn’t say a word until we were 
safely in the kitchen. 

I collapsed onto a kitchen stool. Cole ran the cold water in the 
sink and splashed it over his face and hair. 

We were both panting and wheezing, too breathless to speak. I 
wiped the sweat off my forehead with my arm. Then I crossed to the 
fridge and pulled out a small bottle of water. Twisting off the cap, I 
tilted it to my mouth and drank it down. 

“We should have stayed,” I finally managed to sputter. 

“Huh?” Cole turned to me. He had water dripping down his red 
face. The front of his T-shirt was soaked. 

“We should have stayed and helped Vanessa pick up her 
groceries,” I told him. 

“No way!” Cole protested. “She’s crazy! Did you see the look on 
her face?” 

“Well... we knocked down all of her groceries,” I said. 

“So? It was an accident,” my brother insisted. “Accidents happen 
all the time, right? But she... she wanted to destroy us!” 

I rubbed the cool bottle against my pounding forehead. “Why did 
she say that to us?” I asked, thinking out loud. “Why did she whisper 
like that?” 

Cole changed his expression. He reached out his hand and 
pointed a finger at me. Then he did a pretty good Vanessa imitation. 
“Chicken chicken!” he rasped, shaking his finger at me. 

“Stop it!” I snapped. “I mean, really. Stop it, Cole. You’re giving 
me the creeps.” 


“Chicken chicken,” he whispered again. 

“Come on. Give me a break,” I pleaded. I crushed the plastic 
bottle in my hand. “It’s just so weird,” I murmured. “Why did she say 
that word? Why?” 

Cole shrugged. “Because she’s crazy?” 

I shook my head fretfully. “She isn’t crazy. She’s evil,” I said. I 
wrapped my arms around myself. “I just have this feeling that 
something horrible is going to happen now.” 

Cole rolled his eyes. “Crystal—what could happen?” 


“Did you buy a present for Lucy-Ann?” Mom asked at dinner. 

I swallowed a forkful of spaghetti. “Well... actually... no. 

She gazed up at me in surprise. “But I thought you went into 
town to buy her a CD.” 

“Pass the Parmesan cheese,” Dad interrupted. So far, those were 
his only words this evening. Guess he had a bad day at work. 

“I don’t understand,” Mom insisted. “What did you do after 
school, Crystal?” 

“Nothing, Mom.” I sighed. “Can we change the topic?” 

“You have spaghetti sauce all over your chin,” Cole pointed out. 

I made a face at him. “Very helpful,” I muttered. “Guess I’ve been 
sitting across the table from you for too long. I’m picking up your 
habits.” 

He stuck out his tongue at me. He had half a meatball on his 
tongue. Very mature. 

“I forgot to ask you about basketball practice yesterday,” Dad 
chimed in. “How did that—” 

“Bad topic!” I interrupted. 

Mom set down her fork. She blew a strand of hair off her 
forehead. “Guess every topic is a bad one tonight, huh?” 

“Maybe,” I grumbled, lowering my eyes to my plate. I shook my 
head. “I was terrible at practice. Coach Clay gave me a chance, and I 
played like a perfect klutz.” 

“No one’s perfect,” Cole chimed in. 

“Cole, be quiet,” Mom scolded. 

“Doesn’t anyone want to hear about my sprained thumb?” Cole 
whined. 

“No,” Mom shot back. “Be quiet.” She turned back to me. “You 
didn’t play well?” 

“I—I tripped over my own dribble. Twice,” I stammered. “And I 
missed an easy layup. The ball didn’t even touch the rim.” 

“Well... next time...” Dad started. 

“But this was my big chance to show I can be a starter!” I cried. 
“And I blew it. I just felt so tired. I hadn’t slept the night before. 
And... and...” 

“You're still the sixth player,” Mom said soothingly. “You'll get a 
chance.” 

“Do you have team practice tomorrow?” Dad asked, helping 


2) 


himself to more salad. 

I shook my head. “No. Tomorrow afternoon is chorus practice. 
Cole has it, too. You know. The chorus is performing for the junior 
high graduation next month.” 

“I get to sing two solos,” Cole bragged. “I’m the only fifth grader 
in the chorus—and I’m the only one with perfect pitch.” 

“No one’s perfect,” I reminded him. I know. It was a really lame 
joke. No one laughed. 

Mom lowered her eyes to Cole’s hand. “How did you sprain your 
thumb?” she asked. 

“I didn’t,” Cole replied. “I was just trying to get into the 
conversation.” 


Mrs. Mellon, the music teacher, was a tiny, birdlike woman. She 
always wore gray sweaters and gray skirts or pants. With her feathery 
gray hair and snipped beak of a nose, she always reminded me of a 
sparrow. Or maybe a chirping chickadee. 

She called us her canaries. 

Greene County Middle School wasn’t big enough to have a music 
room. So the chorus met after school in a corner of the auditorium 
stage. 

There were eight kids in the chorus. Four boys and four girls. 
Mostly sixth graders, with a few younger kids like Cole thrown in. It 
was hard to put a chorus together in such a small school. 

Mrs. Mellon was late. So the boys shot paper clips across the stage 
at each other with rubber bands. And the girls talked about how dumb 
the boys were. 

When Mrs. Mellon finally arrived, her hands fluttering tensely at 
her feathery hair, she wanted to get right down to business. “Our 
performance is two weeks from tonight,” she announced fretfully. 
“And we really don’t know what we’re doing—do we?” 

We all pretty much agreed that we needed a lot more rehearsal 
time. Lucy-Ann, who is our only soprano, raised her hand. “Maybe we 
could lip-synch some songs,” she suggested. “You know. From 
records.” 

Everyone laughed. 

I studied Lucy-Ann. I wasn’t so sure she was joking. 

“No fooling around this afternoon,” Mrs. Mellon said sternly. 
“Let’s see how much we can get done when we’re being serious.” 

We sang our warm-up scales. We were interrupted when a large 
black spider dropped from the rafters into Lucy-Ann’s curly blond 
hair. She shrieked and staggered back. And she began shaking her 
head wildly and tugging at her curls with both hands. 


Finally, the spider dropped onto the stage floor, and Cole tromped 
on it. 

“Isn’t that bad luck or something?” a boy named Larry called to 
my brother. 

Cole shrugged and scraped the sole of his shoe against the floor. 

“Let’s begin with ‘Beautiful Ohio’,” Mrs. Mellon suggested, 
ignoring the whole spider problem. She shuffled sheet music on her 
music stand. “That’s the one that gave us so much trouble last time.” 

“It’s the high part that’s the problem,” Lucy-Ann chimed in. 

“It’s your voice that’s the problem!” Larry teased Lucy-Ann. I think 
he has a crush on her. He’s always insulting her. 

Mrs. Mellon cleared her throat. “Please, folks. Serious. Serious.” 
She turned to Cole. “Have you been practicing your solo?” 

“Oh, yeah. Sure,” my brother lied. 

“Then let’s try it,” Mrs. Mellon suggested. “Remember, Cole—you 
wait three beats before you come in.” 

“No problem,” Cole told her. 

At the last rehearsal, he didn’t do it right once. 

Mrs. Mellon raised her arms. Smiled. And fluttered her hands, her 
signal for us to start. 

We began to sing “Beautiful Ohio”. It’s kind of a drippy song, but 
I like to sing the high part. 

“Very good. Very good,” Mrs. Mellon encouraged us as we sang, a 
tight smile on her face. 

It did sound pretty good. 

Until Cole began his solo. 

I saw him take a deep breath. He stepped forward. Waited for 
three beats. Opened his mouth. 

And sang: “BLUCK BUCK BUCK BLUUUCK BLUCK.” 

“Huh?” Mrs. Mellon gasped. 

We all stopped singing. I stared hard at my brother. 

He had a confused expression on his face. He kept clearing his 
throat. 

“Sing the words, Cole,” Mrs. Mellon instructed sternly. “You do 
know the words—right?” 

Cole nodded. 

“Let’s begin with the chorus just before Cole’s solo,” she told us. 

We began again. As I sang, I kept my eyes on my brother. 

I saw him count off the three beats. Then: 

“BLUCK BLUCK BLUCK CLUCK BUCK!” 

What was he trying to prove? 

Larry laughed. But no one else did. 


Cole kept rubbing his neck and clearing his throat. His face was 
bright red. 

“Are you okay?” I mouthed the words to him. 

He didn’t answer me. 

“Cole—please!” Mrs. Mellon pleaded. “Stop fooling around. We 
really haven’t time.” She frowned at him. “You have a beautiful voice. 
I know you can sing this. Will you please do your part?” 

She raised her hands. “Begin on three,” she told him. “One... 
two... three...” She began conducting with one hand. “Now let’s hear 
your best,” she urged. 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK BUCK BUCK!” my brother clucked in a 
high, silly voice. 

I stepped away from the other girls and rushed up to him. “Cole— 
what is the big idea?” I cried furiously. “Why are you doing that?” 

“BLUCK BLUCK BUCK CLUCK BLUCK,” he replied. 


10 


Later, I was up in my room, wrapping Lucy-Ann’s birthday present. I 
glanced to the doorway and saw Cole standing there tensely. 

His blond hair stood up straight on top of his head. He was 
wiping his sweaty hands on the front of his T-shirt. 

“What do you want?” I asked sharply. “I’m busy.” I folded a 
corner of the birthday wrapping paper and taped it down over the CD 
case. 

Cole cleared his throat, but didn’t reply. 

I shook my head at him. “You ruined the whole rehearsal,” I told 
him. 

“It wasn’t my fault!” he cried shrilly. 

“Hah!” I slammed my scissors down on the desk. “You refused to 
sing. You stood there clucking like a hen! Whose fault was it?” 

“You don’t understand—” Cole croaked, tenderly rubbing his 
throat. 

“No, I don’t,” I interrupted angrily. “You know, we're all tired of 
your dumb jokes. Especially me. You just think you’re so funny all the 
time, Cole. But you’re really such a pain.” 

“But I wasn’t being funny!” he protested, stepping into the room. 
He walked up to the desk and fiddled nervously with the tape 
dispenser. “I didn’t want to cluck like that. I—I couldn’t help it.” 

I rolled my eyes. “For sure,” I muttered. 

“No—really, Crystal. I—I think Vanessa made me do it! I think 
she made me cluck like that!” 

I laughed. “I’m not stupid, you know,” I told him. “I may fall for 
the same joke of yours once or twice. But I’m not going to fall for it 
again.” 

“But Crystal—” 

“It wasn’t funny,” I repeated. “And it wasn’t fair for you to ruin 
the whole rehearsal for everyone.” 

“You don’t understand!” Cole protested. “It wasn’t a joke. I really 
had to cluck. I—” 

“Out!” I shouted. I made shooing motions with both hands. “Out 
of my room—now!” 

His face turned bright red. He started to say something. Changed 
his mind with a defeated sigh. Turned and slumped out of my room. 

“Anything for a joke, huh, Cole?” I murmured to myself. 

Pm usually not that mean to my brother. But this time he 


deserved to be taught a lesson. 

I finished wrapping the present. Then I did homework until 
bedtime. 

I turned out the light and was climbing between the sheets when I 
heard a chicken clucking. 

That’s weird, I thought. I never hear the chickens at night. 
They’re all locked in their coop. 

“Cluuuuck bluuuuuck.” 

Sitting up, I stared across the dark room to the open window. My 
curtains fluttered in a soft breeze. A triangle of pale moonlight slanted 
over the carpet. 

Did the chicken coop door come open? I wondered. 

Did a chicken escape somehow? 

“Bluuck bluuck buuck.” 

The cry seemed to be coming from close to the house, beneath my 
bedroom window. 

Watching the fluttering curtains, I climbed out of bed and crossed 
the room to the window. The moonlight washed over me, cold and 
silvery. 

“Bluck bluck cluck.” 

I leaned on the window ledge. Peered down to the ground. 

And gasped. 


11 


Nothing down there. 

No chicken. 

I stared at the silvery ground. Then moved my eyes to the long 
chicken coop beside the garage. It sort of looked like a long, low, 
wooden doghouse. The door was shut tight. Nothing moved inside its 
tiny round windows. 

“Bluuuuck bluuuck.” 

Feeling confused, I pulled my head inside. Where was that 
clucking coming from? 

From inside? 

“Cluuck cluuuck.” 

Yes. I could hear it through the wall. The wall to my brother’s 
room next door. 

Why is he doing that? I asked myself, climbing back into bed. 
Why is he in there clucking in the middle of the night? 

What is he trying to prove? 


I knew Lucy-Ann’s birthday party would be fun. Lucy-Ann always 
throws great parties. 

She comes from a big farm family. She has seven brothers and 
sisters. 

Their big farmhouse is always filled with great smells—chickens 
roasting, pies baking. Lucy-Ann’s parents are the most successful 
farmers in Goshen Falls. And they’re really nice people, too. 

Lucy-Ann invited the whole class to her party, and about two 
dozen of her relatives. It was a beautiful spring afternoon. And a lot of 
people were already hanging out in the yard in front of the tall, white 
farmhouse when I arrived. 

Lucy-Ann has a lot of little cousins. As I hurried up the gravel 
drive, I saw a bunch of them hanging around the side of the utility 
barn. Lucy-Ann’s dad was giving tractor rides, and the little kids were 
jumping up and down, wrestling each other in excitement, waiting 
their turns. 

I met Lucy-Ann at the top of the drive and handed her the 
wrapped-up CD. 

She studied the square-shaped box and grinned. “Wow. Ill never 


guess what this is!” she joked. 

“Okay, okay. So I’m not too original,” I replied with a shrug. 

“You don’t know what a perfect present it is,” she said as we 
began to walk across the grass to the others. “Mom and Dad got me a 
Discman for my birthday—but no CDs.” 

I laughed. “Well, now you’ve got one,” I said. “At least I know you 
don’t already have it!” 

Lucy-Ann’s expression turned serious. “Are you going to chorus 
rehearsal tomorrow morning?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. We really need to practice.” 

“PIL be a little late,” Lucy-Ann said. “We usually don’t get back 
from church till after eleven-thirty.” She frowned. “Did you talk to 
your brother? Why did he act like such a total jerk yesterday? What 
was all that horrible clucking? Did he think it was funny or 
something?” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. I guess.” Then I added with a sigh, “No way I 
can explain my brother. Sometimes I think he’s from Mars.” 

Lucy-Ann laughed. “Tell me about it,” she muttered. “I’ve got four 
brothers!” 

I waved to a couple of girls from my class who were leaning 
against the broad trunk of an old maple tree. I walked over to talk to 
them. 

I like a lot of kids in my class, although I don’t get to see some of 
them outside of school. You see, Goshen Falls is so tiny, and we have 
the only middle school for miles. So kids are bussed to our school 
from all over the county. 

That means some of my friends live over thirty miles away. When 
I want to call them at night, it’s a long-distance call! 

It was a nice party. We stayed outside the whole time. Lucy-Ann 
cranked up the volume on her tape player, and we all danced. I mean, 
all the girls danced. A couple of the boys joined in. But most of them 
stood on the grass, making jokes about those who were dancing. 

I really had fun—until birthday cake time. 

And then the fun turned to horror. 


12 


As the afternoon sun started to lower itself behind the farmhouse, 
Lucy-Ann’s mom carried out the birthday cake. Actually, she carried 
out two cakes—one vanilla from the bakery and one chocolate that she 
baked herself. 

“With so many kids in our family,” Lucy-Ann explained to me, 
“no one could ever decide what kind of cake everyone liked best. So 
Mom always has to bake an extra for every birthday!” 

We all grabbed plates and gathered around the long, white- 
tableclothed table to sing “Happy Birthday” to Lucy-Ann. Beside the 
two cakes stood a blueberry pie about the size of a pizza! 

It took a long while to light the candles on both cakes. The wind 
kept gusting and blowing some of the candles out. 

Finally, Lucy-Ann’s parents got them all lighted, and we sang 
“Happy Birthday”. Lucy-Ann looked really pretty standing behind the 
cakes, the flickering candlelight dancing over her face and curly blond 
hair. 

She seemed to be staring at me as we sang. 

And I suddenly realized that something was wrong. 

That loud clicking sound I heard—it was coming from me! 

My lips were clicking together noisily as I sang. 

As soon as the song ended, I rubbed my lips with my finger. They 
felt very dry. Sort of cracked and dry. 

“Crystal—what kind of cake?” Lucy-Ann was asking. I gazed up to 
see her and her mother slicing the cakes. 

I held my plate up. “A little bit of both?” I couldn’t decide, either. 

Balancing my plate and fork in one hand, I walked off to join 
some friends. “Looks good,” I said. 

I mean, I tried to say it. But it came out, “Tcccck tccccck.” Sort of 
a metal click. 

I ran my tongue over my lips. So dry. 

“Teccck tcccccck.” 

I tried to chew a forkful of cake. But each bite made that loud 
clicking sound. 

I licked my lips again. 

Tried to chew. 

I started to choke. I couldn’t chew the cake. 

“Ckkkkkkk tccccck.” 

A few kids were staring at me. 


“Crystal, are you okay?” someone asked. 

I clicked a reply. Then I hurried to Lucy-Ann at the table. “Do you 
have any Chap Stick?” I demanded shrilly. 

My lips clicked as I talked. She struggled to understand me. 

“Chap Stick?” I repeated. “Chpsttttccck?” 

She nodded, narrowing her eyes to study me. “In the medicine 
chest. Downstairs bathroom on the left.” She pointed. 

I set down my cake plate and took off, running across the grass. I 
pulled open the screen door and flew into the house. It smelled sweet 
inside, from all the cake and pie baking. 

I turned to the left, into the hallway I knew my way. I’d spent a 
lot of hours with Lucy-Ann here. 

The bathroom door stood open. I stepped inside, clicked on the 
light, and shut the door behind me. 

Then I dove to the medicine cabinet and gazed into the mirror. 

It took my eyes a few seconds to adjust. But when I could finally 
focus on my lips—I opened my mouth in a shrill scream of horror. 


13 


Bright red, my lips poked out from my face. 

I ran a finger across them. Both lips were bumpy. Hard and 
bumpy. 

I tapped my lips with my finger. It made a soft click. 

My lips were hard. They didn’t feel like skin anymore! They felt as 
hard as fingernails! 

“Tcccck tcccck.” 

I clicked them. Opened and closed my mouth. Staring hard at the 
ugly reflection in the mirror. 

Had my lips grown some sort of crust? Were my real lips 
underneath? 

I raised both hands and struggled to pull the crusty part off. 

But no. No crust. The hard lips were attached to my face. 

“Oww!” I gasped. My lips clicked shut. 

“What is happening to me? It—it’s like a bird beak! I can’t let 
anyone see me like this!” I cried out loud. 

I banged the mirror with both fists. This can’t be happening! I told 
myself in a complete panic. It can’t! 

I tried to pull the hard beak lips off one more time. 

“Crystal—calm down. Calm down!” I instructed myself. I took a 
deep breath and forced myself to turn away from the mirror. 

It’s an allergic reaction, I decided. 

That’s all. I ate something I am allergic to. 

It will disappear in a few hours. And if it doesn’t disappear, Dr. 
Macy will know how to shrink the lips back to normal and make them 
soft again. 

I took another deep breath. My whole body was shaking. I was 
trembling so hard, my lips were clicking. 

I shut my eyes. Then I turned back to the mirror. I opened them, 
praying my real lips would be back. 

But no. 

“A bird beak,” I murmured in a shaky whisper. “It looks like a 
bird beak.” 

Click click. 

I ran my tongue over the bumpy lips. 

Ow. The hard lips scratched my tongue. 

I can’t let anyone see me like this! I decided. Pll sneak out the 
front door and run home. Pll explain to Lucy-Ann later. 


I shut off the light and pulled the bathroom door open a crack. No 
one in the house, I saw. 

Everyone was still out in the back, enjoying the cakes and pie. 

Will I ever enjoy cake again? I wondered. 

Or will I have to pull up worms from the ground and suck them 
through my bird lips? 

Sickening thoughts. 

I crept along the living room. Then pushed open the front door— 
and escaped. 

As I ran to the road, I could hear the happy voices from behind 
the house. Kids were laughing and shouting over the boom of dance 
music. 

I turned and started running full speed toward home. I hoped no 
one could see me. 

The sun had sunk behind the trees. Evening shadows reached 
across the ground toward me. 

My lips clicked as I ran. My heart pounded. I ran all the way 
home without slowing down once. Luckily, I didn’t run into anyone I 
knew on the street. 

Mom and Dad’s car was gone. I ran up the driveway and into the 
house through the kitchen door. 

Cole turned shakily from the sink. “Crystal—!” he cried. I could 
tell instantly that something was wrong. 

I turned my face away. I didn’t want him to see my ugly bird 
mouth. 

But he rushed forward, grabbed my arm, and turned me around. 
“Mom and Dad aren’t home,” he murmured. “I—I have to show you 
something.” 

“Cole—what is it?” I demanded, my lips clicking. “Why are you— 
click click—wearing that bath towel around your neck?” 

“I... need help,” he replied, lowering his eyes. 

He slowly unwrapped the blue bath towel. Then he slid it off his 
neck. “Look,” he insisted. 

I gasped. 

Feathers! 

He had white feathers poking out from his neck and shoulders. 


14 


“Cole—when did this happen?” I shrieked. 

“BLUCCCK BLUUUCK BUCCCCK,” he clucked, his eyes wide with 
horror. 

“Stop it!” I cried angrily. “This is no time for your stupid 
clucking!” 

And then I realized that he had tricked me again. The feathers 
weren’t really growing from his body. He had glued them on or 
something. 

“BLUUUCK. I... can’t... stop the clucking!” he choked out, 
rubbing his throat. 

“Yeah. Sure,” I replied, rolling my eyes. I reached out and plucked 
a white feather from the back of his neck. 

I expected the fake feather to slide off easily. 

But my brother’s hands shot up. “OUCH!” he screamed. 

The tip of the feather left a small hole in his skin. I grabbed a big 
feather on his shoulder—and pulled it. 

“Hey—careful!” Cole cried, moving away from me. “BLUUUCK 
CLUUUCK. That really hurts!” 

“Oh, no!” I gasped. “They’re real! You... you’re really growing— 
click click—feathers!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” Cole started to whimper. His feathery 
shoulders shook up and down. 

“Take it easy,” I told him. I guided him gently into his room. “PH 
pull them off. P’'ll be really careful. You’ll be okay.” 

I made him sit down on the edge of the bed. I leaned over him 
and started to pluck out the white feathers. I tried to be as gentle as I 
could. But he jumped each time I tugged one out. 

“We’ve got to tell Mom and Dad,” he said softly, his eyes lowered 
to the floor. “Ouch.” 

“They’re almost all out,” I told him. I plucked a long one off the 
back of his neck. He jumped. “No problem. You will look perfectly 
normal.” 

“But we’ve still got to tell Mom and Dad,” he insisted. 

“Do you think they’ll believe us?” I asked. My hard lips clicked 
with each word. 

Cole gazed up at me. “Hey—what’s up with your lips?” 

“Oh—I—uh...” I covered them with one hand. “Just chapped,” I 
said. “Very chapped.” 


I don’t know why. I didn’t want to let him know that weird things 
were happening to me, too. 

“You look disgusting!” Cole exclaimed. “Yuck!” 

It seemed to cheer him up a lot. 

I tugged the last two feathers out as hard as I could. 

“Hey—!” he cried out angrily. He rubbed a hand over the back of 
his neck. 

I stepped back. White feathers covered the bed and floor. “You’d 
better pick them up,” I clicked. 

He clucked in reply. 

I still had one hand over my mouth. I didn’t need any more 
comments from him about how disgusting my lips looked. I hurried to 
the bathroom to find some cream for them. 


Mom and Dad stayed out very late. Cole and I tried to stay awake 
because we wanted to talk to them. But finally, we gave up and went 
to bed. 

Sunday morning I woke up late. The sun was already high in the 
sky. Orange sunlight washed over my room from the open window. A 
soft breeze ruffled my feathers. 

Huh? Feathers? 

“Ohhhh.” I sat up with a groan. My neck itched like crazy. My 
arms itched, too. 

I blinked myself awake. And stared at the white feathers up and 
down my arms. 

I opened my mouth to scream. But all that came out was a choked 
“goggle goggle goggle.” Like a clucking hen. 

I leaped out of bed and hurtled to the dresser mirror. I pulled 
down the top of my nightshirt and gasped. My shoulders and arms 
were covered with fluffy, white and brown feathers. 

I brushed my hand over my lips. They had grown even harder. 
Hard as bone. 

I saw something move in the mirror. I twirled around to find Cole 
in my bedroom doorway. 

“Crystal—” he clucked. He staggered into the room. White 
feathers bristled on his shoulders and under his chin. They had grown 
back. 

“Look at me!” I clicked. 

“BLUCCK BLUCCCCK,” Cole replied. 

I turned back to the mirror and started frantically pulling off my 
feathers. It hurt each time. But I didn’t care. I wanted them off! 

It didn’t take long. I plucked them all off. Then I gathered them 
up and tossed them into the wastebasket. Then I helped Cole remove 


his feathers. 

His lips had hardened during the night. His fingernails had 
grown. His hands suddenly looked sort of like claws. 

“Vanessa,” he murmured. 

I stared at him. I knew instantly what he meant. 

I had been thinking the same thing all along. Remembering the 
horrible moment we spilled Vanessa’s groceries. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “I didn’t want to admit it. I didn’t want to believe 
it. But Vanessa did this to us. Vanessa is BLUUUUCCK BLUCCCK 
turning us into chickens.” 

“Chicken chicken,” he clucked. 

I heard clattering sounds downstairs in the kitchen. Mom and 
Dad! 

“We have to BLUUUUCK tell them!” I cried. “We have to tell 
them everything!” 

Cole and I both bolted for the bedroom door at the same time. We 
squeezed through together. Then we ran side by side down the hall. 

I could hear Mom’s voice from the kitchen. 

Cole and I started calling to her as we hurried down the stairs. 

“Mom—we need BLUUUCCK help!” I cried. “It’s Vanessa. She 
really does have BLUUUCCK CLUUCK powers!” 

“She’s turning us into chickens!” Cole called to Mom as we 
reached the downstairs hall and went running to the kitchen. “We’re 
growing feathers and everything!” 

“Its the truth!” I cried. “You’ve got to help us. Cole and I— 
BLUUUCK—we’re both turning into chickens!” 

“That’s good news,” Mom replied calmly “I need two more 
chickens for the barbecue this afternoon.” 


15 


“Huh?” 

“Barbecue us?” 

Cole and I both gasped. Was Mom joking? 

As soon as we burst into the kitchen, I realized that Mom wasn’t 
talking to us. She was on the phone. She had her back to us and was 
drumming her fingernails on the Formica counter beside the phone. 

My eyes swept over the kitchen. It was cluttered with pans and 
serving bowls, cut-up lettuce and tomatoes, a bag of potatoes, bottles 
of barbecue sauce, and a pile of chicken parts on a tray beside the 
sink. 

What a mess! 

“Mom—we... we CLUUUCK BLUUUCK have to talk to you!” I 
sputtered. 

She turned, still talking, and waved. She said a few more words, 
then hung up the phone. “You two slept so late,” she said, frowning at 
the wall clock. “It’s nearly noon, and our guests will be here in an 
hour or two.” 

“Mom—” I started. 

She wiped her forehead with the back of her hand and moved 
toward the sink. “Did you forget we’re having a big barbecue this 
afternoon? Were having at least twenty guests, and—and—” She 
gestured to the pile of chicken parts. 

The sight of them made my stomach turn. 

“Cluuucck bluuuck,” Cole murmured. 

I stepped over to the sink. “We have to talk to you,” I said, taking 
Mom’s arm. “Cole and I—we have a problem. A real problem.” 

“About the chorus practice you missed this morning?” Mom 
interrupted. She took a small brush and began slapping barbecue 
sauce on the chicken parts. Then she tossed each part in a big china 
bowl. 

“No, Mom. I—” 

“That was Mrs. Mellon on the phone,” Mom continued. “She 
wondered where you were. She was calling to make sure you two 
were okay.” 

“We're not okay,” I said solemnly. 

“She’s such a nice woman. She’s bringing two barbecued chickens 
of her own this afternoon. For people who don’t like them hot and 
spicy the way I make them.” 


She turned to me. “Crystal, you can help me cut up the peppers.” 
“Mom—please!” Cole cried. “Stop talking about the chickens!” 
“We have something to tell you,” I said. 

“Your dad is out back, getting the barbecue grills ready,” Mom 
said, brushing red sauce on a wing. “Oh! Ice! We have to remember to 
buy ice!” 

“Mom—Cole and I are turning into chickens,” I told her. 

She laughed. “Ice and paper plates,” she murmured. “I don’t want 
to use real plates. Too much of a mess.” 

“No. Really!” I grabbed her arm. The brush fell into the chicken 
bowl. 

“Crystal—I really don’t have time,” Mom sighed. She blew a 
strand of hair off her forehead and picked up the brush. “You and Cole 
should get yourself some breakfast—or lunch. Then see if you can help 
your dad.” 

“BLUUUUCK!” Cole exclaimed. 

“Listen to me, Mom,” I begged. “Do you hear Cole clucking like 
that?” 

“Yes. Very nice clucking,” she murmured, tossing a leg into the 
bowl. 

“Do you see my lips?” I demanded. “Vanessa is doing this to us. 
We bumped Vanessa and spilled her groceries. So she is turning us 
CLUUUUCK into chickens.” 

“Please, you two,” Mom groaned. “Can’t you see how frantic I 
am? I don’t have time to—” 

She stopped when she glimpsed my lips. “Yuck! Those are really 
chapped.” 

“They’re not chapped!” I screamed. “I’m growing a beak!” 

“CLUUUCK BLUUUCK,” Cole added. 

Mom tossed up her hands. “Go put some cream on your lips, 
Crystal. And keep out of my way, okay? I don’t have time for jokes 
today. If you’re not going to help, just don’t make more trouble.” 

I turned to Cole. He shook his head unhappily. 

We both slumped out of the room. “Do you think Dad will listen 
to us?” Cole asked weakly. 

I clicked my lips. “I don’t think so,” I muttered. “He’s as busy as 
Mom is.” 

“Then what can we do?” Cole asked. He scratched his neck. Were 
the feathers growing back already? 

An idea popped into my head. “Anthony!” I cried. 

“Huh? What about him?” Cole demanded. 

“Anthony was with us!” I explained. “The same thing is probably 


happening to him. He’s probably changing into a chicken like us.” 

Cole rubbed his chin hard. “Cluuuuck. Bluuuuck. Yeah. 
Probably.” 

“So if all three of us tell our story to Mom and Dad, then maybe 
they’ll believe us!” I cried. 

“Its worth a try,” Cole agreed excitedly. “Let’s hurry over to 
Anthony’s house.” 

We each grabbed a glass of orange juice. And a Pop-Tart, which 
we ate raw. 

Then we ran out the front door and headed to Anthony’s house. 

We had run less than a block when we bumped into Vanessa. 


16 


Well. This time we didn’t really bump into her. 

I saw her before Cole did, hurrying toward us on the other side of 
the street. Despite the heat, she was dressed all in black. She wore a 
black cotton shawl over the shoulders of her black dress. It fluttered 
behind her as she strode along the sidewalk. 

“Oh—it’s her!” Cole whispered, poking me in the side. 

We both stopped in the middle of the sidewalk and stared open- 
mouthed as she approached. 

Would she say something to us? 

Could I work up the nerve to say something to her? 

My heart pounded. My lips clicked nervously. 

Cole’s head started bobbing up and down on his neck. Just like a 
chicken. He let out a frightened cluck. 

My poor brother. 

Seeing him like that made me forget my fear. “Vanessa—!” I 
shouted. 

She kept walking, taking those long, gliding strides of hers. Her 
shawl fluttered behind her. 

“Vanessa—!” I repeated her name. 

She had a look of solemn concentration on her face. I don’t think 
she had even seen Cole and me. 

Finally, she stopped. She stared across the street at us as if she 
didn’t recognize us. 

“BLUUUUCK BLUUUCK!” my brother clucked angrily. 

That brought a smile to her black-lipsticked lips. She laughed, and 
her dark eyes flashed. 

She brushed back her straight, black hair. “Bluck bluck to you, 
too!” she called. “Chicken chicken!” Then she turned and hurried 
along the sidewalk. 

“Bluuuck—wait!” Cole called after her. His head bobbed 
frantically up and down. 

“You have to help us!” I cried, my hard lips clicking. 

Vanessa began walking faster. Her black hair flew behind her. She 
didn’t look back. 


We found Anthony fiddling around with a golf club in his front yard. 
He had borrowed one of his dad’s putters. And he had scooped out a 
hole in the middle of the grass. 


We watched him sink a long putt as we ran across the front lawn. 
He flashed us two thumbs up. “Awesome, huh? I’ve been practicing.” 

“Awesome,” I muttered. I was still thinking about Vanessa, still 
feeling really upset and frightened. 

“Bluuck buuck,” Cole said. 

Anthony narrowed his eyes at him. “What’s up, guys? My parents 
are going to your barbecue. But I have soccer practice.” 

Anthony pulled the ball from the hole and carried it a few feet 
away. He set it down, then leaned over the putter and prepared to 
putt again. 

“Anthony, has anything weird been happening to you?” I blurted 
out. 

“Yeah,” Cole chimed in. “In the last two days—anything really 
weird?” 

Anthony swung the golf club. It made a solid thwock as the club 
hit the ball. The ball sailed across the grass and stopped a few inches 
from the hole. 

Anthony raised his eyes to us. “Yeah,” he replied. “Something 
weird has been happening. How did you know?” 

“Because BLUUUCK the same weird thing has been happening to 
us,” I told him. 

He stared hard at me. “Huh?” 

Cole and I nodded. 

Anthony made a face. He pretended to study his golf club. “You 
mean you suddenly started putting really well, too?” he asked. 

It was our turn to be surprised. “Putting? What does putting have 
to do with it?” I cried. 

“Well, that’s what’s so weird,” Anthony replied. “Before this 
weekend, I was a lousy putter. Really bad news. I couldn’t even play 
mini-golf!” 

“So what?” Cole chimed in. 

“So this weekend I’m really good at it,” Anthony continued. He 
twirled the club in his hand. “All of a sudden, I’m not a bad putter. 
Don’t you think that’s weird?” 

“But—but—but—” I sputtered. 

“What about growing feathers?” Cole demanded. “And what 
about your lips?” 

Anthony’s face filled with confusion. Then he turned to me. 
“What’s with your brother? Is he going totally mental or what?” 

“Are you clucking all the time?” Cole asked Anthony. 

Anthony laughed. He cut it short quickly. “I don’t get it. Is this a 
joke or something, guys?” 

I pulled my brother to the driveway. “He doesn’t know what 


we're talking about,” I whispered. “For some reason, it isn’t happening 
to him.” 

Cole’s head bobbed up and down. He let out a low cluck. 

“Let’s go,” I said. “Anthony isn’t going to be any help.” 

“I don’t get the joke,” Anthony repeated. 

“See you BLUUUCK later!” I called to him. I started pulling Cole 
down the street. “We’ve got to help out with the barbecue.” 

“Maybe I can come after soccer practice,” Anthony called. “Save 
me some chicken!” 

“Yeah. Sure,” I muttered unhappily. 


Guests were already arriving for the barbecue. I recognized my aunt 
Norma’s red Honda in the driveway. And I saw the Walker family 
from down the block, heading around the side of the house to the 
back. 

I ducked in through the front door and ran up to my room. I 
wanted to tell Mom what was happening to Cole and me. But I knew 
she was too busy. She wouldn’t listen. 

I closed the bedroom door carefully behind me. I didn’t want 
anyone to see me until I checked myself out. 

Sure enough, I found white and brown feathers sticking out from 
my neck and shoulders. 

The feathers had just poked through the skin. So it was really 
hard to pull them out. I had to use tweezers for the smaller ones. 

Pluck. 

Pluck. 

Pluck... 

Ow. Did that hurt! 

I heard voices from down in the backyard. And through my 
bedroom window, I could see swirling smoke from the barbecue grills. 

Ugh. I had always loved the aroma of barbecuing chicken. But 
now it sickened me. I felt my stomach lurch. I gagged. I held my hand 
over my mouth—my beak!—and waited for the nausea to fade. 

rll stay up in my room, I decided. I won’t go downstairs. 

But then I heard Mom calling me from the kitchen. 

“Com-ing!” I yelled. I had no choice. I had to go down there. 

I crossed my fingers on both hands. My fingers suddenly felt so 
bony, so scraggly. My nails were long and pointed. Maybe no one will 
notice what is happening to me, I prayed. 

I made my way slowly downstairs to the kitchen. Mom had her 
hair tied up in a bun. She wore a long white apron, covered with 
barbecue sauce stains. 


She was mixing a big bowl of salad. But she stopped when I 
slipped into the room. “Crystal, where have you been? Guests are 
arriving. I need you to go out and be a hostess while I finish up in 
here.” 

“Okay, Mom. No problem,” I replied. I let out a couple of soft 
clucks. 

“See if there is enough ice,” Mom instructed. “And tell your dad 
he may need more charcoal. We—” 

She stopped suddenly, with a gasp. 

She stared out the window. “Crystal—what on earth is your 
brother doing out there?” 

I stepped up beside her and gazed out the window. “Oh, no!” I 
cried. 

I couldn’t believe what I saw. 


17 


Cole had climbed into the area fenced off for the chickens. He was 
down on his elbows and knees. There were chickens all around him. 

“What is he doing?” Mom repeated, raising a hand to one cheek. 

I knew what he was doing. But I knew this wasn’t the time to tell 
Mom. Not with twenty guests waiting for their dinner. 

I peered out the window. Cole was pecking seeds off the ground. 

I watched him lower his head to the gravel. I watched his lips 
open and his tongue slide out. I watched him suck up some chicken 
feed. His head bobbed up as he swallowed it down. 

“Why is your brother acting so dumb in front of company?” Mom 
asked, shaking her head. “Does he think that’s funny?” 

“I don’t know, Mom,” I replied. Cole’s head lowered, and he 
sucked up more seed from the gravel. 

People were laughing at him. Some just stared in confusion. 

“Well, go out there and stop him,” Mom ordered, turning back to 
the salad bowl. “Pull him away from the chickens and drag him into 
the house, Crystal. I want an explanation from him.” 

“Okay, Mom,” I murmured. 

I watched Cole pecking at seeds for a few seconds more. Then I 
made my way out the kitchen door and crossed the yard to the 
chicken area. 

“Cole?” I called softly. I stepped over the wire fence. “Cluuuck 
Cluuuck Cole?” 

I really did plan to bring him into the house to Mom. 

I really did plan to drag him away from there. 

But those seeds looked so delicious! 

I bumped some chickens out of the way. Then I dropped down on 
my knees, lowered my head—and started pecking away. 


The next day in school, I don’t think I heard a word anyone said. I 
couldn’t stop thinking about the barbecue. 

Of course, all of our guests thought what Cole and I did was some 
kind of a joke. They didn’t get the joke. But they knew it had to be a 
joke. 

Mom and Dad were really angry. They needed us to help out. But 
we were too busy pecking seeds with the chickens. 

Later, Mom was really upset when Cole and I refused to eat any of 
her barbecued chicken. “It was always your favorite!” she cried. 


Not anymore, I thought sadly. 

The idea of eating a chicken made my insides feel as if they were 
turning inside out! 

The next morning, I needed Cole’s help in pulling all the feathers 
from my neck and shoulders. Some big white feathers had poked out 
of my back, and I couldn’t reach them. 

It took us each twenty minutes to pluck out all the feathers that 
had grown during the night. We hid them in my sweater drawer. We 
didn’t want Mom or Dad to see them before we had a chance to 
explain. 

The school day went so slowly. My neck and back kept itching. I 
prayed that feathers wouldn’t grow while I was in school. 

And I prayed that none of my teachers would call on me in class. I 
was clucking more and more. It was becoming a real struggle to talk. 

My team had a basketball game in the gym after school against a 
girls’ team from the next county. I had looked forward to it all week. 
But now I just wanted to hurry home before any kids saw me clucking 
or pecking seeds from the playground. 

I dropped my books in my locker. And I was sneaking to the front 
door of the school—when Coach Clay turned the corner. “Crystal, I 
was looking for you!” she cried. 

“Cluck?” I replied. 

“Hilary has a bad cold. Pm going to let you start at forward 
today,” she told me. 

“Cluck—” I started. 

But she didn’t give me a chance to reply. She placed her hands on 
my shoulders, turned me around, and marched me to the locker room. 
“I know youre going to be great,” she said. “Go get changed.” 

“Cluck,” I told her. Normally, Pd be totally pumped! I was going 
to be the starting forward. This is what I had dreamed about all year! 

As I changed into my uniform, the other girls all came over to 
slap me high fives and wish me good luck. 

Maybe I can do it, I told myself. Maybe I will play really well. 
Maybe I can show them just how good a player I am. 

But as soon as the game started, I knew I was in trouble. 

Big trouble. 


18 


Our team won the opening jump. I turned and began running to the 
other team’s basket. 

I leaned forward as I ran. My head bobbed up and down. 

Up and down. Up and down. 

Low clucks escaped my throat. 

I tried to straighten up. But I couldn’t. 

Our center took a shot. Missed. We all started to run back to the 
other basket. 

“Nooooo,” I moaned. 

To my horror, I realized that I couldn’t run without bobbing my 
head. 

I glanced to the sideline—and saw Coach Clay staring at me. 
“Crystal—what are you doing?” she called. 

I heard some kids laughing at me. 

“Crystal—stop goofing,” Gina, the other forward, scolded me. 

The action moved to our opponents’ basket, and I ran down court. 
My head bobbed up and down. I realized I was running stiff-legged. 
My knees no longer bent! 

The ball came sailing toward me. 

I couldn’t catch it. My hands were tucked under my armpits. My 
elbows were poked out like wings. 

I let out a loud cluck as the ball bounced off my shoulder. 

My head bobbed up and down. 

My teammates were yelling angrily at me. On the sideline, I saw 
Coach Clay shaking her head. Girls on the other team were laughing. 

Down the court. I tried to pry my hands from my armpits as I ran. 
My head bobbed. My lips clicked. 

I glanced down—and stopped. 

No! 

My legs. 

White feathers were sprouting up and down my legs. 

And everyone could see them. 

I heard a whistle blow. The referee called a time out. 

My teammates ran toward our bench. I took off in the other 
direction. I ran out of the gym and out of the school. 

I wanted to run and run and never stop. 


I hid in my room during dinner. I was so depressed—and frightened. I 


wanted to tell Mom and Dad everything. But what if they didn’t 
believe me? What if they thought it was all a joke? 

After dinner, Mom and Dad had to go to school for a Parents 
Association meeting. Cole and I waited until we heard the car pull 
away. Then we waddled downstairs to the living room. 

We were down on our knees, pecking crumbs in the rug. 

My body was covered with white and brown feathers. It would 
take hours to pull them all off. 

“I—CLUUUUCK—I’m so scared,” Cole stammered. 

“Me, too,” I confessed. I pecked at a big chunk of lint. 

“Crystal, what are we going to do?” Cole asked softly. 

I started to say, “I don’t know.” 

But I suddenly knew exactly what we had to do. 


19 


We crept out into a cool, windy night. The swirling wind ruffled my 
feathers. Up above, a pale half-moon kept sliding behind wispy clouds. 

Cole and I walked along the street that led to town. We tried to 
hurry. But our legs felt stiff, and our knees were hard to bend. 

Car headlights swept over the street toward us. We slipped behind 
a low hedge and hid, clucking softly. We didn’t want anyone to see us 
like this. And we didn’t want anyone to ask us where we were going. 

We passed through town, making our way along the backs of 
stores. Trees hissed and shook as the wind picked up. The air grew 
heavy and moist. I felt a few raindrops on my forehead. 

A sweet aroma made me take a deep breath. It came from the 
bakery. I realized that Mrs. Wagner must be baking doughnuts for 
tomorrow morning. 

A sad cry escaped my beak. Would I ever be able to taste a 
doughnut again? Or would I spend the rest of my life pecking my food 
off the ground? 

Cole and I turned onto the dirt path that led to Vanessa’s old 
farmhouse. The night grew darker—and colder—as soon as we moved 
away from town. 

Our shoes plodded heavily over the hard dirt path. A few minutes 
later, I could see the black outline of Vanessa’s house against the gray 
sky. 

“What are we CLUUUCK going to say to her?” Cole demanded 
softly. 

I brushed a raindrop off my eyebrow. My hand felt rough and 
scratchy, my fingers hard as bone. 

“I’m going to BLUUUCK tell her how sorry we are,” I replied. “I’m 
going to tell her we didn’t mean to knock over her groceries. That it 
was all a big accident. And we’re sorry we didn’t stay and help her 
pick them up. CLUUUUCK.” 

We stepped up to Vanessa’s wooden fence. The gate had been left 
open. It banged in the wind. 

I raised my eyes to the house. It hung over the tall grass like a 
low, dark creature. No lights on anywhere. 

Had she already gone to sleep? 

“I—I don’t bluuuck think she’s home,” Cole whispered. 

“Of course she’s home,” I replied sharply. “Where else would she 
cluuuuck be? There’s nowhere to go at night in Goshen Falls.” 

We stepped through the gate. I tried to latch it behind us to stop 


it from banging. But the latch was broken. 

“What do we say after we apologize?” Cole asked, hanging back. 

I placed a hand on his shoulder and guided him along with me to 
the front door. 

“Then we beg her to remove the spell,” I clucked. “We beg her to 
change us back to the way we were.” 

“Do you think she’ll do it?” he asked in a tiny voice. 

“T don’t know,” I replied. “But we’ll soon find out.” 

I knocked on the front door. 


20 


No answer. 

The gate banged behind us. Startled, Cole and I both jumped. 

I took a deep breath and pounded my scraggly fist on the door 
again. 

We waited, staring straight ahead. Listening to the harsh whisper 
of the trees, and to the banging gate. 

Silence in the house. 

I uttered a sigh of disappointment and turned to my brother. “You 
were right. Vanessa isn’t home.” 

We backed away from the house. Clouds floated away from the 
moon. The front window glinted with silvery moonlight. 

“Let’s peek inside,” I urged. 

We made our way to the window. Standing on tiptoes, we peered 
into the living room. 

In the silvery light, I stared at the dark shapes of furniture. Old- 
fashioned, high-back chairs. A long couch covered with pillows. 
Bookshelves from floor to ceiling. 

Everything was very old-looking. But I didn’t see anything strange 
or frightening. 

Then a stack of books caught my eye. They were piled on a small, 
square table beside the couch. The books were big and thick. And 
even in the pale light, I could see that their covers were old and 
cracked. 

Squinting into the room, I spotted two more of them, lying open 
on the low coffee table in front of the couch. 

“Cole—” I whispered, my heart starting to pound. “See those old 
books? Do you think they are books about magic?” 

“Huh?” He pressed his face against the glass. “What do you 
mean?” 

“You know. Bluuuck. Books about magic spells. Sorcery books. 
They look like they could be old spell books—don’t they?” 

He nodded. “Yeah. Maybe.” 

I plucked a white feather from under his chin. 

“Owww!” he yelped. “Why’d you do that?” 

I shrugged. “Sorry. It was bothering me.” I turned my face back to 
the window and stared at the old books. 

“Let’s go,” Cole urged, tugging my arm. “She isn’t here.” 

“But those books are here,” I replied, tugging myself free. “And if 


they are spell books, maybe we could find the right book. You know. 
Bluuuuck. With the right spell. And we could change ourselves back to 
normal!” 

Cole rolled his eyes. He clicked his beak. “Yeah. Sure. Then 
maybe Pll flap my arms and lay an egg!” 

“Don’t be sarcastic,” I scolded him. “It may be a bad idea. But at 
least it’s an idea.” 

I pulled him to the front door. I turned the knob—and pushed. 

The heavy door creaked open. 

“Bluuuuck. Let’s just take a quick peek at those books,” I told my 
brother, stepping into the cool darkness of the house. “What have we 
got to lose?” 

I pulled Cole into the front hall. The house smelled of coffee and 
peppery spices. Sort of a sweet-sharp aroma. 

I led the way into the living room. Silvery light flooded in 
through the front window. 

The floorboards groaned beneath my shoes. I stopped beside the 
couch and stared at the pile of old books. 

I reached out for the book on top of the stack—when a furious 
shriek made me stop. 

“Ohhh!” I pulled my hand back. 

“Vanessa—!” Cole cried. 


21 


My breath caught in my chest. My heart skipped a beat. 

I spun around—and saw Vanessa’s cat leap onto the high back of 
an old armchair. 

The cat’s eyes flashed, golden in the pale light. It bared its teeth 
again in another angry hiss. 

“I—I thought it was Vanessa,” Cole murmured in a choked voice. 
“That cat cluuuuck doesn’t want us here.” 

“Well, we’re not staying long,” I told the cat. I motioned for Cole 
to come over to the couch. “Help me check out these books. If we find 
the right one...” 

As Cole passed by the chair, the cat swiped its claws at him. 

“Hey—!” Cole ducked away from it. 

“Cats don’t like chickens,” I whispered. 

I picked up one of the open books on the coffee table. I raised it 
close to my face and tried to read the title in the dim light. 

The print was smudged. The heavy cover was cracked with age 
and covered in a layer of dust. “I can’t read it,” I told Cole. 

I saw him move to the wall. “I’ll turn on a light,” he suggested. 

The cat hissed again. 

“No—don’t!” I called. “No light. If Vanessa comes back, we don’t 
want her to see us.” 

I rubbed my finger over the title. And tried to focus on it. 

“Hey—I don’t believe it!” I cried happily. 

“What is it, Crystal?” Cole called. “Did you find—” 

Before I could answer, the ceiling light flashed on. 

“Ohhh!” I cried out when I saw Vanessa standing by the wall. 


22 


I stumbled back. 

The book dropped from my hand. It thudded heavily on the floor 
at my feet. 

“Vanessa, I—” 

I swallowed hard. 

And realized I was staring at a painting. A huge oil portrait of 
Vanessa, hanging on the wall. 

“Oh, wow!” I cried. “That painting—it’s almost life-sized. I 
thought—” 

I turned to Cole. He stood by the light switch, staring at the big 
portrait. 

“Did you click on the light?” I demanded. 

“Yes,” he replied. “Sorry. I didn’t mean to bluuuck bluuuck scare 
you. I thought it would help you read the book title.” 

The book title! 

“Cole—I think I found the right book!” I cried. “The very first 
book I picked up.” 

I bent down and excitedly lifted the old book from the floor. 

Yes! 

“Cole—look!” I exclaimed, holding up the front cover. “It’s called 
Chicken Chicken Chicken. This has to be it! If I can find the spell that 
Vanessa used inside this book—” 

“Then maybe we can reverse it!” Cole cried. 

A loud bang from the front of the house made us both jump. The 
black cat screeched and jumped off the chair back. It scurried silently 
from the room. 

“Was that the gate—or was it Vanessa?” I cried. 

Cole clicked off the light. We listened, frozen in place. I gripped 
the old book closely to my chest. 

Silence now. Then another bang. Just the fence gate in the wind. 

“Let’s get out of here,” I whispered, raising my eyes to the front 
door. 

“Bluuuuck,” Cole replied. He turned and began walking stiff- 
legged to the door. Even in the dim light, I could see that a thick tuft 
of feathers had grown on the back of his neck. 

Vanessa’s cat stood on the hallway floor, arching its back as if 
ready to attack. We edged past it carefully. 

“Nice kitty. Nice kitty,” I murmured. 


Its angry expression didn’t change. 

I pushed open the door. The gusting wind caught it and nearly 
blew the door handle out of my hand. Cole and I stepped outside. I 
tugged the door shut. 

I carried the heavy book against my chest as we made our way 
home. We leaned into the wind. My hair fluttered up behind me like a 
pennant. 

Goshen Falls stood in darkness. All of the stores close early. The 
only bright lights were at the self-serve gas station on the first corner. 

Cole and I half-walked, half-trotted down the center of the street. 
I couldn’t wait to get home and find the spell that Vanessa had used 
on us. 

Finally, our house rose into view. The driveway was still empty. 
Mom and Dad hadn’t returned yet from their meeting at school. 

Good! I thought. Maybe I can find the spell and change Cole and 
me back to normal before they get home. 

I led the way up the stairs to my room, still clutching the book to 
my chest. Cole closed the door behind us. 

I dropped onto the edge of my bed and spread the big book on my 
lap. Cole stood beside me, clucking softly. Staring down at me as I 
rapidly flipped through the old pages, squinting hard at the tiny type. 

“Well?” Cole demanded impatiently. “Is it in there? Is the spell in 
there?” 

I didn’t reply. I turned the pages furiously, my eyes running down 
each column. Faster. Faster. I turned page after page, my heart 
pounding. 

“Well?” my brother demanded. “Well?” 

I slammed the book shut in disgust. 

“Noooooo!” I wailed. I tossed the book onto the bed. 

“Cole,” I cried, shaking my head sadly, “we’ve made a horrible 
mistake.” 


23 


Cole uttered a squawk of horror. The white and brown feathers on the 
back of his neck stood up on end. 

“Crystal—what’s wrong?” he choked out. 

“Its the wrong book!” I cried, jumping up from the bed. I left a 
pile of feathers where I’d been sitting. “It’s a cookbook! It’s a whole 
book of chicken recipes!” 

“Yuck!” Cole cried. 

The idea sent a wave of nausea up from my stomach. My arms 
suddenly itched. I gazed down and saw white feathers curling up from 
the skin. 

“We have to go back there,” I told my brother. My beak clicked 
loudly. It stretched out in front of my chin now. My teeth were sinking 
into my gums, about to disappear completely. I really had to struggle 
to form words. 

Cole swallowed hard. “Go back?” 

“Before it’s too late,” I whispered. “Before we’re completely 
chicken—not human at all.” 

He gulped and didn’t reply. 

I hoisted up the book and started waddling to the bedroom door. I 
stopped in shock when I glimpsed my reflection in the dresser mirror. 

My eyes! My head! 

My eyes had changed into small, round circles. And the shape of 
my head was changing, too. Growing narrow. My eyes were far apart 
now, moving to the sides of my head. 

“No! Oh, noooooo!” I opened my beak in a mournful wail. 

“Come on—let’s hurry!” Cole urged. He grabbed my hand. 
Feathers brushed feathers. The backs of our hands had sprouted a 
thick layer of short, white feathers. 

“Yes. Hurry!” I repeated, bobbing my head up and down. 

We made our way down the stairs and out the door. Back out into 
the dark, wind-swirled night. 

I had a strong urge to bend down and peck some gravel from the 
driveway. But I fought it off and trotted to the street. 

We had to hurry back there. Back to Vanessa’s house. 

Would we make it in time? 


The trip was normally a ten-minute walk. But it took Cole and me 
much longer. Partly because our chicken legs were so stiff. And partly 


because it’s a lot harder to see where you’re going when your eyes are 
on different sides of your head! 

The gusting winds softened a little as we finally reached Vanessa’s 
farmhouse. Pale moonlight cast shadows over the broken shingled 
roof. 

The windows were still dark. We leaned on the fence, catching 
our breath and studying the house. No sign that she had returned 
home. 

Clutching the heavy recipe book to my chest, I pushed past the 
gate and led the way to the front door. Once again, it opened easily. 
Cole and I stepped inside, inhaling the strange, spicy fragrance of the 
house. 

“Cluuuuck, Vanessa?” I called. “Hello? Anyone home?” 

A pair of yellow eyes glared at us from the banister. The black cat 
let out a yawn. Not at all surprised to see us back. And from the way it 
stared at us, not at all pleased to have its home invaded once again. 

“She isn’t here,” Cole whispered. “Let’s bluuuck bluuuck hurry.” 

I dropped the recipe book on the coffee table and turned to the 
stack of books beside the couch. As I turned, a bowl on the coffee 
table caught my attention. 

Sunflower seeds! 

I couldn’t resist. I poked my head into the bowl and began 
sucking the tasty seeds into my beak. 

“Crystal—what are you doing?” Cole cried in a hoarse whisper. 
“Get away from there!” 

He grabbed a book from the stack and began frantically pawing 
through it. I pecked up a few more seeds. Then I grabbed a book, too. 

Cole let out a triumphant squawk. “These books—they’re all 
magic books!” he declared. 

“You’re bluuuck right,” I agreed. “Hundreds and hundreds of 
magic spells.” 

Cole flipped rapidly through the pages of his book. His eyes were 
practically spinning! “How will we ever find the right one?” he 
demanded. 

“I think I just found it,” I told him. 

I carried the book to the window and held it up to the moonlight 
to see it better. 

Yes! 

“What does it say?” Cole asked excitedly. He dropped his book 
and came bobbing across the room to me. 

“It’s a whole cluuuuck page of chicken spells,” I replied, holding 
the book up to the window. “This one is called ‘Human into Chicken’. 
That sounds right—doesn’t it?” 


949 


“No. Find ‘Chicken into Human’!” Cole exclaimed. 

My eyes swept over the pages. “No such thing,” I told him. “We’ll 
just have to reverse the ‘Human into Chicken’ spell.” 

“Well, go ahead!” he cried, his feathery head bobbing up and 
down excitedly. “Reverse it! Do it! What do we have to do?” 

I saw that he was so excited, he couldn’t stand still. He tucked his 
hands under his armpits, stuck out his elbows to form wings—and 
began clucking round and round in a circle. 

“Cole—bluuuck bluuck bluuuck!” I scolded. 

He ignored me and kept clucking away. Flapping his arms and 
making a small circle over the floor. 

I turned back to the book and carefully read the spell. It didn’t 
look too hard. It didn’t call for any special ingredients. It was just a 
bunch of words that had to be said rapidly. And the spell caster had to 
cluck a lot and do a simple dance. 

Then, according to the book, you point at the poor victims and 
whisper, “Chicken chicken!” 

Just as Vanessa had done to us. 

“It looks pretty easy,” I told Cole. “Stop dancing around, and PI 
bluuuck try it.” 

He stopped his frantic flapping and circling. He turned to me. 
“Don’t forget to cluuuck bluuck,” he called. 

I knew what he meant. He was reminding me to do the spell 
backwards. 

Hmm... I glanced over the spell. That wasn’t going to be so easy. 
But I had no choice. I had to try it. 

Balancing the heavy, old book in one hand, I pointed to Cole, 
then to myself, with my free hand. “Chicken chicken,” I whispered. 

Okay. That was the very end of the spell. 

I lowered my eyes to the bottom of the page. And I started to read 
the words, going up: “Cluck cluck chick. Chick cluck cluck chick.” 

The spell instructed me to take three steps forward and two to the 
right. So I took two steps to the left, then three steps back. 

I moved my scrawny chicken finger over the words, being careful 
to read them in reverse order: 

“Chick cluck chick cluck. Cluck cluck chick.” 

Then, following the instructions backwards, I took two giant 
steps, then three steps to the right. I flapped my arms and clucked four 
times. 

Then I read the first words of the spell at the top of the page: 
“Cluck cluck chick cluck. Cluck chick cluck.” 

That was it. 

That was the whole spell. I had done it completely backwards. 


Would it work? Would reversing Vanessa’s spell turn Cole and me 
back to normal? 

Would it do anything at all? 

Yes. 

Suddenly, I began to feel strange. My arms and legs began to itch 
like crazy. The feathers up and down my arms shot straight out. 

The book fell from my hand and thudded loudly to the floor. 

Egg-shaped spots sparkled in front of my eyes. 

When the spots faded, the room turned purple and started to tilt. 

“Hey—something is happening!” Cole cried in a tiny voice. He 
sounded far, far away. 

Yes, something is happening, I agreed, grabbing the window 
ledge to keep from falling. 

Something is happening. 

But what? 


24 


I felt so dizzy. The room rocked and swayed. 

The floor suddenly appeared so far away. I blinked. Once. Twice. 

The floor still seemed a mile below. 

“Cluck cluck, Cole—?” I turned to my brother. Then I let out a 
shrill squawk of horror. 

Now I knew why the floor seemed so far down. Cole and I had 
GROWN! 

We weren’t chickens anymore. We were BIG chickens! 

“J—I’m as big as a horse!” I cried. 

I gazed up. The ceiling was only an inch or two above my head. 

Cole uttered a startled moan. His whole body trembled. Enormous 
feathers shook free and fell to the floor. He flapped his arms, and 
more feathers tumbled off him. 

I saw Vanessa’s black cat back into the hallway. Its yellow eyes 
were wide with fear. It arched its back and raised its tail and hissed at 
us furiously. 

I took a step toward Cole. My big, feathery body bobbed in front 
of me. “I—I must have bluuuuuck done something wrong!” I told my 
brother. 

Cole hopped up and down, bobbing his head. He clicked his beak, 
but no sound came out. Finally, he choked out, “Crystal—try again.” 

Yes. He was right. I had to try to reverse the spell again. 

Maybe I couldn’t turn us back into humans. But I might be able to 
shrink us back to our normal size. 

I bent over to find the book on the floor. It was hard to find. I was 
so tall, the book looked about the size of a CD case! 

It wasn’t easy to pick it up, either. It kept sliding out from my 
scraggly chicken fingers. 

It seemed like hours before I managed to find the spell again. 
Then I raised the little book up close to my right eye and began to 
perform the spell backwards once again. 

Please, please, I prayed. Let me get it right this time. Please, let 
Vanessa’s spell reverse itself. 

I finished up with the final: “Cluck cluck chick cluck. Cluck chick 
cluck.” 

Would it work? 

I heard Cole let out a choked cluck from across the room. 

Once again, I began to feel weird. The egg-shaped spots sparkled 


in front of my eyes, blinding me with their brightness. 

I shut my eyes. 

I could feel the room tilting and swaying. 

I tried to grab hold of something. But my hands grasped only air. 

“Ooooh!” I let out a low moan as I felt myself start to fall. Yes. I 
was falling... falling... 

When I opened my eyes, I didn’t know where I was. The room 
had disappeared. I was surrounded by darkness. Surrounded by... 

Whoa! 

I gazed up at the book. The book of spells—it rested beside me on 
the floor. But it had grown! The book was taller than me! 

“Cheep cheep!” I cried. 

“Cheep cheep cheep,” I heard Cole’s tiny reply. 

I spun around to find him. “Cheep?” 

“Cheep cheep!” 

He was a little yellow chick! I swallowed hard. I knew what that 
meant. That meant that I was also a tiny yellow chick! 

I had reversed the spell—too much! 

I struggled to speak—but I could only make a tiny cheep cheep 
sound. My tiny feet clicked on the wooden floor. 

“Cheep cheep?” Cole asked. The poor little guy sounded so 
frightened. 

My tiny heart was pounding in my feathery yellow chest. I 
suddenly felt so angry. Why was this happening to us? Why did 
Vanessa think she had a right to do this to us? 

I pecked my little beak furiously against the floor. I had no other 
way of letting out my anger. 

But I didn’t have much time to be angry. 

A dark blur of motion made me raise my eyes. 

I saw the giant shadow. No. It was Vanessa’s cat. The cat perched 
on the desk next to an old-fashioned-looking typewriter. 

Its tail smacked the typewriter as the cat dropped to the floor. 

It crossed the room quickly, silently—and rose up over me, its 
eyes glowing with excitement. 

It pulled back its lips, revealing its enormous teeth. 

“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. I froze in fear. 

The cat pounced. 

I felt its front paws wrap around my tiny, soft body. 

Then the paws began to squeeze. 


25 


I tried to kick. I tried to thrash my arms. Tried to wriggle free. 

But I was helpless against the giant cat. 

Its big paws squeezed me until I could barely breathe. 

Then it grabbed my head in its paws. 

And lifted me—up. Up. 

The cat dangled me in the air for a few seconds. 

I wanted to scream. 

I wanted to break free. 

But I was helpless. Too weak and tiny to do anything. 

The cat’s eyes flashed as it dangled me in front of its face. Then it 
opened its mouth wide—and stuffed me inside. 

Ohhhh. The cat’s hot breath roared over me. The inside of its 
mouth felt so hot, so disgustingly sticky and wet. 

“Cheep cheep cheeeep!” I squealed. 

The cat bounced me around on its tongue. 

And then—to my surprise—spit me out. 

I fell hard onto my side on the floor. Behind me, I could hear Cole 
cheeping weakly. 

I scrambled to my feet. I wanted to run. 

But the cat grabbed me again. Lifted me high off the floor in its 
rough paws. 

I saw the cat’s head, tilted at an angle. I saw a gleam of silvery 
drool on its fangs. Felt its hot, sour breath roll over me once again. 

The cat raised me high. Higher. 

Is it going to swallow me this time? I wondered. 

Is it going to shove me into its mouth and swallow me? 

No. The purring creature let me drop back to the floor. 

I landed on my back. My tiny feet clawed the air. 

Before I could scramble to my feet, the cat picked me up again— 
this time by the foot. It swung me from side to side in front of its open 
mouth. 

It’s playing with me, I realized. 

The cat is playing with its food! 

And when it’s finished playing... then it will eat me! 

I could hear Cole cheeping down on the floor. The cat held me in 
one paw, dangling me in front of its face. Then it began batting me 
with its other paw, making me spin. 

The spinning made me dizzy. I shut my eyes as the cat dropped 


me once again to the floor. 

I landed on my side and lay there. I felt so weak, so frightened. I 
didn’t even try to move. 

Panting hard, I waited for the cat to pounce again. Waited to feel 
its claws wrap around me. Waited to be lifted into the air again. 

Waited... 

When it didn’t pounce, I lifted my head. I struggled to focus. 

Where was it? 

I could hear my brother cheeping in terror somewhere across the 
floor. 

I climbed slowly to my feet. I ruffled my feathers, which were wet 
and sticky from being inside the cat’s mouth. 

Where was the cat? Why did it stop torturing me? 

The lights flashed on. 

“Eeeeep!” I uttered a shrill shriek as a big face lowered itself 
toward me. 

Vanessa! 

“Well, well!” her voice boomed in my tiny ears. “What have we 
here?” 

Her hand swooped down and grabbed me off the floor. 


26 


She swooped me up, then picked up Cole, too. She perched us in the 
palm of her hand and held us close to her pale face. A pleased smile 
spread across her black-lipsticked lips. 

“I see you found my spell book, little duckies,” she teased. “Let 
me guess. You must be Crystal and Cole.” 

Cole and I cheeped loudly and hopped up and down in protest. 

Vanessa laughed. “You’re both so cute!” she exclaimed. “What a 
shame I had to teach you a lesson.” She tsk-tsked. 

“Cheep cheep!” I squeaked. 

I wanted to ask why she had done this to Cole and me. I wanted 
to promise her that no matter what it was we had done—we’d never 
do it again. I wanted to demand that she change us back—now. 

But all I could do was cheep! 

“What should I do with you two?” Vanessa asked, her dark eyes 
flashing. “Should I send you back out? It’s a long way to your house 
from here. You’d probably be eaten before you got there.” 

“Cheeeeep!” Cole and I pleaded. 

How could we communicate with her? How could we talk to her? 
How? 

I suddenly had an idea. 

The old typewriter on the desk. Vanessa was holding Cole and me 
right above it. 

I glanced down. A sheet of white paper lay curled in the 
typewriter. Yes! I thought. Yes! Our only chance. 

I didn’t take another second to think about it. 

I leaped from Vanessa’s palm. And landed with a hard plop on the 
desktop. 

“Hey, chickie—!” I heard Vanessa’s startled cry. She lowered her 
hand to pick me up again. 

But I jumped onto the typewriter keys. Lowered my head. And 
began pecking away with my hard little beak. 

I pecked a V Then I hopped up to the left and pecked an A. As 
Vanessa’s hand swooped to grab me, I slid back down to the bottom 
row and pecked an N. 

Vanessa’s hand stopped inches above me. Could she see what I 
was doing? Did she figure out that I was typing her a message? 

The E was nearly at the top of the keyboard. I stumbled on the 
keys and nearly typed the wrong letter. But I hit the E, then backed up 


a step and pecked two S’s. 

I glanced up. Yes! She was watching. She had Cole resting in her 
palm. She leaned over the desk, and her dark eyes stared down at the 
sheet of paper. 

I was gasping for breath by the time I finished. My little heart was 
pounding. It was such hard work! But I typed the whole message: 

VANESSA, WE’RE REALLY SORRY. WE DIDN’T MEAN TO SPILL 
YOUR GROCERIES. WE CAME TO APOLOGIZE. 

I dropped weakly onto the desktop. So exhausted, I could barely 
move. 

I turned and raised my eyes to Vanessa. 

Would she help us? Would she accept our apology? Would she 
change us back to normal? 

Vanessa brought her face down close to me. “Your apology is a 
little too late,” she said coldly. “There’s nothing I can do.” 


27 


Cole uttered a pitiful “Cheep.” 

I raised myself up with a sigh. Then I stumbled back wearily onto 
the typewriter keys. 

PLEAS, I pecked out. 

I was so tired, I didn’t have the strength to push down the E at the 
end. 

I gazed up hopefully at Vanessa. She stared down at the word I 
had typed. She tapped her chin with her black fingernails. 

“Well...” she said finally. “I like the way you say ‘please’.” She 
lifted me up gently and set me down in her palm beside Cole. 

“Politeness is so important,” Vanessa said, holding us up to her 
face. “Especially for young people. That’s what I care about more than 
anything else in the world. Good manners.” 

Her dark eyes narrowed at us. “That day in front of the grocery,” 
she scolded, “you didn’t apologize for crashing into me. So I had no 
choice. I had to punish you.” She studied us, tsk-tsking. 

So that’s why Anthony wasn’t turned into a chicken, too! I 
realized. Before he ran away, Anthony had called out to Vanessa that 
he was sorry. 

If only Cole and I had apologized then! We wouldn’t be peeping 
little chicks today. 

But how were we to know that Vanessa was such a manners 
freak? 

She carried us over to a tall bookshelf and held us close to the 
books. “Do you see my collection?” she asked. “All etiquette books. 
Dozens and dozens of manners books. I have dedicated my life to 
manners.” 

She gazed at us sternly. “If only kids today weren’t so rude. I wish 
I could help you two. I really do. But your apology came too late. Far 
too late.” 

She set us both down on the desk. I guess her hand was getting 
tired. She rubbed it tenderly with her other hand. 

Now what? I wondered. 

Was she going to send us home like this? Vanessa was right. Cole 
and I would never make it. Some dog or cat or raccoon would turn us 
into dinner before we went a block or two. 

I cheeped in panic. My tiny feathers stood straight up. What could 
we do? 


I had one last, desperate idea. 

One more time, I climbed onto the typewriter keyboard. And I 
began to type... 

THANK YOU FOR EXPLAINING TO US. AND THANK YOU FOR 
TRYING TO TEACH US TO BE POLITE. YOURS TRULY, COLE AND 
CRYSTAL 

I said it was a desperate idea. About as desperate as a chicken can 
get. But I stared up at Vanessa, watching her read it. Hoping... 
hoping... 

“T don’t believe it!” Vanessa exclaimed. She tore the sheet of paper 
from the typewriter and read it again. “A thank-you note!” she cried. 
“You wrote me a thank-you note!” 

She gazed down at Cole and me with a broad smile. “No kids 
today ever write thank-you notes!” she cried. “This is the politest thing 
I ever saw!” 

She danced around with it. “A thank-you note! An actual thank- 
you note!” 

And then she turned. Pointed a finger at Cole, then at me. 
Mumbled some words. And pointed again. 

“Whooooa!” I cried, feeling my body grow. I felt like a balloon 
inflating. The little yellow feathers fell away. My hair grew back. My 
arms... my hands! 

“YAAAAAY!” I cried. Cole joined my happy cheer. 

We were back! Vanessa had changed us back—to us! 

We pinched each other, just to make sure. Then we tossed back 
our heads and laughed. We were so happy! 

Vanessa laughed, too. We all laughed gleefully together. 

Then Vanessa turned and started toward the kitchen. “Let me get 
you both a drink,” she offered. “I know how thirsty these spells can 
make a person.” 

“Thank you!” I cried, remembering how important politeness was 
to Vanessa. 

“Yes—thank you!” Cole added loudly. 

We grinned at each other. We pinched each other again. Skin! 
Real skin—with no feathers! 

I moved my lips. I licked them with my tongue. Soft, human lips 
that didn’t click. 

Vanessa returned with two glasses of soda. “I know kids like 
cola,” she said. She handed a glass to me and a glass to Cole. “Drink 
up,” she urged. “You’ve been through a lot.” 

I did feel terribly thirsty. I took a few long sips of the cola. It felt 
cold and tingly on my tongue. Wonderful! Better than seeds off the 
carpet. 


Wow. I was so happy to be me again. 

I raised my eyes and saw Cole tilt his glass to his mouth and drink 
the soda down. He was really thirsty! 

When he finished, he lowered his glass—and let out the loudest 
burp I ever heard! 

Cole burst out laughing. 

I couldn’t help myself. 

It was such a funny burp, I started laughing, too. 

I was still laughing when Vanessa stepped in front of me. 

What is her problem? I wondered. 

Then she pointed her finger, first at Cole, then at me. And 
whispered, “Pig pig.” 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
S ¢ 


HOI 


H Riso ond shine. Forever. 
CR F. 


DON’T GO TO SLEEP! 


aA STF ic 


DON’T GO TO 
SLEEP! 


Goosebumps - 54 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


Klonk! “Ow! The Klingon got me!” 

I rubbed my head and kicked my life-sized photo of a Klingon— 
one of those warlike aliens on Star Trek—out of the way. Pd been 
reaching for one of my favorite books, Ant Attack on Pluto, when the 
big hunk of cardboard fell off the top shelf and klonked me on the 
head. 

I kicked the Klingon again. “Take that, you evil piece of 
cardboard!” 

I was fed up. My stuff kept attacking me. 

My room was packed with junk. Things were always leaping off 
the walls and whacking me on the head. This wasn’t the first time. 

“Uhn!” I gave the Klingon another kick for good measure. 

“Matthew Amsterdam, twelve-year-old geek.” My older brother, 
Greg, stood in my bedroom doorway, murmuring into a tape recorder. 

“Get out of my room!” I grumbled. 

Greg totally ignored me. He always does. 

“Matt is skinny, small for his age, with a round, piglike baby 
face,” he said. He was still talking into the tape recorder. 

“Matt’s hair is so blond that, from a distance, he almost looks 
bald.” Greg spoke in a deep, fake voice. He was trying to sound like 
the guy who describes animals on those nature shows. 

“At least I don’t have a Brillo pad sitting on my head,” I cracked. 

Greg and my sister, Pam, both have wiry brown hair. Mine is 
white-blond and really thin. Mom says my dad had the same hair as 
me. But I don’t remember him. He died when I was a baby. 

Greg smirked at me and went on in that Wild Kingdom voice. 
“Matt’s natural habitat is a small bedroom filled with science-fiction 
books, models of alien spacecraft, comic books, dirty socks, rotten 
pizza crusts, and other geekazoid stuff. How can Matt stand it? 
Scientists are puzzled by this. Remember, geeks have always been a 
mystery to normal humans.” 

“Td rather be a geek than a nerd like you,” I said. 

“You’re not smart enough to be a nerd,” he shot back in his 
regular voice. 

My sister, Pam, appeared beside him in the doorway. “What’s 
happening here in Geek World?” she asked. “Did the mother ship 
finally come for you, Matt?” 

I threw Ant Attack on Pluto at her. 


Pam is in tenth grade. Greg is in eleventh. They gang up on me all 
the time. 

Greg spoke into his tape recorder again. “When threatened, the 
geek will attack. However, he is about as dangerous as a bowl of 
mashed potatoes.” 

“Get out!” I yelled. I tried to close the door, but they blocked it. 

“I can’t leave,” Greg protested. “I have a school project. I have to 
watch everybody in the family and write a paper about how they act. 
It’s for social studies.” 

“Go watch Pam pick her nose,” I snapped. 

Pam knocked Greg aside and pushed her way into the room. She 
grabbed me by the neck of my Star Trek T-shirt. 

“Take that back!” she ordered. 

“Let go!” I cried. “You’re stretching out my shirt!” 

“Matthew is very touchy about his geek clothes,” Greg mumbled 
into the recorder. 

“I said, take that back!” Pam shook me. “Or Ill sic Biggie on 
you!” 

Biggie is our dog. He’s not big—he’s a dachshund. But he hates 
me for some reason. 

With everybody else—even total strangers—he wags his tail, licks 
their hands, the whole bit. With me, he growls and snaps. 

Once Biggie sneaked into my room and bit me in my sleep. Pm a 
heavy sleeper—it takes a lot to wake me up. But believe me, when a 
dog bites you, you wake up. 

“Here, Biggie!” Pam called. 

“Okay!” I cried. “I take it back.” 

“Good answer,” Pam said. “You win the noogie prize!” She started 
knocking me on the head. 

“Ow! Ow!” I gasped. 

“The geek’s sister gives him noogies to the head,” Greg 
commented. “Geek says, ‘Ow’.” 

Finally Pam let me go. I stumbled and collapsed on my bed. The 
bed knocked against the wall. A pile of books rained down on me from 
the shelf over my head. 

“Give me that tape recorder for a second,” Pam said to Greg. She 
snatched it from him and yelled into the microphone. “The geek is 
down! Thanks to me, Pamela Amsterdam, the world is safe for cool 
people again! Woo! Woo! Woo!” 

I hate my life. 

Pam and Greg use me as their human punching bag. Maybe if 
Mom were around more, she’d be able to stop them. 

But she is hardly ever around. She works two jobs. Her day job is 


teaching people how to use computers. And her night job is typing at 
a law firm. 

Pam and Greg are supposed to be taking care of me. They take 
care of me, all right. 

They make sure I’m miserable twenty-four hours a day. 

“This room stinks,” Pam groaned. “Let’s get out of here, Greg.” 

They slammed the door behind them. My model space shuttle fell 
off the dresser and crashed to the floor. 

At least they left me alone. I didn’t care what mean things they 
said, as long as they went away. 

I settled on my bed to read Ant Attack on Pluto. Pd much rather be 
on the planet Pluto than in my own house—even with giant ants 
shooting spit rays at me. 

My bed felt lumpy. I shoved a bunch of books and clothes to the 
floor. 

I had the smallest bedroom in the house—of course. I always got 
the worst of everything. Even the guest room was bigger than my 
room. 

I didn’t understand it. I needed a big room more than anybody! I 
had so many books, posters, models, and other junk that there was 
barely room for me to sleep. 

I opened my book and started reading. I came to a really scary 
part. Justin Case, a human space traveler, was captured by the evil ant 
emperor. The ant emperor closed in on him, closer, closer... 

I shut my eyes for a second—just a second—but I guess I fell 
asleep. Suddenly I felt the ant emperor’s hot, stinking breath on my 
face! 

Ugh! It smelled exactly like dog food. Then I heard growling. I 
opened my eyes. 

It was worse than I thought. Worse than an ant emperor. It was 
Biggie—ready to spring! 


“Biggie!” I screamed. “Get off me!” 

Snap! He attacked me with his gaping dachshund jaws. 

I dodged him—he missed me. I shoved him off the bed. 

He snarled at me and tried to jump back up. He was too short. He 
couldn’t reach the bed without taking a running leap. 

I stood on the bed. Biggie snapped at my feet. “Help!” I yelled. 

That’s when I saw Pam and Greg in the doorway, laughing their 
heads off. 

Biggie backed up to take his running jump. “Help me, you guys!” 
I begged. 

“Yeah, right,” Pam said. Greg doubled over laughing. 

“Come on,” I whined. “I can’t get down! He’ll bite me!” 

Greg gasped for breath. “Why do you think we put him on your 
bed in the first place? Ha-ha-ha-ha!” 

“You shouldn’t sleep so much, Matt,” Greg said. “We thought we 
had to wake you up.” 

“Besides, we were bored,” Pam added. “We wanted to have some 
fun.” 
Biggie galloped across the room and leaped onto the bed. As he 
jumped up, I jumped down. I scurried across the floor—slipping on 
comic books as I ran. 

Biggie raced after me. I ducked into the hallway and slammed the 
door just before he got out. 

Biggie barked like crazy. 

“Let him out, Matt!” Pam scolded me. “How can you be so mean 
to poor, sweet Biggie?” 

“Leave me alone!” I shouted. I ran downstairs to the living room. 
I plopped myself on the couch and flicked on the TV. I didn’t bother to 
surf—I always watch the same channel. The Sci-Fi channel. 

I heard Biggie bounding down the steps. I tensed, waiting for him 
to attack. But he waddled into the kitchen. 

Probably going to eat some disgusting doggie treats, I thought. 
The fat little monster. 

The front door opened. Mom came in, balancing a couple of bags 
of groceries. 

“Hi, Mom!” I cried. I was glad she was home. Pam and Greg 
cooled it a little when she was around. 

“Hi, honey.” She carried the bags into the kitchen. “There’s my 


little Biggie!” she cooed. “How’s my sweet little pup?” 

Everybody loves Biggie except for me. 

“Greg!” Mom called. “It’s your turn to make dinner tonight!” 

“I can’t!” Greg yelled from upstairs. “Mom—I’ve got so much 
homework to do! I can’t fix dinner tonight.” 

Sure. He was so busy doing his homework, he couldn’t stop 
driving me crazy. 

“Make Matt do it,” Pam shouted. “He’s not doing anything. He’s 
just watching TV.” 

“I have homework too, you know,” I protested. 

Greg came down the steps. “Right,” he said. “Seventh-grade 
homework is so tough.” 

“PIL bet you didn’t think it was easy when you were in seventh 
grade.” 

“Boys, please don’t fight,” Mom said. “I’ve only got a couple of 
hours before I have to go back to work. Matt, start dinner. Pm going 
to go upstairs and lie down for a few minutes.” 

I stormed into the kitchen. “Mom! It’s not my turn!” 

“Greg will cook another night,” Mom promised. 

“What about Pam?” 

“Matt—that’s enough. You’re cooking. That’s final.” She dragged 
herself upstairs to her bedroom. 

“Rats!” I muttered. I opened a cabinet door and slammed it shut. 
“T never get my way around here!” 

“What are you making for dinner, Matt?” Greg asked. “Geek 
burgers?” 


“Matthew Amsterdam chews with his mouth open.” Greg was talking 
into his stupid tape recorder again. We were all in the kitchen, eating 
dinner. 

“Tonight the Amsterdams have tuna casserole for dinner,” he 
said. “Matt defrosted it. He left it in the oven too long. The noodles on 
the bottom are burned.” 

“Shut up,” I muttered. 

Nobody said anything for a few minutes. The only sounds were 
forks clicking against plates and Biggie’s toenails on the kitchen floor. 

“How was school today, kids?” Mom asked. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam asks her children about their day,” Greg said to 
the tape recorder. 

“Greg, do you have to do that at the dinner table?” Mom sighed. 

“Mrs. Amsterdam complains about her son Greg’s behavior,” Greg 
murmured. 


“Greg!” 

“Greg’s mother’s voice gets louder. Could she be angry?” 

“GREG!” 

“T have to do it, Mom,” Greg insisted in his normal voice. “It’s for 
school!” 

“It’s getting on my nerves,” Mom said. 

“Mine too,” I chimed in. 

“Who asked you, Matt?” Greg snapped. 

“So cut it out until after dinner, okay?” Mom asked. 

Greg didn’t say anything. But he set the tape recorder on the table 
and started to eat. 

Pam said, “Mom, can I put my winter clothes in the closet in the 
guest room? My closet is packed.” 

“PI think about it,” Mom said. 

“Hey!” I cried. “She has a huge closet! Her closet is almost as big 
as my whole room!” 

“So?” Pam sneered. 

“My room is the smallest one in the house!” I protested. “I can 
hardly walk through it.” 

“That’s because you’re a slob,” Pam cracked. 

‘Tm not a slob! I’m neat! But I need a bigger bedroom. Mom, can 
I move into the guest room?” 

Mom shook her head. “No.” 

“But why not?” 

“I want to keep that room nice for guests,” Mom explained. 

“What guests?” I cried. “We never have any guests!” 

“Your grandparents come every Christmas.” 

“That’s once a year. Grandma and Grandpa won’t mind sleeping 
in my little room once a year. The rest of the time they’ve got a whole 
house to themselves!” 

“Your room is too small to sleep two people,” Mom said. “I’m 
sorry, Matt. You can’t have the guest room.” 

“Mom!” 

“What do you care where you sleep, anyway?” Pam said. “You 
are the best sleeper in the world. You could sleep through a 
hurricane!” 

Greg picked up the tape recorder. “When Matt isn’t propped up in 
front of the TV, he is usually sleeping. He is asleep more than he’s 
awake.” 

“Mom, Greg talked into the tape recorder again,” I tattled. 

“I know,” Mom said wearily. “Greg, put it down.” 

“Mom, please let me switch rooms. I need a bigger room! I don’t 


just sleep in my room—lI live there! I need a place to get away from 
Pam and Greg. Mom—you don’t know what it’s like when you’re not 
here! They’re so mean to me!” 

“Matt, stop it,” Mom replied. “You have a wonderful brother and 
sister, and they take good care of you. You should appreciate them.” 

“T hate them!” 

“Matt! I’ve had enough of this! Go to your room!” 

“There’s no room for me in there!” I cried. 

“Now!” 

As I ran upstairs to my room, I heard Greg say in his tape 
recorder voice, “Matt has been punished. His crime? Being a geek.” 

I slammed the door, stuffed my face in a pillow, and screamed. 


I spent the rest of the evening in my room. 

“Its not fair!” I muttered to myself. “Pam and Greg get whatever 
they want—and I get punished!” 

Nobody is using the guest room, I thought. I don’t care what Mom 
says. I’m sleeping there from now on. 

Mom left for her night job. I waited until I heard Pam and Greg 
turn out the lights and go to their rooms. Then I slipped out of my 
room and into the guest room. 

I was going to sleep in that guest room. And nothing was going to 
stop me. 

I didn’t think it was that big a deal. What was the worst thing that 
could happen? Mom might get mad at me. So what? 

I had no idea that when I woke up in the morning, my life would 
be a complete disaster. 


My feet were cold. That was the first thing I noticed when I woke up. 

They were sticking out from under the covers. I sat up and tossed 
the blanket down over them. 

Then I pulled the blanket back up. Were those my feet? 

They were huge. Not monster huge, but huge for me. Way bigger 
than they’d been the day before. 

Man, I thought. I’d heard about growth spurts. I knew kids grew 
fast at my age. But this was ridiculous! 

I crept out of the guest room. I could hear Mom and Pam and 
Greg downstairs, eating breakfast. 

Oh, no, I thought. I slept late. I hope no one noticed that I didn’t 
sleep in my room last night. 

I went to the bathroom to brush my teeth. Everything felt a little 
weird. 

When I touched the bathroom doorknob, it seemed to be in the 
wrong place. As if someone had lowered it during the night. The 
ceiling felt lower too. 

I turned on the light and glanced in the mirror. 

Was that me? 

I couldn’t stop staring at myself. I looked like myself—and I 
didn’t. 

My face wasn’t so round. I touched my upper lip. It was covered 
with blond fuzz. And I was about six inches taller than I’d been the 
day before! 

I—I was older. I looked about sixteen years old! 

No, no, I thought. This can’t be right. ’ve got to be imagining 
this. 

Pll just close my eyes for a minute. When I open them, Pll be 
twelve again. 

I squeezed my eyes shut. I counted to ten. 

I opened my eyes. 

Nothing had changed. 

I was a teenager! 

My heart began to pound. I’d read that old story about Rip Van 
Winkle. He goes to sleep for a hundred years. When he wakes up, 
everything is different. 

Did that happen to me? I wondered. Did I just sleep for four years 
straight? 


I hurried downstairs to find Mom. She’d tell me what was going 
on. 

I raced downstairs in my pajamas. I wasn’t used to having such 
big feet. On the third step, I tripped over my left foot. 

“Noooo!” 

THUD! 

I rolled the rest of the way down. 

I landed on my face in front of the kitchen. Greg and Pam cracked 
up—of course. 

“Nice one, Matt!” Greg said. “Ten points!” 

I dragged myself to my feet. I had no time for Greg’s jokes. I had 
to talk to Mom. 

She sat at the kitchen table, eating eggs. 

“Mom!” I cried. “Look at me!” 

She looked at me. “I see you. You’re not dressed yet. You’d better 
hurry or you'll be late for school.” 

“But, Mom!” I insisted. “I’m—I’m a teenager!” 

“Tm all too aware of that,” Mom said. “Now hurry up. I’m leaving 
in fifteen minutes.” 

“Yeah, hurry up, Matt,” Pam piped up. “You'll make us late for 
school.” 

I turned to snap back at her—but stopped. She and Greg sat at the 
table, munching cereal. 

Nothing weird about that, right? 

The only thing was, they looked different too. If I was sixteen, 
Pam and Greg should have been nineteen and twenty. 

But they weren’t. They weren’t even fifteen and sixteen. 

They looked eleven and twelve! 

They’d gotten younger! 

“This is impossible!” I screeched. 

“This is impossible!” Greg echoed, making fun of me. 

Pam started giggling. 

“Mom—listen to me!” I cried. “Something weird is going on. 
Yesterday I was twelve—and today I’m sixteen!” 

“You’re the weirdo!” Greg joked. He and Pam were cracking up. 
They were just as obnoxious now as they were when they were older. 

Mom was only half-listening to me. I shook her arm to get her 
attention. 

“Mom! Pam and Greg are my older brother and sister! But now 
suddenly they’re younger! Don’t you remember? Greg is the oldest!” 

“Matt has gone cuckoo!” Greg cracked. “Cuckoo! Cuckoo!” 

Pam fell on the floor laughing. 


Mom stood up and set her plate in the sink. “Matt, I don’t have 
time for this. Go upstairs and get dressed right now.” 

“But, Mom—” 

“Now!” 

What could I do? Nobody would listen to me. They all acted as if 
everything was normal. 

I went upstairs and got dressed for school. I couldn’t find my old 
clothes. My drawers were full of clothes I’d never seen before. They all 
fit my new, bigger body. 

Could this be some kind of joke? I wondered as I laced up my 
size-ten sneakers. 

Greg must be playing some crazy trick on me. 

But how? How could Greg get me to grow—and get himself to 
shrink? 

Even Greg couldn’t do that. 

Then Biggie trotted in. 

“Oh, no,” I cried. “Stay away, Biggie. Stay away!” 

Biggie didn’t listen. He ran right up to me—and licked me on the 
leg. 

He didn’t growl. He didn’t bite. He wagged his tail. 

That’s it! I realized. Everything has really gone crazy. 

“Matt! We’re leaving!” Mom called. 

I hurried downstairs and out the front door. Everybody else was 
already in the car. 

Mom drove us to school. She pulled up in front of my school, 
Madison Middle School. I started to get out of the car. 

“Matt!” Mom scolded. “Where are you going? Get back in here!” 

“I’m going to school!” I explained. “I thought you wanted me to 
go to school!” 

“Bye, Mom!” Pam chirped. She and Greg kissed Mom good-bye 
and hopped out of the car. 

They ran into the school building. 

“Stop fooling around, Matt,” Mom said. “I’m going to be late for 
work.” 

I got back into the car. Mom drove another couple of miles. She 
stopped... in front of the high school. 

“Here you are, Matt,” Mom said. 

I gulped. High school! 

“But I’m not ready for high school!” I protested. 

“What is your problem today?” Mom snapped. She reached across 
the front seat and opened my door. “Get going!” 

I had to get out. I had no choice. 


“Have a good day!” she called as she pulled away. 
One look at that school and I knew—I was not going to have a 
good day. 


A bell rang. Big, scary-looking kids poured into the school building. 

“Come on, kid. Let’s move it.” A teacher pushed me toward the 
door. 

My stomach lurched. This was like the first day of school—times 
ten! Times a zillion! 

I wanted to scream: I can’t go to high school! I’m only in the 
seventh grade! 

I wandered through the halls with hundreds of other kids. Where 
do I go? I wondered. I don’t even know what class I’m in! 

A big guy wearing a football jacket marched up to me and stuck 
his face in my face. 

“Um, hello,” I said. Who was this guy? 

He didn’t move. He didn’t say a word. He just stood there, nose to 
nose with me. 

“Um, listen,” I began. “I don’t know what class to go to. Do you 
know where they keep the kids who are about—you know—my age?” 

The big—very, very big—guy opened his mouth. 

“You little creep,” he muttered. “I’m going to get you for what 
you did to me yesterday.” 

“Me?” My heart fluttered. What was he talking about? “I did 
something to you? I don’t think so. I didn’t do anything to you! I 
wasn’t even here yesterday!” 

He laid his huge paws on my shoulders—and squeezed. 

“Ow!” I cried. 

“Today, after school,” he said slowly, “you’re going to get it.” 

He let me go and walked slowly down the hall as if he owned the 
place. 

I was so scared, I dove into the first classroom I came to. 

I sat in the back. A tall woman with dark, curly hair stepped in 
front of the blackboard. 

“All right, people!” she yelled. Everybody quieted down. “Open 
your books to page one fifty-seven.” 

What class is this? I wondered. I watched as the girl next to me 
pulled a textbook out of her bag. I looked at the cover. 

No. Oh, no. 

It couldn’t be. 

The title of the book was Advanced Math: Calculus. 

Calculus! Pd never even heard of that! 


I was bad at math—even seventh-grade math. How could I do 
calculus? 

The teacher spotted me and narrowed her eyes. 

“Matt? Are you supposed to be in this class?” 

“No!” I cried, jumping up from my seat. “I’m not supposed to be 
in this class, that’s for sure!” 

The teacher added, “You’re in my two-thirty class, Matt. Unless 
you need to switch?” 

“No, no! That’s okay.” I started backing out of the room. “I got 
mixed up, that’s all!” 

I hurried out of there as fast as I could. Close one, I thought. I 
won’t be back at two-thirty, either. 

I think ll cut math class today. 

Now what do I do? I wondered. I wandered down the hall. 
Another bell rang. Another teacher—a short, dumpy man with glasses 
—stepped into the hallway to close his classroom door. He spotted me. 

“You’re late again, Amsterdam,” he barked at me. “Come on, 
come on.” 

I hurried into the classroom. I hoped this class would be 
something I could handle. Like maybe an English class where you read 
comic books. 

No such luck. 

It was an English class, all right. 

But we weren’t reading comic books. We were reading a book 
called Anna Karenina. 

First of all, this book is about ten thousand pages long. Second, 
everybody else had read it, and I hadn’t. Third, even if I tried to read 
it, I wouldn’t understand what was going on in a million years. 

“Since you were the last one to class, Amsterdam,” the teacher 
said, “you'll be the first to read. Start on page forty-seven.” 

I sat down at a desk and fumbled around. “Um, sir’—I didn’t 
know the guy’s name—“um—I don’t have the book with me.” 

“No, of course you don’t,” the teacher sighed. “Robertson, would 
you please lend Amsterdam your book?” 

Robertson turned out to be the girl sitting next to me. What was 
with this teacher, anyway? Calling everybody by their last names. 

The girl passed her book to me. “Thanks, Robertson,” I said. She 
scowled at me. 

I guess she didn’t like being called Robertson. But I didn’t know 
her first name. I’d never seen her before in my life. 

“Page forty-seven, Amsterdam,” the teacher repeated. 

I opened the book to page forty-seven. I scanned the page and 
took a deep breath. 


That page was covered with big words. Hard words. Words I 
didn’t know. 

And then long Russian names. 

I’m about to make a big fool of myself, I realized. 

Just take it one sentence at a time, I told myself. 

The trouble was, those sentences were long. One sentence took up 
the whole page! 

“Are you going to read or aren’t you?” the teacher demanded. 

I took a deep breath and read the first sentence. 

“The young Princess Kitty Shcherb—Sherba—Sherbet—” 

Robertson snickered. 

“Shckerbatskaya,” the teacher corrected. “Not Sherbet. We’ve been 
over all these names, Amsterdam. You should know them by now.” 

Shckerbatskaya? Even after the teacher pronounced it for me, I 
couldn’t say it. We never had words like that on our seventh-grade 
spelling tests. 

“Robertson, take over for Amsterdam,” the teacher commanded. 

Robertson took her book back from me and started reading out 
loud. I tried to follow the story. It was something about people going 
to balls and some guys wanting to marry Princess Kitty. Girl stuff. I 
yawned. 

“Bored, Amsterdam?” the teacher asked. “Maybe I can wake you 
up a bit. Why don’t you tell us what this passage means?” 

“Means?” I echoed. “You mean, what does it mean?” 

“That’s what I said.” 

I tried to stall for time. When would this stupid class be over, 
anyway? 

“Um—mean? What does it mean,” I murmured to myself, as if I 
were thinking really hard. “Like, what is the meaning of it? Wow, 
that’s a tough one—” 

All the other kids turned in their seats and stared at me. 

The teacher tapped his foot. “We’re waiting.” 

What could I do? I had no idea what was going on. I went for the 
foolproof escape. 

“I have to go to the bathroom,” I said. 

Everybody laughed except the teacher. He rolled his eyes. 

“Go ahead,” he said. “And stop by the principal’s office on your 
way back.” 

“What?” 

“You heard me,” the teacher said. “You’ve got a date with the 
principal. Now get out of my class.” 

I jumped up and ran out of the room. Man! High-school teachers 


were mean! 

Even though I was being punished, I was glad to get out of there. 

I never thought I’d say this, ever. But I wanted to go back to 
junior high! I wished everything would go back to normal. 

I wandered through the hall, looking for the principal’s office. I 
found a door with a frosted-glass window. Letters on the window said, 
MRS. MCNAB, PRINCIPAL. 

Should I go in? I wondered. Why should I? She’s only going to 
yell at me. 

I was about to turn around and leave. But someone was coming 
toward me down the hall. 

Someone I didn’t want to see. 

“There you are, you little creep!” It was the big guy from this 
morning. “I’m going to pound your face into the ground!” 


Gulp. 

Suddenly the principal’s office didn’t seem so scary. This guy— 
whoever he was—would never hurt me in the principal’s office. 

“You'll be needing plastic surgery when I’m finished with you!” 
the guy yelled. 

I opened the principal’s door and slipped inside. 

A big woman with steely gray hair sat behind a desk, writing 
something. 

“Yes?” she said. “What is it?” 

I paused to catch my breath. Why was I there again? 

Oh, yeah. English class. 

“My English teacher sent me,” I explained. “I guess I’m in 
trouble.” 

“Sit down, Matt.” She offered me a chair. She seemed kind of 
nice. She didn’t raise her voice. “What’s the problem?” 

“There’s been some kind of mistake,” I began. “I don’t belong 
here. I’m not supposed to be in high school!” 

She frowned. “What on earth are you talking about?” 

“I’m twelve years old!” I cried. “I’m a seventh grader! I can’t do 
this high school work. I’m supposed to be in middle school!” 

She looked confused. She reached out and pressed the back of her 
hand to my forehead. 

She’s checking to see if I have a fever, I realized. I must sound 
like a maniac. 

She spoke slowly and clearly. “Matt, you’re in eleventh grade. Not 
seventh grade. Can you understand me?” 

“I know I look like an eleventh grader,” I said. “I can’t do the 
work! Just now, in English class? They were reading a big, fat book 
called Anna something. I couldn’t read the first sentence!” 

“Calm down, Matt.” She stood up and went to a file cabinet. “You 
can do the work. Pll prove it to you.” 

She pulled out a file and opened it. I stared at it. It was a school 
record, with grades and comments. 

My name was written at the top of the chart. And there were my 
grades, for seventh grade, eighth grade, ninth grade, tenth grade, and 
the first half of eleventh. 

“You see?” Mrs. McNab said. “You can do the work. You’ve gotten 
mostly B’s, every year.” 


There were even a few A’s. 

“But—but I haven’t done this yet,” I protested. What was going 
on? How did I end up so far in the future? What happened to all those 
years? 

“Mrs. McNab, you don’t understand,” I insisted. “Yesterday, I was 
twelve. Today I woke up—and I was sixteen! I mean, my body was 
sixteen. But my mind is still twelve!” 

“Yes, I know,” Mrs. McNab replied. 


“Yes, I know you read a lot of science fiction,” Mrs. McNab said. “But 
you don’t expect me to believe that silly story—do you?” 

Mrs. McNab folded her arms and sighed. I could tell she was 
losing patience with me. 

“You have gym class next, don’t you,” she said. 

“What?” 

“This is all some kind of joke, right?” She glanced at my schedule, 
stapled to the file. 

“I knew it,” she muttered. “You do have gym next. And you’re 
trying to get out of it.” 

“No! I’m telling the truth!” 

“You’re going to that gym class, young man,” she said. “It starts 
in five minutes.” 

I stared at her. My feet felt glued to the floor. I should have 
known she wouldn’t believe me. 

“Are you going?” she asked gruffly. “Or do I have to take you to 
the gym myself?” 

‘Tm going, I’m going!” I backed out of the office and ran down 
the hall. Mrs. McNab stuck her head out the door and called, “No 
running in the halls!” 

Pam and Greg always said that high school was bad, I thought as 
I trotted to the gym. But this is a nightmare! 


Tweet! The gym teacher blew his whistle. “Volleyball! Line up to pick 
teams.” 

The gym teacher was a stocky guy with a black toupee. He chose 
a couple of team captains, and they started picking teams. 

Don’t pick me. Don’t pick me, I silently prayed. 

One of the captains, a blond girl named Lisa, picked me. 

We lined up at the volleyball nets. The other team served. The 
ball flew at me like a bullet. 

“I got it! I got it!” I cried. 

I reached up to hit the ball back. 

Klonk! It knocked me on the head. 

“Ow!” I rubbed my sore head. I’d forgotten—my head was much 
higher now than it used to be. 

“Wake up, Matt!” Lisa yelled. 

I had a feeling I wasn’t going to be very good at volleyball. 


The ball came flying at us again. “Get it, Matt!” someone called. 

I reached up higher this time. But I tripped over my giant feet and 
fell—oof!—on top of the guy standing next to me. 

“Watch it, man!” the guy shouted. “Get off me!” Then he clutched 
his elbow. “Ow! I hurt my elbow!” 

The teacher blew his whistle and hurried over to the guy. “You’d 
better go to the nurse,” he said. 

The guy hobbled out of the gym. 

“Way to go, Matt,” Lisa said sarcastically. “Try to do something 
right this time, okay?” 

I turned red with embarrassment. I knew I looked like a jerk. But 
I wasn’t used to being so tall! And having such big feet and hands. I 
didn’t know how to control them. 

I got through a few rounds without messing up. Actually, the ball 
didn’t come near me. So I didn’t have the chance to mess up. Then 
Lisa said, “Your serve, Matt.” 

I knew this was coming. I’d been watching everybody else serve 
so I’d know what to do. 

This time I won’t mess up, I vowed. I’m going to serve this ball 
and get a point for my team. Then they won’t be angry at me for 
making us lose. 

I tossed the ball in the air. I punched it as hard as I could with my 
fist, trying to get it over the net. 

WHAM! I hit that ball harder than ld ever hit anything. It 
whizzed through the air so fast, you could hardly see it. 

SMACK! 

“Ow!” 

Lisa doubled over, clutching the side of her head. 

“Why did you have to hit it so hard?” Lisa cried, rubbing her 
head. 

The teacher looked her over. “You'll have a nasty bruise there,” 
he said. “You’d better go to the nurse too.” 

Lisa glared at me and stumbled away. 

The teacher gave me a funny look. “What’s the matter, kid?” he 
asked. “Don’t know your own strength? Or just out to get your 
classmates, one by one?” 

“J—I didn’t do it on purpose,” I stuttered. “I swear I didn’t!” 

“Hit the showers, kid,” the teacher said. 

I hung my head as I dragged myself to the locker room. 

This day can’t get any worse, I thought. There’s no way. 

Still, why take chances? 

It was lunchtime. I had half a day of school to go. 


But I wasn’t going to stick around. 

I didn’t know where to go or what to do. I only knew I couldn’t 
stay in that school. 

High school was horrible. If I ever got back to my normal life, Pd 
remember to skip this part. 

I left the gym and raced out of the school building as fast as I 
could. Down the hall. Out the door. 

I glanced back. Was that big guy chasing me? Did the principal 
see me sneak out? No sign of anyone. Coast clear. Then—oof! Oh, no. 
Not again! 


I bumped into someone. I bounced backwards and landed with a thud 
on the ground. 

Ow! What happened? 

A girl sat sprawled on the sidewalk. Books were scattered around 
her. 

I helped her up. “Are you okay?” I asked. 

She nodded. 

“Tm really sorry,” I said. “Pve been doing that all day.” 

“That’s all right.” The girl smiled. “I’m not hurt.” 

She wasn’t a high-school girl—she looked about my age. I mean, 
the age I thought I was. Which was twelve. 

She was pretty, with long, thick blond hair in a ponytail. Her blue 
eyes sparkled at me. 

She bent down to pick up her stuff. 

“T’ll help you,” I offered. I reached down to pick up a book. 

CLONK! My head bumped into hers. 

“I did it again!” I cried. I was getting sick of this. 

“Don’t worry about it,” the girl said. She picked up the rest of the 
books. 

“My name is Lacie,” she told me. 

“Tm Matt.” 

“What’s the matter, Matt?” she asked. “Why are you in such a 
hurry?” 
What could I tell her? That my whole life had turned inside out? 
Then the school door burst open. Mrs. McNab stepped outside. 
“I’ve got to get out of here,” I replied. “I’ve got to get home. See 
you.” 

I ran down the street before Mrs. McNab could spot me. 

I collapsed on the couch. It had been a terrible day. At least I 
made it home before that big guy beat me up. 

But what was I going to do tomorrow? 


I watched TV until Pam and Greg came home from school. 

Pam and Greg. ld forgotten all about them. 

They were little kids now. And they seemed to expect me to take 
care of them. 

“Fix us a snack! Fix us a snack!” Pam chanted. 

“Fix your own snack,” I snapped back. 


‘Tm telling Mommy!” Pam cried. “You’re supposed to fix us a 
snack! And I’m hungry!” 

I remembered the excuse Pam and Greg had always used to get 
out of doing stuff for me. 

“Tve got homework to do,” I said. 

Oh, yeah, I realized. 

I probably really do have homework to do. 

High-school homework. 

It’s going to be impossible for me. 

But if I don’t do it, P’ll be in trouble tomorrow. 

In more ways than one, I thought, remembering that big guy. 
What did I ever do to him, anyway? 


When it was time for bed, I headed to my old room. But Pam was 
sleeping in there. 

So I went back to the guest room. I climbed into bed. 

What am I going to do? I worried as I let my eyes close. 

I don’t know what’s happening. 

I can’t do anything right. 

Is this what my life is going to be like—forever? 


I opened my eyes. Sunlight poured in through the window. It was 
morning. 

Oh, great, I thought. Time for another fabulous day of high 
school. 

I shut my eyes again. I can’t face it, I thought. Maybe if I stay in 
bed, all my problems will go away. 

“Matt! Time to get up!” Mom called. 

I sighed. Mom would never let me stay home from school. There 
was no way out. 

“Matt!” she shouted again. 

Her voice sounds funny, I thought. Higher than usual. 

Maybe she’s not so tired for once. 

I dragged myself out of bed. I set my feet on the floor. 

Wait a minute. 

My feet. 

I stared at them. They looked different. I mean, they looked the 
same. 

They weren’t big anymore. I had my old feet back! 

I looked at my hands. I wiggled my fingers. 

It was me! I was my old self again! 

I ran into the bathroom to check the mirror. I had to make sure. 

I flipped on the light. 

There I was—a puny little twelve year old! 

I hopped up and down. “Yippee! I’m twelve! I’m twelve!” 

All my problems were solved! I didn’t have to go to high school! 

I didn’t have to face that big bully! 

The nightmare was over! 

Everything was okay now. I was even looking forward to seeing 
Pam and Greg and Biggie as their crabby old selves again. 

“Matt! You’re going to be late!” Mom shouted. 

Does she have a cold or something? I wondered as I quickly 
dressed and ran downstairs. She really did sound different. 

I practically skipped into the kitchen. “I'll have cereal today, Mom 


2) 


I stopped. 
Two people sat at the kitchen table. A man and a woman. 
I’d never seen them before. 


“T fixed you some toast, Matt,” the woman said. 

“Where’s my mother?” I asked. “Where are Pam and Greg?” 

The man and woman stared blankly at me. 

“Feeling a little off today, son?” the man said. 

Son? 

The woman stood up and bustled around the kitchen. “Drink your 
juice, honey. Your dad will drop you off at school today.” 

My dad? 

“I don’t have a dad!” I insisted. “My father has been dead since I 
was a baby!” 

The man shook his head and bit into a piece of toast. “They told 
me he’d get weird at this age. But I didn’t know how weird.” 

“Where are they?” I demanded. “What did you do with my 
family?” 

‘Tm not in the mood for jokes today, Matt,” the man said. “Now 
let’s get moving.” 

A cat crept into the kitchen. It rubbed against my legs. 

“What’s this cat doing here?” I asked. “Where’s Biggie?” 

“Who’s Biggie? What are you talking about?” the woman said. 

I was starting to get scared. My heart was pounding. My legs felt 
weak. 

I sank into a chair and gulped my juice. “Are you saying that— 
you’re my parents?” 

The woman kissed me on the head. “I’m your mother. This is your 
father. That’s your cat. Period.” 

“I have no brothers or sisters?” 

The woman raised an eyebrow and glanced at the man. “Brothers 
and sisters? No, darling.” 

I cringed. My real mother would never call me “darling”. 

“I know you want a brother,” the woman went on. “But you really 
wouldn’t like it. You’re just not good at sharing.” 

I couldn’t stand this any longer. 

“Okay, stop right there,” I demanded. “Stop fooling around. I 
want to know right now—why is this happening to me?” 

My “parents” exchanged looks. Then they turned back to me. 

“I want to know who you are!” I cried, trembling all over. “Where 
is my real family? I want answers—now!” 

The man stood up and grabbed me by the arm. “Get in the car, 


son,” he commanded. 

“No!” I screamed. 

“Joke is over. Now get in the car.” 

I had no choice. I followed him to a car—a shiny new one, not my 
real mother’s old piece of junk. I climbed in. 

The woman ran outside. “Don’t forget your books!” she called. 
She pushed a backpack through the open window at me. Then she 
kissed me again. 

“Ugh!” I cringed. “Stop it!” I didn’t know her well enough to let 
her kiss me. 

The man started the car and pulled out of the driveway. The 
woman waved. “Have a good day at school!” 

They’re serious, I realized. They really think they’re my parents. 

I shuddered. 

What was happening to me? 


10 


One day I’m a normal twelve year old. The next day I’m suddenly 
sixteen. 

Then the next day I’m twelve again—except I live in a completely 
different family! 

I stared out the window as “Dad” drove. We passed through a 
neighborhood I’d never seen before. 

“Where are we going?” I asked in a tiny voice. 

“Tm taking you to school. What did you think—we were going to 
the circus?” the man replied. 

“This isn’t the way to school,” I said. 

The man just snorted and shook his head. He didn’t believe me. 

He pulled up in front of a junior high school—but not mine. I’d 
never seen this place before. 

“Okay, son. Have a nice day.” The man reached across me and 
opened the car door. 

What could I do? I climbed out of the car. 

“Dad” drove off. 

Now what? I thought. I’m twelve again—but I’m at a totally 
different school. 

Am I awake? 

I kicked myself in the shin to test it. Ow! That hurt. 

I figured that meant I was awake. 

Kids poured into the school building. I followed them in. I didn’t 
know what else to do. 

Ahead of me I saw a girl with a long, thick blond ponytail. She 
turned around and smiled at me. 

She looked familiar. Where had I seen her before? 

“Hi,” I said to her. 

“Hi,” she said back. Her blue eyes sparkled at me. 

‘Tm Matt.” I was still racking my brains trying to figure out 
where I’d met her before. 

“Tm Lacie.” 

Lacie! Of course. ld crashed into her the day before—outside 
Horrible High. 

I started to say, “I met you yesterday—remember?” But I stopped. 

Did she recognize me? I couldn’t tell. But why should she? I 
looked completely different from the day before. How could she guess 
that the twelve-year-old kid standing next to her was also the clumsy 


teenager from yesterday? 

“What’s your first class?” she asked me. “I’ve got lunch.” 

“Lunch? But it’s eight-thirty in the morning!” 

“Youre new here, aren’t you?” she said. 

I nodded. 

“This stupid school is so crowded, they can’t fit everyone into the 
cafeteria at lunchtime,” she explained. “So I’ve got lunch now.” 

“Tve got lunch too,” I lied. Or maybe it wasn’t a lie—what did I 
know? I had no idea what was going on anymore. School was 
beginning to seem like a lot more trouble than it was worth. 

I followed her to the cafeteria. They really were serving lunch 
there. The powerful smell of brussels sprouts stank up the air. I 
gagged. 

“It’s too early in the morning for brussels sprouts,” I noted. 

“Let’s eat out on the playground,” Lacie suggested. “It’s a nice 

day.” 
We slipped out of the cafeteria and settled under a tree. Lacie 
sipped a carton of chocolate milk. I ruammaged through my backpack 
for some lunch. I figured my new “mom” must’ve packed me 
something. 

She did, all right. Baloney and ketchup on white bread. A little 
plastic bag full of carrot sticks. Vanilla pudding for dessert. 

Everything I hate. 

Lacie held out a chocolate cupcake. “Want this? I can’t face it this 
early in the morning.” 

“Thanks.” I took the cupcake. 

Lacie seemed like a really nice person. She was the nicest person 
Pd met since my life became a nightmare. She was the only nice 
person I’d met since then. 

Maybe she would understand. I really wanted to talk to 
somebody. I felt so alone. 

“Do I look familiar to you?” I asked her. 

She studied my face. 

“You do look kind of familiar,” she said. “I’m sure I’ve seen you 
around school....” 

“That’s not what I mean.” I decided to tell her what had 
happened to me. I knew it would sound weird to her. But I had to tell 
somebody. 

I started slowly. “Were you walking past the high school 
yesterday?” 

“Yes. I walk past it every day on my way home.” 

“Did someone bump into you yesterday? A teenager? In front of 


the high school?” 

She started to answer. But something caught her eye. I followed 
her gaze to the school door. 

Two guys were walking toward us. They were tough-looking guys 
in black jeans and black T-shirts. One wore a blue bandanna around 
his head. The other had ripped the sleeves of his T-shirt to show off 
his beefy arms. 

They had to be at least sixteen or seventeen. What were they 
doing here? 

They headed straight for us. 

My heart began to pound. Something told me to be afraid of 
them. 

Maybe it was the nasty looks on their faces. 

“Who are those guys?” I asked. 

Lacie didn’t answer. She didn’t have time. 

One of the guys in black pointed at me. 

“There he is!” he shouted. 

“Get him!” 


11 


The two guys ran straight for me. 

Who were they? I didn’t know. 

But I didn’t stop to think. I jumped to my feet and ran as fast as I 
could. 

I glanced back. Were they chasing me? 

“Stop him!” one of them shouted. 

Lacie stepped in front of them, blocking their path. 

“Thanks, Lacie,” I whispered. I hurried out of the playground. I 
raced through the strange neighborhood, trying to remember how to 
get home. 

A few blocks from school I stopped to catch my breath. 

No sign of the two guys. No sign of Lacie, either. 

I hope she’s all right, I thought. They didn’t seem to want to hurt 
her. 

They wanted to hurt me. 

But why? 

The day before, a bully had said he wanted to get me after school. 

But today, in my new, weird world, I hadn’t seen him. Neither of 
the guys in black was that bully. 

Just two new bullies. 

I’ve got to get help, I realized. 

I don’t know what’s happening. But it’s all too much for me. And 
it’s too frightening. I hardly know who I am. 

I drifted through the streets until I finally found my way home. 
“Mom” and “Dad” were out. The front door was locked. I climbed in 
through the kitchen window. 

My real mother was gone. My brother and sister and even my dog 
were gone. 

But there must be someone else I know, I thought. Somebody, 
somewhere, who can help me. 

Maybe my real mom went somewhere else. Maybe she’s visiting 
relatives or something. 

I decided to try Aunt Margaret and Uncle Andy. I dialed Aunt 
Margaret’s number. 

A man answered the phone. 

“Uncle Andy!” I cried. “It’s me, Matt!” 

The voice said, “Who is this?” 

“Matt!” I repeated. “Your nephew!” 


“I don’t know any Matt,” the man said gruffly. “You must have 
dialed the wrong number.” 

“No—Uncle Andy, wait!” I shouted. 

“My name isn’t Andy,” the man snarled. He hung up. 

I stared at the phone, stunned. The man didn’t sound like Uncle 
Andy at all. 

I guess I did dial wrong, I thought. I tried the number again. 

“Hello?” It was the same man again. 

This time I tried a new approach. “Is Andy Amsterdam there, 
please?” 

“You again! There’s no Andy here, kid,” the man said. “Wrong 
number.” 

He slammed the phone in my ear. 

I tried not to panic. But my hands were shaking. 

I dialed information. “What listing, please?” the operator asked. 

“Andrew Amsterdam,” I said. 

“Checking,” said the operator. 

A minute later she said, “I’m sorry. We have no listing under that 
name.” 

“Maybe if I spell it for you,” I insisted. “A-m-s—” 

“T’ve already checked, sir. There’s no one listed under that name.” 

“Could you try Margaret Amsterdam, then?” 

“There’s no one named Amsterdam listed at all, sir.” 

My heart started racing as I hung up. This can’t be happening, I 
thought. There must be somebody I know, somewhere! 

I won’t give up. Ill try my cousin Chris. 

I called Chris’ number. Someone else answered. 

It was as if Chris didn’t exist. Or Uncle Andy, or my mother, or 
anybody I knew. 

How could my whole family disappear? 

The only person I knew was Lacie. But I couldn’t call her. 

I didn’t know her last name. 

The front door opened. The woman who called herself my mother 
bustled in, carrying shopping bags. 

“Matt, darling! What are you doing home in the middle of the 
day?” 

“None of your beeswax,” I snapped. 

“Matt! Don’t be so rude!” she scolded. 

I shouldn’t have been rude to her, I guess. But what difference did 
it make? She wasn’t my real mother, anyway. 

My real mother had disappeared off the face of the earth. 

I shuddered. I realized I was totally alone in the world. 


I didn’t know anyone—not even my parents! 


12 


“Bedtime, honey,” my fake mother chirped. 

Pd been sitting in front of the TV all evening. Just staring, not 
even really watching it. 

Maybe I should stop thinking of these people as my fake parents, I 
realized. They’re real enough now. I might be stuck with them forever. 

rll find out in the morning, I thought as I trudged upstairs. My 
old room was a sewing room now. I went back to the guest room to 
sleep. 

“Good night, darling.” “Mom” kissed me goodnight. Why did she 
have to keep kissing me? 

She turned out the light and said, “See you in the morning.” 

The morning. I dreaded the morning. 

So far, each morning was weirder than the last. I was scared to go 
to sleep. 

What would I wake up to? 

It would be great if these fake parents of mine were gone. But 
who would take their place? 

Maybe Id wake up and the whole world would be gone! 

I struggled to stay awake. Please, I prayed. Please let everything 
be normal again. Pd even be glad to have Greg and Pam back, if 
everything could only be normal.... 

I must have fallen asleep. The next thing I knew, I opened my 
eyes—and it was morning. 

I lay perfectly still for a minute. Had anything changed? 

I heard noises in the house. There were definitely other people 
here. 

A lot of other people. 

My heart started pounding. Oh, no, I thought. What am I in for 
this time? 

I heard someone playing an accordion. That was a pretty sure 
sign my old family wasn’t back. 

But first things first. How old was I today? 

I held my hands up in front of my face. They looked a little on the 
small side. 

I got up and went to the bathroom, trying not to panic. I was 
really getting sick of this routine. 

The mirror seemed higher than usual. I stared at my face. 

I wasn’t twelve anymore, that was for sure. I looked about eight. 


Eight, I thought, sighing. 

That’s third grade. Well, at least I’ll be able to do the math. 
Suddenly, I felt a sharp pain in my back. Ow! Claws! Tiny claws 
digging into my back! The claws dug deeper. I screamed. 


13 


Something jumped on my back! 

A tiny, hairy face appeared in the mirror. Some kind of animal 
was standing on my shoulders! 

“Get it off! Get it off!” I shrieked. 

“Eeee! Eeee!” the animal screeched. 

I ran into the hallway—and almost crashed into a huge man. 

“Get this thing off me!” I cried. 

The man plucked the animal off my shoulder. He laughed loud 
and deep, like an evil Santa Claus. 

“What’s wrong with you, Matt?” he boomed. “Scared of Pansy all 
of a sudden?” 

Pansy? The man cuddled the animal in his arms. It was a monkey. 

The man roughed up my hair. “Get dressed, boy. We got a 
rehearsal this morning.” 

Rehearsal? What was that supposed to mean? 

I stared at the man. He was huge, with a round stomach, glossy 
black hair, and a long mustache. 

The weirdest part was what he wore: a bright red costume with 
gold trim and a gold belt. 

Oh, no! I thought, my heart sinking. This can’t be... my father? 

From downstairs a woman’s voice screamed, “Grub!” 

The man handed me a pile of clothes. “Put your costume on,” he 
said. “Then come on down to breakfast—son.” 

I knew it. He was my father. For today, at least. My “family” kept 
getting worse every day. 

“GRUUUUB!” the woman downstairs yelled again. 

I guess that’s Mom, I thought miserably. She sounds like a real 
sweetheart. 

Kids came pouring out of the other bedrooms. It seemed like there 
were dozens of them, all different ages. But I counted, and there were 
only six. 

I tried to get all the new facts straight. I was eight years old. I had 
six brothers and sisters and a pet monkey. I hadn’t seen my mother 
yet, but my father was a total wacko. 

And I’ve got to wear some kind of freaky costume, I thought, 
holding up the clothes the man had given me. It was a tight blue 
outfit, like a leotard. The bottom part was blue with white stripes. The 
top had white stars. 


What was that supposed to be? And what kind of rehearsal did I 
have? 

Was I in a play or something? 

I pulled on the costume. It fit me like a second skin. I felt like a 
total jerk. 

Then I went downstairs for breakfast. 

The kitchen was a madhouse. The other kids laughed and shouted 
and threw food. Pansy hopped around on the table, stealing bits of 
bacon. 

A tall, thin woman piled pancakes on plates. She wore a long, 
purple, sequined gown. A silver crown perched on top of her head. 

My new mom. 

“Hurry up and eat, Matt—before it’s all gone!” she shouted. 

I grabbed a plate and started eating. I had to keep swatting Pansy 
away. 

“Doesn’t Matt look cute in his little superhero suit?” a girl teased. 
She had to be one of my older sisters. 

“Cute as a button,” a boy said sarcastically. He looked about two 
years older than me. He grabbed my cheek and pinched it—hard. Too 
hard. “Cute little Matt,” he sneered. “Big-shot star of the circus.” 

The circus! I dropped my fork. Chills rippled down my back. Was 
I in the circus? 

The dopey costumes. The monkey. It all made sense now. 

I dropped my head into my hands. Matthew Amsterdam, circus 
boy. I almost wanted to cry. 

I had the feeling my brother was jealous. As if he wanted to be 
the star of the stupid circus. 

And he could be, for all I cared. I sure didn’t want to be the star 
of any circus. 

“Leave Matt alone or he’ll get stage fright again,” the mother 
scolded. 

I studied the rest of the family. Everyone was dressed in bright 
costumes. I was part of a circus family. 

The pancakes sank to the pit of my stomach. I never liked the 
circus. Even when I was little, I hated it. 

But now the circus was my life—and I was the star. Oh, goody. 

“Rehearsal time!” the father cried. He put a black top hat on his 
head and cracked a whip on the stairs. “Let’s roll!” 

We left our plates on the table and piled into a beat-up old van. 
Mom drove at about ninety miles an hour. 

My brothers and sisters fought the whole way. One little girl kept 
pinching me. Another one punched me. 


“Cut it out!” I snapped. Why couldn’t I wake up in a world with 
nice brothers and sisters? 

The van chugged into a fairground and stopped in front of a big 
circus tent. 

“Everybody out!” Dad ordered. 

I jostled with my brothers and sisters to get out of the van. Then I 
followed them into the tent. 

It was kind of awesome inside the tent. Other acts were already 
there, practicing. I saw a man on a high wire way up near the top of 
the tent. An elephant stood up on its hind legs and danced. Clowns 
rode around in dopey little cars, honking their horns. 

I wonder what my act is? I thought. Two of my sisters scurried up 
a ladder and started practicing a trapeze routine. 

I watched them, terrified. The trapeze! There was no way they 
could get me up there. No way. 

Please don’t make me do a trapeze act, I prayed. 

“Come on, Matt,” Dad said. “Let’s get to work.” 

Not the trapeze. Not the trapeze, I prayed. 

Dad led me away from the trapeze ladder. I began to relax. 
Whatever I had to do, it couldn’t be worse than swinging around on a 
trapeze. Right? 

Wrong. 

Dad led me to the back of the tent. I followed him through a maze 
of animal cages. 

Dad strode up to one of the cages and opened the door. 

“All right, son,” he bellowed. “Get in.” 

My jaw dropped. I couldn’t believe my ears. 

“G-g-g-get in?” I stuttered. “But—there’s a lion in that cage!” 

The lion opened his huge jaws and roared. I backed away, 
shivering. 

“Are you going to walk in?” Dad prodded me with the end of his 
whip. “Or do I have to push you?” 

I didn’t move. I couldn’t. 

So Dad pushed me into the lion’s cage—and shut the door. 


14 


I backed up against the cage wall. The cold steel bars pressed into my 
back. My legs were trembling so hard, I thought I would fall on my 
face. 

The lion stared at me. He sniffed the air. 

I’ve heard that animals can smell fear. This lion got a noseful. 

My “father”—the lion tamer—stood beside me in the cage. 

“Were trying a new trick today, Matt,” he said. “You’re going to 
ride the lion.” 

He might as well have punched me in the stomach. I was going to 
ride the lion? 

Yeah. Right. 

Some father this guy is, I thought. Feeding his own son to a lion. 

The lion stood up. I kept my eyes on him. My whole body shook 
with fear. 

ROOOAAAR! 

The lion’s breath blew in my face like a hot wind. My hair stood 
on end. 

The lion stepped toward us. Dad cracked his whip. “Ha!” he 
shouted. 

The lion stepped back, licking his chops. 

“Go on, boy,” Dad boomed at me. “Climb on Hercules’ back. Then 
slide up to his shoulders. PI crack the whip to make him walk around 
the cage.” 

I couldn’t say a word. I just stared at the man in total disbelief. 

“Why are you looking at me like that? You’re not afraid of 
Hercules, are you?” 

“A-afraid?” I stammered. “Afraid” wasn’t the word. Petrified, 
maybe. Terrified, horrified, frozen with fear. But afraid? Nah. 

He cracked his whip again. “No son of mine is a coward!” he 
shouted. “You get on that lion’s back—NOW!” 

Then he leaned down and whispered, “Just watch that he doesn’t 
bite you. Remember your poor brother Tom. He’s still trying to learn 
how to write left-handed.” 

He cracked the whip again—right at my feet. 

I wasn’t going to ride the lion. No way. 

And I couldn’t stay in that cage another second. 

Dad cracked his whip at me again. I jumped. 

“Noooo!” I shrieked. 


I tugged the cage door open. I ran out of that cage so fast, Dad 
hardly knew what happened. 

I raced out of the tent. My brain screamed, “Hide! Find a hiding 
place—quick!” 

I spotted a couple of trailers in the parking lot. I darted behind 
one—and bumped right into Lacie. 

“You again!” I gasped. It was weird how she kept popping up. 

“T’ve got to hide,” I told her. “I’m in trouble!” 

“What’s wrong, Matt?” she asked. 

“Tm about to become lion food!” I cried. “Help me!” 

Lacie yanked on the trailer door. It was locked. 

“Oh, no!” I groaned. “Look!” 

I pointed past the trailer. Two guys were running toward us. 

Td seen them before. The two guys in black. 

They were coming after me! 

I ran. There was no place to go, no place to hide—except back 
inside the tent. 

I burst through the tent flap. I tried to catch my breath while my 
eyes adjusted to the dark. 

I heard one of the guys in black shout, “In there! He went inside 
the tent!” 

I stumbled through the darkness, searching for a place to hide. 

“Get him!” The boys were inside the tent now. 

I ran blindly—right back into the lion’s cage. 


15 


I slammed the cage door shut. The guys in black gripped the steel bars 
and shook them. 

“You won’t get away!” one shouted. 

My “dad”, the lion tamer, was gone. I was alone in the cage— 
with Hercules. 

“Easy, boy. Easy...” I murmured as I inched my way along the 
side of the cage. The lion stood in the center, eyeing me. 

The two guys rattled the cage door again. It swung open. They 
stepped inside, glaring at me. 

“You can’t escape that easily,” one of them warned. 

The lion growled at them. “It’s just an old circus lion,” one guy 
said. “He won’t hurt us.” 

But I could tell they weren’t as sure as they sounded. 

Hercules growled again, louder this time. The two guys stopped. 

I inched farther around the cage wall. 

I had to put that lion between me and the guys in black. It was 
my only chance. 

Carefully, one of the guys stepped forward. The lion roared at 
him. 

He stepped back. 

The lion’s eyes darted from the guys to me and back. I knew he 
was trying to decide who would make the tastier meal. 

“You’d better get out of here,” I warned. “Hercules hasn’t been 
fed yet.” 

The guys watched Hercules warily. 

“He won’t attack me,” I bluffed. “I’m his master. But if I tell him 
to, he’ll go right for your throats!” 

The guys glanced at each other. One of them said, “He’s lying.” 

The other guy didn’t look so sure. 

‘Tm not lying,” I insisted. “Get out of here right now—or I'll turn 
him on you!” 

One guy made a move for the cage door. The other guy grabbed 
his arm and pulled him back. “Don’t be chicken,” he snapped. 

“Get them, Hercules!” I shouted. “Get them!” 

Hercules let out his fiercest roar yet—and pounced. 

The guys in black scurried out of the cage. They slammed the 
door as Hercules tried to bound out. 

“You won’t get away!” one guy yelled through the bars. “We’ll be 


back!” 
“Why do you want me?” I screamed after them. “What did I do? 
What did I do?” 


16 


Hercules didn’t really want to eat anybody. He just wanted to get out 
of the cage. 

He didn’t try to stop me as I slipped out. I sneaked away to hide 
in the van until circus practice was over. 

“Where were you all day?” Dad grumbled when he found me. 
Everyone else piled into the van, and we drove home. 

“T felt sick,” I complained. “I had to lie down.” 

“You’re going to learn that trick tomorrow, Matt,” Dad insisted. 
“You won’t get out of it again.” 

I just yawned. I figured tomorrow would never come. At least not 
for my circus family. 

Tomorrow would bring some new horror. Or maybe for once 
something good would happen. 

I went to bed early that night. I didn’t like being an eight year old 
in a circus family. I couldn’t wait for it to be over. 

My circus brothers were climbing the walls in my old room. I’d 
never get any sleep in there. So I crept off to sleep in the guest room 
again. 

But I had trouble falling asleep. I couldn’t stop wondering what 
the next day would bring. It’s hard to relax when you don’t know 
what kind of world you'll wake up to in the morning. 

I tried counting sheep, but that never works for me. So I tried to 
think of all the good things that could happen when I woke up. 

I could wake up as a major league baseball player. I could be the 
greatest pitcher in the history of baseball. 

Or I could be a very, very rich kid who gets everything he wants. 

Or I could be a space explorer five hundred years in the future. 

Why didn’t anything like that ever happen to me? 

Most of all, I wished I could wake up and find my family again. 
My real family. They drove me crazy. But at least I was used to them. I 
even missed them, a little bit. 

Okay, a lot. 

At last, just before dawn, I fell asleep. 


It was still very early when I woke up. I gazed around the room. 
Everything seemed a little blurry. 

Who am I now? I wondered. The room looked normal. I didn’t 
hear any noise, so I knew the circus family was gone. 


Might as well get it over with, I decided. I jumped out of bed. I 
felt a little shaky on my legs. 

I walked slowly into the bathroom. I looked in the mirror. 

No. Oh, no. 

This was the worst one yet. The worst ever. The worst possible! 


17 


I was an old man! 

“No!” I screamed. I couldn’t take it anymore. I ran back to bed as 
fast as my rickety old legs would carry me. 

I got under the covers and closed my eyes. I was going right back 
to sleep. I wasn’t about to spend the whole day as an old man. Not 
when I’m really only twelve. 

I quickly dozed off. When I woke up, I knew right away I had 
changed. I wasn’t an old man anymore. 

I felt a surge of energy. Power. I felt strong. 

Maybe I’m a baseball player after all, I thought hopefully. 

I rubbed my eyes. That’s when I caught a glimpse of my hand. 

It—it was green. My skin was green. And instead of fingers, I had 
claws! 

I swallowed hard. I tried to shake away my panic. 

What had happened to me this time? 

I didn’t waste a second finding out. I lumbered to the bathroom 
mirror. 

When I saw my face, I let out a roar of horror and disgust. 

I had become a monster. A hideous, gross monster. 


18 


I tried to scream. I tried to shout, “This can’t be happening to me!” 

But all that came out was a terrifying snarl. 

No! I thought, in a total panic. I felt like tearing my horrible skin 
off. I was a hideous monster—and I couldn’t even talk! 

I was big—almost seven feet tall—and powerful. My skin was a 
scaly green with black stripes, like a lizard. I oozed slime all over. 

My head looked like a dinosaur’s, with warts all over it. Three 
spiky horns stuck out of the top of my head, between four pointy ears. 

My hands and feet had sharp claws. My toenails clicked on the 
bathroom floor when I walked. 

I was one ugly, ugly dude. 

I wished I’d stayed an old man. Each time I woke up, my life got 
worse! When was this ever going to end? How could I make it stop? 

I thought about Lacie. She seemed to pop up no matter where I 
went. 

And she had tried to help me escape from those guys in black, I 
remembered. She wants to help me. 

I’ve got to find her, I decided. I know she’s out there somewhere. 

She’s my only chance. 

I staggered through the house in my monster body. The house 
was empty. At least I didn’t have a family to deal with. A family full of 
monsters would have been a real nightmare! 

I had to be grateful for the little things. Especially when I had 
green skin and spikes growing out of my head. 

I lumbered out the door and down the street. I tried to shout, 
“Lacie! Lacie, where are you!” 

But my mouth couldn’t make the words. All that came out was a 
booming, terrifying roar. 

A car driving down the street stopped suddenly. The driver gaped 
at me through the windshield. 

“Don’t be afraid!” I cried. But that’s not what came out. Another 
roar ripped through the air. 

The man screamed and backed his car down the street at full 
speed. He crashed into another car. 

I went over to see if anyone was hurt. A woman and her kid were 
in the other car. 

They must have been all right. Because as soon as they saw me, 
they all jumped out of their cars and ran away, screaming their heads 


off. 

My giant lizard feet carried me to the center of town. I smashed 
through bushes, kicked garbage cans over. People screamed in terror 
as soon as they saw me. 

Lacie, I thought. I’ve got to find Lacie. 

I tried to keep this thought in my head. But I was getting hungry. 
Very, very hungry. 

Normally I like peanut butter and jelly for a snack. But that day I 
had a strong craving for metal. A nice, big, crunchy hunk of metal. 

The town was in a panic. People raced around, shrieking as if it 
were the end of the world. 

But I wasn’t going to hurt anybody. All I wanted was a little 
snack. 

I stepped in front of a tasty-looking compact car. The driver 
slammed on the brakes. 

ROOAARER! I beat my chest with my powerful monster arms. 

The driver cowered in the car. I reached out and snatched off a 
windshield wiper. Just for a taste. 

Mmmmm. Rubbery goodness. 

The man flung the car door open. “No!” he cried. “Don’t hurt me! 
L-leave me alone!” 

He ran away to hide somewhere. It was nice of him to leave me 
his car. 

I ripped the door off the car. I pulled the handle off and stuffed it 
into my mouth. 

Delicious. Nice cool chrome. 

Then I took a big bite out of the door. Chomp, chomp. My teeth 
were huge and sharp as a razor—they had no trouble chewing the 
metal. Yum—leather upholstery for extra flavor. I finished off the door 
and reached in to rip out a bucket seat. 

Bits of yellow foam rubber spewed out of my mouth as I ate. The 
leather was yummy. But the foam padding was kind of dry. It was like 
air-popped popcorn with no butter. Bleh. 

I was tearing out the steering wheel when I heard sirens. 

Uh-oh. 

I saw that a mob had gathered around me. People pointed at me. 

“Its eating a car!” someone screeched. 

Well, duhhh, I thought. What do you expect a monster to eat— 
Rice Krispies? 

The sirens came closer. Police cars were pulling up all around me. 

“Clear the way,” came a voice over a loudspeaker. “Stand back. 
Clear the way.” 


Td better get out of here, I decided. I dropped the steering wheel I 
was nibbling and began to run. People screamed and scattered out of 
the way. 

“Stop it! Get the monster!” 

The squeal of police sirens ripped through the air. If they caught 
me, I knew they’d try to lock me up—or worse. 

I had to get out of there. I had to hide. 

I stumbled through the crowds. I headed for the edge of town. 

Then I spotted her. Lacie. Mobs of people were running away 
from me. She was the only one running toward me. 

I snarled, trying to call Lacie. She grabbed me by my slimy arm 
and pulled me out of the crowd. 

She led me down an alley. We lost the mob. I wanted to ask her 
where we were going. But I knew the words wouldn’t come. I was 
afraid a roar might scare her. 

We ran and ran. We didn’t stop running until we reached the 
woods at the edge of town. Lacie pulled me into the woods, deeper 
and deeper. 

She’s hiding me, I thought gratefully. I wished I could thank her. 

I followed Lacie down a narrow path. Then the path ended. We 
pushed our way through the brush. 

At last we came to a small house. It was well hidden by trees and 
vines. You could hardly see it, even when you stood right in front of 
it. 

A hideout, I thought. How did Lacie find this place? 

I wondered if there was anything good to eat inside the house. I 
was getting hungry again. 

A couple of bicycles would taste good right now, I thought. 

Lacie opened the door of the house. She beckoned me to come 
inside. 

I went in. Two people stepped out of the shadows. 

No. Oh, no. 

Not them. 

But it was them. 

The guys in black. 

One of them spoke. 

“Thank you for bringing him to us,” he said. “You did your job 
well.” 


19 


RRRROOOOOOAAAAARRRR! 

I thrashed my arms. I was furious! 

Lacie betrayed me! 

I had to get out of there—fast. 

I dove for the door—but they dropped a net over me. 

They yanked on the net—and I tripped. 

I fell with a heavy thud. The two guys closed the net over me. 

I roared and thrashed with all my might. But I couldn’t get out. 
They tied the net tightly around me. 

“Get me out of here!” I wanted to scream. I slashed at the net 
with my claws. I bit it with my teeth. But it was made of some kind of 
strange material. I couldn’t break the strings. 

I snarled and kicked for a long time. But no matter what I did, I 
was still trapped. At last I got tired. I lay on my back on the floor. 

Lacie and the two guys in black stared down at me, perfectly 
calm. 

I wished I could talk. I couldn’t stop myself from trying. 

“How could you do this to me?” I tried to ask Lacie. “I thought 
you were my friend!” 

Nothing but snarls and growls came out of me. Lacie stared down 
at me. She couldn’t understand what I said. 

The guys in black just folded their arms across their chests and 
sneered at me. 

“Who are you?” I wanted to ask them. “What do you want? What 
is happening to me?” 

No one answered me. One of the guys, the taller one, said, “All 
right. Let’s lock him up in the back.” 

I roared again. I struggled as the three of them dragged my big, 
slimy body across the floor. They pushed me into a small room at the 
back of the house. They locked me inside. 

The room was dark. There was one small window with metal bars 
on it. 

I could eat those bars, I realized. If I could reach them. 

But I was stuck on the floor. I couldn’t move inside the tight net. 

I lay still for a long time, waiting for something to happen. But no 
one returned to the room. I couldn’t hear what they were doing in the 
other rooms. 

Through the window I saw the light fading. Night was coming. 


I knew there was nothing I could do but fall asleep—fall asleep 
and hope I’d wake up human again. 


20 


I woke up groggy. My stomach hurt. 

Man, I thought. What did I eat yesterday? It feels as if I’ve got a 
big lump of metal in my stomach! 

Then I remembered. I did have metal in my stomach. 

Oh, yeah. I had snacked on a compact car. Mom always told me 
not to eat too many snacks. 

I’ve got to remember not to do that again. 

I sat up. I checked myself out. 

Whew. I was human again. 

What a relief. 

The net lay open around me. Someone had cut it off while I was 
sleeping. 

But who was I now? 

My arms and legs were skinny. My feet were floppy and too big 
for my legs. 

But they weren’t that big. Not monster big. I was a boy again. But 
not my usual twelve-year-old self. 

I figured I was about fourteen. 

Well, I thought, it’s better than being a monster. 

A lot better. 

But I’m still in that house in the woods, I realized. I’m still a 
prisoner. 

Those two guys in black had finally caught me. 

What did they want? What were they going to do to me? 

I stood up and tried the door. Locked. 

I glanced at the window. There was no way I could break through 
those bars. 

I was trapped. 

I heard a key in the lock. They were coming! 

I cowered in a corner of the room. 

The door swung open. Lacie and the two guys stepped in. 

“Matt?” Lacie said. She spotted me in the corner. She took a step 
toward me. 

“What are you going to do to me?” I asked. 

It was good to hear words coming out of my mouth again. Instead 
of just roars. 

“Let me go!” I cried. 

The guys in black shook their heads. 


“We can’t do that,” the shorter guy said. “We can’t let you go.” 
They stepped closer. They balled their hands into fists. 

“No!” I shouted. “Stay away from me!” 

The tall guy slammed the door shut. Then they moved in on me. 


21 


They walked steadily toward me. I glanced frantically around the 
room for a way to escape. 

The guys blocked my path to the door. There was no way out. 

“We’re not going to hurt you, Matt,” Lacie said gently. “We want 
to help you. Really.” 

The guys took another step toward me. I shrank back. They sure 
didn’t look like they wanted to help me. 

“Don’t be afraid, Matt,” Lacie said. “We need to talk to you.” 

She sat down in front of me. She was trying to show me I 
shouldn’t be afraid. 

But the two guys stood guard on either side of her. 

“Tell me what’s happening to me,” I demanded. 

Lacie cleared her throat. “You’re trapped in a Reality Warp,” she 
explained. 

As if Pd know what she was talking about. 

“Oh, of course. A Reality Warp,” I cracked. “I knew something 
weird was going on.” 

“Cut the comedy,” the shorter guy snarled. “This is no joke. 
You're causing us a lot of trouble.” 

Lacie hushed him. “Quiet, Wayne. Pll handle this.” 

She turned back to me and asked in her soft voice, “You don’t 
know what a Reality Warp is, do you?” 

“No,” I replied. “But I know I don’t like it.” 

“When you fell asleep in your guest room, you fell into a hole in 
reality,” she said. 

The more she told me, the less it made sense. “There’s a hole in 
reality—in the guest room?” 

She nodded. “You fell asleep in one reality, and woke up in 
another. You’ve been stuck in that hole ever since. Now, whenever 
you go to sleep, you change what is real and what isn’t real.” 

“Well, make it stop!” I demanded. 

“PII stop you,” the tall guy threatened. 

“Bruce—please,” Lacie snapped. 

“What does all this have to do with you, anyway?” I asked. 

“Youre breaking the law, Matt,” she said. “Every time you 
change, you break the laws of reality.” 

“I’m not doing it on purpose!” I protested. “I never even heard of 
the laws of reality! I’m innocent!” 


Lacie tried to soothe me. “I know youw’re not doing it on purpose. 
But it doesn’t matter. It’s happening. When you change bodies, you 
change what is real and what isn’t real for a lot of people. If you keep 
changing, you'll throw the whole world into confusion.” 

“You don’t understand!” I cried. “I want to stop it! Pll do anything 
to stop it! I just want to be normal again!” 

“Don’t worry,” Wayne murmured. “We’re going to stop it.” 

“We’re the Reality Police,” Lacie told me. “Our job is to keep 
reality under control. We’ve been trying to keep up with you, Matt. It 
hasn’t been easy, with all the changes you’ve made.” 

“But why?” I asked. “What are you going to do?” 

“We had to capture you,” Lacie said. “We can’t allow you to break 
the reality laws.” 

I thought quickly. “It’s the guest room, right? This all happened 
because I slept in the guest room?” 

“Well—” 

“PIL never sleep in the guest room again!” I promised. “I don’t 
mind if I don’t change back to my old self. This skinny fourteen-year- 
old body is not so bad.” 

Lacie shook her head. “It’s too late for that, Matt. You’re trapped 
in the hole. It doesn’t matter whether you sleep in the guest room or 
not. Every time you go to sleep—and wake up—you change reality. 
No matter where you are.” 

“You mean—I can never fall asleep again?” 

“That’s not quite it.” Lacie glanced at the two guys. Then she 
trained her blue eyes on me. 

“Tm sorry, Matt. I really am. You seem like a nice guy.” 

An icy chill slithered down my spine. “What—what are you 
talking about?” 

She patted my hand. “We have no choice, Matt. We have to put 
you to sleep—forever.” 


22 


I stared at her in horror. 

“You—you can’t do that!” I stammered. 

“Oh, yes, we can,” Wayne said. 

“And we will,” Bruce added. 

“No!” I shouted. I leaped to my feet and dove for the door. But 
Bruce and Wayne were ready for me. They grabbed me and held my 
arms behind my back. 

“You’re not going anywhere, kid,” Wayne said. 

“Let go of me!” I screamed. 

I struggled and squirmed. But I wasn’t a gigantic monster 
anymore. I was a scrawny kid—no match for Bruce and Wayne. Even 
Lacie probably could have beaten me up if she wanted to. 

The guys tossed me against the back wall of the room. 

“We'll be back later,” Lacie promised. “Try not to worry about it 
too much, Matt. It won’t hurt.” 

They left the room. I heard the key turn in the lock. 

I was trapped again. 

I searched the room for a way to escape. It was completely empty 
—no furniture at all, not even a chair. Just four bare walls, a locked 
door, and a small window with metal bars. 

I opened the window and rattled the bars. I hoped they might be 
loose or something. But they didn’t budge. 

It was like being in jail. Jailed by the Reality Police. 

I put my ear to the door, listening. I could hear Lacie, Bruce, and 
Wayne talking in the other room. 

“He'll have to drink the sleeping potion,” Wayne said. “Make sure 
he drinks the whole cup—or he might wake up.” 

“But what if he spits it out?” Lacie asked. “What if he doesn’t 
swallow it?” 

“T’ll make him swallow it,” Bruce vowed. 

Yikes! I couldn’t listen anymore. I frantically paced the room. 

They were going to feed me a sleeping potion! To make me sleep 
forever! 

Pd been in trouble before. My day in high school had seemed 
scary at the time. Being a monster was scary too. But, now—now I 
was really done for. 

I’ve got to find a way out of this mess! I told myself. But how? 
How? 


Then it dawned on me. How did I get out of trouble before? 

I fell asleep. And the problem went away. 

True, I always woke up with new, worse problems. But nothing 
could be worse than this! 

Maybe, I hoped, if I fall asleep, PII wake up somewhere else. And 
that’s how I can escape! 

I paced some more. 

The only trouble was—how could I fall asleep? I was so terrified! 

I knew I had to try, anyway. So I lay down on the floor. There 
was no bed, no pillow, no blanket. Daylight streamed in through the 
barred window. 

Falling asleep wasn’t going to be easy. 

You can do it, I told myself. I remembered how my mom—my 
real mom—used to say I could fall asleep in a hurricane. I’m a good 
sleeper, it’s true. 

I missed my mom. It seemed like I hadn’t seen her in a long, long 
time. 

If only there were some way I could bring her back, I thought as I 
closed my eyes. 

When I was very little, she used to sing me to sleep. I 
remembered the lullaby she sang. It was all about pretty ponies.... 

I hummed the song to myself. Before I knew it, I drifted off to 
sleep. 


23 


I opened my eyes. I rubbed them. Had I fallen asleep? 

Yes. 

Where was I? 

I looked up. Plain ceiling. 

I looked around. Bare walls. 

A door. 

A window. With bars on it. 

“No!” I cried, furious. “No!” 

I was still in the same room, in the same house in the woods. 

I was still a prisoner. 

My plan didn’t work. 

Now what could I do? 

“Nooooooo!” 

I was so angry, so frustrated, so scared, I jumped up and down in 
a rage. 

My plan hadn’t worked. I had no more ideas. I didn’t know what 
to do. 

Now I knew for sure there was no escape for me. 

I was doomed. 

I heard Lacie and the two guys in the other room. They were 
getting the sleeping potion ready. 

They’d put me to sleep forever. I’d never see my mother, or Greg, 
or Pam again. 

How could they do this to me? It wasn’t fair! 

I didn’t do anything wrong. Not on purpose, anyway! 

Thinking about all this made me angrier and angrier. I screamed, 
“NOOOOOOOOOOO!” 

And it sounded strange to me. 

I screamed again, not so loud this time. 

“Nooooo!” 

I thought I was saying, “No.” But that’s not what I heard. 

I heard a squeak. 

“No!” I said again. 

“Fee!” I heard. 

It was my voice. But it wasn’t a human voice. 

I looked at myself. Pd forgotten to do that. I’d been so terrified to 
find myself still trapped—I didn’t think that maybe I had changed. 


But I had changed. 

I was small. About eight inches tall. 

I had tiny little paws. Gray fur. A big bushy tail. 

I was a squirrel! 

My eyes went to the window. I could easily squeeze through the 
bars now. 

I didn’t waste a second. I scampered up the wall and wriggled 
through the bars. 

I was free! 

Yippee! I did a little squirrel somersault to celebrate. 

Then I ran through the woods as fast as I could. I found the path 
to town. 

I scurried through town on my little squirrel feet. It seemed to 
take a long time. Short distances felt longer to me. 

All was quiet in town. Normal. No sign that a monster had ever 
stomped through, chomping on cars. 

I guess that reality disappeared, I thought. 

This is the new reality. I’m a squirrel. 

But at least Pm an awake squirrel. It’s better than being a boy who 
has to sleep forever. 

I sniffed the air. I had an amazing sense of smell. I thought I 
could smell my house from the middle of town. 

I raced across the street. But I forgot what my mother always told 
me. 

Look both ways before you cross. 

A car peeled around the corner. The driver couldn’t see me. 

Huge black tires bore down on me. I tried to scurry out of the 
way. 
But I didn’t have time. 

I shut my eyes. Is this how Pll end up? I wondered. 
As roadkill? 


24 


SCREECH! 

The driver slammed on the brakes. The car squealed to a stop. 

Then everything was quiet. 

I opened my eyes. One tire came so close, it touched my ear. 

I zipped out from under the tire and across the street. The car 
sped away. 

I reached the sidewalk. A dog stood guard in a yard. He barked at 
me. 

Whoops! I dodged him and ran up a tree. The dog chased me, 
barking furiously. 

I camped out in that tree until the dog got bored. His owner 
called him. He trotted away. 

I sneaked out of the tree and dashed through the yard. 

The rest of the way home I dodged cars, bikes, people, dogs, 
cats... 

Then, at last, I found myself staring up at my house. It was 
nothing special, my house. Just a white square house with peeling 
paint. 

But it looked beautiful to me. 

I had a new plan. An idea that would stop this craziness once and 
for all. 

I hoped. 

My whole problem had started when I slept in the guest room, I 
knew. That’s where the hole in reality was—Lacie had said so. 

But ever since then—ever since I slept in the guest room—I hadn’t 
slept in my own room. Not once. 

Something always stopped me. Either someone else was sleeping 
there, or it was being used for something else. 

My own room was where I slept when my life was normal. My 
tiny old room. I never thought I’d miss it. 

I decided I had to sleep in my old room again. Maybe that way, I 
could turn everything back to normal. The way it used to be. 

I knew it sounded stupid. But it was worth a try. 

And, anyway, I didn’t have any other ideas. 

I scampered up the rain gutter to the second floor. I peeked 
through my old bedroom window. 

There it was! My old room. With my bed in it and everything! 

But the window was closed. I tried to push it with my tiny 


squirrel paws. No luck. 

I checked the other windows in the house. They were all shut. 

There had to be another way to get in. Maybe I could sneak 
through the door somehow. 

Was anyone home? I peered through the living room window. 

Mom! And Pam and Greg! 

They were back! 

I got so excited, I hopped up and down. I chirruped and chittered. 

Then Biggie waddled into the room. 

Oh, yeah. I’d forgotten about Biggie. I wasn’t too glad to see him 
right then. 

Biggie loved to chase squirrels. 

He saw me right away and started barking. 

Pam looked up. She smiled and pointed at me. 

Yes! I thought. Come and get me, Pam. Open the window and let 
me in! 

She gently opened the window. “Here, little squirrel,” she cooed. 
“You're so cute!” 

I hesitated. I wanted to go inside. But Biggie was barking like 
crazy. 

“Put Biggie in the basement!” Pam told Greg. “He’s scaring the 
squirrel.” 

She was being nicer to me as a squirrel than she ever was to her 
little brother. But I let that slide for now. 

Greg led Biggie to the basement and shut the door. 

“Come on, squirrel,” Pam chirped. “It’s safe now.” 

I hopped into the house. 

“Look!” Pam cried. “He wants to come in! It’s almost like he’s 
tame!” 

“Don’t let him in here!” Mom warned. “Those animals have 
rabies! Or bugs, at the very least.” 

I tried not to listen. It’s hard to hear your own mother insult you 
that way. 

I focused on getting upstairs. If I could only get up to my room 
and fall asleep, just for a few minutes.... 

“He’s getting away!” Greg shouted. “Catch him!” 

Pam pounced at me. I skittered away. 

“If that squirrel gets lost in this house, Pamela,” Mom warned, 
“youre going to be in big, big trouble.” 

“PIL catch him,” Pam promised. 

Not if I can help it, I silently vowed. 

Pam cut me off at the stairs. I darted into the kitchen. 


Pam followed. She closed the kitchen door behind her. 

I was trapped. 

“Here, little squirrel,” she called. “Here, boy.” 

I twitched my tail. I searched the room for a way out. 

Pam inched her way toward me. She was trying not to scare me 
away. 

I scurried under the table. She dove for me. Missed. 

But when I scampered away, she cornered me. 

And snatched me up. 

I never knew she was so speedy. 

She grabbed me by the neck and held my feet together. “I got 
him!” she shouted. 

Greg threw open the kitchen door. Mom stood behind him. 

“Take him outside—quick!” Mom ordered. 

“Can’t I keep him, Mom?” Pam begged. “He’d be such a cute pet!” 

I shuddered. Me, as Pam’s pet! What a nightmare! 

But it might be my best chance to get back to my room. 

“No!” Mom insisted. “You absolutely cannot keep him. Put him 
outside—now.” 

Pam’s mouth drooped. “Okay, Mom,” she said sadly. “Whatever 
you say.” 

She carried me out of the kitchen. “Mom is so mean,” she said 
loudly so Mom could hear her. “All I wanted to do was pet you and 
cuddle you for a while. What’s wrong with that?” 

A lot, I thought. Pam was the last person I wanted petting and 
cuddling me. Except for Greg. 

She opened the front door. “Bye, you cute little squirrel,” she 
said. 

Then she slammed the door shut. 

But she didn’t let me go. She held me tightly in her arms. 

Then she slipped upstairs to her room. 

“Don’t worry, squirrel,” she whispered. “I won’t keep you very 
long. Just a little while.” 

She pulled something out from under her bed. Her old hamster 
cage. 

She opened the door of the cage. She shoved me inside. 

“No!” I protested. But all I could do was squeak. 

She locked the latch. 

I was a prisoner again! 


25 


Now what am I going to do? I thought frantically. Pm stuck in this 
stupid cage. I can’t talk. 

How will I ever get to my old room? 

Another bad thought came to me. 

If I fell asleep in this tiny hamster cage—what would happen 
when I woke up? 

Pam’s big face loomed over the cage. “Are you hungry, squirrely- 
kins? Pll go get you some nuts or something.” 

She left the room for a minute. I paced the cage, thinking hard. 
The next thing I knew, I was running on the hamster wheel. 

Stop it! I told myself. I made myself get off the wheel. I didn’t 
want to get used to being a rodent. 

“Here you go, squirrel.” Pam had returned to the room with a 
handful of nuts. She opened the door to the cage and sprinkled the 
nuts inside. 

“Yum yum!” she squealed. 

Oh, brother. 

I ate the nuts. I was very hungry after all my adventures. But I 
would have enjoyed them more if Pam hadn’t watched me the whole 
time. 

The phone rang. A moment later I heard Greg call, “Pam! 
Telephone!” 

“Excellent!” Pam cried. She jumped up and ran out of the room. 

Like a moron, I sat there gobbling nuts. It took me five minutes to 
notice that Pam had left the cage door unlatched. 

“Yes!” I squeaked. For once I was glad that Pam was no genius. 

I pushed the door open with my paws. I crept toward the 
bedroom door, listening for footsteps. 

The coast was clear. Now was my chance! 

I dashed out the door. Down the hall. To my room. 

The door was shut. I threw my tiny squirrel body against it, trying 
to open it. 

No way. It was closed tight. 

Rats! 

I heard footsteps down the hall. Pam was coming back! 

I knew I had to get out of there before Pam put me back in that 
cage. 

Or before my mother swatted me with a broom. 


I scurried down the steps and into the living room. 

Was the window still open? Yes. 

I ran behind the couch, along the wall, under a chair... 

Then I leaped up to the windowsill and out into the yard. 

I climbed a tree and curled up on a branch to rest. 

I couldn’t get into my old room as a squirrel. There was only one 
thing I could do. 

I had to go to sleep again. And this time, I’d better wake up as a 
human. 

Because I had to get to my old room. If I didn’t, I’d be in trouble. 

Big trouble. 

The Reality Police were on my trail. It was only a matter of time 
before they’d find me. 

If they did, nothing could save me. 


26 


CRASH! THUD! 

OOF! 

I landed hard on the ground. What a way to wake up. 

Who was I this time? 

What a relief. I was a twelve-year-old boy again. 

But I still wasn’t my old self. 

I was a very, very chubby boy. A real blimp. No wonder the tree 
branch didn’t hold me. 

But that didn’t matter. I was a human again. I could talk. 

And maybe now I could get to my old room at last. 

I marched straight up to the front door and tried the knob. 

Locked. 

So I knocked. 

I had no idea who would answer. I hoped it wasn’t a monster 
family. 

The door opened. 

“Mom!” I cried. I was so glad to see her. “Mom—it’s me! Matt!” 

Mom stared at me. “Who are you?” she asked. 

“Matt! Matt, Mom! Your son!” 

She squinted at me. “Matt? I don’t know anyone named Matt,” 
she said. 

“Sure you do, Mom! Don’t you remember me? Remember that 
lullaby you used to sing to me when I was a baby?” 

She narrowed her eyes suspiciously. 

Greg and Pam appeared behind her. “Who is it, Mom?” Pam 
asked. 

“Greg!” I shouted. “Pam! It’s me, Matt! I’m back!” 

“Who is this kid?” Greg asked. 

“T don’t know him,” Pam said. 

Oh, no, I thought. Please don’t let this be happening. Pm so 
close.... 

“I need to sleep in my old room,” I begged. “Please, Mom. Let me 
go upstairs and sleep in my room. It’s a matter of life and death!” 

“I don’t know you,” Mom said. “And I don’t know any Matt. You 
have the wrong house.” 

“This kid is some kind of wacko,” Greg said. 

“Mom! Wait!” I cried. 

Mom slammed the door in my face. 


I turned around and started down the walk. What do I do now? I 
wondered. 

Then I stopped. I glanced down the block. Three people were 
running toward me. The last three people I wanted to see. Lacie, 
Bruce, and Wayne. The Reality Police! They’d found me! 


27 


“There he is!” Lacie pointed at me. The three of them started to run. 

“Get him!” 

I turned and ran. It wasn’t easy. I couldn’t run very fast. 

Why did I have to wake up chubby this time? 

I did have one advantage. I knew the neighborhood inside out— 
and they didn’t. I ran across the yard to the next-door neighbor’s 
house. 

I glanced back. The Reality Police were gaining on me. They were 
half a block away. 

I disappeared behind the neighbor’s house. Then I sneaked back 
around to my house. 

At the back of the garage is a line of thick shrubs. I threw myself 
behind the shrubs and held my breath. 

A few minutes later, three pairs of feet hurried past me. 

“Where'd he go?” I heard Lacie ask. 

“He must’ve gone the other way,” Wayne said. “Come on!” 

They ran off. 

Whew. I could breathe again. I let out a whoosh of air. 

Safe for now. But I knew the Reality Police would find me again. 

I had to get back to my room. But there was no way Mom would 
let me in. She thought I was a total nutcase. 

There was only one thing to do. I had to break into the house. 

Pd wait until nighttime. Till everyone was asleep. 

Then Id find an open window somewhere—or break one if I had 
to. 

Pd sneak into my room and sleep there. I hoped I wouldn’t find 
someone else sleeping there. 

In the meantime, I had to wait for night. I stayed hidden behind 
the shrubs. I lay as still as I could. 

And I struggled to stay awake. I didn’t want to fall asleep again. 

If I fell asleep, who knew what I'd be? I might never get to my 
room. 

The hours ticked slowly by. At last night came. The neighborhood 
got quiet. 

I pulled myself out of the shrubs. My legs and arms ached from 
hiding. 

I looked at the house. Everyone had gone to bed, except for Mom. 
Her bedroom light was still on. 


I waited until it went off. I waited another half hour to give her 
time to fall sound asleep. 

Then I crept around to the front of the house. My room was on 
the second floor. 

I knew Mom had locked all the doors. I knew she’d locked all the 
first-floor windows. She did that every night. 

I had to climb to the second floor and sneak in through my 
window. It was the only way. 

I had to climb up the tree that grew by my window. Then reach 
out and grab the rain gutter. 

Then set myself down on the narrow ledge outside my window. 
Pd have to cling to the gutter for balance. 

If I could make it to the ledge, I might be able to open the 
window and crawl in. 

That was the plan, anyway. The more I thought about it, the more 
stupid it sounded. 

Better not think about it, then, I decided. Just do it. 

I stood up on my toes, stretching toward the lowest branch of the 
tree. It was just out of reach. I’d have to jump. 

I bent my knees and sprang up. My fingertips grazed the branch, 
but I couldn’t get a grip on it. 

If only I weren’t so chubby! I could barely get off the ground. 

I won’t give up, I vowed. If this doesn’t work, I’m doomed. 

So I took a deep breath. I gathered all my strength. 

I crouched down. I sprang up as high as I could. 

Yes! I grabbed the branch! 

I hung there for a second, wriggling. I kicked my legs. They were 
so heavy! 

I twisted around and walked my legs up the tree trunk. With a 
grunt of effort, I hoisted myself onto the branch. 

Whew. 

The rest of the tree was pretty easy. I climbed up until I reached 
the branch just outside my window. 

I grabbed a branch over my head as I stood up. I could just reach 
the rain gutter. I sure hoped it would hold. 

I grasped the gutter. I tried to put my foot on the window ledge. 

I missed. 

I was hanging by my fingertips from the gutter! 

I looked down. The ground seemed far away. 

I squeezed my lips shut to keep myself from screaming. 

I panted, hanging there. I had to get my foot on that ledge—or I’d 
fall. 


I wriggled to the left, trying to get closer to the ledge. CRACK! 
What was that? CRACK! The gutter! It wasn’t going to hold! 


28 


CRACK! 

I felt myself sink. The gutter was about to give way. 

I mustered all my strength. Clinging to the gutter, I stretched one 
leg out as far as it would go. My toes touched the window ledge. 

I set one foot down. Then the other. 

I made it! 

I crouched on the ledge. I clung to the gutter with one hand, for 
balance. 

I didn’t move. I tried to catch my breath. The night was cool. But 
I felt drops of sweat trickle down my face. I wiped them away with 
my free hand. 

I peered through the window. My room was dark. Was anybody 
in there? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The window was shut. 

Please don’t let it be locked, I prayed. 

If I couldn’t get in, I’d be stuck up on the ledge. Pd have no way 
to get down. 

Unless I fell down, of course. 

I carefully tried the window. It slid up. It wasn’t locked! 

I pushed it open. Then I crawled into the room. I tumbled onto 
the floor. 

I froze. Did anyone hear me? 

No sounds. Everyone was still asleep. 

I pulled myself to my feet. There was my bed! My old bed! And it 
was empty! 

I was so happy, I wanted to jump up and shout. But I didn’t. 

I'll save the celebration for tomorrow, I decided. If my plan 
works. 

I took off my shoes and crawled into bed. I sighed. Clean sheets. 

It felt good to be back. Everything was almost normal. 

I was sleeping in my own bed. Mom and Pam and Greg were all 
asleep in their rooms. 

Okay, I didn’t look like myself. I didn’t have my old body back 
yet. 

And my family didn’t recognize me. If they saw me now, they’d 
think I was a burglar. Or a maniac. 

I pushed those things out of my mind. I wanted to think about the 


morning. 

What will happen tomorrow? I wondered sleepily. 

Who will I be when I wake up? Will my life be normal again? 

Or will I find Lacie and those two guys standing over me, ready to 
pounce? 

There was only one way to find out. I closed my eyes and drifted 
off to sleep. 


29 


I felt something warm on my face. Sunlight. 

I opened my eyes. Where was I? 

I glanced around. I was in a small, cramped, messy room full of 
junk. 

My old room! 

My heart skipped a beat. Did my plan work? Was I back to 
normal? 

I couldn’t wait to find out. I threw off the covers and jumped out 
of bed. I hurried to the mirror on the back of my bedroom door. 

I saw a skinny, blond, twelve-year-old boy. Yes! I was back! 

I was me again! 

“Woo-hoo!” I cried. 

Biggie nosed the door open and waddled into the room. He 
growled at me. He barked. 

“Biggie!” I cried happily. I bent down and hugged him. He 
snapped at me. 

Good old Biggie. 

“Matt!” I heard Mom’s voice call from the kitchen. My real mom’s 
voice. 

“Matt! Leave Biggie alone! Stop teasing him!” 

“I’m not teasing him!” I yelled back. She always blames me for 
everything. 

But I didn’t care! I was so glad to be back! 

I scrambled downstairs for breakfast. 

There they sat. Mom. Pam. Greg. Just the way I left them. 

“The geek enters the kitchen for his morning feeding,” Greg spoke 
into his tape recorder. “What does a geek eat? Let’s watch and find 
out.” 

“Greg!” I sang. I threw my arms around his neck and hugged him. 

“Hey!” He swatted me away. “Get off me, geek!” 

“And Pam!” I gave her a big hug too. 

“What’s your problem, pea-brain?” she snapped. “I know—you 
got kidnapped by aliens last night! Am I right? And they brainwashed 
you!” 

I ignored her jokes. I patted the top of her Brillo pad hair. 

“Cut it out!” she whined. 

I gave my mom the biggest hug of all. 

“Thanks, honey.” She patted me on the back. At least she was on 


my side, once in a while. 

“Get some cereal, Matt,” she said. “I’m running late.” 

I sighed happily and fixed myself some cereal. Everything was 
back to normal. No one even noticed I’d been gone. 

Pm never going into that stupid guest room again, I vowed. 
Never. I’m going to stay in my little room from now on—no matter 
how cramped it gets. 

THWACK! Something stung me on the back of the neck. 

I whirled around. Greg grinned at me. He held a straw in one 
hand. 

He spoke into the tape recorder. “What happens if you shoot a 
paper wad at the geek? How does he respond?” 

“I bet he cries like a baby,” Pam said. 

I shrugged and went back to my cereal. “You can’t bother me,” I 
said. “I’m too happy.” 

Pam and Greg exchanged glances. Pam twirled one finger at the 
side of her head. It was the international signal for “He’s nuts.” 

“Something has happened to the geek,” Greg announced. 

“Yeah,” Pam agreed. “The geek has changed.” 


School was so much fun that day. It was great to be in seventh grade 
again. So much easier than high school. 

We played soccer in gym. I even scored a goal. 

But on my way to my last class, I saw something that made my 
heart stop. 

A girl walking down the hall. About my age. Long, thick blond 
hair in a ponytail. 

Oh, no. 

Lacie! 

I froze. What should I do? 

Were the Reality Police still after me? I had fixed everything! 
They didn’t need to put me to sleep anymore! 

I’ve got to get out of here, I decided. I got ready to run. 

Then the girl turned around. She grinned at me. 

It wasn’t Lacie. Just some girl with long blond hair. 

I took a deep breath. I need to relax, I thought. 

It’s over now. It was all a bad dream. Sort of. 

The girl walked away. I went to my last class. No sign of Lacie, 
Bruce, or Wayne anywhere. 


I whistled all the way home, thinking about how easy my homework 
was going to be. 


I walked into the house. “Hi, Matt!” Mom called. 

“Mom?” I was surprised to see her. She was usually at work when 
I got home. “What are you doing home so early?” 

She smiled at me. “I took the day off,” she explained. “I had a few 
things to do around the house.” 

“Oh.” I shrugged and turned on the TV. 

Mom switched it off. “Matt—aren’t you curious?” 

“Curious? About what?” 

“About what I’ve been doing all day?” 

I glanced around the living room. Everything looked the same. 

“T don’t know,” I said. “What have you been doing?” 

She smiled again. She looked excited about something. 

“Have you forgotten?” she said. “It’s your birthday this week!” 

Actually, I had forgotten. So much weird stuff had been going on. 

When you’re running for your life, you don’t think much about 
your birthday. 

“I have a special surprise for you,” Mom said. “Come upstairs and 
I'll show you.” 

I followed her upstairs. I started getting excited. What could the 
surprise be? 

It wasn’t like Mom to make such a big deal about my birthday. 
The surprise must be something really great, I decided. 

She stopped in front of my bedroom door. 

“Is the surprise in my room?” I asked. 

“Look.” She pushed open the door. 

I peered inside. My room was filled with cartons. Big boxes from 
floor to ceiling. 

Wow! 

“Are all those presents for me?” I asked. 

Mom laughed. “Presents? All those boxes? Of course not!” She 
cracked up. 

I knew it had to be too good to be true. 

“Well—what’s the surprise, then?” I asked. 

“Matt,” she began, “I’ve been thinking about what you said the 
other day. And I decided you were right. Your room is too small for 
you. So I’ve turned it into a storage closet.” 

“You—you what?” 

“That’s right.” She walked across the hall. 

She threw open the guest room door. “Ta-da!” 

No. Oh, no. 

It can’t be. Not that. 

“Happy Birthday, Matt!” Mom shouted. “Welcome to your new 


room!” 

“Uh... uh... uh...” I couldn’t say a word. 

My bed, my dresser, all my posters and books—they were all set 
up in the guest room. 

“Matt? What’s the matter?” Mom cried. “This is what you said 
you wanted!” 

My mouth fell open. I started to scream. 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
Goosehimps 


ph y A 


THE CURSE OF CAMP COLD LAKE 


THE CURSE OF 
CAMP COLD LAKE 


Goosebumps - 56 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


I got off to a bad start at Camp Cold Lake. 

I was nervous when I arrived. And I guess I did some dumb 
things. 

Well, I didn’t want to go to a water sports camp. 

I don’t like to be outdoors. I hate the feeling of grass brushing 
against my ankles. I don’t even like to touch trees. And I certainly 
don’t like getting wet. 

Sure, I like to go swimming once in a while. But not every day! 
What’s the point of that? 

I like to swim in a nice, clean pool. I took one look at the lake 
here—and I was sick. I knew there had to be horrible things swimming 
around in that water. 

Ugly creatures, waiting below the surface. Thinking to 
themselves: “Sarah Maas, we’re waiting for you. Sarah, we’re going to 
rub our slimy bodies on your legs when you swim. And we’re going to 
chew off your toes, one by one.” 

Yuck. Why do I have to swim in slime? 

Of course, Aaron was so excited, he nearly exploded. 

When we climbed off the camp bus, he was jumping up and down 
and talking a mile a minute. He was so crazed. I thought he was going 
to burst out of his clothes and go running into the lake! 

My brother likes camp. He likes sports and the outdoors. He likes 
just about everything and everyone. 

And everyone always likes Aaron. He’s so enthusiastic. He’s so 
much fun. 

Hey—I like to have fun too. But how can you have fun when 
there are no malls, no movie theaters, no restaurants to get a slice of 
pizza or a bag of french fries? 

How can you have fun up to your neck in a freezing cold lake 
every day? In a camp miles from any town? Surrounded on all sides 
by thick woods? 

“This is going to be awesome!” Aaron declared. Dragging his 
duffel bag, he hurried off to find his cabin. 

“Yeah. Awesome,” I muttered glumly. The bright sun was already 
making me sweat. 

Do I like to sweat? Of course not. 

So why did I come to Camp Cold Lake? I can answer that in three 
words: Mom and Dad. 


They said that a water sports camp would give me confidence. 
They said it would help make me more comfortable with the outdoors. 
And they said it would give me a chance to make new friends. 

Okay, I admit it. I don’t make friends easily. Vm not like Aaron. I 
can’t just walk up to someone and start talking and kidding around. 

I’m a little shy. Maybe it's because I’m so much taller than 
everyone else. I’m a whole head taller than Aaron. And he’s only a 
year younger than I am. He’s eleven. 

I’m tall and very skinny. Sometimes Dad calls me “Grasshopper”. 

Guess how much I like that. 

About as much as I like swimming in a cold lake filled with 
hidden creatures. 

“Be a good sport about it, Sarah,” Mom said. 

I rolled my eyes. 

“Give camp a chance,” Dad added. “You might surprise yourself 
and have a good time.” 

I rolled my eyes again. 

“When you come home at the end of summer, you'll probably beg 
us to take you camping!” Dad joked. 

I wanted to roll my eyes again—but they were getting tired from 
all that rolling. 

I gave my parents a glum sigh. Quick hugs. Then I followed Aaron 
onto the camp bus. 

He grinned the whole way to camp. He was really excited about 
learning how to water-ski. And he kept asking everyone if the camp 
had a high diving board over the lake. 

Aaron made three or four good friends on the bus ride to camp. 

I stared out the window, watching the endless blur of trees and 
farms. Thinking about my lucky friends who got to stay home and 
hang out at the mall. 

Then here we were at Camp Cold Lake. Kids pulling their bags off 
the bus. Laughing and joking. Counselors in dark green T-shirts 
greeting everyone, pointing them in the right direction. 

I began to cheer up a little bit. 

Maybe I will make some new friends, I thought. Maybe I’ll meet 
some kids who are a lot like me—and we’ll have a great summer. 

But then I stepped into my cabin. I saw my three bunk mates. I 
looked around. 

And I let out a cry. “Oh, no! No way!” 


I guess I shouldn’t have freaked like that. 

It made a very bad first impression. 

But what was I supposed to do? 

There were two bunk beds in the cabin. The three other girls had 
already chosen their beds. There was only one bed left—right in front 
of the window. 

And the window had no screens. 

Which meant that my bed would be crawling with bugs. I took one 
glance—and I knew I’d be swatting mosquitoes every night for the 
whole summer. 

Besides, I can’t sleep in a top bunk. I toss and turn a lot at night. 
If I slept on top, ld fall on my head. 

I had to sleep on the bottom. In the bed against the far wall, away 
from the open window. 

“I—I can’t do this!” I blurted out. 

My three bunk mates turned to look at me. One had blond hair 
pulled back in a ponytail. Near her was a short, chubby girl with long 
brown hair. In the bottom bunk against the wall, an African-American 
girl with long cornrows stared across the cabin at me. 

I guess they wanted to say hi and introduce themselves. But I 
didn’t give them a chance. 

“Someone has to trade beds with me!” I cried. I didn’t mean to 
sound so shrill. But I was really upset. 

Before they could answer, the cabin door swung open. A sandy- 
haired young guy in a dark green camp T-shirt poked his head in. 

“Pm Richard,” he said. “I’m the boss guy, the head dude. 
Everything okay in here?” 

“No!” I cried. 

I couldn’t stop myself. I was just so nervous and unhappy. “I can’t 
sleep in this bunk!” I told him. “I don’t want to be near the window. 
And I need to sleep on the bottom.” 

I could see that the other girls were shocked by my outburst. 

Richard turned to the girl who was sitting on the bottom bunk 
against the wall. “Briana, would you trade beds with—” 

“Sarah,” I told him. 

“Would you trade bunks with Sarah?” Richard asked Briana. 

She shook her head so hard, the beads in her cornrows rattled 
against each other. “I really don’t want to,” she said softly. 


She pointed to the chubby girl with long brown hair, who sat on a 
camp trunk. “Meg and I were bunk mates last year,” Briana told 
Richard. “And we kind of wanted to be together.” 

Meg nodded. She had a round, baby face. Squirrel cheeks out to 
here. And she wore blue and red braces on her teeth. 

“I can’t sleep in front of the window,” I insisted. “I really can’t. I 
hate bugs.” 

Richard stared hard at Briana. “How about it?” 

Briana groaned. “Oh... all right.” She made a face at me. 

“Thanks,” Richard said. I could see he was studying me. 

He probably thinks I’m a real troublemaker, I thought. 

Briana climbed off the bottom bunk. She dragged her duffel bag 
across the room to the bunk by the window. “It’s all yours,” she 
muttered. 

She didn’t say it in a friendly way. 

I felt bad. My bunk mates hate me already, I thought. 

Why do I always do that? Why do I always get nervous and start 
off on the wrong foot with people? 

Now I’ve got to try really hard to make them my friends, I 
decided. 

But a minute later, I did something horrible. 


“Hey—thanks for trading bunks, Briana,” I said. “That was really nice 
of you.” 

She nodded but didn’t say anything. Meg pulled open her trunk 
and started shoving shorts and T-shirts into her dresser drawer. 

The third girl smiled at me. “Hi. Vm Janice,” she said. She had a 
raspy, hoarse voice. “Everyone calls me Jan.” 

Jan had a nice smile. She had her blond hair pulled back in a 
ponytail. She had dark blue eyes and red cheeks. She seemed to be 
blushing all the time. 

“Were you here last summer?” I asked her. 

She shook her head. “No. Briana and Meg were here. But this is 
my first summer. I went to tennis camp last year.” 

“Tve never been to any kind of camp,” I confessed. “I—I guess I’m 
a little nervous.” 

“Are you a good swimmer?” Briana asked. 

I shrugged. “Pretty good, I guess. I don’t swim much. I don’t 
really like it.” 

Meg turned from her trunk. “You don’t like to swim, and you 
came to a water sports camp?” 

Briana and Jan laughed. 

I could feel my face grow hot. I didn’t want to tell them that my 
parents made me come to this camp. That just sounded too geeky. I 
didn’t know what to say. 

“I... uh... I like other things,” I stammered. 

“Oh—I love that swimsuit!” Briana declared. She pulled a bright 
yellow swimsuit from Meg’s trunk and held it up in front of her. “This 
is excellent!” 

Meg tugged it back. “Like it would really fit you!” she muttered, 
rolling her eyes. Her braces clicked when she talked. 

Meg looked a little like a bowling ball next to tall, graceful 
Briana. 

“Did you lose weight over the winter?” Briana asked her. “You 
look great. Really, Meg.” 

“I lost a little,” Meg replied. She sighed. “But I didn’t get any 
taller.” 

“I grew about a foot this year,” I chimed in. “I’m the tallest girl in 
my school. Everyone stares at me when I walk through the halls.” 

“Boo hoo,” Meg said sarcastically. “You’ve really got it tough. 


Would you rather be a shrimp like me?” 

“Well... not really,” I replied. 

Ooops. I realized Vd said the wrong thing. 

I saw a flash of hurt in Meg’s eyes. 

Why did I say that? I asked myself. 

Why do I keep putting my foot in my mouth? 

I picked up my backpack from where I had tossed it on the floor. I 
carried it to my bunk to unpack it. 

“Hey—that’s mine! Put it down!” Jan came rushing over to me. 

I glanced down at the backpack. “No. It’s mine,” I insisted. 

I started to unzip it—and it fell off the bed. 

A whole bunch of things fell out and clattered across the cabin 
floor. 

“Oh!” I cried out in surprise. The stuff wasn’t mine. 

I saw pill bottles. Medicine jars. And little plastic inhalers. 

“Asthma medicine?” I cried. 

Jan dropped to her knees and began gathering it all up. She 
glared up at me angrily. “Thanks a bunch, Sarah,” she growled. 
“Thanks for letting the whole world know I have asthma. Why don’t 
you stand up at the campfire tonight and announce it to the whole 
camp?” 

“Sorry,” I murmured weakly. 

“T told you it was my backpack,” Jan snapped. 

Meg bent down and picked up an inhaler for Jan. 

“Having asthma is nothing to be ashamed of,” she told Jan. 

“Maybe I like to keep some things to myself,” Jan snapped. She 
shoved all the medicine into the pocket and grabbed the backpack 
away. 

“Sorry,” I said again. “Really.” 

All three girls glared at me. Briana shook her head. Meg tsk-tsked. 

They hate me already, I thought. 

I felt sick. Really sick. 

They hate me, and it’s only the first day. The first hour. 

With a sigh, I stumped down on my bunk. 

Can things get any worse? I wondered. 

Guess the answer to that. 


Later that night, we had our first campfire. It was built in a wide, flat 
clearing near the woods. Smooth logs were placed in a circle to be 
used as benches. 

I dropped down on an empty log with my back to the trees. 
Flames from the big fire danced brightly against the gray evening sky. 

The fire crackled and popped. It smelled so sweet. I took a deep 
breath. 

Counselors tossed more sticks on the fire. Soon the flames rose up 
over their heads. 

The night air was hot and dry. My cheeks burned from the heat 
tossed off by the fire. 

I turned away and gazed into the woods. The dark trees shivered 
in a light breeze. In the gray light, I saw a squirrel dart between tall 
weeds. 

I wondered what other animals lurked in the woods. I imagined 
there were bigger animals than squirrels in there. Bigger and more 
dangerous. 

A loud POP from the fire made me jump. 

It’s creepy outside at night, I thought. Why can’t they have the 
campfire indoors? In a fireplace or something. 

I slapped a mosquito on my neck. 

When I turned back to the fire, I saw Briana and Meg on another 
log bench. They were laughing about something. Talking to two girls I 
didn’t know. 

I saw Aaron on the other side of the flames. He was goofing with 
two other guys. They were wrestling around, trying to shove each 
other off the log. 

I sighed. Aaron has already made a bunch of friends, I thought. 

Everyone has made friends—but me. 

Aaron saw me staring at him. He waved quickly, then turned back 
to his friends. 

On the next log, three girls had their heads tossed back. They 
were loudly singing the camp song. 

I listened carefully, trying to learn the words. But they had a 
giggling fit halfway through and didn’t finish the song. 

Two older girls sat down on the other end of my log. They looked 
about fifteen or sixteen. I turned to say hi to them. But they were busy 
talking. 


One of them had a bag of Gummi Worms in her hand. She kept 
pulling them out of the bag one by one and slurping them slowly like 
spaghetti noodles. 

Richard, the head counselor, stepped in front of the fire. He had a 
black baseball cap turned backwards on his head. His baggy shorts 
were torn and dirty from working on the fire. 

He raised both hands over his head. “Are we all here?” he called 
out. 

I could barely hear him. Everyone was still talking and laughing. 
Across the fire, I saw Aaron standing up, wiggling his whole body in a 
funny dance. 

His friends were laughing their heads off. One of them slapped 
Aaron a high five. 

“Can we get started?” Richard called out. “Can we start our 
welcoming campfire?” 

A log cracked in the fire. Red embers shot up all around. 

“Oh!” I let out a cry as a hand grabbed my shoulder. 

“Who—?” I spun around, startled. And stared up at Briana and 
Meg. 

They leaned over me. In the darting firelight, I saw their 
frightened expressions. 

“Sarah—run!” Briana whispered. 

“Get up—quick!” Meg tugged my arm. “Run!” 

“Why? What’s wrong?” I sputtered. 


I jumped shakily to my feet. “What’s wrong?” 

“Those boys,” Meg whispered. She pointed across the fire. “They 
threw fireworks in the fire! It’s going to explode!” 

“Run!” both girls cried. 

Meg gave me a shove to get me started. 

I stumbled—and then lurched forward. As I ran, I shut my eyes 
tight, expecting the blast any second. 

Could I get away in time? Were Meg and Briana escaping it too? 

I stopped short when I heard the laughter. 

Shrill, gleeful laughter. 

“Huh?” Swallowing hard, I turned back. 

And saw half the camp laughing at me. 

Meg and Briana slapped each other a high five. 

“No. Oh, noooo,” I murmured. How could I fall for such a dumb 
trick? 

How could they play such a mean joke on me? 

They must have told everyone to watch. As I stood at the edge of 
the clearing by myself, I could feel all the eyes on me. 

And I could hear kids laughing and making jokes. 

I saw Jan laughing. And I saw Richard and some of the other 
counselors grinning and shaking their heads. 

I know, I know. I should have laughed too. I should have made a 
joke of it. 

I shouldn’t have let it upset me. 

But the whole day had been so terrible. I was so nervous. And so 
eager not to make any more mistakes. 

I could feel my shoulders start to shake up and down. I could feel 
tears welling up in my eyes. 

No! I ordered myself. You cannot cry! You cannot allow yourself 
to cry in front of the whole camp. 

Sure, you feel like a total jerk, Sarah. But so what? It was just a 
joke. Just a dumb joke. 

I felt a hand on my arm. I pulled away. 

“Sarah—” Aaron stood beside me. His dark eyes were wide in the 
shadowy evening light. 

“Vm okay,” I snapped. “Go away.” 

“You're such a bad sport,” he said softly. “Why can't you ever let 
things slide off you? It was just a joke. Why go nuts over a dumb 


joke?” 

Do you know what I really hate? 

I really hate it when Aaron is right. 

I mean, he’s my younger brother—right? What right does he have 
to be the sensible, calm member of the Maas family? 

It really steams me when Aaron comes on like the older brother. 

“Do I need your advice?” I snarled. “Take a hike.” I gave him a 
shove toward the campfire. 

He shrugged and hurried back to his friends. 

I crept to the campfire. I didn’t go to my old seat. It was too close 
to the fire—and too close to Briana and Meg. 

I dropped down on the edge of a log near the woods, outside the 
glow of the fire. The darkness cooled me and helped to calm me 
down. 

Richard had been talking for a while. I realized I hadn’t heard a 
word he said. 

He stood in front of the crackling fire. He had a deep, booming 
voice. But everyone leaned in to hear him better. 

I gazed around the circle of campers. Their faces glowed orange 
in the bright firelight. Their eyes sparkled. 

I wondered if anyone here would be my friend. 

I knew I was feeling really sorry for myself. I wondered if any 
other new campers felt the way I did. 

Richard’s voice droned on in the back of my mind. He was saying 
something about the main lodge. Something about the meal schedule. 
Then he began talking about towels. 

I started to pay attention when he introduced the head waterfront 
counselor. Her name was Liz. 

Everyone clapped when she stood up beside Richard. One of the 
boys gave a loud wolf whistle. 

“She’s awesome!” another boy called out. 

Everyone laughed. 

Liz grinned too. She knew she looked really awesome. She wore 
tight denim cutoffs and a dark blue midriff top. She waved for 
everyone to get quiet. 

“Are you all having a good time?” she called out. 

Everyone cheered and clapped. Several boys whistled. 

“Well, tomorrow will be your first day at the waterfront,” Liz 
announced. “And before you go in the lake, there are lots of water 
rules we want you to know.” 

“Like, don’t drink the water!” Richard chimed in. “Unless you’re 
very thirsty!” 


Some kids laughed. I didn’t. The thought of drinking that 
disgusting, slimy water made me sick. 

Liz didn’t laugh, either. She frowned at Richard. “We need to take 
this seriously,” she scolded. 

“I was serious!” Richard joked. 

Liz ignored him. “When you get back to your bunks, you will find 
a list of water rules on your bed,” she continued, brushing back her 
long, frizzy red hair. “There are twenty rules on the list. And you need 
to know them all.” 

Huh? Twenty rules? I thought. How can there be twenty rules? 

It will take all summer to learn twenty rules. 

Liz held up a sheet of paper. “I’m going to go over the list with 
you now. If you have any questions, just call them out.” 

“Can we go swimming now?” a boy shouted, trying to be funny. 

Lots of kids laughed. 

But Liz didn’t crack a smile. “That’s rule number eight,” she 
replied. “No night swimming, even if counselors are with you.” 

“Don’t ever swim with counselors!” Richard joked. “They have 
germs!” 

Richard is pretty funny, I thought. He seems like a good guy. 

But Liz seems so serious. 

The sheet of paper fluttered in the wind. She gripped it with both 
hands. Her red hair caught the glow of the fire. 

“The most important rule at Camp Cold Lake is the Buddy 
System,” Liz announced. “When you are in the lake, you must always 
have a buddy.” 

She glanced quickly at the campers seated around her. “Even if 
you are only wading in up to your ankles, you must have a swimming 
buddy with you,” she said. “You may have a different buddy each 
time. Or you may choose a buddy for the whole summer. But you 
must always have a buddy.” 

She took a deep breath. “Are there any questions?” 

“Will you be my buddy?” a boy shouted. 

Everyone laughed. I laughed too. The kid’s timing was perfect. 

But once again, Liz didn’t crack a smile. “As waterfront counselor, 
I will act as everyone’s buddy,” she replied seriously. 

“Now, rule number two,” she continued. “Never swim more than 
three boat lengths from one of our safety boats. Rule number three— 
no shouting or pretending to be in trouble in the water. No horseplay. 
No kidding around. Rule number four...” 

She talked on and on, reading off all twenty rules. 

I groaned. She talks to us like we’re five year olds, I thought. 


And there are so many water rules. 

“Let me repeat one more time about the Buddy System...” Liz was 
saying. 

Gazing past the fire, I could see the dark lake. Smooth and black 
and silent. 

The lake has tiny waves. No current. No dangerous tides. 

So why are there so many rules? I wondered. 

What are they scared of? 


Liz talked for at least half an hour. Richard kept cracking jokes, trying 
to make her laugh. But she never even smiled. 

She talked some more about every rule on the list. Then she told 
us to read the list carefully when we got back to our cabins. 

“Have a safe summer, everyone!” she called out. “See you at the 
waterfront!” 

Everyone cheered and whistled again as Liz stepped away from 
the fire. I yawned and stretched my hands over my head. That was 
really boring, I thought. 

I’ve never heard of a place having so many rules. 

I swatted another mosquito on my neck. I was starting to feel 
really itchy. That’s what being outdoors does to me. It makes me itch 
like crazy. 

The fire had died down. A blanket of purple embers glowed on 
the dark ground. The night air grew cool. 

To end the campfire, Richard told everyone to stand and sing the 
camp song. “You new campers probably don’t know the words,” he 
said. “You're lucky!” 

Everyone laughed. Then Richard began to sing, and everyone 
joined in. 

I tried to follow along. But I couldn’t catch all of the words. I 
picked up pieces of the song.... 


“Wetter is better...” 


“Get in the swim. 
Show your vigor and vim... 


“Every son and daughter 
should be in the water, 
the cold, cold water 

of Camp Cold Lake.” 


Yuck. I agreed with Richard about the words to the song. They 
were so lame! 

Gazing across the fire, I saw Aaron singing his heart out. He 
seemed to know every word already. 

How does he do it? I wondered, scratching my itchy legs. How 


does he manage to be so perfect? To fit in everywhere? 

As the song ended, Richard raised his hands for quiet. “I have a 
few final announcements,” he called out. “First of all, none of you can 
carry a tune! Second...” 

I didn’t hear the rest. I turned to find Briana and Meg standing 
beside me. 

I took a step back. “What do you want?” I snapped. 

“We want to apologize,” Briana said. 

Meg nodded. “Yeah. We're sorry we played that dumb joke on 
you.” 

Richard’s voice droned on behind us. Briana put a hand on my 
shoulder. “We got off to a bad start,” she said. “Let’s start all over 
again. Okay, Sarah?” 

“Yeah. Let’s start fresh,” Meg agreed. 

A smile spread over my face. “Great,” I said. “Excellent.” 

“Excellent!” Briana repeated, smiling too. 

She slapped me on the back. “A fresh start!” 

Richard was still making announcements. “Tomorrow at four- 
thirty, those interested in windsurfing...” 

Aaron will probably try that, I thought. I watched Briana and Meg 
walk away. 

A fresh start, I thought. I began to feel a lot happier. 

The happy feeling lasted for about two seconds. 

Then my back started to itch. 

I turned to the fire and saw Briana and Meg staring back at me. 
They were both giggling. 

Other kids had turned away from Richard and were watching me. 

“Ohhhh.” I groaned when I felt something warm wriggle against 
my back. 

Something warm and dry, moving under my T-shirt. 

“Ohhhh.” It moved again. 

I reached one hand back. And poked it under my shirt. 

What is it? What did Briana put back there? 

I grabbed the thing and pulled it out. 

And started to scream. 


The snake wriggled in my hand. 

It looked like a long black shoelace. With eyes! And a mouth that 
kept snapping open and shut. 

“Noooooo!” I totally lost it. 

I let out a shrill scream. And I heaved the snake with all my 
might. 

It sailed into the woods. 

My back still itched like crazy. I could still feel it wriggling 
against my skin. 

I reached back and tried to scratch with both hands. 

Kids were laughing. Telling each other what Briana had done. 

I didn’t care. I just wanted to rub away the feeling of that snake 
against my skin. 

My whole body tingled. I uttered an angry cry. “How could you?” 
I shrieked at Briana and Meg. “What is your problem?” 

Aaron came hurrying over to be the grown-up again. 

Just what I needed. Mr. Mature Kid Brother. 

“Sarah, did it bite you?” he asked softly. 

I shook my head. “I can still feel it!” I wailed. “Did you see it? It 
was three feet long!” 

“Calm down,” Aaron whispered. “Everyone is staring at you.” 

“Think I don’t know it?” I snapped. 

“Well, it was just a tiny snake,” Aaron said. “Totally harmless. Try 
to get yourself together.” 

“]—I—I—” I sputtered. I was too upset, too angry to talk. 

Aaron raised his eyes to Briana and Meg. “Why are those two girls 
picking on you?” he asked. 

“I dont know!” I wailed. “Because... because they’re creeps! 
That’s why!” 

“Well, try to calm down,” Aaron repeated. “Look at you, Sarah. 
You're shaking all over.” 

“You’d shake too if you had a disgusting snake crawling up and 
down your skin!” I replied. “And I really don’t need your advice, 
Aaron. I really don’t—” 

“Fine,” he replied. He spun away and hurried back to his friends. 

“I don’t believe him,” I muttered. 

Dad is a doctor, and Aaron is just like him. He thinks he has to 
take care of everyone in the world. 


Well, I can take care of myself. I don’t need my little brother 
telling me to calm down every second. 

Richard was still talking. But I didn’t care. I stepped away from 
the campfire circle and started back to the cabin. 

The path curved through a patch of woods, up the sloping hill 
where the cabins were perched. Away from the glow of the fire, I was 
surrounded by darkness. 

I clicked on my flashlight and aimed the yellow circle of light at 
my feet. My sneakers crunched over dry leaves and twigs. The trees 
whispered above me. 

How did I get off to such a bad start? I asked myself. 

Why do Briana and Meg hate me so much? 

Maybe they’re just mean, I decided. Maybe they’re total creeps. 
Maybe they’re mean to everyone. 

They think they’re so hot because they were at camp last year. 

Without realizing it, I had wandered off the path. “Hey—” I 
swung the flashlight around, searching for the way back. 

The light swept over tilting trees, tall clumps of weeds, a fallen 
log. 

Panic tightened my throat. 

Where is the path? Where? 

I took a few steps. My sneaker crunched over leaves. 

And then my foot sank into something soft. 

Quicksand! 


No. Not quicksand. 

There’s no such thing as quicksand. I remembered that from some 
science book I read in fifth grade. 

I lowered the flashlight. 

“Ohhhh.” Mud. Thick, gooey mud. 

My sneaker sank deep into the ooze. 

I pulled my leg up with a groan—and nearly toppled over 
backwards. 

It’s just mud, I told myself. It’s disgusting—but it’s no big deal. 

But then I saw the spiders. 

Dozens of them. The biggest spiders I ever saw. 

There must have been a nest of them in the mud. 

They were crawling over my shoe, crawling up the leg of my 
jeans. 

“Ohhhh. Yuck!” 

Dozens of spiders clung to me. I shook my sneaker. Hard. Then I 
began batting at them with my free hand. 

“I hate this caaaaaamp!” I screamed. 

I beat some spiders away with the flashlight. 

And then I had an idea. 

I mean, why shouldn’t I pay Briana and Meg back for what they 
did to me? 

They embarrassed me in front of the whole camp. And I hardly 
did anything to them. 

I emptied the batteries from the flashlight. I took a deep breath. 
Then I bent down—and scooped a bunch of spiders into the flashlight. 

Yuck. I felt sick. I really did. 

I mean, can you imagine—me handling spiders! 

But I knew it would be worth it. Soon. 

I filled the flashlight with the squirming, black creatures. Then I 
screwed on the top. 

I stepped over a fallen tree trunk. Found the path. And carrying 
the flashlight carefully, I eagerly hurried to the cabin. 

I stopped outside the door. The lights were on inside the cabin. 

I peeked in through the open window. No. No sign of anyone. 

I crept inside. 

I pulled up the blanket on Briana’s bed. Then I emptied half of the 
spiders onto her sheet. I carefully pulled the blanket over them and 


smoothed it out. 

I was pouring the rest of the spiders into Meg’s bed when I heard 
a shuffling noise behind me. Quickly, I pulled Meg’s blanket back into 
place and spun around. 

Jan stepped into the cabin. “What’s up?” she asked in her hoarse, 
croaky voice. 

“Nothing,” I replied, hiding the flashlight behind my back. 

Jan yawned. “It’s Lights Out in ten minutes,” she said. 

I glanced at Briana’s bunk. I’d left one corner of the blanket 
untucked. Briana won’t notice, I decided. 

I realized I was grinning. I quickly changed my expression. I 
didn’t want Jan asking a lot of questions. 

She turned and pulled a long white nightshirt from her dresser 
drawer. “What did you sign up for tomorrow?” she asked. “Free 
Swim?” 

“No. Canoeing,” I told her. 

I wanted to be in a nice, dry canoe. Not flopping around in the 
dirty lake with fish and other slimy creatures. 

“Hey. Me too,” Jan said. 

I started to ask if she would be my buddy. But Briana and Meg 
came strolling through the door. 

They saw me—and burst out laughing. 

“What was that wild dance you were doing at the campfire?” 
Briana teased. 

“You looked as if you had a snake down your back or something!” 
Meg declared. 

They laughed some more. 

That’s okay I thought. Go ahead and laugh. 

In a few minutes, when you climb under your covers, VI be 
laughing. 

I couldn’t wait. 


A few minutes later, Jan turned out the lights. I lay on the hard 
mattress, staring up at Meg’s mattress above my head, grinning. 
Waiting... 

Waiting... 

Meg shifted her weight in the bunk above me. 

I heard her gasp. 

And then both Briana and Meg began to scream. 

I laughed out loud. I couldn’t hold it in. 

“It bit me! It bit me!” Briana howled. 

The lights flashed on. 

“Help!” Meg cried. She leaped out of bed. Her bare feet hit the 
floor hard. It sounded like an elephant landing. 

“It bit me!” Briana cried. 

She and Meg were both on the floor now, dancing and wriggling. 
Slapping at their arms, their legs, their backs. 

I bit my lip to make myself stop laughing. 

“Spiders! Spiders all over!” Meg shrieked. “Ow! It bit me too!” 
She pulled up the sleeve of her nightshirt. “Ow! That hurts!” 

Jan stood at the light switch. I hadn’t moved from my bed. I was 
enjoying it all too much. Watching them squirm and dance. 

But Jan’s words wiped the smile from my face. 

“Sarah put the spiders there,” she told Briana and Meg. “I saw her 
messing around at your bunks when I came in.” 

What a snitch. I guess she was still angry at me because I spilled 
her asthma medicine. 

Well, that put an end to the fun. 

I think Briana and Meg wanted to strangle me. They both had to 
go to the infirmary and wake up the camp nurse. They had to make 
sure the spider bites weren’t poisonous. 

How was I to know that these were the kind of spiders that bite? 

It was just a joke, after all. 

I tried to apologize when they came trudging back from the 
nurse. But they wouldn’t speak to me. And neither would Jan. 

Oh, well, I sighed. So they won’t be my friends. I’ll make other 
friends.... 


The next morning in the mess hall, I ate breakfast alone. The room 
had two long tables that stretched from wall to wall. One for boys and 


one for girls. 

I sat at the far end of the girls’ table and spooned up my 
cornflakes in silence. 

All the other girls were chattering away. At the other end of the 
table, Briana and Meg kept flashing me angry looks. 

I saw Aaron at the boys’ table. He and his friends were laughing 
and goofing on each other. Aaron balanced a pancake on his forehead. 
Another boy slapped it off. 

At least he’s having fun, I thought bitterly. 

I had the sudden urge to go over and tell Aaron how unhappy I 
was. But I knew he would just tell me to lighten up. 

So I sat at my lonely end of the table and choked down my 
cornflakes. 

Did things get better when I arrived at the lake for canoeing? 

Three guesses. 

Kids were already pulling their canoes off the grassy shore, into 
the water. They all seemed to be paired up. 

Liz walked over to me. Her white one-piece bathing suit glowed 
in the morning sunlight. She had her frizzy red hair tied behind her 
head. 

She let a silver whistle fall from her mouth. “What’s your name?” 
she asked, eyes on the lake. 

“Sarah,” I told her. “I signed up for canoeing, but—” 

“You need a buddy,” she said. “Find a buddy. The canoes are over 
there.” She pointed, then trotted away. 

Canoes splashed into the water. The slap of the wooden paddles 
echoed around the shore. 

I ran to the stack of canoes, searching for a buddy. But everyone 
had already chosen partners. 

I was about to give up when I spotted Jan, pulling a canoe to the 
water. “Do you have a buddy?” I called. 

She shook her head. 

“Well, can I come with you?” I asked. 

“I don’t think so,” she replied nastily. “Do you have any more 
spiders you want to set loose?” 

“Jan, please—” I started. 

“Are you two together?” Liz appeared behind us, startling us 
both. 

“No. I—” Jan started. 

“I want to be her buddy, but she doesn’t want to,” I said. I didn’t 
mean to whine, but it came out that way. 

Jan made an ugly face at me. 


“Get your canoe in the water,” Liz ordered. “You two are the last 
ones in.” 

Jan started to protest. Then she shrugged and sighed. “Okay, 
Sarah. Let’s go.” 

We pulled on life preservers. Then I grabbed a paddle and one 
end of the canoe. We dragged it to the water. 

The little boat bobbed against the shore. The lake current was 
stronger than I thought. Low waves plopped steadily against the 
grassy shore. 

Jan climbed in and took a seat in the front. “Thanks for 
embarrassing me in front of Liz,” she muttered. 

“I didn’t mean—” I started. 

“Okay. Push off,” she commanded. 

I tossed my paddle into the canoe. Then I leaned over and gave 
the boat a hard shove with both hands. 

It slid smoothly away from the shore. Then I had to wade out to it 
and pull myself inside. 

“Whoa!” As I struggled to hoist myself up, the canoe nearly tipped 
over. 

“Watch it!” Jan snapped. “You're such a klutz, Sarah.” 

“Sorry,” I murmured. I was so grateful to have a buddy, I didn’t 
want any more trouble between us. 

I pulled myself into the canoe and dropped down behind Jan. 

The canoe bobbed up and down as we began to paddle. The 
rocking waters sparkled like silver under the bright morning sunshine. 

It took us a while to find the right rhythm. 

Neither of us spoke. 

The slap of our paddles and the rush of water against the little 
canoe were the only sounds we made. 

The lake gleamed in front of us like a giant, round mirror. I could 
see several canoes up ahead. Jan and I were far behind them. 

The rubber life preservers were hot and heavy. We pulled them 
off and dropped them to the canoe floor. 

We paddled steadily, not too fast, not too slow. 

I glanced back. The shore seemed miles away. 

I felt a chill of fear. I’m not that strong a swimmer. I suddenly 
wondered if I could swim all the way to shore from out here. 

“Hey!” As I stared back at the shore, the canoe suddenly started 
to rock. 

“Whoooa!” I grabbed the sides. 

I turned—and to my horror, saw Jan standing up! 

“Jan—stop! What are you doing?” I shrieked. “What are you 


doing?” 

The little boat rocked harder. I gripped the sides, struggling to 
steady it. 

Jan took a step. 

The canoe tilted. Water splashed over my feet. 

“Jan—stop!” I cried again. “Sit down! What are you doing?” 

She narrowed her eyes at me. “Bye, Sarah.” 


The 


10 


boat tilted more as she raised one foot to the side. She pulled off 


the T-shirt she had over her swimsuit and tossed it to the canoe floor. 


“No—please!” I begged. “Don’t leave me out here. I’m not a good 


swimmer. What if the boat tips over? I don’t think I can swim back 
from here!” 


“You ruined my summer,” she accused. “Now everyone knows I 


have asthma. So they won't let me go on the six-day canoe trip.” 


said 


J—” 


“But—but it was an accident—” I sputtered. 

“And you're messing up everything for Briana and Meg too,” Jan 
angrily. 

“No. Wait—” I started. “I apologized to them. I didn’t mean—” 
She shifted her weight. 

Tilted the canoe the other way. 

Then she shifted her weight again. Again. 

Deliberately making the canoe rock. 

Deliberately trying to frighten me. 

“Don’t tip it over, Jan. Please—” I pleaded. 

She tilted it more. Made it rock so hard, I thought ld tumble out. 
“Pm really not a good swimmer,” I repeated. “I really don’t think 


She uttered a disgusted groan. Then she tossed back her hair. 


Raised her arms over her head. Bent her knees. Kicked off hard. 


And dove into the lake. 
“Noooo!” I let out a cry as the boat rocked violently. Jan’s dive 


sent up a tall, foamy wave of water. 


The canoe tilted... rocked... 

...and flipped over! 

I hit with a smack. Cold water rose up around me as I sank. 
Frozen in shock. 

I felt the canoe bounce above me on the surface. 

Then I started to choke as water invaded my nose and mouth. 
Sputtering and gagging, I thrashed my arms and legs. 

Pushed myself... pushed... pushed myself to the surface. 

And raised my head over the bobbing current. 

Still sputtering, I sucked in a deep breath of fresh air. Then 


another. 


Floating on the surface, I saw the canoe bobbing upside down on 


the water. 


I struggled to catch my breath, to slow my racing heart. 

Then I swam to the canoe. I grabbed on to it. Wrapped one arm 
around it. Held on for dear life. 

Bobbing with the canoe, I squinted into the sunlight, searching for 
Jan. 

“Jan? Jan?” I called to her. 

“Jan? Where are you?” 

I turned and searched in all directions. 

A feeling of cold dread tightened my chest. 

“Jan? Jan? Can you hear me?” I shouted. 


11 


I held on to the canoe with one hand and shielded my eyes with the 
other. “Jan? Jan?” I shouted her name as loudly as I could. 

And then I spotted her. 

I saw her blond hair glowing in the bright sunlight. And I saw her 
red swimsuit. Her arms moving steadily, smoothly. Her feet kicking up 
foamy waves. 

She was making her way to shore. 

She swam away and left me here, I realized. 

I turned and searched for the other canoes. Squinting against the 
sun, I could see them far ahead of me. Too far away to hear my 
shouts. 

Maybe I can turn the canoe over, I decided. Then I can climb in 
and paddle back to shore. 

But where were the paddles? 

I raised my eyes to the camp—and saw Jan talking to Liz. She was 
waving her arms frantically and pointing out to the water. Pointing to 
me. 

A crowd of kids gathered around them. I could hear excited 
voices. Shouts and cries. 

I saw Liz pull a canoe into the water. 

She’s coming to rescue me, I realized. Jan must have told her I 
couldn’t swim all the way back. 

I suddenly felt embarrassed. I knew all the kids on shore were 
watching me. I knew they were talking about what a wimp I must be. 

But I didn’t care. I just wanted to get back on dry land. 

It didn’t take Liz long to paddle out to me. When I pulled myself 
into the canoe, I started to thank her. 

But she didn’t let me get a word out. “Why did you do it, Sarah?” 
she demanded. 

“Excuse me?” I gasped. “Do what?” 

“Why did you tip the canoe over?” Liz asked. 

I opened my mouth to protest—but only a squeak came out. 

Liz frowned at me. “Jan says you deliberately tipped over the 
canoe. Don’t you know how dangerous that is, Sarah?” 

“But—but—but—!” 

“Vm calling a special camp meeting because of this,” Liz said. 
“Water safety is so important. The water safety rules must be followed 
at all times. Camp Cold Lake couldn’t exist if campers didn’t follow 


every rule.” 
“T wish it didn’t exist,” I muttered unhappily. 


kk x 


So Liz held a long meeting at the lodge. And everyone at camp had to 
be there. 

She went over the rules of water safety again. Rule by rule. 

And then she showed an endless slide show about the Buddy 
System. 

I sat way on the side and stared down at the floor. But every time 
I raised my eyes, I saw Briana, Meg, and Jan glaring angrily at me. 

Other campers kept staring at me too. I guess they all blamed me 
for this long, boring meeting. Jan probably told everyone in camp that 
I was the one who tipped over the canoe. 

“I want you to memorize all twenty water safety rules,” Liz was 
saying. 

More campers stared angrily at me. 

Everyone hates me, I thought, shaking my head sadly. And there 
is nothing I can do about it. 

Then, suddenly, I had an idea. 


12 


“Tm going to run away,” I told Aaron. 

“Good-bye,” he said calmly. “Good luck.” 

“No. Really!” I insisted. “Pm not kidding. I’m really going to run 
away from this camp.” 

“Send me a postcard,” Aaron said. 

I had dragged him away from the mess hall after dinner. I really 
needed to talk to him. I pulled him to the edge of the lake. 

No one else was down here. Everyone was still at the mess hall in 
the lodge. 

I glanced at the canoes, stacked in piles of three near the water. I 
pictured Jan’s blond hair, her red swimsuit. I pictured her swimming 
away, leaving me in the middle of the lake. 

And then lying to Liz. Getting me in trouble.... 

I shook Aaron by the shoulders. “Why won’t you take me 
seriously?” I cried through clenched teeth. 

He laughed. 

“You shouldn’t shake a person after they’ve just eaten the camp 
meat loaf.” He let out a loud burp. 

“You're so gross.” I groaned. 

He grinned. “It’s a family tradition.” 

“Stop joking around. I mean it,” I snapped. “I’m really unhappy, 
Aaron. I hate this camp. There is no phone here we can use. I can’t 
call Mom and Dad. So I’m going to run away.” 

His expression changed. He saw that I was serious. 

He skipped a flat stone across the water. I watched the ripples 
spread out, then disappear. 

The lake reflected the gray evening sky. Everything was gray. The 
ground, the sky, the water. Reflections of trees shimmered darkly in 
the gray water. 

“Where are you going to run?” Aaron asked softly. I could see 
him quickly becoming the mature, “wiser” brother again. But I didn’t 
care. 

I had to tell him my plan. I couldn’t leave camp without letting 
him know. 

“Through the woods,” I said. I pointed. “There is a town on the 
other side of the woods. When I get to the town, I’m going to call 
Mom and Dad and tell them to come get me.” 

“You can’t!” Aaron protested. 


I stuck my chin out. “Why not?” 

“We’re not allowed in the woods,” he replied. “Richard said the 
woods were dangerous—remember?” 

I shoved Aaron again. I was so tense, so angry, I didn’t know what 
to do with my hands. 

“I don’t care what Richard said!” I bellowed. “I’m running away— 
remember?” 

“Give the camp a chance, Sarah,” Aaron urged. “We haven’t even 
been here a whole week. Give the place a chance.” 

That’s when I totally lost it. 

“I hate it when you're so sensible!” I screamed. 

I shoved him hard. With both hands. 

His mouth flew open. He lost his balance—and toppled into the 
lake. 

He landed on his back in the wet mud just past the shore. 

“Ooof!” I heard the air shoot out of him. 

“Sorry—” I started. “It was an accident, Aaron. I—” 

He scrambled to his feet, pulling up greasy gunk and seaweed 
with him. Shaking his fists. Calling me all kinds of names. 

I sighed. Now even my brother was furious at me. 

What am I going to do? I asked myself. What can I do? 

As I trudged back to the cabin, another plan began to form in my 
mind. 

A really desperate plan. 

A really dangerous plan. 


“Tomorrow,” I murmured to myself, “Pm going to show them 
all!” 


13 


I thought about my plan all the next morning. I was frightened—but I 
knew I had to go through with it. 

Our group had Free Swim that afternoon. Of course, everyone had 
a buddy but me. 

I dug my bare feet into the muddy shore and watched everyone 
pair up and head into the water. Puffy white clouds floated overhead, 
reflected in the nearly still water. 

Tiny gnats jumped over the surface of the water. I stared at them, 
wondering why they didn’t get wet. 

“Sarah, it’s swim time,” Liz called. She hurried over to me. She 
wore a pink one-piece bathing suit under crisp white tennis shorts. 

I adjusted my swimsuit top. My hands were trembling. 

I really was scared by what I planned to do. 

“Why aren’t you swimming?” Liz demanded. She brushed a fly off 
my shoulder. 

“J—I don’t have a buddy,” I stammered. 

She glanced around, trying to find someone for me. But everyone 
was in the lake. 

“Well...” Liz twisted her mouth fretfully. “Go ahead and swim by 
yourself. Stay close to the shore. And I’ll keep an eye on you.” 

“Great. Thanks,” I said. I smiled at her, then trotted 
enthusiastically to the edge of the water. 

I didn’t want her to guess that it wasn’t going to be a normal 
swim for me. That I had something really terrible in mind.... 

I stepped into the water. 

Oooh. So cold. 

A cloud rolled over the sun. The sky darkened, and the air grew 
colder. 

My feet sank into the muddy bottom of the lake. Up ahead, I saw 
the gnats—hundreds of them—hopping on the water. 

Yuck, I thought. Why do I have to swim with mud and gnats? 

I took a deep breath and stepped out farther. When the cold water 
was nearly up to my waist, I lowered my body in and started to swim. 

I swam a few long laps. I needed to get used to the water. And I 
needed to get my breathing steady. 

A short distance away, Briana and some other girls were having 
some kind of relay race. They were laughing and cheering. Having a 
great time. 


They won’t be laughing in a few minutes. I told myself bitterly. 

A tall spray of water rushed over me. I cried out. 

Another wave smacked my face. 

It took me a few seconds to realize that I was being splashed—by 
Aaron. 

He rose up in front of me—and spit a stream of water into my 
face. 

“Yuck! How can you put this water in your mouth?” I cried, 
totally grossed out. 

He laughed and splashed away to join his buddy. 

He won’t be laughing in a few minutes, either, I told myself. He’ll 
treat me differently after today. 

Everyone will. 

I suddenly felt guilty. I should have told Aaron what I planned to 
do. I didn’t really want to scare him. I wanted to scare everyone else. 

But I knew if I told my plan to practical, sensible Aaron, he would 
talk me out of it. Or go tell Liz so that she would stop me. 

Well... no one is going to stop me, I vowed. 

Have you guessed my desperate plan? 

It was really quite simple. 

I planned to drown myself. 

Well... not really. 

I planned to dive down to the lake bottom. Stay under. A long, 
long time. 

And make everyone think that I had drowned. 

I can hold my breath for a very long time. It’s because I play the 
flute. I’ve really developed my lung power. 

I can probably stay underwater for two or three minutes. 

Long enough to scare everyone to death. 

Everyone will panic. Even Briana, Meg, and Jan. 

Everyone will feel sorry for how mean they were to me. 

rll get a new start. After my close call in the lake, everyone in 
camp will want to be nice to me. 

Everyone will want to be my buddy. 

So... here goes. 

I took one last look at all the laughing, shouting swimmers. 

Then I sucked in the biggest breath I had ever taken. 

And plunged down, down to the bottom of the lake. 


14 


The lake was shallow for only a few feet. Then the lake bottom gave 
way in a steep drop. 

I kicked hard, pushing myself away from the other swimmers. 
Then I pulled myself upright, lowering my feet. 

Yes. 

I dropped my hands to my sides and let myself sink. 

Down, down. 

I opened my eyes as I dropped to the lake bottom. I saw only 
green. Waves of pale light shimmered through the green. 

I’m floating inside an emerald, I thought. Floating down, down in 
a sparkling green jewel. 

I pictured the tiny emerald on the ring Mom wore every day. Her 
engagement ring. I thought about Mom and Dad, thought how sad 
they’d be if I really did drown. 

We never should have sent Sarah to that water sports camp, they 
would say. 

My feet hit the soft lake floor. 

A bubble of air escaped my mouth. I pressed my lips tighter, 
holding the air inside. 

I slowly floated up toward the surface. 

I closed my eyes. I kept my whole body still to make it look as if 
Trd drowned. 

I pictured the horror on Liz’s face when she saw my body floating 
so still, floating under the water, my hair bobbing on the surface. 

I almost laughed when I thought of Liz leaping into the lake to 
rescue me, having to get her crisp white tennis shorts wet, I forced 
myself to remain still. 

I shut my eyes even tighter. And thought about Briana, Meg, and 
Jan. 

They'll feel so guilty They'll never forgive themselves for the way 
they treated me. 

After my close call, they’ll see how mean they were. And they’ll 
want to be best friends with me. 

Well all be best friends. 

And we'll have a great summer together. 

My chest began to feel tight. The back of my throat began to 
burn. 

I opened my lips and let out a few more bubbles of air. 


But my throat still burned, and so did my chest. 

I floated facedown. I kept my legs stiff and let my arms hang 
loosely at my sides. 

I listened for shouts of alarm. 

Someone must have spotted me by now. 

I listened for cries of help. For kids calling Liz. 

But I heard only silence. The heavy silence you hear when you’re 
underwater. 

I let out another bubble of air. 

My chest really hurt now. It felt about to explode. 

I opened my eyes. Was anyone nearby? Was anyone coming to 
rescue me? 

I saw only green. 

Where is everyone? I wondered. 

Liz must have spotted me by now. Why isn’t she pulling me up 
out of the water? 

I pictured her again in her white tennis shorts. I pictured her 
tanned arms and legs. I pictured her red hair. 

Liz—where are you? 

Liz—don’t you see me drowning here? You said you’d keep an eye 
on me, remember? 

I can’t stay under much longer. 

My chest is ready to explode. My whole body is tingling. Burning. 
My head feels about to pop open. 

Can’t anyone see me here? 

A wave of dizziness swept over me. 

I shut my eyes, but the dizziness didn’t go away. 

I pushed out the rest of the air in my lungs. 

No air, I thought. No air left.... 

My arms and legs ached. 

My chest burned. 

With my eyes closed, I saw bright yellow spots. 

Dancing yellow lights. They grew brighter... brighter. They did a 
fast, furious dance all around me. 

Around my burning, tingling body. 

My chest... exploding... exploding... 

I’m so cold, I realized. Suddenly, I feel so cold. 

The dancing, darting yellow lights grew brighter. Bright as 
spotlights. Bright as flashbulbs, flashing in my eyes. 

Flashing around my still, cold body. 

I shuddered from the cold. 

Shuddered again. 


Cold, thick water filled my mouth. 

I’ve stayed under too long, I realized. 

No one is coming. No one is coming to save me. 

Too long... too long. 

I struggled to see. But the lights were too bright. 

Can’t see. Can’t see. 

I swallowed another mouthful of water. 

Can’t see. Can’t breathe. 

I can’t stay under any longer. I can’t wait any longer. 

I struggled to raise my head out of the water. But it felt so heavy. 
It weighed a ton. 

Can’t stay down... 

Can’t breathe. 

With a burst of strength, I moved my shoulders. Pulled them up. 

Hoisted up my head. 

So heavy... so heavy. My hair filled with water. My hair so heavy. 
The water running down my face. 

Over my eyes. 

I turned to shore. Squinted through the bright, darting lights. 

Squinted hard through the water running down my face. 

Squinted... 

No one there. 

I turned again. My eyes searched the water. 

No one there. No one swimming. No one on the shore. 

Where is everyone? I wondered. Shivering. Shuddering. 

Where did everyone go? 


15 


I struggled to shore. 

My feet were numb. I couldn’t feel the muddy bottom as I 
staggered out of the water. 

I rubbed my arms. I couldn’t feel the touch of my hands. Couldn’t 
feel the water pouring off me, running down my back. 

Couldn’t feel anything. Numb. Numb all over. 

“Where is everyone?” I called. 

But did I make a sound? Did I have a voice? 

I couldn’t hear myself. 

I stepped onto the grass and shook myself. Like a dog trying to 
get dry. 

Trying to shake some feeling into my cold, numb body. 

“Where did you all go?” 

Hugging myself, I stumbled forward. I stopped when I saw the 
canoes. All tacked upside down by the shore and tied up. 

Weren’t kids canoeing today? Weren’t the canoes all out in the 
lake? 

“Hey!” I shouted. 

But why couldn’t I hear my shout? 

“Where is everyone?” 

No one on the shore. 

I spun around, nearly losing my balance. No one in the water. 

No one. No one anywhere. 

I stumbled past the life preservers and rubber rafts. Covered with 
a canvas tarp. 

Isn’t anyone going to use them? I wondered. Why are they 
covered up? 

Why did everyone leave the lake so quickly? 

Shivering, hugging myself, I made my way toward the lodge. I 
gasped when I noticed the trees. 

Bare. All winter bare. 

“Noooooooo!” a frightened wail escaped my throat. A silent wail. 

Could anyone hear me? 

When had the leaves fallen? Why had they fallen in the middle of 
summer? 

I started to trot along the path to the lodge. Cold. So cold. 

Something stung my shoulder. Something tingled my eyelids. 

Snow? 


Yes. Tiny white flakes drifted down, blown by a steady breeze. 
The bare trees rattled and creaked. 

I brushed snowflakes from my wet hair. 

Snow? 

But I knew that was impossible. 

All impossible. 

“Heeeeeeey!” My shout echoed through the trees. Or did it? 

Could anyone hear my frightened call? 

“Helllilillllp!” I shouted. “Somebody hellllllp me!” 

Silence, except for the creaking tree limbs overhead. 

I started to run again. My bare feet moved silently over the cold 
ground. 

The cabins came into view as I made my way out of the trees. 
Their flat roofs were covered by a thin layer of snow. 

The ground was as gray as the sky. The cabins were all dark, the 
shingled walls gray. Gray all around me. 

A cold world of gray. 

I pushed open the door of the first cabin I came to. “Hey—I need 
help!” I cried. 

I stared into the empty room. 

No one there. No camp trunks. No clothes scattered about. 

I raised my eyes to the bunk beds against the wall. The blankets, 
the sheets—the mattresses—had all been taken away. 

I guess this cabin isn’t being used, I thought. 

I backed out of the door. Turned and ran down the row of cabins. 
All dark and silent. 

My cabin stood where the path curved up the hill. With a sigh of 
relief, I ran up to it and pushed open the door. 

“Briana? Meg?” 

Empty. And dark. 

The mattresses gone. The posters pulled down. No clothes. No 
bags or trunks. 

No sign that anyone had ever lived in here. 

“Where are you?” I shrieked. 

And then, “Where am 1?” 

Where was my stuff? Where was my bed? 

Uttering another terrified wail, I lurched out of the cabin. 

Cold. So cold and numb. Running through the cold in my wet 
bathing suit. 

I tore through the camp. Pulling open doors. Peering into bare, 
empty rooms. Calling. Calling for someone—anyone—to help me. 

Into the main lodge. My cries echoing off the high, wooden 


rafters. 

Or did they? Was I really making a sound? 

Why couldn’t I hear myself? 

I burst into the mess hall. The long, wooden benches had been 
stacked on top of the tables. The kitchen stood dark and empty. 

What has happened? I wondered, unable to stop my trembling. 

Where did everyone go? Why did they all leave? How did they 
leave so quickly? How can it be snowing? 

I stumbled back out into the gray cold. Wisps of gray fog floated 
low over the gray ground. I hugged my frozen body, trying to warm 
myself. 

Terrified and confused, I wandered from building to building. I 
felt as if I were swimming again. Swimming in the thick gray mists. 
Swimming through endless layers of gray. 

And then I stopped when I heard a voice. 

A tiny voice. A girl’s voice. 

Singing. 

She was singing in a high, frail voice. 

“Tm not alone!” I cried. 

I listened to her song. A sad song sung so softly. 

And then I called out to her, “Where are you? I can’t see you! 
Where are you?” 


16 


I followed the tiny voice to the lodge. I saw a girl perched on the 
wooden steps. 

“Hey!” I called. “Hey! I was looking for someone! Can you help 
me?” 

She kept singing, as if she didn’t see me. As I walked closer, I 
realized she was singing the Camp Cold Lake song in her tiny, light 
voice. 

She had long curls of white-blond hair that flowed down the sides 
of her face. A pretty face, delicate and pale. So incredibly pale. 

She wore a sleeveless white T-shirt and white short shorts. 
Snowflakes fell all around us. I shivered. But she didn’t seem to notice 
the cold. 

She tilted her head from side to side as she sang. Her round blue 
eyes stared out at the sky. They reminded me of shiny blue marbles in 
her pale, pale face. 

I stepped up in front of her. I brushed snowflakes from my 
forehead. 

She didn’t turn to me until her song was finished. Then she 
smiled. “Hi, Sarah.” Her speaking voice was as soft as her singing. 

“How—how do you know my name?” I stammered. 

Her smile grew wider. “I’ve been waiting for you,” she replied. 
“My name is Della.” 

“Della—I’m so cold,” I blurted out. 

She rose to her feet. Turned. And pulled something out from 
behind the steps. 

A white bathrobe. 

She held it up and slipped it around my trembling shoulders. 

Her hands were so light. I could barely feel them. 

She helped me tie the belt. Then she stepped back and smiled at 
me again. “I’ve been waiting for you, Sarah,” she said. Her voice was a 
sigh, a whisper. 

“Excuse me?” I cried. “Waiting—?” 

She nodded. Her white-blond hair fluttered with every move of 
her head. “I can’t leave without you, Sarah. I need a buddy.” 

I stared at her, trying to understand. 

“Where is everyone?” I cried. “Where did everyone go? Why are 
you the only one here?” I brushed snowflakes from my eyebrows. 
“Della, how did it get to be winter?” 


“You'll be my buddy—won’t you, Sarah?” Her blue eyes burned 
into mine. Her hair glowed around her pale face. 

I blinked. “I don’t understand—” I started. “Please answer my 
questions.” 

“You'll be my buddy, won’t you?” she repeated, pleading with 
those amazing eyes. “I’ve waited so long for a buddy, Sarah. So long.” 

“But, Della—” 

She started to sing again. 

I shoved my hands into the pockets of the robe. I shivered. I 
couldn’t get warm. I couldn’t stop shaking. 

Why was she singing the Camp Cold Lake song so sadly? 

Why wouldn’t she answer my questions? 

How did she know my name? And why did she say she’d been 
waiting for me? 

“Della, please—” I begged. 

Singing her strange, sad song, she floated up the wooden stairs to 
the lodge. Her hair shimmered, golden in the gray light. Swirls of fog 
curled around her as she moved. 

“Oh!” I cried out when I realized I could see right through her. 

“Della—?” 

She floated over the stairs, tilting her head from side to side, 
singing in that breathy whisper of a voice. 

“Della—?” 

She stopped singing and smiled at me again. Snowflakes covered 
her blond hair. The fog still swirled around her. 

I could see the dark shingles of the lodge through her body. I 
stared right through her. 

“Sarah, you’re my buddy now,” she whispered. “I need a buddy. 
Everyone at Camp Cold Lake needs a buddy.” 

“But—but you’re dead!” I blurted out. 

Della is dead, I realized. 

And I’m her buddy. 

That means... 

That means that I’m dead too! 


17 


Della floated over me. So light and pale. The wind fluttered her hair. 
It rose around her like a shimmering halo. 

“Yow’re dead,” I murmured. “And I am too.” 

Saying the words sent a cold shudder down my body. 

I began to realize the truth. I began to see what had happened. 

Della had probably drowned here. Drowned in the lake. 

That is why everyone at the camp is so crazy about water safety. 

That explains the endless water safety lectures. And the long list 
of rules. And why the counselors insist on the Buddy System at all 
times. 

Della drowned here. 

And now I’m her buddy. 

I’m her buddy—because I drowned too. 

“No000000000!” A long wail of horror, of disbelief, escaped my 
throat. 

I threw my head back and wailed like an animal. Wailed out my 
sorrow. 

Della floated over me, watching me. Waiting for me to stop. She 
knew what I was thinking. She knew I had figured everything out. 

She waited patiently. How long had she been waiting there for 
me? Waiting for a buddy? Another dead buddy? 

How long had she been waiting for another unlucky girl to 
drown? 

“Noooo!” I moaned. “No, I won’t do it, Della! I can’t do it! I won’t 
be your buddy! I won’t!” 

I spun around. So dizzy, I nearly dropped to my knees. 

I started to run. The white robe flew open. It flapped beside me 
like wings as I ran away from her. 

Ran barefoot over the snowy ground. 

Ran through the swirls of fog. Through the gray. 

“Come back, Sarah!” I heard Della call to me. “Come back! You 
have to be my buddy! I’m trapped here. Trapped as a ghost. I can’t 
leave this camp—I can’t get to the other world—without a buddy!” 

But I didn’t stop. I kept running through the camp. Past the 
cabins. Past the supply sheds at the edge of the woods. 

I kept running from her calls. Running from her ghostly voice. 

I don’t want to be her buddy, I told myself. I don’t want to be a 
ghost! 


I blinked away snowflakes as I ran. Ran through the bare, 
creaking trees. Ran without looking back. 

I stopped when I reached the lake shore. Stopped when I felt the 
cold water lap over my feet. 

The cold, gray water. 

I struggled to catch my breath. But my chest hurt. Felt about to 
explode. 

Gasping, I turned—and saw Della floating through the trees. 
Floating toward me, her eyes glowing with blue fire. 

“You can’t leave without me, Sarah!” she called. “You can’t leave, 
Sarah!” 

I turned away from her. Turned back to the water. 

My chest. My head. 

Everything hurt so much. 

I couldn’t breathe. 

My chest was going to burst. 

I sank to the mud. 

As the gray faded to black. 


18 


Pinpricks of white light danced above me. 

I thought of fireflies, darting above the grass late at night. 

The tiny lights grew brighter. Round, like flashlight beams. 

Brighter still. 

Until I was staring into a glowing ball of gold. 

I blinked. 

It took me a long while to realize that I was staring up at the sun. 

I turned my head away. 

I suddenly felt heavy. I could feel the ground beneath me. I could 
feel the weight of my body on the ground. 

My body. My solid body, coming back to me. 

I heard a groan. Someone moved above me. 

I blinked several times. And squinted up at Liz. 

Her face was red. Her mouth was twisted in a hard scowl. 

“Ohhh.” I groaned as she pressed both hands on my chest. Raised 
her hands. Pressed again. 

I felt water slide from my open mouth. 

I choked. Felt more water pour down my chin. 

“She’s coming around,” Liz announced. She pressed hard on my 
chest again. “She’s alive!” Liz cried. 

Behind her, I could see bare legs. Swimsuits. Campers. 

Yes. The other campers. 

I groaned again. Liz continued to work over me. 

I’m lying on my back, I realized. I’m on the lake shore. Liz is 
giving me CPR. 

The other campers are standing around me. Watching. Watching 
Liz save my life. 

“?’m—ALIVE!” The word burst from my throat. 

I sat up. And gazed around. 

Everyone is back! I realized. It’s summer again. The leaves are 
back on the trees. The sun is beaming down. 

And everyone is back. Including me! 

Liz uttered a sigh and sank back on her knees. “Sarah, are you 
okay?” she asked breathlessly. She mopped sweat from her forehead 
with the back of her hand. “Are you okay?” 

“I... I think so,” I murmured. 

I had a sour taste in my mouth. I still felt a little dizzy. 

Behind Liz, some campers cheered and applauded. 


“We thought you were gone for a moment.” Liz sighed. “You 
stopped breathing. What a scare!” 

Two counselors helped me to my feet. I tried to shake off my 
dizziness. “I’m okay!” I cried. “Thank you, Liz. You—you saved my 
life!” 

I hugged Liz. Then I turned and hugged Aaron. 

Briana and Meg were standing nearby. I startled them by hugging 
them too. 

I was so happy to be alive! So happy to be away from that gray, 
gray winter. Away from that frightening ghost girl in the empty camp. 

“Sarah—what happened?” Liz asked, placing a hand on my still- 
wet shoulder. She gently brushed back my hair. 

“Tm not sure,” I told her. “I’m really not sure.” 

Liz shuddered. “When you stopped breathing, I... I got so scared.” 

“Um fine now,” I told her with a smile. “Thanks to you.” 

“She did it for attention,” I heard someone mutter. 

I turned—and saw Jan whispering to another girl. “Now everyone 
has to say ‘Poor Sarah’,” Jan whispered nastily. “Now everyone has to 
be nice to her.” 

I felt hurt. I opened my mouth to say something to Jan. 

But I was so happy to be back, so happy to be alive, I just ignored 
it. 

I rested a hand on Aaron’s shoulder and let him walk me back to 
my cabin. “I’m going to enjoy the rest of camp,” I told my brother. “I 
really am.” 


The nurse checked me out carefully. Then I rested all afternoon. I took 
a long nap. 

When I woke up, I was starving. I realized I hadn’t eaten all day. 

I pulled on jeans and a camp sweatshirt and hurried to the 
campfire. As I trotted down the path toward the clearing by the 
woods, the aroma of hot dogs and hamburgers on the barbecue drifted 
out to me. 

Richard greeted me at the campfire circle. “Sarah, you look 
great!” he exclaimed. “I heard about... what happened at the lake this 
afternoon.” 

“Well, I’m fine now,” I told him. “I feel great.” 

“Hey—no more close calls,” he scolded. “Or else you have to 
swim in the kiddie pool.” 

“PIL be careful,” I promised. 

“You’d better—because we don’t have a kiddie pool!” he joked. 

I laughed. 


“Take a seat,” he said, pointing to the circle of logs. “Take a seat, 
everyone!” he called out. “We’re going to have a meeting before we 
eat!” 

Most of the campers had already taken their places. I glanced 
around the circle quickly, searching for a place to sit. 

“Sarah—?” A voice called to me. 

“Sarah—over here.” 

I let out a shocked cry when I saw Della. 

Della. By herself on a log back near the woods. Her blond hair 
shimmering around her pale face. The pink evening sunlight shining 
through her body. 

Shining right through her. 

“Noooo!” I moaned. 

“Come over here, Sarah!” Della called. “Please—sit over here with 
me. Be my buddy!” 


19 


I raised my hands to my cheeks and let out a shrill scream. 

“No! Yow're not here!” I wailed. “You’re a ghost! You don’t belong 
here! I’m alive now! I’m alive!” 

I turned and saw Richard and Liz hurrying toward me. 

Across the circle, Aaron jumped up and came running over. 
“Sarah—what’s wrong? What is it?” he cried. 

“Don’t you see her?” I shrieked. I pointed to the log near the 
woods. “She’s a ghost! But I’m alive!” 

Liz wrapped her arms around me. “It’s okay, Sarah,” she 
whispered. “You're okay now.” 

“But—but she’s sitting there!” I sputtered. 

Everyone turned to the log. 

“There’s no one there,” Richard said. He narrowed his eyes at me. 

“You had a terrible shock,” Liz said softly. “A terrible shock. 
You're still not quite yourself, Sarah.” 

“But—but—” I stammered. 

I saw Briana, Meg, and Jan huddled together, talking softly. 
Watching me. 

What are they saying about me? I wondered. 

“Do you want me to walk you back to your cabin?” Richard 
asked. 

I shook my head. “No. I’m starving!” 

Liz laughed. “Maybe that’s your problem. You’re so hungry, you’re 
seeing things! Let’s get you a hot dog—fast.” 

After a couple of hot dogs, I started to feel better. The campfire 
meeting began. I sat next to some girls from a different cabin. 

As Richard talked, I gazed around the circle. Stared at the 
campers’ faces, orange from the flickering campfire. Searching for 
Della. 

Della the ghost... 

Was she still here? Still watching me? Still waiting for me to be 
her buddy? 

I sat forward tensely. My whole body stiff. My eyes straining to 
see her pale, pale face. 

But she had vanished. 

For now. 

Liz took over the meeting. Most campers groaned when she 
started another lecture on water safety. 


“We had a close call today,” Liz said. “A frightening close call.” 

I knew everyone was staring at me. I could feel my face growing 
hot. I gazed into the yellow flames of the campfire. 

When I raised my eyes, I saw Briana, Meg, and Jan on the next 
log, whispering together. About me? 

“Our water safety rules are so important here at Camp Cold 
Lake,” Liz was saying. “Some campers joke that having so many rules 
is the curse of Camp Cold Lake, because we talk about the rules so 
much.” 

She pressed her hands against her sides. Her eyes moved from 
camper to camper. “But as we saw this afternoon,” she continued, “the 
Buddy System isn’t a curse—it’s a blessing.” 

A face rose up behind the darting flames of the fire. 

I gasped. 

Della! 

No. A girl from another cabin, climbing up to get more food. 

I sank back. 

I have to get away from this camp, I decided. I can’t have a good 
time here. Not if I always have to keep an eye out for Della. 

Liz rattled on about the water rules. 

Richard made a few announcements. 

Everyone sang some camp songs. 

When the campfire ended, I jumped up quickly and started along 
the path to my cabin. I had gone only a few steps when I heard fast 
footsteps behind me. And heard someone calling my name. 

Was it the ghost? 

I turned to see Aaron jogging up to me. “What was that screaming 
about?” he demanded. “Did you really think you saw a ghost?” 

“Why should I tell you?” I snapped. I continued along the path, 
walking rapidly. “You’ll only laugh at me.” 

“Try me,” he replied, running to catch up. “I won’t laugh. I 
promise.” 

“I saw a ghost girl,” I told him. “I swear I did. She called to me. 
She wants me to be her buddy.” 

Aaron laughed. “No. Really,” he said. “What did you really see? 
Be serious.” 

“Tam serious!” I cried. “I have to get away from here, Aaron. I’m 
going to run away. Get to a phone. Call Mom and Dad. Tonight. I’m 
going to tell them to come get me.” 

“You can’t!” Aaron replied. He grabbed my arm and forced me to 
stop walking. I could see kids staring at us as they walked past. 

“Mom and Dad won’t want to make more than one trip up here. 


So if you call them, they’ll make me come home too,” Aaron 
protested. “And I don’t want to leave. I’m having a great time!” 

“You don’t understand,” I told him. “I can’t stay here. I can’t—” 

“Please, Sarah,” he begged. “Try to stick it out. Give it a little 
more time. You’re just a little messed up because of the lake this 
afternoon. But you’ll be okay. Give it some time.” 

I didn’t say yes, and I didn’t say no. 

I just told Aaron good-night and headed to my cabin. 

I stopped outside the door. All the lights were on. I heard Briana, 
Meg, and Jan talking softly. 

They stopped talking as soon as I stepped inside. 

All three of them stared hard at me. Their expressions were tense. 
They moved quickly. 

Moved toward me as I started across the room. 

They formed a circle around me. Surrounded me. 

“What is it?” I cried. “What are you going to do?” 


20 


“We want to apologize,” Briana said. 

“We've been kind of rough on you,” Jan added in her scratchy 
voice. “We're really sorry.” 

“We've been talking about it,” Briana said. “We—” 

“We decided we've been really unfair,” Meg interrupted. “We're 
sorry, Sarah.” 

“I—I’m sorry too,” I stammered. I was so stunned by their 
apologies, I could barely speak. 

“Let’s start all over,” Briana suggested. She grabbed my hand. 
“Nice to meet you, Sarah. My name is Briana.” 

“Excellent. A fresh start!” Jan declared. 

“Thanks. I’m really glad,” I told them. And I meant it. 

Jan turned to Briana. “When did you do that to your nails?” 

Briana grinned and raised both hands. Her fingernails were a 
shiny, bright purple. “It’s a new color,” she said. “I did it after our 
swim.” 

“What color is it?” Meg asked. 

“Grape Juice, I think,” Briana replied. “They all have such crazy 
names.” She dug the bottle of nail polish from her pack and held it out 
to me. “Want to try it?” 

“Well... sure,” I replied. 

All four of us stayed up far past Lights Out, making our 
fingernails purple. 

Later, I lay in my bunk, drifting off to sleep. I had a smile on my 
face, thinking about my three bunk mates. My three friends. 

They had really cheered me up. 

But my smile faded when I heard a whispered voice float across 
the dark cabin. “Sarah... Sarah...” 

I gasped. 

And then the frail voice—soft as the wind—was so close... so 
close to my ear. 

“Sarah. I thought you were my buddy, Sarah. Why did you leave 
me?” 

“No—please—” I begged. 

“Sarah, I waited so long for you,” the ghostly voice whispered. 
“Come with me. Come with me, Sarah....” 

And then an icy hand gripped my shoulder. 


21 


“Ohhhhh!” 

I bolted up in the bunk. And stared out at Briana’s dark eyes. 

She let go of my shoulder. “Sarah,” she whispered. “You were 
whimpering in your sleep.” 

“Huh? What?” My voice quivered. My heart pounded. I realized I 
was drenched in sweat. 

“You were whimpering in your sleep,” Briana repeated. “Crying 
and moaning. I thought I’d better wake you.” 

“Uh... thanks,” I choked out. “Must have been a bad dream, I 
guess.” 

Briana nodded and crept back to her bunk. 

I didn’t move. I sat there trembling, staring out across the dark 
cabin. 

A bad dream? 

I didn’t think so.... 


“You can skip the long-distance swim today if you want,” Liz told me 
at breakfast the next morning. She leaned over my chair as I downed 
my cornflakes. I could smell the toothpaste on her breath. 

“Well...” I hesitated. “How long is the swim?” 

“We’re swimming halfway across the lake,” Liz replied. “Halfway 
out, then back. I’ll be in a boat at the halfway point. It isn’t really that 
far. But if you feel like skipping it today...” 

I set down my spoon. I could see Meg and Briana watching me 
from across the table. Beside me, Jan was struggling to choke down a 
half-toasted, frozen waffle. 

“Come on. Swim with us,” Briana urged. 

“VII be your buddy,” Jan said. “Pll swim with you, Sarah.” 

Our frightening canoe adventure flashed into my mind. Once 
again, I pictured that horrible moment when Jan jumped from the 
canoe. Tipping it over. Leaving me there. 

But things were different now. 

We were friends. All four of us were friends now. I had to forget 
about what happened with the canoe. I had to forget about our bad 
start. 

“Okay,” I agreed. “Thanks, Jan. lll be your buddy.” I turned back 
to Liz. “I’m ready to swim.” 


The morning sun still floated low in the sky. It kept fading behind 
broad, gray clouds. And each time the sun disappeared, the air 
became as cold as the water. 

The lake was so cold in the early morning! 

As I waded in, I suddenly realized why it was named “Cold Lake”. 

We all stepped carefully into the water, shivering and 
complaining. The water lapped over my ankles, stinging them. I 
stopped with a gasp and waited to get used to the cold. 

I raised my eyes at the sound of a motorboat and saw Liz 
chugging to her place in the middle of the lake. When she reached the 
spot, she cut the engine. Then she picked up an electric megaphone. 

“Warm up first, everyone!” she instructed us. 

We all laughed. “Warm up? How are we supposed to warm up? 
It’s freezing!” 

Two girls near the shore began splashing each other. 

“Stop it! Whoooa! It’s collld!” one of them shrieked. 

Taking another few steps over the soft lake bottom, I adjusted the 
top of my blue swimsuit. “We need wet suits,” I told Jan. 

She nodded, then waded out until the water lapped at her waist. 
“Come on, Sarah. Stick together.” She motioned for me to follow. 

I took a deep breath—and plunged into the water. 

A shock of cold swept over my body. But I dove under the water 
and swam out a few strokes. Then I raised my head and turned back 
to Jan. 

“Show off,” she muttered. She dipped her hands in the water, still 
struggling to get used to the cold. 

I laughed. “It’s refreshing!” I exclaimed, brushing my wet hair 
back. “Come on—just push off. It isn’t that bad.” 

Jan lowered herself into the water. Most of the swimmers were in 
the water now, moving in circles, floating on their backs, treading 
water. 

“Line up, everyone!” Liz instructed from her boat. Her voice 
through the megaphone echoed off the trees behind us. “Line up. Two 
at a time. Let’s go!” 

It took a while for everyone to get in place. Jan and I were second 
in line. 

I watched the first two girls begin to swim. One of them moved 
with smooth, steady strokes. The other one splashed and thrashed. 

Everyone cheered them on. 

Jan and I gave them about a two-minute head start. Then we 
began to swim. 

I tried to copy the first girl’s rhythmic stroke. I didn’t want to 
look like a klutz. I knew all the other swimmers were watching. But 


let’s get real. I’m not exactly headed for the Olympics. 

Jan pulled ahead easily. As we swam, she kept turning back to 
make sure I was keeping up with her. 

The turnaround spot was just past Liz’s motor-boat. I kept my 
eyes on it as I followed Jan through the water. It seemed very far 
away! 

Jan picked up speed. My arms started aching about halfway to 
the boat. 

I’m in bad shape, I told myself. I’ve really got to start working out 
or something. 

Liz’s boat bobbed gently up ahead of us. Liz was shouting 
something into the megaphone. But the splash of the water kept me 
from making out the words. 

Up ahead of me, Jan picked up the pace. 

“Hey—slow down!” I called. But there was no way she could hear 
me. 

Ignoring the aching in my arms, I struggled to catch up to her. I 
kicked my legs harder, splashing up water behind me. 

The sun dipped once again behind a high cloud. The sky 
darkened, and the water seemed to chill. 

Liz’s boat rocked in the water, just up ahead. I kept my eyes on 
Jan. Watched her steady kicks. Her hair bobbing on the lake surface 
like some kind of sea creature. 

When Jan turns back, Pll turn back, I decided. 

I swam a little faster. Let’s turn, I pleaded silently. Jan, we’re here. 
We're even with Liz’s motorboat. I’m ready to turn back now. 

But to my surprise, Jan kept stroking, kept swimming straight 
ahead. Her head ducked under the water. Her arms moved easily, 
gracefully, pulling her farther ahead of me. 

“Jan—?” 

My arms ached. My chest started to burn. 

“Hey, Jan—can we turn now?” 

She swam steadily ahead. 

With a burst of energy, I pulled myself forward. “Jan, wait—” I 
called. “We’re supposed to head back!” 

She stopped stroking. 

Did she hear me? 

Breathing hard, my chest burning, I swam up to her. 

She turned to face me. 

“Jan—?” I gasped. 

No. Not Jan. 

It wasn’t Jan. It was Della! 


Her blue eyes sparkled as a gleeful smile spread over her pale, 
pale face. 

“Keep swimming, Sarah,” she whispered. “We’re going to swim 
farther. And farther. You’re my buddy now.” 


22 


She grabbed my arm. 

I tried to tug away. My wet arm slid in her grasp. 

But her grip tightened around my wrist. And she held on. Pulling 
me. Pulling me with her. 

“Owww!” 

She was strong. So strong for such a frail-looking girl. 

Such a frail-looking ghost... 

“Let go!” I shrieked. 

I struggled, slapping the water. Kicking. Squirming and twisting. 

“Della—I won’t come with you!” 

I jerked my body around, spun hard—and broke free. 

And dropped beneath the surface. Lifting both arms, I rose up, 
coughing and sputtering. 

Where was she? 

Where? 

Was she right behind me? Ready to pull me with her, pull me out 
so far I couldn’t swim back? 

I spun away. The water rocked and tilted. 

The clouds overhead appeared to roar past. 

“Sarah... Sarah...?” Was she calling to me? 

Why couldn’t I see her now? 

I turned again. My eyes stopped on the boat. 

Yes. The boat. 

Ignoring my racing heartbeats, my aching arms, I plunged 
forward. 

The boat... got to reach the boat before she grabs me again. 

Swimming furiously, kicking with my last bit of strength, I dove 
for the boat. Stretching my arms out... stretching... 

And grabbed the side with both hands. Choking and gasping. 

Grabbed the side of the boat and tried to pull myself in. 

“Liz—help me.” The words escaped my throat in a hoarse 
whisper. 

“Liz—help me in.” 

The sun burst out from behind the clouds. I stared up into 
blinding golden light. 

“Liz—please...” 

Hands reached down for me. She bent to pull me into the 
motorboat. 


Leaned forward. Pulling me up. 

Blinking against the bright sunlight, I raised my eyes to her face. 

No! 

Not Liz’s face. Not Liz! 

Della! 

Della—pulling me into the boat. “What’s wrong, Sarah?” she 
whispered. Pulling me. Pulling me up to her. “Sarah, you’re okay. 
You're perfectly okay.” 


23 


“Let go!” I wailed. 

I tore myself from her grip. 

And tried to blink away the sun. 

And stared up at Liz. 

Not Della. Liz. Her face twisted in concern. 

“Sarah, you’re okay,” she repeated. 

“But—” I stared up at her. Waiting for her face to change again. 
Waiting for her to become Della again. 

Had I only imagined Della’s face? Had the streaming sunlight 
tricked my eyes? 

With a sigh, I let her help me into the boat. 

I slumped to my knees. The boat rocked up and down. Liz 
narrowed her eyes at me. “What happened out there?” she asked. 

Before I could answer, I heard splashing outside the boat. 

Della? 

I froze. 

No. Jan pulled herself up on the side. She brushed her wet hair 
off her face. “Sarah—didn’t you hear me calling you?” she demanded. 

“Jan. I didn’t see you. I thought that—” My voice caught in my 
throat. 

“Why did you swim away from me?” Jan asked. “I’m your buddy 
—remember?” 


Liz drove me to shore. I changed my clothes and went to see Richard. 
I found him in his head counselor’s office, a little room about the size 
of a closet in the back of the main lodge. 

He was resting his feet on top of his tiny desk. He twirled a 
toothpick in his mouth. 

“Hey, Sarah—how’s it going?” He flashed me a friendly smile and 
motioned for me to take a seat in the folding chair across from his 
desk. 

I could see his eyes studying me. 

“I hear you had another little problem in the lake,” he said softly. 
He moved the toothpick to the other side of his mouth. “What’s going 
on?” 

I took a deep breath. 

Should I tell him there is a ghost girl who has been following me 
everywhere? Who wants me to be her buddy? 


He’d just think I’m nuts, I decided. 

“You had a bad shock yesterday,” Richard said. “We really 
thought that you drowned.” 

He lowered his feet and leaned over the desk toward me. “Maybe 
you went back in the water too soon,” he said. “Too soon after the 
shock.” 

“Maybe,” I murmured. 

And then I blurted out the question that was really on my mind. 
“Richard, tell me about the girl who drowned here.” 

His mouth dropped open. “Huh?” The toothpick fell onto his lap. 

“I know that a girl drowned in the lake,” I insisted. “Can you tell 
me about her?” 

Richard shook his head. “No girl ever drowned at Camp Cold 
Lake,” he said. “Never.” 

I knew he was lying. 

I had proof, after all. I had seen Della. And talked with her. 

“Richard, please—” I begged. “I really need to know. Tell me 
about her.” 

He frowned. “Why don’t you believe me, Sarah? I’m telling the 
truth. No campers have ever drowned at this camp. No boys. No 
girls.” 

I heard a soft sigh behind me. 

I glanced back at the open doorway—and saw Della standing 
there. 

I jumped to my feet. And pointed. “Richard!” I cried. “The girl 
who drowned! She’s standing right there! Don’t you see her?” 

Richard raised his eyes to the doorway. “Yes,” he replied softly. “I 
see her.” 


24 


“Huh?” I gasped and grabbed the edge of his desk. “You see her?” I 
cried. “You really do?” 

Richard nodded. He had a solemn expression on his face. “If it 
makes you feel better, Sarah, I’ll say that I see her.” 

“But you don’t really see her?” I demanded. 

He scratched his sandy-colored hair. “No. I don’t see anything.” 

I turned back to the doorway. Della grinned at me. 

“Sit down. Please,” Richard instructed. “You know, sometimes our 
mind plays tricks on us. Especially when we’ve been through a really 
bad scare.” 

I didn’t sit down. I stood in front of his desk and stared hard at 
Della. Stared right through her. 

“She’s not in my mind! She’s right there!” I shouted. “She’s 
standing right there, Richard. Her name is Della. She drowned at this 
camp. And now she’s trying to drown me too!” 

“Sarah—please calm down,” Richard said gently. He climbed 
around his desk and put a hand on my shoulder. Then he led me to 
the door. 

I was standing face-to-face with Della. 

She stuck out her tongue at me. 

“See? There’s no one there,” Richard said. 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Why don’t you stay away from the lake for a few days,” he 
suggested. “You know. Just hang out and relax.” 

Della mouthed his words as he spoke. 

I turned away from her. 

She giggled. 

“Don’t go to the lake?” I asked Richard. 

He nodded. “Take a few days and rest up. You’ll feel much 
better.” 

I knew I wouldn’t feel better. I knew Td still have Della following 
me everywhere, trying to make me her buddy. 

I sighed. “That won’t help,” I told him. 

“Then I have a different idea,” he said. “Pick a sport you haven’t 
tried, Sarah. Pick something really hard. Like water-skiing.” 

“I don’t get it,” I replied. “Why should I do that?” 

“Because you will have to think so hard about what you're doing, 
you won’t have time to worry about ghosts.” 


I rolled my eyes. “Yeah. Right.” 

“Um trying to help you,” he said sharply. 

“Well... thanks,” I replied. I didn’t know what else to say. “I guess 
Pll go to lunch now.” 

I trudged out of the tiny office. And took a deep breath. The air 
was much cooler out in the main lodge. 

I turned the corner and headed toward the mess hall in the front 
of the building. As I turned another corner, I heard Della’s frail voice 
behind me. 

“You can’t get away, Sarah. You’re my buddy. There’s no need to 
run. You’ll always be my buddy.” 

The soft words—so close to my ear—sent shivers down my back. 

Something inside me snapped. 

I couldn’t hold in my fury. 

“SHUT UP!” I shrieked. “SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUT UP—AND 
LEAVE ME ALONE!” 

I spun around to see if she had heard me. 

And gasped in horror. 


25 


Briana stood behind me. 

Her mouth dropped open in shock. “Okay, okay. VIl go away,” she 
said, backing up. “You don’t have to be so nasty, Sarah. I was just 
coming to see how you were doing.” 

Wow. I felt so bad. 

Briana thought I was talking to her. 

“]—I—” I stammered. 

“I thought you wanted to be friends,” Briana snapped. “I didn’t 
even say a word to you. And you bit my head off!” 

“I wasn’t talking to you!” I finally choked out. “I was talking to 
her!” 

I pointed to Della, who leaned against the wall behind us. Della 
waved to me and giggled. 

Sun from the open lodge window lit up Della’s blond hair from 
behind. I could see the window right through her body. 

“I was talking to her!” I repeated. 

Briana raised her eyes to the window. 

And the strangest expression spread over her face. 


The next morning, I gulped down some gooey scrambled eggs for 
breakfast. Then I made my way to the boat dock. 

Don't ask why I decided to try water-skiing. 

I really don’t have an answer. 

I suppose I did it for Aaron. The night before, he begged me once 
again not to call Mom and Dad. 

Aaron really didn’t want to go home. He said he was having the 
best summer of his life. 

Sure, I thought. It’s easy for you to have a good summer. You 
don’t have a ghost following you around. 

“Please try to stay a while longer,” Aaron begged. 

I won’t go to the lake, I decided. Pll hang around the cabin and 
read or something. 

But in the morning, I realized that was a bad plan. 

Pd be too scared to stay by myself in the cabin while everyone 
else was at the lake. I would have no way to protect myself against 
Della. 

Yes, I know I wasn’t thinking clearly. 

I was so stressed out, I could barely think at all! 


I should have stayed as far away from the water as possible. 

But I really didn’t want to be alone. So I followed Richard’s 
advice. And went to the boat dock. And told Liz I wanted to try water- 
skiing. 

“That’s great, Sarah!” Liz cried, flashing me a pleased smile. 
“Have you ever done it before? It’s easier than it looks.” 

I told her I’d never tried it. 

She pulled a yellow inflated life vest and a pair of skis from the 
equipment shed. 

Then she gave me a short lesson. Showed me how to lean back 
and how to bend my knees. 

A short while later, I was in the water waiting for the motorboat 
to come around. Meg was using the boat now, skiing behind it, sliding 
over the water. Her orange bathing suit glowed in the morning 
sunlight. 

The hum of the boat echoed over the water. The lake bobbed and 
rippled in the boat’s wake. 

Meg let out a cry and let go of the towrope as the boat sped near 
the dock. She splashed into the water, then quickly pulled off her skis. 
Then she came walking to shore. 

“My turn next,” I said softly. I felt a knot in my stomach. 

Meg flashed me a thumbs-up. 

I struggled with the skis, but finally got them in place. Then I 
pulled up the towrope, gripping it tightly in both hands. 

The boat motor sputtered and coughed. The boat rocked up ahead 
of me in the rippling blue water. 

I steadied myself. Lowered myself the way Liz had shown me. 
And took a deep breath. 

“Ready!” I called. 

The motor sputtered—and then roared. 

The boat pulled away so fast, the towrope nearly flew out of my 
hands. 

“Whooooooooaaa!” I opened my mouth in a long cry as the rope 
pulled me up. 

Yes! The skis bounced over the surface. I bent my knees and 
gripped the towrope tightly. 

I’m doing it! I realized. Pm water-skiing! 

The boat picked up speed. We headed in a straight line over the 
sparkling water. The cold spray swept over my face, my hair. 

I started to lose my balance. Tugged myself back up. Held on— 
and kept going. 

“Yessss!” I cried out loud. What an awesome feeling! 


But then the driver of the boat turned her head. 

And I recognized Della’s evil grin. 

As she worked the controls, Della’s white-blond hair flew up like 
wings around her pale face. Her blue eyes sparkled like the water. 

Her grin grew wider as she saw the horror on my face. 

“Turn around! Turn back! Please!” I begged. 

She made the boat swerve hard. 

I nearly toppled over. I gripped the towrope. 

My skis slapped the surface. Pain shot up to my knees. The cold 
spray washed over me. 

I gasped. Struggled to breathe. 

Della threw back her head and laughed. The sound was drowned 
out by the roar of the motor. 

I could see the sky through her body. The sunlight poured right 
through her. 

“Turn around!” I screamed. “Stop! Where are you taking me? 
Where?” 


26 


Della didn’t answer. She turned away from me, her hair flying wildly 
behind her head. 

The boat bounced over the water, sending up tall waves of foam 
and spray. 

The waves splashed over me. Chilling me. Blinding me. 

Gripped in panic, it took me a long time to realize that I had an 
easy escape. 

I let go of the towrope. 

My hands shot up. The tow bar snapped against the water. 

I skidded for a few seconds, my arms thrashing wildly. And then I 
toppled over and sank. 

The life vest pulled me back up. I bounced on the surface, 
gasping, spitting out water. My heart pounded. 

I felt so dizzy. The bright sunlight seemed to surround me. Which 
way was up? Which way to the shore? 

I spun around and saw the motorboat in the distance. 

“You didn’t get me this time!” I called to Della. 

But then I froze as the boat began to turn. Della swerved the boat, 
kicking up a tall wave of white water. 

Swerved it back around. Until it pointed to me. 

I gasped as I heard the motor roar. 

I bobbed helplessly in the water. 

The boat picked up speed, skipping over the rippling surface. 

She’s coming for me, I thought. She’s coming to make me her 
buddy forever. 

I’m trapped out here. 

She’s coming to run me over. 


27 


I treaded water, watching in horror as the boat sped toward me. 

I’ve got to dive under it, I realized. The only way to escape is 
down. 

I took a deep breath. Every muscle tensed. I knew I had to time 
my dive perfectly. 

The boat roared closer. I could see Della crouched over the motor. 
Guiding the boat. 

Aiming it. 

I took another deep breath. And then I realized I couldn’t dive. 

The life vest—it was holding me up. No way I could plunge 
beneath the surface. 

With a cry, I grabbed the front of the vest with both hands. 

And tugged. 

I can’t do this! I realized. I can’t get this thing off in time! 

The water rocked harder as the boat sped nearer. The whole lake 
seemed to tilt and spin. 

The boat—it’s going to tear me to pieces! I thought. 

I pulled at the vest. Pushed it. 

Please—please—slide over my head! 

No time. No time. 

I can’t dive! 

The motor’s roar drowned out my scream. 

With a frantic tug, I pulled the life vest up. Over my shoulders. 

Too late. 

The front of the boat bounced over me. 

Then the whirring motor blades sliced off my head. 


28 


I waited for the pain. 

I waited for the darkness. 

The water swirled around me. Blue, then green. 

Choking on a mouthful of water, I thrashed up to the surface. 
Struggling to breathe, I let the waves rock me back and forth. 

“The life vest!” I choked out. 

I held half of the vest in each hand. 

The motor blades had sliced the life vest in two. 

I tossed the two pieces away. And started to laugh. 

“Tm alive!” I cried out loud. “I’m still alive!” 

I turned and saw the boat speeding across the lake. Did Della 
think she had won? 

I didn’t care. I spun around. Found the shore. And started to 
swim. 

My close call gave me new energy. The strong, rocking current 
helped push me back to the camp. 

I heard girls calling to me as I stumbled onto the grass. And I saw 
Liz jogging quickly over. 

“Sarah—” she called. “Sarah—wait!” 

I ignored her. I ignored them all. 

I started to run. 

I knew what I had to do. I had to get away from Camp Cold Lake. 
I had to get away as fast as I could. 

I wasn’t safe here. Not as long as Della wanted me for her buddy. 
Not as long as Della wanted me to drown too. 

I knew no one would believe me. They all said they wanted to 
help. But no one could really help me—not against a ghost! 

I burst into the cabin and tore off my wet swimsuit. Tossing it to 
the floor, I frantically pulled on shorts and a T-shirt. 

I swept my wet hair back with both hands. Tugged on socks and 
my sneakers. 

“Got to get away. Got to get away,” I chanted to myself. 

What to do? Where to go? 

Pll run through the woods to the town on the other side, I 
decided. Pll call Mom and Dad. I'll tell them I’m hiding in town. Ill 
tell them to pick me up there. 

I stopped at the cabin doorway. 

Should I tell Aaron? 


No. No way, I decided. 

He'll only try to stop me. 

Pll get a message to Aaron from town, I decided. Pll tell him 
where I am. But not until I’m safe. Not until I’m far away from this 
place. 

I poked my head out of the cabin and searched around, making 
sure the coast was clear. Then I stepped outside and made my way 
around to the back. 

And ran into Briana. 

She narrowed her eyes at me, studying my face. “You're going?” 
she asked quietly. 

I nodded. “Yes. Vm going.” 

Once again, Briana’s expression changed. The light in her eyes 
seemed to fade. 

“Good luck,” she whispered. 


29 


Why is she acting so weird? I wondered. 

I didn’t have time to think about it. I gave Briana a wave. Then I 
ran past her and headed into the woods. 

I glanced back as I followed a path between the trees. And saw 
Briana still standing there behind the cabin. Watching me. 

Taking a deep breath, I turned and hurried along the path. 

The trees overhead cut off a lot of the sunlight. It grew darker and 
cooler as I ran. 

A hedge of sharp burrs and brambles scraped my bare arms and 
legs as I tried to edge past. I wished I had worn jeans and a sweatshirt. 
Something that covered me better. 

My sneakers slipped over a thick blanket of dead leaves. I had to 
skip over fallen tree limbs and clumps of thorny weeds. 

Tree roots rose up over the path. Tall, dry reeds leaned over me, 
as if reaching to grab me. 

The narrow path divided in two. I paused—breathing hard— 
trying to decide which path to take. 

Would they both lead me to town? 

I held my breath when I heard a voice. Singing. 

A bird? 

No. A soft voice. A girl’s voice. 

“Oh, no,” I moaned. Raising my eyes to the sound, I saw Della, 
perched on a low tree limb. She tilted her head from side to side as 
she sang. Her blue eyes sparkled, gazing down at me. 

“You—you followed me!” I stammered. “How did you know that I 
—” My voice caught in my throat. 

She giggled. “You’re my buddy,” she replied. “We have to stick 
together.” 

“No! No way!” I screamed up at her. “You lose, Della. I’m not 
going to be your buddy. Because I’m never going to the lake again. I’m 
never going to drown like you!” 

Della’s smile faded. “Drown?” She shook her head. “Sarah, what 
made you think that? You’re very confused. I didn’t drown.” 

“Huh?” My mouth dropped open. I stared up at her in shock. 

“Close your mouth, Sarah. A fly will fly into it.” Della tilted back 
her head and laughed. 

Then she shook her head again. “How could anyone drown at 
Camp Cold Lake?” she demanded. “They give a lecture about water 


safety every five minutes! No one ever drowned at Camp Cold Lake!” 

“You didn’t drown?” I cried. “Then how did you die?” 

She rested her hands on the tree limb and leaned forward, peering 
down at me. I could see through her body, see the leaves shaking in 
the breeze. 

“It’s a simple story,” Della said with a sigh. “One night I got tired 
of listening to the water safety lecture at the campfire. So I sneaked 
off into these woods.” 

She swept her hair back with a toss of her head. “I made one 
major mistake,” she continued. “I didn’t know the woods are filled 
with deadly poisonous snakes.” 

I gasped. “These woods? Snakes?” 

Della nodded. “It’s nearly impossible to cross through these 
woods without getting bitten,” she sighed. “I died of a snakebite, 
Sarah.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. “But you were always at the lake,” I 
choked out. “Why did I always see you at the lake?” 

“Don’t you get it?” she replied. “That was my plan. I made you 
afraid of the lake, Sarah. I made you terrified of the lake. Because I 
knew you’d try to escape through the woods. I knew you'd run into 
the woods and die like me—and be my buddy.” 

“No—!” I protested. “I won’t. I—” 

“Sarah, look!” Della pointed toward the ground. 

I gazed down—and watched a fat black snake curl around my leg. 


30 


“Buddies forever,” Della sang cheerfully. “Buddies forever.” 

I stood frozen, gaping down in horror. Watching the fat snake 
wind itself around me. Feeling its warm, dry body scrape over my 
bare skin. 

“Nooooo.” A low moan escaped my throat as the snake arched its 
head. 

“Tt won’t hurt that much,” Della said brightly. “It’s like a bee 
sting, Sarah. That’s all.” 

The snake let out a loud hiss. It snapped open its jaws. 

I felt its body tighten like a warm rope around my leg. 

“Buddies forever,” Della sang. “Buddies forever...” 

“No! Sarah is not your buddy!” a voice rang out. 

I tried to turn toward the voice. But I couldn’t move. I felt the 
snake tighten its hold on my leg. 

“Briana!” I cried. “What are you doing here?” 

She hurried out from behind a clump of tall reeds. 

With one quick motion, she grabbed the snake in one hand. Slid it 
off my leg. And tossed it into the trees. 

Briana raised her eyes to Della. “Sarah can’t be your buddy, 
because she’s my buddy!” Briana shouted. 

Della’s eyes grew wide. She cried out in surprise. She gripped the 
tree branch to keep from falling. 

“You!” she exclaimed. “What are you doing here?” 

“Yes, it’s me!” Briana shouted up to her. “I’m back, Della.” 

“But—but how did you...” Della’s voice trailed off. 

“You tried to do the same thing to me last year,” Briana said. 
“You tried all summer to make me your buddy. You terrified me— 
didn’t you, Della?” 

Briana uttered an angry cry. “You didn’t think Vd come back. But 
I did. I came back to camp this summer... to protect the next girl!” 

“Nooo!” Della wailed. 

I finally understood. I stepped up to the tree beside Briana. 
“Briana is my buddy!” I declared. “And I’m coming back next summer 
to warn the next girl!” 

“No! No! Nooooo!” Della raged. “You can’t do that! I’ve waited so 
long! So lonnnng!” 

She let go of the tree limb and shook her fists at Briana and me. 

Lost her balance. 


Her hands flew up as she started to fall. 

She grabbed for the limb. Missed. 

And dropped silently to the ground. 

Then she was gone. 

Vanished. 

With a weary sigh, I climbed to my feet. I shook my head. “Is she 
gone for good?” I murmured. 

Briana shrugged. “I don’t know. I hope so.” 

I turned to Briana. “You—you saved my life!” I cried. “Thank you 
for following me. Thank you for saving me!” 

With a happy cry, I stepped up to her. “Thank you! Thank you!” 

I wrapped my arms around her to hug her. 

And my hands went right through her body. 

I gasped. I grabbed her shoulder. But I couldn’t feel a thing. 

I jumped back in shock. 

Briana narrowed her eyes at me. “Della killed me last summer, 
Sarah,” she said softly. “On the last day. But I didn’t want to be her 
buddy. I just never liked her.” 

She floated forward, raised herself off the ground, hovered over 
me. 

“But I need a buddy,” she whispered. “Everyone has to have a 
buddy. You'll be my buddy—won't you, Sarah?” 

I saw the hissing snake in her hand. 

But I couldn’t move. 

“You'll be my buddy—won't you?” Briana repeated. “You’ll be my 
buddy forever.” 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
R.L. STINE | 
oosehumps 


DEEP TROUBLE] = 


DEEP TROUBLE II 


Goosebumps - 58 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


I’m back. 

That’s what I thought when I arrived on the Cassandra for another 
summer vacation. 

Yes, I, William Deep, Jr., world-famous undersea explorer, am back. 

One year older. One year wiser. One year tougher. 

I breathed in a big gulp of salty air. I gazed at the clear green 
Caribbean sea around me. 

My little sister, Sheena, stood beside me. But I pretended she 
wasn’t there. 

She sort of ruined the atmosphere for me. She usually does. 

The Cassandra is my uncle’s boat. It’s a floating research lab. 

My uncle, Dr. George Deep, is a marine biologist. My parents sent 
me and Sheena to visit him on our summer vacation. They sent us the 
year before too. 

Dr. D. lives on the boat in the Caribbean all year long, studying 
tropical fish. It’s fun for us. We get to swim and stuff. My uncle is 
really nice. And my parents figure we’ll learn a lot about science and 
ocean life while we’re with him. 

Last summer I made one of the most shocking discoveries in the 
history of marine biology. 

I found a mermaid. A real mermaid. 

No one believed me, of course. I wasn’t a grownup scientist. I was 
a twelve-year-old boy on vacation in the Caribbean. 

Know-it-all Sheena thought I was lying. 

My uncle, Dr. D., thought I was making it up. He didn’t believe in 
mermaids. 

Until I proved him wrong. 

We didn’t tell anyone about the mermaids. Some really bad guys 
wanted to capture them and put them in cages. To protect the 
mermaids, Sheena, Dr. D., and I agreed to keep them a secret. 

So the world will never know... 

And now, I’m back! I told myself. Billy Deep, one of the greatest 
explorers in the seven seas. 

And I’m not a twelve-year-old kid anymore. 

I’m thirteen. 

And this summer, I’m going to find something big. Something even 
more amazing than a mermaid. 

This time, the world will hear about it. This time I'll be famous. 


I hope. 


The fire coral glowed bright red. I snorkeled near it, careful not to 
touch it. 

Td stepped on fire coral once before. It burned my foot like crazy. 

They don’t call it fire coral for nothing. 

I studied the coral wall. Neon-bright fish darted in and out of the 
delicate holes. It was beautiful. There, under the water, everything 
seemed calm. Quiet. Peaceful. 

But I knew better. I was an experienced snorkeler. A snorkeling 
hero. 

An untrained swimmer wouldn’t have noticed it. That little ripple 
in the water. The way the fish all suddenly disappeared. 

But I felt it. That whiff of danger. 

Something was coming. Something deadly. 


I whirled around—and faced the intruder. 

A giant octopus! 

“WHOOOA!” The snorkel flew from my mouth as I cried out in 
shock. An octopus! It rose up in the water, its purple body as big as 
mine! 

I shoved the mouthpiece back into my mouth. And frantically 
tried to thrash away from it. 

But before I could get moving, I felt something cold and soft wrap 
around my throat. 

Ohhhh. 

A tentacle as thick as a human arm. 

Its suction pods snapped to my skin. It started to pull me... pull 
me down. 

No! 

Gasping for breath, I lifted my head out of the water. And let out 
a choked cry for help. 

I felt another cold tentacle slide around my waist. And then 
another around my chest. 

I thrashed and kicked. But the huge creature was too powerful. 
The big suction pods made loud sucking sounds as they tightened 
against my skin. 

The tentacles pulled me... pulled me... 

Until everything went black. 

No! No! 

I wasn’t losing consciousness. The blackness that washed around 
me was octopus ink. 

I shut my eyes. Twisted and squirmed. 

But the tentacles pulled harder. Pulled me down into the inky 
blackness. 

I choked and sputtered. And struggled up to the surface. 

The water tossed and churned, black with octopus ink. 

The big suction pods bit into my bare skin. 

The tentacles tightened... tightened around my ribs, my stomach. 

I couldn’t breathe. Couldn’t move. 

I’m going under, I realized. I’m doomed. Doomed! 

My lungs felt about to explode. 

No! I thought. I can’t die! Not like this! 

There must be a way to make the octopus let go. 


With a last burst of strength, I slid my right arm free. 

Now what? Now what? 

I stretched a finger toward its throbbing, purple belly. 

Red and yellow stars flashed before my eyes. I knew I had little 
time. I was about to pass out any second. 

I reached toward the big throbbing body. With my last bit of 
strength, I wriggled my fingers. Please let this work, I prayed. Please... 
Then I started tickling. 


My fingers tickled the purple belly. 

Tickle, tickle! 

The octopus squirmed. 

Tickle, tickle! 

The tentacles relaxed. 

Yes! Yes! It’s working! The octopus was ticklish! 

Its big body heaved—and it shoved me away. 

“Stop it, Billy!” the octopus whined. “I hate your stupid jokes. 
Stop tickling me!” 

Then the octopus pinched me. 

Okay, okay. So it wasn’t an octopus. It was my little sister, 
Sheena. 

Sheena always spoils my fun. She has no imagination. She hates 
to pretend. 

Well... it’s true that she doesn’t look much like an octopus. She 
looks a lot like me, actually. Skinny, with straight black hair. Hers is 
long, and mine is short. We both have dark blue eyes and bushy dark 
eyebrows. 

She’s younger than I am. She’s only eleven. But she acts like an 
old lady sometimes. She hates games. She likes cold, hard facts. 

“What were you pretending this time?” Sheena teased. “That you 
were a tickle-fish?” 

“None of your business,” I answered. She would never admit that 
I was a great undersea explorer. Had she forgotten about the 
mermaids? 

It didn’t matter. Other little sisters look up to their big brothers. 
Not Sheena. 

If I told her I was pretending she was an octopus, she’d never stop 
teasing me. 

“You’re a moron, Billy,” she groaned. 

Do you believe she calls a great undersea explorer a moron? 

“Pll show you,” I replied lamely. 

I love to play tricks on Sheena. It isn’t easy to fool her. 

But I had an idea. I thought of a mean trick to play on her that 
would scare her—but good. 

I swam back to the boat. 

I flipped my mask up and climbed aboard the Cassandra. It was a 
big, sturdy boat, about fifty feet long, with a large open deck. Below 


deck were research labs, a galley, and a few cabins for sleeping. 

The white deck steamed in the sun, deserted. It was about noon. 

Dr. D. must be down below, I realized. Perfect. 

I didn’t want him to see me and blow my trick. 

I reached under a stack of life jackets. I pulled out a square, gray 
vinyl pillow I’d hidden there. 

I stared out toward the reef. Sheena was busy snorkeling. She 
wasn’t looking. 

Good. 

Here was my plan: I was going to swim underwater, holding the 
gray pillow over my head. I’d hold it so one of the corners pointed up. 
You guessed it. Like a shark’s fin. 

Then ld swim at Sheena as fast as I could. She’d think a shark 
was headed straight for her! 

It would scare her to death. I couldn’t wait to hear her screaming 
to me for help. 

“We’ll see who’s a moron,” I murmured to myself. 

I slipped back into the water. Holding the pillow in sharkfin 
position, I started kicking. I swam underwater toward the reef. 
Toward Sheena. 

After a few minutes, I bobbed up for breath. She hadn’t seen me 
yet. 

Holding the “sharkfin” high, I paddled closer. Closer. 

Then I heard them. At last. The screams. 

“Shark!” Sheena wailed. “Help! A shark!” 

Ha! Ha! Excellent screaming, Sheena! 

I finally fooled Miss Know-It-All! 

“Shaaark!” she wailed again. 

I couldn’t stay underwater any longer. I had to rise up so I could 
laugh in her face. 

I popped my head above the water. 

Hey! Sheena was swimming frantically toward the boat. She was 
still screaming like crazy. 

But she wasn’t looking in my direction. She hadn’t even seen me. 

“Shark!” she cried again. She made a frightened motion toward 
the reef. 

I saw it too. A huge sharkfin! A real one! 


“Huh?” I let out a terrified gasp. 

The shark was as big as a whale! 

Where did it come from? Dr. D. had told us there were no large 
sharks in the area. 

I guess no one told the shark! 

It rose up, tossed by a wave. And I gaped at its silvery-white body 
—as long as a canoe! 

It snapped its massive jaws. The CRAACK echoed over the water. 

“Whooooa!” I let go of the pillow and paddled for the boat as fast 
as I could. My heart raced. The water felt as thick as mud. Why 
couldn’t I swim faster? 

“Hurry, Billy!” Sheena called. I glanced back. 

The gigantic gray fin cut through the water like a powerboat. 

The shark sped straight for us. 

“Swim!” I ordered myself. “Faster! Faster!” 

Sheena and I thrashed toward the boat. I didn’t glance back 
again. I didn’t want to see how close the big shark was! 

Gasping, my entire body aching, I reached the Cassandra. I 
grabbed the side. Almost safe. Almost. 

Sheena scrambled up the ladder ahead of me. 

“Hurry!” I shouted. I clutched the ladder and glanced back. 

The shark roared closer. So close, I could see its glassy black eyes. 
And its mouth full of jagged teeth. 

“Sheena, go!” I screamed. I shoved her up onto the deck and 
scrambled up the ladder. 

“We made it!” Sheena gasped. 

Gasping for breath, my chest heaving, I stared over the rail. 

The shark kept coming! Like a submarine with teeth! 

“NOOOO!” 

I let out a hoarse wail as the huge fish slammed into the side of 
the boat! 

“NOOOOOO!” 

The whole boat rocked—and tilted. 

I grabbed the rail and held on. 

“Hold on, Sheena!” I shouted. “It’s attacking!” 

I braced myself for another jolt. 

Nothing happened. 

The shark disappeared into the churning water. 


Dr. D. appeared on deck, looking confused. “What’s going on?” he 
cried. 

Sheena and I ran to him, screaming, “A shark! A shark!” 

“What?” Dr. D. stared out to sea. 

The water gleamed calmly now. Soft waves splashed against the 
side of the boat. 

The monster shark had vanished. 

“Billy—there is nothing out there. What are you talking about?” 
Dr. D. demanded. 

“There was a shark! A huge shark! It chased us,” Sheena cried 
breathlessly. “It crashed into the boat!” 

“A shark?” Dr. D. shook his head. “No way. No way a shark could 
make the boat rock like that.” 

“But it was HUGE!” I screamed. “It was as big as ten sharks!” 

“As big as twenty sharks!” Sheena exclaimed. 

Dr. D. rubbed his bald spot. “I told you two before. I checked the 
radar. I checked out all of my sonic surveyors. There are no large 
sharks in this area.” 

He stared me in the eye and asked, “Are you sure, Billy? Are you 
sure you saw a shark?” 

“Were sure!” Sheena insisted. We both knew he’d believe her 
before he’d believe me. 

“Come down to the lab with me, kids,” Dr. D. said. 

We followed him below deck to one of the labs. Dr. D. pointed to 
a large tank in the corner. It held a silvery fish the size of a big dog. 

Sheena gasped. “Wow! I’ve never seen a fish like that before!” 

“Neither have I,” Dr. D. said solemnly. “That’s what bothers me.” 

I stared at the fish as it swam around in the tank. It looked sort of 
familiar, but I didn’t know why. 

“I can’t identify it,” Dr. D. went on. “I’ve never seen a fish this 
size that looks like this. ’'ve been searching through all my books, but 
I can’t find it!” 

He pointed to a stack of books on marine biology. I picked one up 
and flipped through it. It had page after page of cool color photos of 
all kinds of fish. 

Dr. D. glanced over my shoulder as I examined the book. “It can’t 
be in that section, Billy,” he told me. “All those fish are tiny.” 

I turned a page, looking for the big fish section. Then I turned 
another page—and gasped. 

Dr. D. gripped my shoulder as he stared down at the photo with 
me. “No!” he cried. “It can’t be!” 


We crowded around the book, staring at the photo. It showed a fish 
exactly like the one in the tank. Thin, silvery... but there was one 
huge difference. 

“Its a minnow!” Dr. D. exclaimed. “But that’s impossible!” 

I read the words under the picture. “Tropical minnow, one inch 
long.” 

I glanced at the fish in the tank. It was more like four feet long! 

Dr. D.’s eyes narrowed as he studied the fish. “How could a 
minnow get so huge?” he wondered out loud. “I must examine it more 
closely.” 

Sheena and I stood behind him, watching. He studied the picture 
of the minnow through a magnifying glass. Then he turned to the 
giant minnow, staring at its scales, checking every mark. 

“The markings are exactly the same,” Dr. D. murmured. 

“Can I look through the magnifying glass?” Sheena asked. 

“Sure.” Dr. D. passed the glass to her. 

“A minnow...” Dr. D. murmured. “How can this giant fish be a 
minnow? It’s supposed to be as small as your goldfish, Billy.” 

My goldfish! “Whoops,” I cried. “I forgot to feed my goldfish this 
morning.” 

“Better go do it,” Dr. D. said. 

I started toward the lab door. On my way, I spotted a cabinet 
filled with glass bottles. “What’s in these, Dr. D.?” I asked. 

He turned away from the monster minnow to look. “Oh, that’s 
plankton,” he replied. “It’s made of tiny little plants and animals that 
clump together and float around in the water. Lots of fish eat it. I 
gathered these samples from the waters around here.” 

I picked up a bottle. All I could see was murky brown water with 
greenish-brown gunk floating on top. 

Sheena turned the magnifying glass on the plankton. “Gross,” she 
said. 

“Go ahead and take a bottle, Billy,” Dr. D. suggested. “Feed some 
to your goldfish. They'll love it.” 

“Thanks, Dr. D.” Clutching the bottle, I headed down the 
passageway to my cabin. 

As I pushed open the door, I said, “Hello, little fish faces. I’ve got 
a delicious surprise for you!” 

But the fish had a bigger surprise for me. Way bigger. 


I stared at the fishbowl. And nearly dropped the bottle 
plankton. 

Then I screamed, “NO!” 

I burst out of my cabin. “Help! Help! Dr. D.!” I cried. 

“There’s a head—someone’s head—in my fishbowl!” 


of 


Dr. D. and Sheena hurried out of the lab. I glanced back at my cabin 
door, and—oof!—slammed right into Sheena. 

“Ow!” she whined. “Watch it, Billy!” 

“Billy, what’s wrong?” asked Dr. D. 

“A head!” I gasped, pointing frantically to my cabin. 

I struggled to breathe. My stomach lurched. “Oh, wow. Oh, wow. 
There—there’s a human head in my fishbowl!” 

Dr. D. frowned and charged into my room. Sheena and I followed. 

He pushed open the door... and stopped short with a gasp. 

“See!” I shouted. 

The head stared at us, eyes open, through the glass. 

How could Dr. D. and Sheena stand to look at it? It was making 
me sick. I gulped and turned away. 

Sheena giggled. 

Giggled? 

“What’s the matter with you, Sheena?” I demanded. “What’s so 
funny?” 

She crossed the room and reached into the fishbowl. 

“Sheena, no!” I warned. “Don’t touch it!” 

Sheena laughed—and lifted the head out by the hair. Then she 
waved the head, dripping with water. 

“Oh, nooooo!” I groaned. I stared at the head in horror. 

I could see it clearly now. I could see that it wasn’t a human head 
after all. 

It was a large doll’s head. 

“Got you back!” Sheena taunted. “Got you back for all the tricks 
you’ve been playing on me all summer!” 

Dr. D. grinned. “You almost fooled me too,” he confessed. “The 
water in the fishbowl made the doll’s head look bigger than it really 
is. Good one, Sheena.” 

“Thanks, Dr. D.” Sheena took a little bow. 

My face felt hot. I knew I was blushing. I was so embarrassed. It 
just isn’t like me to fall for such a stupid joke! 

Besides, I’m supposed to be the joker. Not Sheena. 

I stared into the tank. Something was missing. 

“Hey!” I said. “Where are my goldfish? And where’s my snail?” 

Sheena shrugged. I grabbed her by the neck. “What did you do 
with them?” 


“Okay, okay, don’t worry,” she said. She pushed me away. “I put 
them in a smaller bowl and left them in the bathroom.” 

“Well, get them!” I insisted. I was really angry. 

‘Tm going, I’m going,” Sheena said. She brought my fish and my 
snail back, and I gently returned them to their bowl. 

“Don’t ever touch them again!” I told my sister. “I don’t want 
anything to happen to them.” 

I watched the fish swim around for a minute. They didn’t look 
right. I shook my head. “Something’s the matter with them,” I said. 

“Give them a little plankton, Billy,” Dr. D. suggested. “That ought 
to perk them right up.” 

I grabbed the glass bottle and pulled off the stopper. I poured a 
little of the slimy gunk into the bowl. 

The fish darted to the surface and started eating. They looked 
much happier. 

“Wow,” I said. “They love it!” 

“I thought they would.” Dr. D. smiled, but his eyes clouded over 
with worry. “Now, kids, no more jokes, please. I’m going back to the 
lab to examine that giant minnow. And I don’t want to be disturbed.” 

“We’ll be quiet,” Sheena promised. 

Dr. D. hardly seemed to hear her. “There’s something strange 
going on here,” he murmured. “Something very, very strange...” 

Little did we know that things were about to get much stranger. 


I paced the deck, thinking hard. I was dying to get Sheena back for 
that stupid doll trick. 

She seemed nervous the rest of the afternoon. Waiting for me to 
strike. 

But I hadn’t thought of anything good enough. I’d spent all night 
thinking, until I fell asleep. 

Now it was the next day. Sheena’s guard was down. Maybe she’d 
forgotten—forgotten that she’d been the last one to play a trick on me. 

And now it was her turn to be fooled. 

What would make her hair stand on end? I wondered. What 
would scare her so much, she’d scream her head off? 

The shark trick with the pillow had backfired. So I really owed 
her two tricks. 

Maybe I could leave something gross in her bed? 

The morning sun beat down on me. Summer days were hot in the 
Caribbean. I started to get a headache. 

But I finally thought of something good to do to Sheena. 

I grabbed my snorkeling gear and pulled it on. I decided to sneak 
off and explore a little. 

Dr. D. wanted us to stay close to the boat. But he didn’t want to 
be disturbed. So snorkeling seemed like a good idea. 

Mask and snorkel in place, I started down the boat ladder. 

“Caught you!” 

Sheena’s squeaky voice pierced my eardrums. She was always 
catching me doing something. 

“Where are you going?” she demanded. “Dr. D. said to stay 
close.” 

“I won't go far,” I insisted. “I’m hot and I’m bored. I can’t sit on 
deck another second.” 

“Then Im coming with you.” She snatched up her gear and 
started tugging it on. 

I dropped off the ladder and into the water. She slipped in beside 
me. 

“We shouldn’t be doing this,” she whispered. “What if that shark 
comes back?” 

“The shark is gone,” I said. “Don’t worry. Nothing bad will 
happen.” 

“Promise?” she asked, pulling down her mask. 


“Yeah. Sure. I promise,” I said. 

It was a peaceful, sunny day. The waves were as gentle as a lake. 
What could happen? 

Sheena and I swam out over the sunlit, gleaming water. We 
thought we'd see lots of pretty little fish. 

We found something else. Something we never expected in a 
million years. 


I dunked Sheena’s head under the water. When she popped back up 
for air, I shouted, “Shark! Shark!” 

Sheena clonked me on the head with her fist. “Don’t even joke 
about it, Billy.” Still, I caught her glancing around nervously. 

I scanned the horizon too. No signs of a fin anywhere. 

A school of lemon-yellow fish drifted by, glowing like little suns 
in the water. Swimming slowly, I followed them to the coral reef. 

Wow, I thought. The coral made a cool shape at that spot. The 
fish swam through a big pink ring of coral and around a pointy coral 
peak. 

Sunlight filtered down on it through the water. It looked like the 
tower of a magic sand castle. 

A tiny crab popped out of one of the holes in the coral tower. It 
saw me coming and disappeared. 

The yellow fish suddenly rose to the surface, up to a plankton bed 
that floated on top of the water. 

The plankton looked just like the stuff Dr. D. kept in those bottles 
in his lab. 

I watched the fish nip at the plankton, just as my goldfish did. 

I surfaced and spit my snorkel out. 

“Sheena, check this out,” I called. 

No answer. 

“Sheena?” 

I saw a splash on the other side of the reef. Another splash. 

I glimpsed Sheena’s flippers as they slapped the water. 

I swam after her. She had her head down, snorkeling. She must 
have been watching something very closely. She swam fast, kicking 
her fins in a rapid, steady rhythm. 

“Sheena!” I called again. She couldn’t hear me. 

She wouldn’t hear me if I swam up beside her and screamed. 
She’s like that sometimes. Like when she does her homework. She gets 
so into it, she blocks everything else out. 

Of course she gets straight A’s. My mom and dad are constantly 
bragging about it. 

I sighed and paddled after her. I had to go get her. She was 
swimming out to sea without even realizing it. 

I watched her through my mask as I swam. What was that up 
ahead of her? A patch of cloudy water? 


Whoa. No. Not water. I’d never seen anything like it before. 

Sheena didn’t seem to see it. She was swimming steadily, straight 
for it. 

And, to my horror, it began to move! 

I blew water from my snorkel tube and squinted hard through my 
mask. The thing drifted closer. It was pink and rubbery. Like a soft 
blob of bubblegum. 

It billowed toward Sheena. 

And as I stared at it, it appeared to stretch. 

It billowed and stretched, billowed out like a pink parachute. 
Until it was bigger than Sheena. 

What is that thing? I wondered. Sheena, turn around! Didn’t she 
see it? Didn’t she see it expanding, curling out, stretching in front of 
her? 

“Sheena! Turn around! Turn around!” 

I wanted to shout. But I couldn’t shout underwater. 

I thrashed hard. Kicked. Spun around. Desperate to get her 
attention. 

Sheena!—turn around! I thought. Get away from that thing! Get 
away—now! 

But she kept her head down. And swam straight into the billowy 
pink blob. 

And as I stared on helplessly, it wrapped itself around her. Like an 
enormous pink clam, it opened wide... wider... and slipped itself 
around her. 

Held her. Held her tight. Pulled her inside. 

And swallowed her. 


For a moment, I froze in terror. 

Then I pulled myself to the surface. Tossed off the mask. And 
started to swim toward her. 

I splashed across the water, racing toward the pink blob. It 
writhed and wriggled with my sister inside it. 

What is it? I wondered. What can it be? 

And then, as I pulled myself closer, I knew what it was. 

I was staring at a jellyfish! 

A jellyfish bigger than a human. 

Whoa! 

I could see through it. I saw the white, filmy slime and the red 
veins that made it look pink. 

And Sheena—trapped inside! 

Poor Sheena. Squirming. Kicking. Slapping at the gooey pink sides 
of the creature. 

Her face pushed up against the veiny jellyfish skin! Through her 
mask, I saw her eyes wide with terror. 

The ugly creature wrapped around her like a slimy blanket, 
covering her whole body. 

She pushed both fists against the filmy, pink curtain. 

I knew she didn’t have much air left in her lungs. 

I had to do something. But what? 

Sheena’s face twisted in panic. 

I'll have to pry it open somehow, I decided. 

I swam up to the wriggling blob. I tried to grab its side. 

Ugh! My hands slid right off. 

I grabbed for it again. No way. I couldn’t get a grip on it. It was 
like squeezing Jell-O. 

Its skin slapped against me, so slimy and sticky. 

Sheena stared out at me, eyes bulging with terror. 

I tried to wrestle the ugly creature. I dug my fingernails into it. 

It wriggled and throbbed. But it didn’t open. 

Then I realized what I had to do. 

The thought made me want to puke. But I knew I had no other 
choice. 

Sheena couldn’t hold out much longer. 

I had to slide inside the jellyfish myself. I had to get in there 
somehow and pull Sheena out. 


I swallowed. 

My stomach lurched. 

I lowered my head and dove for the seam, the opening where the 
disgusting pink blob had folded itself in half. 

Here goes! I told myself. 

I’m going inside.... 


10 


I worked my hands inside first. Then I lowered my head and pulled 
myself in. 

The slime oozed across my face. The red veins rubbed my skin 
raw. 

I held my breath and worked my way toward Sheena’s feet. If I 
could make it halfway in and grab her feet, maybe I could yank her 
out. 

The blob pulsed, sucking me deep inside. I inched in, stretching 
toward Sheena’s foot. 

My lungs were ready to burst. I couldn’t hold my breath much 
longer. 

Closer, closer... 

Aha! My fingers closed around Sheena’s flipper! 

I tugged. Hard. 

Harder. 

She started to move. 

No. 

Oh, no! 

Sheena’s flipper. It came off in my hand. 

I let go of the flipper and reached up a little higher. I grabbed her 
foot. And tugged. 

Sheena slipped down a little. 

I yanked on her foot again. Come on! I thought. Move! 

But this time Sheena didn’t budge. 

The sticky pink skin tightened around us. My insides felt as if they 
were about to explode! 

The jellyfish squeezed us tighter and tighter. 

It was squeezing us to death! 


11 


I couldn’t move. My mind raced. 

How can I get out of here? How? 

There was no way. We were doomed! 

Pm going to black out, I realized. Another second without air, 
and... 

Suddenly, the jellyfish loosened its grip. With a horrible sucking 
noise, it peeled apart. 

It opened! 

I didn’t waste time. I grabbed Sheena and hauled her up. Up, up, 
to the surface. 

We burst out of the water, gasping for air. 

We made it! 

I sucked in a huge gulp of air. Aahh. It was great to breathe again. 

The blue faded from Sheena’s face as the color came back to her 
cheeks. 

“Are you okay?” I asked her. 

She nodded, still struggling to catch her breath. 

“You sure? Can you talk?” 

She nodded again. “Yes, Billy. Pm just great. I’ve never been 
better.” 

I knew she was fine. Her old smart-mouth was working perfectly. 

“What happened?” I cried. “Why did the jellyfish let us go?” 

Sheena shrugged. We peered down through the clear water. 

The jellyfish floated a few feet below us. And as we stared down 
at it, we saw why it forgot about us. 

We saw another enormous pink shape slither and slide toward the 
first one. 

It stretched out in the water as if spreading its wings. 

And then it tried to wrap the other jellyfish inside it. 

The two ugly creatures slapped together. The collision sent up a 
wave that tossed Sheena and me back. 

When I gazed down again, they were wrestling. Folding into each 
other. Slapping and twisting. Struggling to fold the other inside. To 
swallow it whole. 

Another sticky slap. Another. 

As they struggled, the water churned and swirled. 

The jellyfish monsters broke apart and slammed into each other 
again. Huge waves churned up around us. 


“We’ve got to get back to the boat!” I yelled. 

A wave slapped the side of my head. I choked and spit out a 
mouthful of seawater. 

We struggled to swim against the waves, but they kept knocking 
us down and pulling us out to sea. 

The water was so white and foamy, we couldn’t see the jellyfish 
fight anymore. But we could feel them. 

Another wave crashed down on us. I glanced around. “Sheena!” 

She was gone! 

I frantically searched through the foam. “Sheena!” 

Had she gone under? 

CRASH! Another wave. 

“Sheena, where are you?” I wailed. 

She popped up at last, sputtering and choking. I grabbed her and 
battled against the waves. I fought my way out of the wake of the 
jellyfish fight. 

A few seconds later, Sheena and I dragged ourselves aboard the 
Cassandra. 

“That was so weird,” Sheena said after we both had caught our 
breaths. “Those jellyfish—they were as big as cars!” 

“We’ve got to tell Dr. D. about this—right away!” I exclaimed. 

We ran down to the lab. No sign of Dr. D. there. 

“Dr. D.!” I called. “Where are you?” 

“TI check the galley,” Sheena said. 

I hurried to see if my uncle was in his cabin. No. The tiny room 
stood empty. 

“He’s not in the galley!” Sheena cried. “I don’t see him 
anywhere!” 

“Dr. D.!” I shouted. “Dr. D.!” 

No reply. 

Sheena’s chin quivered. I knew she was scared. 

It was impossible. But true. 

“He-he’s gone!” I cried. 


12 


A pang ripped through my stomach. Dr. D. had just—vanished! 

Sheena and I were alone in the middle of the sea! 

“What are we going to do?” I asked softly. 

“Don’t panic,” Sheena said. But her voice shook. “Think. Where 
could he go? Know what? Maybe he just went for a swim.” 

“A swim? A swim?” I cried, my voice rising. “We probably would 
have seen him! Besides, since when does Dr. D. just go for a swim? 
Never!” 

“Well—there’s always a first time,” Sheena suggested. Her eyes 
darted around nervously. I could see her thinking, trying to stay calm. 

“Maybe he went out in the dinghy,” she suggested. Dr. D. kept a 
small boat on deck for short trips. “Let’s see if it’s gone. Maybe he 
went out to look for us.” 

“Good idea.” At least it was something. A little hope to cling to. 

We hurried up to the deck. I crossed my fingers, hoping to find 
the dinghy gone. 

If the little boat was gone, that meant Dr. D. was probably okay. 
He’d be back soon. 

But if the dinghy was still tied to the deck, and Dr. D. wasn’t on 
the Cassandra... 

Then what? 

I raced to the back deck and around to the right— 

“Oh, no.” I sighed. 

The dinghy sat in its usual spot. Dr. D. hadn’t taken it out. 

“Billy, I’m scared,” Sheena whispered. 

I was scared too, but I didn’t want to admit it. Not yet, anyway. 

“Let’s check every cabin again,” I suggested. “Maybe he’s in the 
bathroom or something. Maybe he didn’t hear us calling him.” 

Sheena followed me down the stairs that led below-deck. Halfway 
down, the railing rattled in my hand. 

“Cut it out, Sheena,” I snapped. 

“Cut what out?” she cried. 

Now the whole stairway shook. 

What was she doing? Jumping up and down? 

I turned around to check. She stood perfectly still. 

“See! I’m not doing anything!” 

The boat shook and tilted. 

I clutched the rail to keep from falling over. 


“What’s happening?” I cried. 


13 


“Tt’s an earthquake!” Sheena shrieked. 

“How can it be an earthquake?” I told her. “We’re on the water— 
remember?” 

We ran down the steps. The boat tilted, and we both banged hard 
into the cabin wall. 

We passed the lab. The bottles of plankton rattled in the cabinet. 
Everything rattled. I heard glasses breaking in the galley. 

I turned down the passage to my cabin—but I couldn’t get by. 
Something blocked my path. 

Something... 

“YAAAITIII!” A scream escaped my throat before I could stop it. 

“What is that thing?” I cried. 

Sheena caught up to me. “Huh? What thing?” 

And then she saw it too. It was hard to miss! 

“A monster!” 

A big creature blocked the passage. It was shiny and black and 
smooth. And almost perfectly round. It sat in a disgusting puddle of 
thick white slime. 

Td never seen anything like it before. 

Except—something about it looked familiar. 

“What is it?” Sheena choked out. 

The monster stirred. It shook. 

And then its head poked out. Long, dripping, and gray—like an 
enormous slug. With two antennas sticking out of the top. 

“Billy”—Sheena grabbed my sleeve—“It’s—I think it’s a snail!” 

“You’re right,” I muttered in shock. “It is a snail. A gigantic, 
monster snail!” 

“How did it get on the boat?” Sheena demanded. 

“How did it grow so big?” I added. “It’s blocking the entire 
passage!” 

Slowly, slowly, the snail lifted its slimy head. It trained its big, 
sad, watery eyes on us—and moaned. 

“Help me! Help me!” it cried. 


14 


“YAAIIII!” Sheena screamed, and clutched my hand. 

I screamed back. “It’s talking!” 

“Kids! Help!” the snail moaned again. 

“Nooooooo! It’s talking! It’s talking! It’s so gross!” 

“Billy, calm down!” the snail scolded. “Stop screaming! I need... 
help!” 

Sheena and I both gasped. 

We both realized the snail wasn’t talking. It was Dr. D.! 

“I’m trapped. Under the snail!” he choked out. “Can’t breathe. Get 
me out. Hurry.” 

Dr. D.’s hand waved weakly from under the big snail. His fingers 
were dripping with the thick white slime. 

“The slime—it’s as thick as shaving cream!” I murmured. 

“Kids, hurry! Can’t breathe under here! The slime... going up my 
nose!” 

“What should we do, Dr. D.?” Sheena asked. 

He didn’t reply. 

“He’s suffocating!” I cried. “He’s drowning in snail slime!” 

A groan floated out from under the monstrous snail shell. 

“We’ve got to hurry!” Sheena cried. 

“PI tilt the snail over,” I told Sheena. “You pull Dr. D. out.” 

“Okay.” 

Dr. D. moaned. 

“We’re coming! We’re coming!” I cried. 

I pushed the shell. It was heavy. It didn’t move. 

“Try harder, Billy.” Sheena stood nearby, ready to grab Dr. D. and 
pull him out. 

I lowered my shoulder and threw my weight against the snail. 
“Tt’s not budging!” 

“T have an idea,” Sheena said. “The slime!” 

“Huh? What about it?” 

“The slime can help us,” she explained. She stood behind the 
snail. “Lets both push the snail from behind. Maybe the slime will 
make it slide right off him!” 

I heard Dr. D. choking under the snail. He was swallowing slime! 

I started to gag. But I swallowed hard. Held my breath. Forced the 
nausea away. 

Sheena and I planted our feet behind the snail. 


“One, two, three, push!” she yelled. 

We threw our weight against the snail. It slid a little bit. 

“One more time—go!” 

We pushed again. 

The snail slowly slid off Dr. D.’s body. It hit the floor with a heavy 
thud. 

Dr. D. slowly climbed to his feet. He was covered with sticky 
white goop from head to toe. 

He coughed and spat out a big glob of slime. “Not tasty,” he 
muttered, shaking his head. 

“Dr. D.—what happened?” I asked. 

He smeared the gunk from his eyes. “I don’t know. All of a 
sudden, the boat started shaking. I fell down. And the next thing I 
knew—BOOM!—I found this giant snail on top of me!” 

I glanced at the snail. It stood quietly in the passageway, oozing 
slime. Where did it come from? And how did a snail get so big? 

“It seemed to come out of thin air,” Dr. D. said. 

“It looks a lot like the snail in my fishbowl,” I offered. “But my 
snail is tiny. It’s the size of my fingernail.” 

“Dr. D.!” Sheena cried. “We saw two gigantic jellyfish! One of 
them tried to squeeze me to death!” 

“What?” Dr. D. turned to Sheena. “Giant jellyfish? What on earth 
is going on in these waters?” 

The boat lurched. 

“Whoa!” I cried out as I lost my balance. 

The boat rocked hard to one side. We all slammed against the 
wall. 

“Now what?” Sheena moaned. 

“Grab the rail, kids!” Dr. D. shouted. “We’re tipping over!” 


15 


The boat heaved to one side. The huge snail slid across the floor and 
crashed into the wall. 

Tables drifted across the floor. Pictures fell off the walls. 

Sheena, Dr. D., and I were pressed against the wall. The boat 
tilted until we were practically lying down. 

“What’s happening?” Sheena cried. 

Crash! My cabin door flew open. Something thudded heavily 
inside. 

“What was that?” I asked. “Something’s going on in my cabin!” 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. I heard a heavy pounding sound from my 
room. 

“What on earth—?” Dr. D. murmured. 

Sheena gulped. “It sounds like some kind of monster!” 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. 

“Tm going to check it out,” I said. 

I tried to stand, but the tilt of the boat kept me pinned to the 
wall. 

“T can’t get up!” I complained. 

Sheena slid along the wall. “Try sliding!” 

I inched along the passageway. Sheena and Dr. D. slid along 
behind me. 

I came to a closed door—the door to Sheena’s cabin. I tried to 
step around it, but the gravity pull was too strong. I leaned against the 
door... 

“Whoa!” It flew open. I was about to fall in! 

I grabbed the door frame. Sheena’s cabin floor tilted down behind 
me. It was like being in the fun house at a carnival. 

“Hold on, Billy!” Dr. D. said. 

The floor tilted like a steep hill. If I let go of the door, Pd slide 
down the cabin floor. Then ld have to crawl my way back up to the 
passage—if I could. 

I clung to the door frame. The gravity pulled me into Sheena’s 
room. 

“Help!” My feet slipped out from under me. I felt the wood giving 
way under my fingernails. 

“Pull yourself back up!” Dr. D. instructed. “Don’t let go!” 

I hauled my body uphill and threw myself to the left. I felt my 
back slap against the passage wall. 


I made it. I made it past Sheena’s room. Now all I had to do was 
slide down the passage to my cabin. 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. The pounding sound again, inside my 
cabin. 

Behind me, Sheena and Dr. D. struggled past the gaping door to 
Sheena’s cabin. 

At last I reached my cabin. The pounding grew louder. BOOM, 
BOOM, BOOM. 

What was going on in there? 

I peered through the doorway. 

“My goldfish!” I gasped. “Oh, nooooo!” 


16 


My goldfish bowl had smashed to the floor. My two fish lay in a 
puddle, flopping their tails. 

At least they looked like my goldfish. But there was one difference 
—one huge difference. 

My goldfish were gigantic! 

They filled my cabin. They were the size of small whales! 

Well, maybe not that big. But they were at least as big as me. 

BOOM, BOOM, BOOM. They flopped on the floor, their tails 
pounding into the wood. 

“They—they’re giants!” I gasped. 

“What’s going on?” Sheena cried. “How did everything get so 
big?” 

“Oh, my. Oh, my!” Dr. D. muttered over and over. “Oh, my!” He 
seemed to be in shock. 

We all stared at the fish. First the minnow, then the snail, and 
now this. It was hard to believe. 

What was happening? Why was everything suddenly growing so 
huge? 

“I feel like Pm living in some kind of dinosaur world,” I said. 
“Only instead of dinosaurs, we’re surrounded by giant sea creatures!” 

Dr. D. shook his head to clear it. “I’ve got to get a grip on myself. 
We’ve got big problems here!” 

“Huge problems!” Sheena added. 

“No wonder the boat’s tipping over,” Dr. D. said. “Those fish are 
monstrous! Their weight is pulling the boat over.” 

“My goldfish, my goldfish!” I couldn’t believe it. 

They looked beautiful, all golden and shiny. You could really see 
them now that they were so big—nearly as big as horses. Little brown 
specks on their gills and their scales glittered in the sunlight that 
spilled through my porthole. 

“We’ve got to get rid of them,” Dr. D. said. “Otherwise, they’ll tip 
over the boat.” 

“Can we shove them through the window?” Sheena asked. 

“They’re too big,” Dr. D. said. “We’ll have to haul them up to the 
deck somehow.” 

“And then what?” I asked. 

“Throw them overboard,” Dr. D. declared. “We can’t keep them 
here, that’s for sure.” 


“Maybe they’ll be happier in the ocean,” Sheena reasoned. “They 
probably hated being cooped up in that little bowl, anyway.” 

“But goldfish are freshwater fish!” I protested. 

“We have no choice, Billy,” Dr. D. said grimly. 

“We won't survive out here. We won’t be able to sail anywhere— 
unless we get these giant fish overboard.” 

I knew he was right. The fish had to go. 

“You two grab the tail. Pll push from the other side,” my uncle 
said. 

I tugged on the slick golden tail. “Unh—it’s so heavy!” I grunted. 

The fish flopped. The tail slapped Sheena’s hand. 

“Ow!” she cried. “That hurt!” 

“Hold him still!” Dr. D. ordered. 

We dragged the first fish out of my room—uphill—and into the 
passage. The snail no longer blocked our path. The snail slime in the 
passage helped us slide it out. 

We hauled the big fish up the steps. It flopped on the deck. 

“Good-bye, goldfish,” I said. 

We shoved it overboard. It flipped its tail and swam away. 

“Now we have to do it all over again,” Sheena complained. 

“And what about the snail?” I said. “It’s even heavier than these 
fish!” 

“One monster at a time,” Dr. D. said. 

As soon as we dragged the other fish overboard, the boat righted 
itself. 

“What a relief,” Dr. D. said. “I can stand up straight again!” 

‘Tm beat,” Sheena whined. “This has been the worst day of my 
life.” 

We started back down below. The boat looked like the set of a 
disaster movie. Broken glass everywhere, pools of water, floors and 
walls streaked with white slime. And the giant snail sitting in the 
corner. 

“What are we going to do about him?” Sheena asked. 

Dr. D. sighed heavily. “Let’s just leave him for now.” 

I slipped on a puddle of slime on my way to my cabin. 

My cabin. What a mess. 

It looked as if a giant had come, turned it upside down, and 
shaken it. 

I headed for the closet to get a mop. I stopped. 

I thought I heard something. 

I listened. Yes. Footsteps. Up on deck. 

“Dr. D.?” I called. 


“Right here, Billy,” he answered. He was busy cleaning up his lab. 

Sheena popped out of her cabin. “Did you hear that?” she asked. 

I nodded. “Someone’s up on deck.” 

Dr. D. came out of the lab, wiping his hands on a towel. He 
glanced at me, then at Sheena. Then he looked up toward the ceiling. 

“If we’re all down here,” he began, “then who’s walking around 
up there?” 

We crept up the stairs and stepped out on deck. The afternoon 
sun beat down on us. “I don’t see anyone,” I said. “Look behind you,” 
boomed a deep voice. We turned around. There stood three men. 
Three total strangers. 


17 


The three men stood side by side, wearing shorts, button-down shirts, 
and boating shoes. 

The man who had spoken was tall and thin, with glasses and 
longish brown hair. On his left stood a burly, sunburned blond man. 
On the right, a curly-haired guy with a long, beaky nose on a birdlike 
face. 

Td never seen any of them before. What were they doing on our 
boat? 

Dr. D. cleared his throat. “May I help you?” 

The tall man spoke. “I hope we didn’t frighten you. And I’m sorry 
to barge aboard like this, but we were worried. Are you in trouble? 
We saw your boat tilting dangerously to one side and became 
alarmed.” 

Dr. D. chuckled, trying to act casual. “We hit some rough water,” 
he lied. “But everything is all right now, as you can see.” 

Where did these guys come from? I wondered. I stepped to the 
edge of the deck and saw a motorboat tied up to the side. 

“I was afraid you were going to tip over,” the man said. “We 
thought we would have to rescue you!” 

“No, no. We’re fine now. Aren’t we, kids?” Dr. D. insisted. 

“Fine?” I blurted out. “What about—” 

Dr. D. squeezed my shoulder. Hard. I shut my mouth. 

Why was Dr. D. acting as if everything were okay? 

When goldfish blow up into monsters, everything is not okay. 

“It was very kind of you to come and help.” Dr. D. let go of my 
shoulder, finally. I rubbed it. 

“My pleasure.” The tall man smiled. “I’m glad there’s no trouble. 
Always happy to help a fellow sailor.” 

He offered his right hand. “I’m Dr. Ritter. These are my assistants, 
Mel Mason and Adam Brown.” Mel was the burly blond one. Adam 
was the curly-haired beaky one. 

Dr. D. shook his hand. “Nice to meet you. I’m Dr. George Deep. 
This is my nephew, Billy, and my niece, Sheena.” 

“Hi, kids. Wow, they look like good, strong swimmers.” 

Dr. D. grinned. “They are.” 

“What kind of doctor are you, Dr. Deep?” Dr. Ritter asked. “A 
surgeon on vacation?” 

Dr. D. shook his head. “No. I’m a marine biologist. The Cassandra 


is my floating lab.” 

“Really?” he asked. “A fellow scientist! Wonderful!” 

Dr. Ritter began to stroll around the deck, gazing at the ropes and 
equipment. His assistants followed him. 

“I’ve got a floating lab myself,” Dr. Ritter told us. “Not far from 
here, as a matter-of-fact.” 

He sucked in a big breath of salty air and patted his chest. “Ah, 
yes. We marine biologists are a noble bunch, don’t you think, Dr. 
Deep? Studying the mysteries of the sea. It’s the last true frontier on 
earth, I always say.” 

Dr. D. trailed after him. “Yes. The last frontier,” he agreed. 

“What are you working on, if I may ask?” Dr. Ritter said. 

Dr. D. cleared his throat. “Oh, I’ve got a couple of projects going. 
I can’t really talk about them now, Dr. Ritter. They’re in their early 
stages. I’m sure you understand.” 

The three strangers paused by the ladder where their boat was 
tied. 

“Yes. Indeed. I guess we should be leaving,” Dr. Ritter said. “I’m 
glad you're all safe.” 

“Thanks for stopping to help,” Dr. D. said. 

Dr. Ritter put his hand on the ladder. Then he stopped. 

“By the way—you haven’t seen anything strange in the waters 
around here lately, have you?” 

“Strange?” Dr. D. asked. “What do you mean?” 

“Odd fish, unusual creatures, anything like that?” 

Odd fish! I couldn’t hold it in any longer. “We’ve seen all kinds of 
weird stuff!” I gushed. “My goldfish turned into giants! And we saw 
huge jellyfish bigger than a car! Ow!” 

Something sharp poked me in the ribs. My uncle’s elbow. 

Whoops. 

“I’m sorry to hear that,” Dr. Ritter said. 

“Yes, it was really scary!” I agreed. “Ow!” Dr. D.’s elbow again. 
“What did you do that for?” 

He frowned at me. 

What? I thought. What did I do this time? 

“Billy is just joking,” Dr. D. assured him. He played nervously 
with his glasses. 

Dr. Ritter said, “Joking? You weren’t really joking—were you, 
Billy?” 

“Well...” I gazed up at Dr. D. I didn’t know what to say. 

“Tm really sorry,” Dr. Ritter repeated. “I’m sorry you saw those 
creatures, Billy. Because now I can’t let you go.” 


“Huh?” I gasped. “What are you talking about?” 

“You’ve seen too much,” Dr. Ritter replied solemnly. “And now I 
have to decide what to do with you.” 

He snapped his fingers. The two assistants moved in. 


18 


“Hold on, there.” Dr. D. put his arms around me and Sheena. “Don’t 
pay any attention to Billy. He has a wild imagination.” 

“The wildest,” Sheena piped in. 

“He’s always making up stories,” Dr. D. went on. 

“He’s a big fat liar,” Sheena added. “Everybody knows that.” 

“Believe me, Dr. Bitter,” my uncle pleaded. “We haven’t seen 
anything strange at all. I mean, a giant goldfish? You’re a scientist, Dr. 
Bitter. You know as well as I do that that is impossible.” 

Dr. Bitter opened his mouth to speak. Something stopped him. A 
loud noise. A loud, lumbering, thudding sound. 

CRASH! PLOP! 

Something broke through the doors and bounced onto the deck. 

The giant snail. 

I dropped my head in my hands. “Oh, no!” 

Dr. Ritter raised an eyebrow. “Looks like your brother is not the 
big fat liar you say he is.” 

“Oh, he’s a big fat liar, all right,” Sheena insisted. “And he’s 
stupid too.” 

I kicked her in the shins. 

“Ow!” she cried. 

“Kids, quiet!” Dr. D. commanded. 

The burly blond guy grabbed me. He pinned my arms behind my 
back with one hand and gripped me around the neck with the other. 

“Let go of me!” I shrieked. “That hurts!” 

“Quiet—or Ill really hurt you!” the blond guy threatened. 

The beaky guy grabbed Sheena. She squirmed and tried to kick 
him. But he was too strong for her. 

“Let them go!” Dr. D. cried. 

Mel tightened his grip on me. 

“Tm so sorry, Dr. Deep,” Dr. Ritter said. “I hate to harm a fellow 
scientist. But you shouldn’t have snooped around here. I hate snoops.” 

He sighed. “What a shame you wandered into my plankton beds. 
What a shame you poked your nose into my experiments.” 

“What experiments?” Dr. D. asked. 

Dr. Ritter laid a strong hand on Dr. D.’s shoulder. “I’m working on 
such a brilliant project. It could change the world. It could solve all 
our problems!” 

“What is it?” 


“Ha-ha. You are a curious fellow!” Dr. Ritter laughed. “Well, I 
may as well tell you. I’ve been injecting a growth hormone into the 
plankton beds in these waters. The fish who feed on the plankton 
grow to be very large. You’ve seen the results yourself.” 

Dr. D. nodded. “But how does that solve any problems?” 

“In my heart, I’m a good man,” Dr. Ritter said. “I don’t want to 
hurt anyone. I want to help everyone! I plan to raise huge fish to feed 
the world. No one will ever have to go hungry!” 

“Let go of me!” Sheena screamed. Adam still held her tightly. 

“This one is noisy,” Adam complained. 

“Let her go,” Dr. Ritter said. “For now.” 

Adam dropped his arms. But he stayed right behind Sheena. 

“Your experiments sound interesting, Dr. Ritter,” my uncle said. 
“Td like to hear more. Are they working?” 

Dr. Ritter smiled. I could tell he liked to talk about his work. 
“Well, there are a few kinks at the moment. But nothing I can’t fix.” 

“What are you going to do with us?” Sheena broke in. 

Dr. Ritter frowned at her. “I’m afraid you know too much.” 

“But I am a scientist,” Dr. D. declared. “I would never tell anyone 
about your work. You have my word on that.” 

“Your word isn’t enough,” Dr. Ritter growled. His temper flared. 
His face reddened. “I can’t let anyone steal my idea.” 

“I would never steal!” my uncle insisted. 

“Tll make sure of that,” the other scientist replied coldly. He 
turned to his two assistants. “Take them.” 

Before Sheena or I could move, Mel and Adam grabbed us and 
forced us into their motorboat. 

I broke away for a second. And scrambled for the ladder, trying to 
get back to the Cassandra. 

But before I could reach it, they grabbed Dr. D. and forced him 
aboard their boat too. 

Mel cut the line with one flick of a knife. Adam started the motor. 

It all happened so fast. We didn’t have a chance. 

Dr. Ritter jumped aboard and grabbed the wheel. He steered the 
boat out to sea. 

“Where are you taking us?” I cried. “What are you going to do?” 


19 


“Get down there!” Adam shoved Dr. D. down into the small cabin. 
Sheena and I stumbled after him. Mel followed behind us. 

“What are you going to do?” I repeated. 

“You'll see,” Adam growled. 

We marched through a tiny galley. Mel and Adam forced us 
through a small door into a stuffy cabin with a table and chairs. Mel 
tied Dr. D. to a chair. 

“This really isn’t necessary,” my uncle said softly. I could see he 
was trying to sound calm. 

“Tell that to Dr. Ritter,” Mel muttered. 

Adam tied up Sheena, then me. 

“Not so tight!” I cried. I leaned over and bit Adam’s arm. 

“Good one, Billy!” Sheena bounced in her chair. 

“Hey!” Adam pulled back, rubbing his arm. “This kid bit me!” 

“Bite him back,” Mel muttered. 

Adam bared his teeth at me. But he didn’t bite me. And he didn’t 
tighten my ropes. 

My plan worked. I was tied to the chair—but not as tightly as he 
thought. 

Mel and Adam studied us. “Okay. We’ve taken care of them,” Mel 
said. “Let’s go get some lunch.” 

They left the cabin, shutting the door behind them. I could hear 
them in the little galley, rattling plates and silverware. 

I glanced out the porthole to my right. The boat was speeding 
away, far from the Cassandra. Out to sea. 

I jiggled my hands, trying to loosen the ropes. They were tied 
pretty well. If I could just get the rope to stretch a little... 

“What could this guy Ritter be up to?” Dr. D. wondered out loud. 
He wasn’t really talking to me and Sheena. He was figuring things out 
for himself. 

“This plankton he’s invented really does make fish grow bigger,” 
he said. “It could help end hunger in the world.” 

“Isn’t that good, Dr. D.?” Sheena asked. 

I rubbed my wrists against the ropes. Come on, loosen, I thought. 

“It might be good,” Dr. D. went on. “But it could be bad too. It 
could throw the whole balance of nature off.” 

Rub, rub, rub. I tested the ropes. Were they a little looser? 

“I mean, what are these giant fish supposed to eat? More and 


more plankton? They might eat up all the little fish. They might even 
start eating people. Who knows?” 

I stretched my hands against the ropes. The knot had loosened! I 
tried to pull one of my hands through. 

No. Still too tight. 

“And Dr. Ritter mentioned some kinks,” my uncle continued. 
“Some problems. I wonder what he was talking about. It could be 
anything.” 

I strained to hear what Mel and Adam were doing in the galley. It 
sounded as if they had taken their lunch up on deck. 

I yanked the ropes hard. I felt something give. 

I squeezed one hand through the rope. The knot burned against 
my skin. 

Pulling, pulling... 

I got it out! One hand was free! 

“Dr. D.!” I whispered. I held up my free hand. 

“Good going, Billy!” he whispered back. 

I untied my other hand and leaped up to untie my uncle. 

“Billy, hurry!” Sheena urged me. “Maybe we can sneak off the 
boat!” 

Then the door flew open. 

“You interrupted my lunch,” Dr. Ritter said, shaking his head. 
“That’s not very polite.” 

He blocked the doorway. Mel and Adam planted themselves 
beside him. 

“You want to get off the boat?” he asked. “That can be arranged. 
Mel, Adam. Take them on deck!” he ordered. 

Mel and Adam untied Sheena and Dr. D. and dragged us upstairs. 
Dr. Ritter’s lunch—sandwiches, a salad—sat half eaten on a table. 

The two men herded us to the side of the boat. I looked down. 

The ocean churned beneath us. No other boats, not a patch of 
land in sight. 

No one, nothing to save us. 

Nothing but sea—endless, deep sea. 

And gigantic, hungry, sea creatures. 

“Which one of you will jump first?” Dr. Ritter asked. “Or do you 
all want to go together?” 

I gazed down at the thrashing waves. Then I took a deep breath— 

And got ready to jump. 


20 


The waves crashed beneath me. My heart pounded so hard, it hurt. 

I sucked in a lungful of air. This could be my last breath, I 
realized. 

“Stop!” Dr. D. cried. “Let me jump, Ritter. Spare the kids. They 
can’t harm you or your experiments.” 

“I think a family should stick together,” Dr. Ritter said. 
“Especially a family of snoops.” 

“We’re not snoops!” Sheena protested. “We can’t help it if we 
accidentally saw some of your big fish!” 

“We won’t tell anyone about them! Really!” I cried. 

Dr. Ritter leaned close to Sheena. “Perhaps you would like to go 
first?” 

Sheena glared at him, but I saw her shaking. I knew she was 
really scared. And Sheena hardly ever gets scared. 

“Leave her alone,” Dr. D. warned. “Take us to an island—any 
island. Whatever is nearest. Then we won’t be able to tell anyone 
about your plankton experiments.” 

Dr. Ritter scowled. “There are no islands nearby. And I can’t take 
the chance. Sorry.” 

Dr. D. refused to give up. He kept trying to stall, to talk his way 
out of this. 

But there was no way. I could see that. 

Think! Think! I ordered myself desperately. There’s got to be 
some way to escape. There’s got to be. 

I glanced around, searching for something, anything. Maybe a life 
jacket! Didn’t they have life jackets on the boat? Or a floating ring? 

If I could grab some kind of float, at least we’d have a chance. 

But I didn’t see anything on the deck. I craned my neck to look 
back at the stern. 

My heart beat faster. Yes! A rubber lifeboat. 

“What are you looking at, kid?” Mel growled. “You looking for 
the coast guard or something? Believe me, there’s no one around to 
rescue you so forget about it.” 

“I—I wasn’t looking at anything,” I stammered. I was so scared, I 
could hardly breathe. 

“Enough of this stalling around,” Dr. Ritter interrupted. “You’re 
wasting my time. And you’re wasting your breath. And you're going to 
need all the breath you’ve got. It’s time for a swim.” 


Sheena let out a scream. 

“Let her go,” Dr. D. shouted. 

Two strong hands gripped my shoulders. 
“Help!” I shrieked. “Please—no!” 

But screaming did no good. 

They pushed me over the side. 


21 


I shut my eyes and prepared for the cold shock of the water. 

But I didn’t fall. 

The strong hands didn’t let go. 

I felt myself pulled back into the boat—as a dark shadow swept 
overhead. 

“Huh?” I blinked several times. Was it a shadow—or my eyes? 

I heard a deafening noise. A clattering. A beating sound. 

I turned to Dr. D. He and the others all had their eyes on the sky. 

A helicopter? I thought. Is it a helicopter? Someone to rescue us? 

No. That clapping, pounding sound couldn’t be a helicopter’s 
roar. 

Another shadow swooped over the boat. 

And then an ugly cry ripped through the air. 

RRRAAAAAK! RRAAAAAAK! 

“Oh, no!” Dr. D. cried. “Here they come!” 

I shielded my eyes with one hand. And I saw them. 

Swooping low. Two enormous birds. Seagulls. Seagulls as big as 
my golden Lab back home! 

RRRAAAAAK! RRAAAAAK! Their sharp cries were so shrill, they 
hurt my ears. 

“Here come two more victims of your great experiments, Ritter,” 
my uncle shouted over the pounding of their wings. 

“They must have eaten the plankton too!” Dr. Ritter exclaimed. 

The birds circled the boat. They cast huge shadows over us, their 
wings stretched out like sails. 

As I squinted up at them, they stopped circling. 

And lowered their talons. 

Are they hunting for food? I wondered, staring up at the sharp 
bird claws, gleaming in the sunlight. 

Are we the food? 

Before we could duck or try to hide, the two huge birds soared 
toward us. 

Talons raised. Ready to clutch their prey. 

Screeching all the way down. 


22 


I froze in panic. 

The screeching rang in my ears. Filled my brain. Made me feel as 
if my head would burst. 

I stared up at the raised talons. 

The shadows of the screeching birds washed over me. 

And then I felt a strong hand pushing me down. Down to the 
deck. I turned back and saw my uncle, his jaw set, his eyes on the sky. 

He pushed Sheena and me down. Then moved over us. Protecting 
us. 

I couldn’t see them. But I felt the heavy thud as the two heavy 
gulls landed on the boat. 

And then I heard the shouts of Dr. Ritter and his men. Angry 
shouts, over the shrill squawks of the birds. 

I twisted my head. Tried to see. But my uncle pushed my head 
down again. Holding his arms over Sheena and me. 

I heard a struggle behind us. More squawks. More frantic cries. 

I heard the heavy pounding of wings. 

A table fell over. Dishes crashed to the floor. 

A cry of pain. 

“Quick, kids—now’s our chance!” Dr. D. whispered. He pulled us 
to our feet. Then, protecting us with his back, he shoved us across the 
deck to the lifeboat. 

“Billy! Help me untie this thing!” Dr. D. ordered. 

The three of us struggled with the knots that held the lifeboat to 
the deck. 

“Hurry!” Dr. D. urged us. “Before they see what we’re up to!” 

“RRRAAAAK!” I turned and saw that one of the birds had Adam 
pinned under its sharp claws. Mel and Dr. Ritter were struggling to 
pull the powerful bird off him. 

“This knot’s undone!” Sheena announced. She worked on another 
knot. 

I nervously tugged at the knot in my hands. I was so scared, I 
couldn’t think. My fingers felt thick and clumsy. 

Hurry! I ordered myself. Hurry—before they catch us! 

Finally, I ripped open the last knot and pulled the lifeboat free. 
Dr. D. tossed it into the water, holding it by a rope. 

“Okay. Let’s go! Jump in! Now!” 

I gripped the rail of the motorboat and braced myself to jump. 


“Hey!” I heard a cry behind me. I turned back and saw Mel 
staring at us. “Hey—they’re getting away!” 

He motioned to us. “Stop!” he shouted. He grabbed a spear gun. 
“Don’t move!” he ordered. 

I hesitated. The sharp point of the metal spear sparkled in the 
sunlight. 

Would he really shoot us? 

“Go, kids! Now!” Dr. D. cried. 

Mel aimed the spear gun at my uncle—and fired. 


23 


WHOOSH! 

I couldn’t see it. It moved so fast, I could only hear the spear fly 
through the air. 

To my horror, Dr. D. slumped to the deck. 

“You—you shot him!” I shrieked. 

“Dr. D.! Dr. D.!” Sheena cried. We both hurried to his side. 

Our uncle sat up. 

“It—it missed!” He seemed surprised. He leaped to his feet. “Into 
the lifeboat, kids!” he cried. 

A gull squawked. I heard Adam scream. Mel turned back to help 
him. 

I took a running jump, shut my eyes, and threw myself overboard. 

PLOP! I landed in the soft rubber boat. Sheena jumped in after 
me. Then Dr. D. 

“Stop, or I’ll shoot!” Dr. Ritter called. He picked up Mel’s spear 
gun and aimed it at us. 

A gull’s wing bumped his arm, knocking the gun into the water. 

We frantically scooped our hands through the water, paddling 
away from Dr. Ritter’s boat. 

“You can’t escape!” Dr. Ritter called after us, shaking his fist. “PI 
get you!” 

Dr. D. grabbed the lifeboat paddles. He started paddling with all 
his strength. The ocean pulled us away. 

The ocean turned rough and foamy. A wind kicked up and blasted 
us, churning up huge waves. The waves carried us quickly out to sea. 

Dr. Ritter’s boat faded into the distance. 

“Well, we escaped,” Sheena sighed. “But where are we going?” 

No sign of land anywhere. No sign of another boat. Nothing but 
water. Churning water and crashing waves. 

The rubber lifeboat smacked down hard on the water. “Hold on, 
kids,” Dr. D. shouted. “Here comes a big one!” 

I gripped the sides of the boat as a huge wave tossed us into the 
air. 

THUMP! We landed in a valley between waves. Then another 
wave smashed over us. 

I shivered, totally soaked. 

“Is everybody okay?” Dr. D. asked. Sheena and I nodded. 

Then a gigantic wave caught us from behind. 


The lifeboat bounced high in the air. I clung to the side. 

But Sheena’s hands slipped off. She flew up into the air—and 
disappeared into the white foam. 

“Sheena!” I screamed. “She fell overboard!” 

Her head bobbed up. “H-h-help!” she sputtered. She sank below 
again, her arms thrashing. 

I waited for her to bob back up. 

Waited. 

Waited. 

Please—I prayed. 

And then there she was. I leaned over the side. Leaned forward. 
More. More... 

And grabbed her arm and hauled her back into the boat. 

“Are you all right, Sheena?” Dr. D. asked. 

She coughed. Water ran down her face. “I think so.” 

Dr. D. held on to her as another big wave drenched us. 

We huddled in the lifeboat, wet, shivering, hungry, and tired. The 
lifeboat puddled with water. It was like sitting in a wading pool. 

The sky grew dark. It would be night soon. 

We'll have to spend the night out here, I realized. Out here in the 
middle of the ocean. 

We can’t even rest. The ocean is so rough. If we let go of the boat 
for a second, we could be thrown into the sea. 

We had no food, no water. Nothing. 

“It can’t get any worse than this, can it?” I demanded. “Can it?” 
Sheena sneezed. Dr. D. said nothing. It can’t get any worse, I repeated 
to myself. And then it did. 


24 


The sky darkened to black. Then lightning crackled overhead. 

KABOOM! 

A roar of thunder shook our tiny lifeboat. 

Rain poured down on us. Heavy sheets of cold rain. 

“I don’t believe this!” Sheena wailed. She wiped strands of wet 
hair from her face. 

We sat glumly in the boat. The waves bounced us. The wind blew 
across our drenched skin. The rain hammered down on us. 

Lightning ripped across the sky. 

Dr. D. gazed up at the heavy, low clouds and frowned. “It’s not 
going to let up anytime soon,” he announced. 

Great. 

Meanwhile, the lifeboat filled up with water. 

Dr. D. tried to scoop the water out with his hands. “Help me bail, 
kids!” he ordered. “If the boat fills up too much, we'll sink!” 

We furiously scooped the water out. But the rain filled the boat as 
fast as we could empty it. What were we going to do? 

I took off one of my sneakers and tried bailing water with it. It 
worked better than nothing. So Dr. D. and Sheena used their shoes to 
bail too. 

The rain roared down for hours. “I’m so tired!” I complained. I 
threw down my shoe. “I can’t bail any more water. I can’t!” 

“Don’t give up, Billy,” Dr. D. scolded. “We’ll make it.” He didn’t 
sound as if he really believed it, though. 

“Don’t worry,” he said, shouting over a boom of thunder. “We’re 
going to be all right.” 

I don’t see how, I thought. If we don’t starve to death, we’ll sink! 
There’s no one around to save us. No one... 


The rain finally stopped. By then it was night. Totally dark. No moon. 
No stars. Just a black sky blanketed by clouds. 

“Tm so cold,” Sheena whined. 

“Tm hungry,” I added. 

‘Tm seasick!” Dr. D. admitted. 

“Tm all three,” I told them. “Plus thirsty, tired, and wet.” 

We all laughed. What else could we do? 

When things get this bad, it suddenly seems ridiculous! 

We huddled together for warmth. My stomach growled. 


But I was so tired... so tired. I couldn’t keep my eyes open. I fell 
asleep. 

I woke up with a THUMP. The boat had hit something. 

I opened my eyes. And stared out at a silvery, pale world. 

I’m dreaming, I thought. I closed my eyes again. 

But then I felt my wet clothes sticking to my skin. 

No, I realized. Pm awake. 

My eyes flew open. Sheena and Dr. D. sat up, yawning and 
stretching. 

“What’s happening?” Sheena murmured. 

“The boat’s not moving,” I realized. “It stopped.” 

I reached out to touch the water. Instead of water, my fingers 
sifted through sand. 

Dry land! 

“Hey!” I cried. “We’ve landed somewhere!” 

The sky lightened a little. The sun was just rising. I could begin to 
make out where we were. 

“Land!” Sheena shouted. She jumped out of the boat. “Hurray! 
Land! I don’t believe it! I don’t believe it!” 

Dr. D. stood up and stretched. “Wow! That feels good.” 

The sun shone brighter now. I threw myself on the sand. “Bake 
me, sun!” I sighed. 

“I wonder where we are,” Dr. D. said softly, gazing around. 

“Wherever we are, I hope they’ve got food,” Sheena added. 

Our lifeboat had landed on a sandy beach. Up a slope I could see 
a stand of palm trees. Other than that, nothing. No docks, no boats, no 
houses. 

“No sign of any people,” Dr. D. noted. “I’m going to take a look 
around.” 

“I’m coming too,” I said. 

“Me too!” Sheena said. 

We followed Dr. D. along the beach. We walked along the edge of 
the water. 

“Look! A coconut tree!” Sheena pointed to a tall tree on the 
beach. A few coconuts nestled in the sand beneath it. 

“Let’s open one,” she insisted. “I’m starving!” 

Dr. D. grabbed a coconut and smashed it against a rock. The 
coconut split open. 

Sheena and I pounced on it. We picked up the broken pieces and 
chewed the coconut meat. 

“Feel better?” Dr. D. asked, sipping coconut milk from the shell. 

I wiped the sweet liquid from my chin. “A little,” I said. “But I 


could sure use a hamburger. Make that two. And a double order of 
french fries with tons of catsup.” 

“Or a pizza,” Sheena added. 

“We'll catch some fish later,” Dr. D. promised. “We can build a 
fire and cook them.” 

We continued our way around the island. 

“Maybe we'll find a restaurant,” Sheena wished out loud. 

But after about ten minutes, Dr. D. groaned. “Oh, no!” 

“What is it?” I asked. 

“Look.” He pointed a few yards down the beach. 

Our lifeboat. We were right back where we'd started. 

“You mean, that’s it?” I asked. “We’ve seen the whole island in 
ten minutes?” 

“That’s it.” Dr. D. sighed. “It’s tiny.” 

Sheena sighed too. “I’m still hungry. And I don’t want coconuts!” 

“Looks as if we’ve landed on a deserted island,” Dr. D. said. “But 
don’t worry. We’ll find something to eat.” 

I touched my face. My skin was hot. The sun had felt so good at 
first—but now I was getting sunburned. 

Another question nagged at me. But I was so hungry, I tried to 
push it out of my mind. 

“Billy, run into that clump of palm trees,” Dr. D. ordered. “See if 
you can find some wood to build a fire.” 

I wandered into the grove, hunting for something to burn. There 
wasn’t much to be found. Mostly a lot of vines. 

And that nagging worry wouldn’t go away. 

We were stuck on a tiny island, with nothing but a rubber raft. 

And I had one question, a question I was afraid to ask out loud: 

How were we ever going to get off? 


25 


I found a few sticks and carried them back to the beach. Dr. D. was 
digging a pit for the fire. 

“Good job, Billy.” He took the sticks from me. “This will do for 
now.” 

Sheena was wading near the shore. I sat down on the sand. “Dr. 
D.—” I began. “What are we going to do? Do you think we’re far from 
the Cassandra?” 

Dr. D. sighed. “I’m afraid I have no idea where we are,” he 
admitted. 

“So—what’s going to happen? Are we going to rot on this island?” 
I knew we couldn’t last long. So far, we’d had nothing to eat but 
coconuts. 

Dr. D. rubbed two of the sticks together, trying to get them to 
light. “Maybe someone will see our fire. Maybe a plane will fly over 
us, or a boat will pass by. Maybe someone will find the Cassandra 
empty and come searching for us.” 

I leaned back and gazed at the empty sky. “But that could take 
forever!” I cried. “Nobody even knows we’re missing! Except Dr. Ritter 
—and I don’t want him to find us.” 

I heard a shriek. I turned and saw Sheena running up the beach, 
waving something in one hand. 

“Look! Hey—check this out!” she shouted. “I caught a fish! I 
caught a fish with my bare hands!” 

She held out a small, wriggling silverfish. 

“Its puny,” I said. 

“So? Let’s see you catch one!” she shot back. 

Dr. D. took the fish and set it on the sand. “It’s better than 
nothing.” 

“Tl catch a bigger one,” I declared. 

Sheena and I raced back to the water. We waded in hip-high. A 
few small fish darted around us. 

“These are all pretty small,” I complained. “We need some of Dr. 
Ritter’s plankton to make them grow.” 

“I wouldn’t want to eat one of his giant fish,” Sheena replied, 
making a disgusted face. “Yuck.” 

“Maybe if we go a little deeper we’ll find bigger fish,” I suggested. 

We waded in farther. A silverfish with a black stripe swam past 
me. 


“That one is a little bigger,” I said. I made a grab for it. Missed. 

I tried again. I swam out a little farther, chasing the fish. 

I guess I waded out deeper than I meant to. Suddenly I felt a 
sharp pain in my foot. 

At first I thought Sheena was pinching me. But the pain quickly 
swept up my whole leg. “Hey—what’s going on?” I cried. I lowered 
my gaze to the water—and let out a frightened scream. 


26 


“Oh, nooooo!” I moaned. 

I stared down at the water—down at the creature beneath the 
water. 

I saw a hairy back. A brown-purple shell. Enormous pincers. 

And knew I'd been grabbed by a giant crab! 

The crab was as big as a card table. And it squeezed my toe in a 
pincer the size of my dad’s lug wrench! 

“Help!” I screeched. “Ohhhh, help!” 

The crab snapped its claws. I managed to slip my toe out of its 
grip. 

Slipping and stumbling, I scrambled back to shore as fast as I 
could. 

“A giant crab!” I shouted. “Hey—look out! It’s following me!” 

Sheena let out a gasp and came splashing out of the water. 

The giant crab scrabbled onto the sand, moving sideways, its 
hairy legs moving rapidly. 

“I don’t believe it!” Dr. D. cried. 

The crab moved toward us with amazing speed, snapping its 
claws. Click... click... CLICK. 

“Into the trees! Quick!” Dr. D. shouted. 

We ran into the palm tree grove. I scrambled up a tree, out of the 
crab’s reach. Sheena climbed up behind me. Dr. D. grabbed the branch 
of another tree and swung himself up. 

The crab watched us from below. It raised its hairy claws as if 
reaching for us. Click... CLICK. 

“If only we could cook it!” Sheena exclaimed hungrily. “That 
thing could feed us for a week!” 

“It must have eaten some of Dr. Ritter’s plankton! Its huge size 
has made this crab very hungry!” 

The crab clicked its big claws, trying to grab us. Its body heaved 
in and out, in and out. 

It stood there for what seemed like hours. 

“How long will it wait before it gives up?” I asked. 

Dr. D. shrugged. “Your guess is as good as mine.” 

I heard a crack. 

At first, I thought it was the crab claws snapping. 

Another crack. Too close to be the crab. 

Coming from right beneath Sheena and me. 


The tree branch. 

Crack. 

To my horror, I realized that Sheena and I were too heavy for it. 
The branch was breaking off the tree. 

My sister and I were about to drop into the crab’s waiting claws. 


27 


With a low cry, I reached up both arms. I tried to grab the branch 
above us. 

I reached... reached... 

No. My arms were too short. 

“We—we'’re falling!” Sheena cried. 

With a loud craaaack, our branch broke off. 

And we tumbled down... down... onto the crab’s hairy back. 

No. 

Onto the hot sand. 

“Huh?” I gasped and spun around. 

The crab had moved away. It was scrabbling rapidly back toward 
the water. 

Sheena sat up, her expression still startled. 

Our uncle climbed down from his branch. “Are you two okay?” 

We watched the huge creature splash back into the ocean. 

“I’m never going back in that water,” I declared. 

“Who knows what other monsters are waiting in there!” 

“But how will we catch any fish?” Sheena wailed. “We’re going to 
starve to death!” 

Dr. D. wasn’t listening to us. He had turned away and was gazing 
down the beach. “Oh, no!” he cried. “The tide—it came in! The life 
raft!” 

All three of us started running to the spot where we’d left our 
lifeboat. But it was gone. 

I stared out over the ocean—and I spotted a yellow speck in the 
distance. The lifeboat. 

The tide had carried it away. 

“Now we'll never get off this stupid island!” I cried. “Never.” 

Dr. D. didn’t reply. He didn’t need to say anything. The worried 
expression on his face said it all. 


We passed the rest of the day keeping in the shade, chewing coconut 
meat. 

“Pll never eat coconut again,” Sheena whined. “Not even in candy 
bars!” 

We didn’t talk much. What was there to say? 

Night fell slowly. We watched the sky fade from blue to purple to 
black. 


Dr. D. sat up suddenly. “Did you hear that?” he asked. 

I sat up too. And listened hard. 

“What is it?” Sheena asked. 

“It’s coming from the beach,” Dr. D. said. 

We walked quickly down to the beach. Two huge animals 
splashed and played in the water. 

“Whales!” Sheena cried. 

“No—not whales,” Dr. D. said. “Dolphins!” 

The dolphins ate the plankton too, I realized. 

“What’s that yellow thing they’re playing with?” Sheena asked. “It 
looks like—” 

“It is!” I shouted. “Our lifeboat! The dolphins brought it back!” 

The lifeboat rope had tangled around the middle of one of the 
dolphins. Wherever the dolphin swam, the boat trailed behind it. 

“Let’s go rescue it!” Dr. D. cried. He splashed into the water. 
Sheena and I followed him. No time to worry about giant crabs. We 
had to get that raft. 

We swam out to where the dolphins played. They gurgled at us. 
They didn’t seem afraid of us at all. 

Why should they be? They were a lot bigger than we were! 

They’re only dolphins, I told myself. Dolphins don’t hurt people. 

But I was a little afraid of them. Especially since our visit from 
the giant crab. 

Dr. D. grabbed the edge of the rubber raft. Sheena and I climbed 
in. 

“Now, if I can just get that rope from around this dolphin...” Dr. 
D. groaned. 

He tugged on the rope. The dolphin began to swim. 

“The dolphin is carrying us away!” Sheena said. “Wait, dolphin! 
Stop!” 

The dolphin didn’t stop. It kept swimming, faster and harder. 

Dr. D. hauled himself into the boat. 

The island was a speck behind us now. We couldn’t swim back to 
it if we wanted to! The dolphin was carrying us far out to sea. 

“We might as well settle back and enjoy the ride,” Dr. D. said. 
“There’s nothing else we can do.” 


The dolphin pulled us all night long. The sea was calm that night. We 
slept in the boat again. 

When I opened my eyes, everything was gray. Misty. 

I heard the dolphin gurgling and chirping, as if it were talking to 
us. 


The sun was just about to come up. The ocean was covered with a 
thick blanket of fog. 

The dolphin poked its head over the side of the boat. It had 
slipped the rope off. It was free now. 

With a splash, it swam away. It quickly disappeared through the 
thick fog. 

I peered through the fog. I could barely see past the lifeboat. We 
were still in the middle of the ocean. But I thought I saw something 
nearby. Something big and white. 

Like a boat. 

My heart sank. 

Oh, no, I thought. I think I’ve seen this boat before. 

I shut my eyes again, wishing it would go away. 

I opened them. There it was. 

No! It can’t be! It’s too horrible! 

I shook Dr. D. “Wake up!” I cried. “Look where we are!” 

Dr. D. opened his eyes. “Huh?” my uncle muttered. “Where are 
we?” 

“The dolphin carried us back!” I wailed. “Back to Dr. Ritter’s 
boat!” 


28 


“Oh, no!” Sheena wailed. “Not again!” 

“What are we going to do?” I asked. 

“Shhh!” Dr. D. whispered. “Stay calm. They don’t know we’re 
here. Maybe we can get away somehow.” 

“Get away?” I exclaimed. “To where?” 

“I can’t stay on this raft another minute!” Sheena insisted. “I want 
to go home!” 

“That stupid dolphin!” I muttered. “I thought dolphins were 
supposed to be smart! I can’t believe it pulled us to Dr. Ritter’s boat.” 

The fog surrounded us like a thick gray curtain. It swept in and 
out, making Dr. Ritter’s boat appear to shimmer. 

The rubber raft drifted closer to the boat. I could almost touch the 
side of the bow. 

I thought I saw a word printed there. I did. The name of the boat. 

I strained to read it. I could make out the first few letters. 

C-A-S... 

Huh? 

“Dr. D.!” I cried. “It’s not Dr. Ritter’s boat. It’s our boat! It’s the 
Cassandra!” 

Dr. D. squinted. “Yes!” he cried. “You're right, Billy!” 

We were safe! Sheena and I jumped up and danced around. 

“We’re home! We’re home! We’re home!” we sang. 

The lifeboat bounced under our feet. “Whoa!” I cried. We nearly 
tipped it over! 

“Sit down, kids,” Dr. D. said. “We’re two feet from safety. We 
don’t want to drown now.” 

We paddled the rubber raft to our boat and dragged ourselves 
aboard. 

I was so tired. But I couldn’t help doing another little dance on 
the deck of the Cassandra. 

Sheena slapped me five. “Nothing can stop us!” she cried happily. 
“Not a stormy night on the high seas! Not getting stranded on an 
empty island! Nothing!” 

Dr. D. laughed. “I can’t wait to take a shower and go to bed. But 
first—I’m cooking us all a big breakfast.” 

“Pancakes!” I suggested. 

“Pancakes and waffles!” Sheena cried. 

“Breakfast is going to have to wait,” a deep voice said. We all 


froze. 
Dr. Ritter stepped out of the cabin. “You won’t be hungry much 
longer,” he sneered. 


29 


“T can’t take this!” Sheena wailed. Tears formed in her eyes. 

“Quiet!” Dr. Ritter snapped. 

Dr. D. laid a hand on Sheena’s shoulder and shushed her. “Where 
are your assistants?” he asked Dr. Ritter. 

“That’s none of your business. I don’t need them now. I can take 
care of you myself,” Dr. Ritter replied. “You're all very tired and weak, 
aren’t you? Even you, Dr. D. That’s what happens when you don’t eat 
for two days.” 

I glanced at Dr. D. It was true. He looked exhausted. 
“Go ahead,” Dr. Ritter went on. “Get back in the lifeboat. I dare 
you.” 

My eyes fell on the rubber boat. Dr. Ritter knew what he was 
doing. I would rather have eaten fish guts with horseradish than get 
back in that thing. 

“What do you want now, Ritter?” Dr. D.’s voice was tired, but 
angry. “Why did you wait here for us?” 

Dr. Ritter scowled. “I can’t let you live. I can’t let you tell the 
world about my plankton.” 

“We promised we wouldn’t tell!” Sheena cried. “Look—cross my 
heart and hope to die.” She crossed her heart and held up her hand, 
Girl Scout-style. 

Dr. Ritter laughed. “You’re very amusing. I’m so sorry it has to 
end this way. Really, I am.” 

The sun finally burned through the fog. I shivered. I wasn’t cold 
and wet anymore. But Dr. Ritter was giving me chills. 

“All of you—down to the lab,” Dr. Ritter ordered. “Go!” 

He forced us downstairs. Into my uncle’s lab. 

Dr. Ritter stood in front of the cabinet—the one that held the 
plankton bottles. 

“I believe these are the plankton samples you collected, Dr. 
Deep,” he said. “Am I right?” 

Dr. D. nodded. 

“Good. You’ve gathered a lot of my work. You must have been 
very interested in it.” 

“Of course I was,” Dr. D. said. “I’m a scientist.” 

“Yes,” Dr. Ritter hissed. “You’re a scientist. You want to learn 
more—am I right?” 

Dr. D. nodded slowly. 


“Excellent. You asked me earlier about the side effects of my 
plankton experiments, Dr. Deep. About the few kinks I haven’t worked 
out yet. I think now is the time to show you what they are.” 

Dr. Ritter opened the glass door of the cabinet. “When fish eat the 
plankton, they grow huge.” He pointed to the bottles of plankton lined 
up on the shelves. 

“You’ve already seen that, haven’t you? But what do you think 
happens when a human eats the plankton? Billy? Want to take a 
guess?” Dr. Ritter asked. 

I took a stab at it. “Um—they grow into giant people?” 

“Wrong!” Dr. Ritter cried. “Sheena? What do you think?” 

Sheena shrugged. “I couldn’t care less.” 

“You should care, Sheena,” Dr. Ritter said. “Because whatever 
happens, it’s going to happen to you.” 

He turned to my uncle. “Dr. Deep? Any guesses? Or have you 
already figured it out in your research?” 

“Just tell us what happens, Ritter,” Dr. D. snapped impatiently. 

“All right. Pll tell you. When a human eats the plankton, he turns 
into a fish!” 

“Excuse me?” I cried. 

“Is this fairy-tale time?” my uncle groaned. 

Dr. Ritter ignored us. “The human becomes a fish!” he repeated. 
“Almost instantly! And that person will remain a fish—for the rest of 
his life.” 

“That’s impossible!” Dr. D. protested. “You’re crazy, Ritter. Let us 
take you to shore and get you some help.” 

“PIL show you who’s crazy,” Dr. Ritter declared. “Pll prove it to 
you!” 

He grabbed me by the back of the neck. 

“Hey! Let go!” I shouted. 

He didn’t say a word. He just shoved me up to the glass cabinet. 
He shoved my face close to a row of bottles. Bottle after bottle filled 
with murky brown plankton. 

“Take a bottle, Billy,” he ordered. “Any bottle.” 

He pushed me again, until my forehead nearly knocked a bottle 
over. Then he let go. 

“Go ahead,” he repeated. “Choose one.” 

“Why?” I asked. “Why do you want me to take a bottle?” 

“PIL tell you why,” Dr. Ritter said. “Because you’re going to drink 
it, Billy. All of it.” 


30 


I stared at the bottles. 

“Take one, Billy,” Dr. Ritter insisted. “Or I'll take one and pour it 
down your throat.” 

I had no choice. 

I reached up and picked the last one from the middle shelf. 

I stared at it. Disgusting brown and green glop. 

Not exactly the breakfast I had in mind. 

“Wait till you see this, Dr. Deep,” Dr. Ritter said. He stared at me. 
His eyes gleaming. 

“The growth hormone reacted strangely with the plankton,” Dr. 
Ritter explained. “As soon as the boy drinks it, he’ll turn into a fish. It 
takes only a minute or two.” 

He grabbed the bottle from me. He opened it and handed it back. 

“Drink.” 

I lifted the bottle to my lips. 

“No!” Sheena cried. 

Dr. D. covered the lip of the bottle with one hand. 

“Wait, Billy,” he said. “This is ridiculous, Dr. Ritter. Stop this 
silliness immediately. And let us go.” 

“I can’t do that. I already explained why,” Dr. Ritter answered. 

“You need help, Dr. Ritter,” Dr. D. said. “You’re not thinking 
clearly. You’re a brilliant man. You could be a great scientist.” 

“I am a great scientist,” Dr. Ritter insisted. “I’m about to prove 
that to you right now! Drink, Billy!” 

Dr. D.’s hand still covered the bottle. 

Thank you, Dr. D., I thought. 

“You can’t be a great scientist if you hurt people,” Dr. D. insisted. 
“Let us go. We’ll get you the help you need. Then you can change the 
world for the better.” 

“Yow’re an idiot, Dr. Deep,” Dr. Ritter sneered. “You'll be the next 
one to turn into a fish. Just as soon as I finish with the boy.” 

He swatted Dr. D.’s hand away from the bottle. “Drink that 
plankton now, Billy,” he commanded. “Or [ll throw you all 
overboard.” 

I swished the brown liquid in the bottle. 

I gulped. 

It looked so gross. 

But what was my choice? Drown or drink... 


My hand trembled as I raised the bottle to my lips. And I drank it 
down. 


31 


I made a disgusted face. My whole body shook. 

Then I stood there stiffly. Every muscle tensed. Waiting. 

The others stared at me. They didn’t move, either. 

Sheena’s chin trembled. “I don’t want you to turn into a fish, 
Billy! Why did you drink it? Why didn’t you throw it on the floor?” 

“He would just pick out another bottle for me,” I replied hoarsely. 
I could still taste the liquid in my mouth. I felt it gurgling around in 
my stomach. 

At least a minute passed. Then another minute. 

“Okay,” Dr. Ritter said. “It should happen—now!” 

He pointed at me. I stood there. I was still a boy. 

“I don’t see any changes,” Dr. D. said. 

“Give it another minute,” Dr. Ritter insisted. “I know it works. I 
tried it on my assistant, Mel, last night. He’s swimming around out 
there playing tag with a blue marlin right now!” 

The room fell silent as we all waited for me to turn into a fish. 

My stomach felt a little queasy. Otherwise, nothing. 

I sighed and shifted my feet. 

“It’s been more than five minutes, Ritter,” Dr. D. said. “Looks like 
your plankton doesn’t work.” 

Dr. Ritter scowled furiously. “No! That’s impossible! It works! I 
know it works!” 

He grabbed me and shook me. “Fish! Turn into a fish!” 

I bumped him away. He toppled backwards. 

Dr. D. pounced on him. “Gotcha!” 

Dr. Ritter pushed him off. And grabbed a bottle of plankton. 

He raised the bottle over his head. 

“Look out, Dr. D.!” Sheena cried. 

Dr. Ritter swung the bottle. 

Dr. D. ducked. 

I snatched the bottle from Dr. Ritter’s hand. 

My uncle leaped at Dr. Ritter. Dr. Ritter dodged him and dashed 
out of the lab. 

“He’s going up on deck!” Sheena shouted. 

We raced after him. Dr. D. tackled Dr. Ritter on the deck. Dr. 
Ritter rolled away. He jumped on Dr. D. 

They wrestled around. I set the bottle of plankton down. 

“Get off him!” I yelled. I tried to pull Dr. Ritter off my uncle. 


Dr. Ritter elbowed me away. Dr. D. grabbed him. They rolled 
across the deck. 

“Dr. D.—look out!” I screamed. He was about to roll overboard. 

With a grunt, Dr. D. jumped to his feet. He dove on Dr. Ritter and 
pinned him to the deck. 

“Get a rope, Billy! Quick!” he ordered. 

I grabbed the first rope I found on the deck. “Tie him up!” Dr. D. 
ordered. “Sheena—help me hold him down.” 

Sheena took a running start and leaped on top of Dr. Ritter. 

Dr. Ritter grunted. “My stomach!” 

Sheena sat on top of him. Dr. D. pinned his arms down. I wrapped 
the rope around his wrists. 

Dr. D. had taught me some sailor’s knots the summer before. My 
mind raced, trying to remember them. 

How did it go? I thought in a panic. Over, under, around? 

Dr. Ritter squirmed under Sheena. “Hurry, Billy!” she snapped. 

“I’m trying!” I said. 

“Its over, Ritter,” Dr. D. said. “Were taking you to the 
International Sea Life Patrol.” 

Over, under, over? 

“No, you're not!” Dr. Ritter cried. He bucked Sheena off. 

She tumbled to the deck. 

He wrenched his hands from the rope and shoved Dr. D. away. 

My crummy knots were useless. 

Dr. D. tried to grab him. But Dr. Ritter dove away and crawled 
across the deck. He snatched up a bottle of plankton. 

He stood and waved the bottle at us. “You’ll never turn me in!” he 
declared. 

Then he pulled the bottle open, tilted it over his mouth, and 
drank it down. 


32 


“Tt works!” Dr. Ritter declared. “Pll prove it to you!” 

He tossed the bottle aside. The glass smashed on the deck. 

“You can’t fool us, Dr. Ritter,” Sheena said. “We know that stuff 
doesn’t work. We saw Billy drink it.” 

But Dr. Ritter’s body began to tremble. Quickly, his skin began to 
darken to a slivery, blue-gray. 

“Something’s happening!” Dr. D. exclaimed. 

Dr. Ritter’s skin began to flake. Then it turned scaly. It glittered in 
the sunlight. 

His body began to shrink. His clothes slid off the slick scales. His 
hair fell away. His head flattened. His whole body shrank and 
flattened. 

“Its working!” I gasped. “He’s turning into a fish!” 

Dr. Ritter’s arms shriveled into fins. His legs melted together, 
melted into a fish tail. 

He flopped on the deck. One flat eye stared glassily up at us as he 
flapped his tail. 

“He’s a fish!” Sheena cried. “I don’t believe it!” 

With one great flip of his tail, the fish plopped over the side of the 
deck and into the water. 

We watched him as he dove under the surface. 

“Stop him!” I shouted. “He’s getting away! We can’t let him 
escape!” I started for my snorkeling flippers. 

But Dr. D. squeezed my shoulder. “No, Billy. It’s okay. Let him 
go.” 

“Huh? Why?” 

“You heard what he told us, Billy. Dr. Ritter will be a fish 
forever,” Dr. D. explained. “He can’t do anyone any harm now.” 

I stared down at the silvery fish. It splashed its tail in the water 
and swam out to sea. 

“Wow,” Sheena gasped, pressing her hands against her cheeks. 

Dr. D. put his arms around us. “I guess that adventure is over,” he 
sighed. “I was never so scared in my life.” 

Sheena and I agreed. “I’m scared—and amazed,” I told my uncle. 
“TIl never forget the strange things we saw this week.” 

We followed Dr. D. down to help him prepare breakfast. He 
stopped in his lab. 

“What a mess,” he sighed. “I guess TIl clean it up later.” 


Sheena walked over to the cabinet of plankton bottles. She turned 
to me and narrowed her eyes at me. “Hey, Billy—you drank a bottle of 
plankton too.” 

I shrugged. “Yeah. So?” 

“So why didn’t you turn into a fish like Dr. Ritter did?” she 
demanded. 

“You know why,” I teased. 

“I do not.” 

“Yes, you do. It’s because I’m not human. I’m superhuman.” 

She punched me in the stomach. “Come on. Tell me the real 
reason.” 

Dr. D. folded his arms across his chest. “Yes, Billy. Tell us. Pd be 
interested to hear this.” 

I grinned. “Well, it’s all thanks to you, Sheena.” 

“Me?” 

“Uh-huh. I was really angry after you played that trick on me. 
You know, the doll’s head in the goldfish bowl?” 

Sheena giggled. 

“Ha-ha. Hilarious. Anyway, I spent all day and all night trying to 
think up a good trick to play on you. To get you back.” 

“That’s all you ever do, Billy,” Sheena said. “What’s so different 
about that?” 

I tapped the cabinet. “I had a great idea. I took one of the 
plankton bottles and dumped the plankton out.” 

Dr. D. grimaced. “You what?” 

“Sorry, Dr. D.,” I said. “I figured you had so many, you wouldn’t 
miss one.” 

“T still don’t get it,” Sheena said. “Then what?” 

“I washed out the bottle. Then I poured iced tea into it,” I 
explained. “I was going to bring you in here and say, ‘Hey, Sheena! 
Want to see me drink plankton?’ Then I’d gulp down the iced tea and 
totally gross you out!” 

“That wouldn’t have grossed me out,” Sheena protested. 

“Yes, it would!” I insisted. “You would’ve puked all over the cabin 
floor!” 

“No, I wouldn’t!” 

Dr. D. interrupted us. “You planted a bottle of iced tea in the 
plankton cabinet? So when Dr. Ritter told you to choose a bottle...” 

“Right!” I cried. “I picked the bottle of iced tea!” 

Sheena laughed. She laughed so hard, she almost choked. 

“I know it’s funny,” I said. “But even I don’t think it’s that funny.” 

She hiccupped and caught her breath. “I don’t believe it,” she 


gasped. “You and I are starting to think alike, Billy.” 

“What do you mean?” 

“I played the same trick on you!” she cried. “The exact same 
trick! I put iced tea in a bottle too. Watch!” 

She pulled a bottle from an end of the cabinet, ripped off the 
stopper, and gulped it down. 

Dr. D. and I gaped at her in shock. 

Sheena made a weird face. Her eyes bulged. She grabbed her 
stomach. 

“Oh, wow,” she groaned. “Did I drink the right bottle?” 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

Skip to main content

 Wayback Machine  Texts  Video  Audio  Software  Images  Donate  More
Upload files
My uploads
My loans
My favorites
My lists
My collections
My web archives
Account settings
Get help
Log out
 Search metadata
 Search text contents
 Search TV news captions
 Search radio transcripts
 Search archived web sites
Advanced Search
Full text of "All 62 Goosebumps novels"
See other formats
R.L. STINE 


WEREWOLF SKIN 


mMSCHOLASTIC ARS PARACHUTE 


WEREWOLF SKIN 


Goosebumps - 60 
R.L. Stine 
(An Undead Scan v1.5) 


I stepped down from the bus and squinted into the sunlight. Shielding 
my eyes with one hand, I searched the small parking lot for Uncle 
Colin and Aunt Marta. 

I didn’t remember what they looked like. I hadn’t seen them since 
I was four, eight years ago. 

But the Wolf Creek bus station was so tiny. Just a little wooden 
shack in the middle of a big parking lot. I knew I couldn’t miss them. 

“How many suitcases?” the bus driver growled out of the side of 
his mouth. Despite the cold October air, he had a damp sweat stain on 
the back of his gray uniform. 

“Just one,” I said. I was the only passenger to get off at Wolf 
Creek. 

Across from the bus station, I saw a gas station and a one-block 
stretch of small stores. Beyond that, I could see the woods. The trees 
shimmered yellow and brown, the autumn leaves still clinging to their 
branches. Dry, brown leaves fluttered across the parking lot. 

The driver grunted as he hoisted up the sliding door to the 
baggage compartment. He pulled out a black bag. “This yours, kid?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. Thanks.” 

I shivered from a gust of cold wind. I wondered if Mom and Dad 
had packed enough warm clothes for me. They’d had to pack me up in 
such a hurry. 

They weren’t expecting to be called out of the country on business 
just before Halloween. They’d had to fly to France. And they’d had to 
find a place for me to stay for two weeks. Maybe longer. 

My aunt and uncle were the lucky winners! 

I adjusted the camera bag on my shoulder. I kept my camera on 
my lap the whole bus ride. I didn’t want it bouncing around in the 
baggage compartment. 

My camera is the most valuable thing I own. I don’t go anywhere 
without it. And I seldom let it out of my sight. 

The driver slid my suitcase over the pavement to me. He slammed 
shut the baggage compartment. Then he started back into the bus. 
“Someone picking you up?” 

“Yes,” I replied, searching for Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta again. 

A mud-splattered blue van squealed into the parking lot. The horn 
honked. I saw a hand waving to me from the passenger window. 

“There they are!” I told the bus driver. But he had already 


climbed back inside and shut the door. The bus hissed and groaned, 
and pulled away. 

“Alex—hi!” Aunt Marta called from the van. 

I picked up my suitcase and trotted over to them. The van 
screeched to a stop. Uncle Colin climbed out from behind the wheel. 
Aunt Marta came running from the other side. 

I didn’t remember them at all. I pictured them as young and dark- 
haired. But they were both pretty old-looking. They were both very 
tall and lean. As they hurried across the lot to me, they reminded me 
of two skinny grasshoppers with tufts of gray hair on their heads. 

Aunt Marta wrapped me in a hug. Her arms felt so bony. “Alex— 
it’s so wonderful to see you! I’m so glad you came!” she exclaimed. 

She let go quickly and backed away. “Uh-oh. Im crushing your 
camera case!” 

I shifted it around my neck. “No, it’s a hard case,” I replied. “It’s 
okay.” 

Smiling, Uncle Colin shook hands with me. His wavy gray hair 
fluttered in the breeze. His cheeks were red and sort of cracked. Age 
lines, I guess. 

“You’re so big and grown-up,” he said, “I’m going to have to call 
you Mr. Hunter instead of Alex.” 

I laughed. “No one calls me Mr. Hunter—yet,” I told him. 

“How was the long bus ride?” he asked. 

“Bumpy,” I told him. “I don’t think the driver missed a single 
pothole! And the man next to me had the hiccups the whole way.” 

Aunt Marta chuckled. “Sounds like a fun trip.” 

Uncle Colin lowered his eyes to my camera case. “Like to take 
pictures, Alex?” 

I nodded. “Yes. I want to be a photographer someday. Just like 
you two.” 

Their smiles grew wider. That seemed to please them. 

But Uncle Colin’s smile faded quickly. “It’s a hard way to make a 
living,” he said. “Lots of traveling. We never stay in one place for 
long.” 

Aunt Marta sighed. “That’s why we haven’t seen you for so many 
years.” She hugged me again. 

“I was hoping maybe I could go out on a shoot with you,” I said. 
“TIl bet you two could teach me a lot!” 

Uncle Colin laughed. “We’ll teach you all our secrets.” 

“You're staying for at least two weeks,” Aunt Marta added. “So 
we'll have plenty of time for photography lessons.” 

“Not if we spend the whole time in this parking lot!” Uncle Colin 
declared. With a groan, he hoisted my suitcase into the back of the 


van. 

We climbed in. And a few seconds later, we pulled away from the 
bus station, into town. 

A post office whirred past. Then a small grocery and a dry 
cleaner. We crossed a street, and thick woods surrounded us on both 
sides. 

“Ts that all there is?” I cried. 

“Alex,” Aunt Marta replied, “you’ve just had the grand tour of 
Wolf Creek.” 

“Hope you won’t be bored in such a tiny town,” Uncle Colin 
added, turning the van sharply as the road curved through the trees. 

“No way!” I cried. “I really want to explore the woods.” 

I’m a city kid. I seldom even get to touch a tree. Going into the 
woods, I thought, will be so interesting—like visiting another planet. 

“I want to shoot a hundred rolls of film in the woods!” I declared. 
The van bumped hard, sending my head bouncing against the van 
roof. 

“Slow down, Colin!” Aunt Marta scolded. She turned back to me. 
“Your uncle only knows one speed—light speed.” 

“Speaking of light, we’ll show you some tricks for shooting 
outdoors,” Uncle Colin said, pressing his foot even harder on the gas 
pedal. 

‘Tve entered a photography contest back home,” I told them. “I 
want to snap a great Halloween photo. Something really wild to win 
the contest.” 

“Oh, that’s right. Halloween’s only a couple days off,” Aunt Marta 
said, glancing at my uncle. She turned back to me. “What do you want 
to be for Halloween, Alex?” 

I didn’t have to think about it. Pd already decided back home. 

“A werewolf,” I told her. 

“NO!” she screamed. 

Uncle Colin also let out a cry. 

The van plowed through a stop sign. I flew off the seat and hit the 
door hard. And stared helplessly through the bouncing windshield—as 
we swerved into the path of a roaring truck. 


“AAAAATIIIT!” 

Was that me screaming? 

Our van rocked hard. I bounced again. Landed on my knees on 
the floor. 

Uncle Colin swerved onto the grassy shoulder. 

I saw a blur of red—and heard the truck roar past. Its horn blared 
angrily. 

Uncle Colin slowed to a stop under the trees. His wrinkled face 
had turned red. He swept both hands back over his thick gray hair. 

“Colin, what happened?” Aunt Marta asked softly. 

“Sorry,” he muttered. He took a deep breath. “Guess I just wasn’t 
concentrating.” 

Aunt Marta tsk-tsked. “Nearly got us killed.” She turned in the 
passenger seat to gaze at me. “Alex—you okay?” 

“Yes. Pm fine,” I told her. “I didn’t expect it to be so exciting 
here!” I tried to make a joke. But my voice came out kind of shaky. 

My camera case had fallen to the floor. I picked it up, opened it, 
and checked out the camera. It seemed okay. 

Uncle Colin shifted into Drive and pulled the van back onto the 
road. “Sorry about that,” he murmured. “Pll be more careful. 
Promise.” 

“You were thinking about the Marlings again—weren’t you?” 
Aunt Marta accused him. “When Alex said werewolf, you started 
thinking about them, and—” 

“Be quiet, Marta!” Uncle Colin snapped. “Don’t talk about them 
now. Alex just arrived. Do you want to scare him before we even get 
home?” 

“Huh? Who are the Marlings?” I demanded, leaning to the front. 

“Never mind,” Uncle Colin replied sharply. “Sit back.” 

“They’re not important,” Aunt Marta said. She turned to the 
windshield. “Hey—we’re almost home.” 

The sky seemed to darken. The old trees grew over the narrow 
road, their leaves blocking the sunlight. 

Watching the blur of red and yellow as the woods swept past, I 
thought hard. My aunt and uncle were certainly acting a little strange, 
I decided. I wondered why Uncle Colin had snapped at my aunt so 
angrily when she’d mentioned the Marlings. 

“Why do they call it Wolf Creek?” I asked. 


“Because the name Chicago was already taken!” Aunt Marta 
joked. 

“There used to be wolves in the woods,” Uncle Colin explained 
softly. 

“Used to be!” my aunt exclaimed. She lowered her voice to a 
whisper, but I could still hear her. “Why don’t you tell Alex the truth, 
Colin?” 

“Be quiet!” he repeated through clenched teeth. “Why do you 
want to scare him?” 

Aunt Marta turned to the passenger window. We drove on in 
silence for a while. 

The road curved, and a small circle came into view. Three houses 
stood nearly side by side on the circle. I could see the woods 
stretching on behind the houses. 

“That’s our house—in the middle,” Uncle Colin announced, 
pointing. 

I gazed out at it. A small, square white house on top of a neat, 
recently mowed front lawn. A long, low, ranch-style house—gray with 
black shutters—stood to the right. 

The house on the left was nearly hidden by overgrown bushes. 
Tall weeds rose up over the patchy front yard. A broken tree branch 
lay in the middle of the driveway. 

Uncle Colin pulled the van up the driveway to the middle house. 
“It’s small—but we’re not here that often,” he said. 

Aunt Marta sighed. “Always traveling.” 

She turned to me again. “There’s a nice girl who lives next door.” 
She pointed to the ranch-style house on the right. “She’s twelve. Your 
age, right?” 

I nodded. 

“Her name is Hannah. She’s very cute. You should make friends 
with her so you won't be lonely.” 

Cute? 

“Any boys in the neighborhood?” I asked. 

“I don’t think so,” my aunt replied. “Sorry.” 

My uncle stopped the van at the top of the driveway. We climbed 
out. I stretched my arms over my head. All my muscles ached. I’d been 
sitting for over six hours! 

I glanced at the gray shingle house on the right. Hannah’s house. I 
wondered if she and I would become friends. 

Uncle Colin unloaded my suitcase from the back of the van. 

I turned to the house on the left. What a wreck! The house was 
totally dark. Some shutters had fallen off. Part of the front porch had 
caved in. 


I crossed the driveway and took a few steps closer to the weird, 
run-down house. “Who lives there?” I asked my aunt. 

“Stay away from there, Alex!” Uncle Colin screamed. “Don’t ask 
questions about them! Just stay away from that house!” 


“Calm down, Colin,” Aunt Marta told my uncle. “Alex isn’t going over 
there.” 

She turned to me. “The Marlings live in that house,” she said, 
lowering her voice to a whisper. She raised a finger to her lips. “No 
more questions—okay?” 

“Just stay away from there,” Uncle Colin growled. “Come help me 
unload the car.” 

I took one last glance at the run-down wreck of a house. Then I 
trotted over to help my uncle. 

It didn’t take long to unpack. Aunt Marta helped me in the guest 
room while Uncle Colin made us turkey sandwiches in the kitchen. 

My room was small and narrow, about the size of my closet back 
home. The tiny closet smelled of mothballs. But Aunt Marta said the 
odor would go away if we left the closet door and the window open. 

I crossed the tiny room to open the window. And saw that it faced 
the Marlings’ house next door. A rusted wheelbarrow tilted against the 
Marlings’ side wall. The windows were dark and coated with dust. 

I squinted into the window across from mine—and thought about 
Uncle Colin’s shouted warning. 

Why was he so worried about the Marlings? 

I raised the window and turned back to my aunt. She tucked the 
last of my T-shirts into the top dresser drawer. “The room is small. But 
I think you’ll be cozy here, Alex,” she said. “And I cleared all the junk 
off the desktop so you’ll have a place to do homework.” 

“Homework?” I uttered. 

Then I remembered. I’d promised to go to the local school for the 
weeks I stayed in Wolf Creek. 

“Hannah will take you to school Monday morning,” Aunt Marta 
promised. “She is in sixth grade too. She’ll show you around.” 

I didn’t want to think about going to a strange school. I picked up 
my camera. “I can’t wait to get into the woods and take some shots,” I 
told my aunt. 

“Why don’t you go after lunch?” she suggested. Straightening her 
gray hair, she led the way through the short hall to the kitchen. 

“All moved in?” Uncle Colin asked. He was pouring orange juice 
into three glasses. The sandwiches were set out on the small, round 
kitchen table. 

Before I could answer him, we heard a hard knock on the back 
door. Aunt Marta opened it, and a girl about my age walked in. 


Hannah. 

Hannah was tall and thin, an inch or two taller than me. Aunt 
Marta was right. Hannah was kind of cute. She had straight black hair, 
olive-green eyes, and a nice smile. She wore a big green sweater 
pulled down over black tights. 

Aunt Marta introduced us. We both said, “Hi.” 

I hate meeting new people. It’s always so awkward. 

Aunt Marta asked Hannah if she’d like a turkey sandwich. “No, 
thanks,” Hannah replied. “I already ate lunch.” 

I liked her voice. It was real low and husky. Kind of hoarse. 

“Alex just arrived on the bus,” Aunt Marta told her. “That’s why 
we're having such a late lunch.” 

I gobbled my sandwich down in a few seconds. I guess I didn’t 
realize how hungry I was. 

“Hannah, why don’t you and Alex do some exploring in the 
woods?” Uncle Colin suggested. “He’s a city kid. You’ll have to show 
him what a tree is!” 

Everyone laughed. 

“T’ve seen lots of them in movies!” I joked. 

Hannah had a great, husky laugh. 

“I want to take a million photos,” I told her, grabbing my camera 
case. 

“You’re into photography?” Hannah asked. “Just like your aunt 
and uncle?” 

I nodded. 

“I hope you have color film,” Hannah said. “The fall leaves are 
really awesome now.” 

We said good-bye to Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta and headed out 
the front door. A red afternoon sun was sinking behind the trees. It 
made our shadows stretch long and skinny over the grass. 

“Hey—you’re stepping on my shadow!” Hannah protested, 
grinning. She swung her leg to make her shadow kick my shadow. 

“Ow!” I cried. I swung my fist, and my shadow slugged her 
shadow. 

We had a good shadow fight, punching and kicking. Finally, she 
stomped on my shadow with both of her sneakers. And I dropped to 
the ground, making my shadow slump over the grass in a dead faint. 

As I sat up, Hannah had her head tossed back, laughing. Her 
straight black hair blew wildly around her face. 

I pulled my camera from the case and quickly snapped a photo of 
her. 

She stopped laughing. And straightened her hair with both hands. 
“Hey—why did you do that?” 


I shrugged. “Just wanted to.” 

I climbed to my feet and raised the camera to my eye. I turned 
and pointed it toward the Marlings’ house next door. I took a few 
steps toward the house, trying to frame it in my viewfinder. 

“Hey—!” I cried out as Hannah grabbed my arm. 

“Alex—don’t take a picture!” she warned in a throaty whisper. 
“They’ll see you!” 

“So what?” I shot back. But I felt a shiver as I saw something 
move in the dark front window. 

Was someone staring out at us? 

I lowered my camera. 

“Come on, Alex.” Hannah tugged me toward the back. “Are we 
going into the woods or not?” 

I squinted up at the Marlings’ house. “Why was my uncle so upset 
when I asked about that house?” I asked Hannah. “What’s the big 
deal?” 

“I don’t really know,” she replied, dropping my arm. “The 
Marlings are supposed to be a weird old couple. I’ve never seen them. 
But... I’ve heard stories about them.” 

“What kind of stories?” I demanded. 

“Frightening stories,” she whispered. 

“No. Really. What kind of stories?” I insisted. 

She didn’t answer. Her olive-green eyes narrowed at the broken 
porch, the faded, stained shingles. “Let’s just stay away from there, 
Alex.” 

She started jogging along the side of the house toward the 
backyard. But I didn’t follow her. I crossed the driveway and stepped 
into the tall weeds of the Marlings’ front yard. 

“Alex—stop! Where are you going?” Hannah called. 

Holding my camera at my waist, I made my way quickly up to the 
house. “I’m a city kid,” I told Hannah. “I don’t scare easily.” 

“Alex, please—” Hannah pleaded. “The Marlings don’t like kids. 
They don’t like anyone coming up to their house. Please. Let’s go to 
the woods.” 

I stepped up carefully onto the rotting floorboards of the front 
porch. I raised my eyes to the front window. 

The reflection of the setting, red sun filled the glass. For a 
moment, it appeared that the window was on fire. 

I had to look away. 

Then, as the sunlight faded from the window-pane, I turned back 
—and gasped. 

Inside the house, the window curtains were slashed and torn. 


As if some kind of animal had clawed them, clawed them to 
shreds. 


“Hannah—did you see this?” I called. I couldn’t take my eyes off the 
shredded curtains. 

She stood across the driveway, leaning her back against my aunt 
and uncle’s house. “I don’t want to come over there,” she said softly, 
folding her arms over her chest. 

“But the curtains—” I started. 

“I told you they’re weird,” Hannah said sharply. “And they don’t 
like kids gawking through their windows. Come on, Alex.” 

I backed away from the Marlings’ house. My shoe caught on a 
raised floorboard of the rotting porch, and I nearly fell. 

“Are we going to the woods or not?” Hannah asked impatiently. 

“Sorry.” I pulled my shoe free and followed her toward the back. 
“Tell me more about the Marlings,” I said, jogging to catch up to her. 
“Tell me some of the frightening stories you heard about them.” 

“No way,” Hannah replied in her breathy voice. 

We trotted across my aunt and uncle’s backyard. The tall yellow 
and red trees of the woods, tilting in afternoon shadows, stretched 
beyond the smooth lawn. 

“Please?” I begged. 

“Maybe in a few days, after Halloween,” Hannah replied. “After 
the full moon.” 

I followed Hannah’s gaze to the sky. A bright white moon— 
almost round as a tennis ball—rose over the trees, even though it was 
still daylight. 

Hannah shuddered. “I hate when the full moon comes,” she said. 
“TIL be so happy when it’s gone.” 

“Why?” I demanded. “What’s the big deal about a full moon?” 

She gazed back at the Marlings’ house. And didn’t reply. 


We made our way through the trees. The fading sunlight filtered 
through the leaves, sending shimmering spots of gold over the ground. 
Our shoes crackled over twigs and dead leaves. 

I found a gnarled old tree, bent over like an old man. The bark 
was pitted and wrinkled like aged brown skin. Fat gray roots reached 
up from the dirt. 

“Wow! This is so cool!” I declared, pulling my camera from the 
case. 

Hannah laughed. “You really are a city kid.” 


“But—look at this tree!” I declared. “It’s like—it’s like it’s alive!” 

She laughed again. “Trees are alive, Alex!” 

“You know what I mean,” I grumbled. 

I started to snap photos of the bent, old tree. I stepped back and 
leaned against a tilted birch tree. I tried to frame the old tree so that 
its shape looked human. 

Then I moved all around the tree, photographing its creases, its 
wrinkles. I shot one slender branch that lowered itself to the ground 
like a weary arm. 

I dropped down to my knees and snapped the roots reaching up 
from the ground like skinny legs. 

A soft buzz made me raise my gaze. A hummingbird hovered over 
a flowering weed. I turned and tried to capture the tiny bird in my 
camera lens. 

But the hummingbird was too fast for me. It darted away before I 
could snap my shutter. 

I climbed to my feet. Hannah was sitting cross-legged on the 
ground, crunching dead leaves between her hands. 

“Doesn’t that hummingbird know summer is over?” I murmured. 

She stared at me blankly, as if she had forgotten I was there. “Oh. 
Sorry, Alex. I didn’t see it.” She climbed to her feet. 

“What happens if you keep going straight?” I asked, pointing 
deeper into the woods. 

“You come to Wolf Creek,” Hannah replied. “Pll show you the 
creek next time. But we’d better get going. We should get out of the 
woods before the sun goes down.” 

I suddenly thought of the wolves Uncle Colin had told me about. 
The wolves that gave Wolf Creek its name. 

“The wolves that used to live here in these woods,” I said. 
“They’re all gone—right?” 

Hannah nodded. “Yes. They’re gone.” 

And then a shrill howl rose up—so close, so close behind me. The 
high, shrill wail of a wolf. 

And I opened my mouth in a terrified scream. 


I stumbled back against the birch tree. My camera banged against the 
trunk, but I didn’t drop it. 

“Hannah—?” I choked out. Her eyes were wide with surprise. 

But before she could reply, two boys burst out from behind a tall 
evergreen shrub. They tossed back their heads and howled like 
wolves. 

“Hey—you guys!” Hannah exclaimed, making a disgusted face. 

They were both short and thin, both with straight black hair and 
dark brown eyes. They finished their howls, then gazed at me, gazed 
at me hungrily, like wolves. 

“Did we scare you?” one of them teased, his dark eyes flashing 
excitedly. He wore a dark brown sweater pulled down over black 
denim jeans. He had a long purple wool muffler wrapped around his 
neck. 

“You two always scare me!” Hannah joked. “Your faces give me 
nightmares!” 

The other boy wore a baggy gray sweatshirt and baggy khakis 
that dragged on the ground. He tossed back his head and let out 
another shrill wolf howl. 

Hannah turned to me. “They’re in my class,” she explained. “That 
one is Sean Kiner.” She pointed to the boy with the purple muffler. 
“And he’s Arjun Khosla.” 

“Arjun?” I struggled with the name. 

“Tt’s Indian,” he explained. 

“Hannah told us you were coming,” Sean said, grinning. 

“You're a city kid, right?” Arjun asked. 

“Well, yeah. Cleveland,” I murmured. 

“So how do you like Wolf Creek?” Arjun asked. It didn’t sound 
like a question. It sounded like a challenge. 

They both stared at me with their dark eyes, studying me as if I 
were some kind of weird fungus. 

“I— just got here,” I stammered. 

They exchanged glances. “There are some things you should know 
about the woods,” Sean said. 

“Like what?” I asked. 

He pointed to my feet. “Like you shouldn’t stand in a big clump of 
poison ivy!” 

“Huh?” I jumped back. And stared at the ground. 


They both laughed. 

There wasn’t any poison ivy. 

“You guys are about as funny as dog puke,” Hannah sneered. 

“You ought to know. You eat it for breakfast!” Sean replied. 

He and Arjun laughed and slapped each other a high five. 

Hannah sighed. “Remind me to laugh later,” she muttered, rolling 
her eyes. 

For some reason, that started the two boys howling again. 

When they stopped, Sean reached for my camera. “Can I see it?” 

“Well...” I pulled back. “It’s a very expensive camera,” I told him. 
“T really don’t like anyone else touching it.” 

“Ooooh. Expensive!” he teased. “Is it cardboard? Let me see it!” 
He grabbed for it again. 

“Take my picture,” Arjun demanded. He pulled his lips apart with 
two fingers and stuck out his tongue. 

“That’s an improvement!” Hannah told him. 

“Take my picture!” Arjun repeated. 

“Give Alex a break,” Hannah snapped. “Get out of his face, you 
two.” 

Arjun pretended to be hurt. “Why won’t he take my picture?” 
“Because he doesn’t take animal photos!” Hannah sneered. 

Sean laughed—and snatched the camera from my hands. 
“Hey—come on!” I pleaded. I made a grab for it and missed. 

Sean tossed the camera to Arjun. Arjun raised it and pretended to 
snap Hannah’s photo. “Your face cracked the lens!” he exclaimed. 

“I’m going to crack your face!” Hannah threatened. 

“It’s a really expensive camera,” I repeated. “If anything happens 
to it—” 

Hannah swiped the camera out of Arjun’s hands and handed it 
back to me. 

I cradled it in my arms. “Thanks.” 

The two boys moved toward me menacingly. Their dark eyes 
gleamed. Again, watching them approach, their faces so hard, their 
eyes so cold, I thought of wild animals. 

“Leave him alone,” Hannah scolded. 

“We're just goofing,” Arjun replied. “We weren’t going to hurt the 
camera.” 

“Yeah. We’re just kidding around,” Sean added. “What’s your 
problem?” 

“No problem,” I replied, still cradling the camera. 

Arjun raised his eyes to the darkening sky. Through the trees I 
could see only gray. “It’s getting kind of late,” Arjun murmured. 


Sean’s smile faded. “Let’s get out of here.” His eyes darted around 
the woods. Shadows deepened, and the air grew colder. 

“They say some kind of wild creatures are loose in the woods,” 
Arjun said softly. 

“Arjun—give us a break,” Hannah groaned, rolling her eyes. 

“No. Really,” Arjun insisted. “Some kind of creature tore off a 
deer’s head. Tore it clean off.” 

“We saw it,” Sean reported. His dark eyes glowed excitedly in the 
dimming light. “It was so gross!” 

“The deer’s eyes stared up at us,” Arjun added. “And bugs 
crawled out of its open neck.” 

“Yuck!” Hannah exclaimed, covering her mouth with one hand. 
“You’re making this up—right?” 

“No. I’m not.” Sean glanced up at the moon. 

“Its almost a full moon. The full moon makes all the strange 
creatures come out of hiding,” he continued, speaking so softly, his 
voice just above a whisper. “Especially at Halloween. And the moon 
will be completely full that night.” 

I shivered. The back of my neck tingled. I suddenly felt cold all 
over. 

Was it the wind? Or Sean’s frightening words? 

I pictured the deer head lying on the ground. 

Pictured the shiny black eyes staring up blankly, lifelessly. 

“What are you going to be for Halloween?” Arjun asked Hannah. 

She shrugged. “I don’t know. I haven’t decided yet.” 

He turned to me. “Do you know what you want to be, Alex?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. I want to be a werewolf.” 

Arjun uttered a near-silent gasp. The two boys exchanged glances. 

Their smiles faded. Their faces turned solemn. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. 

No reply. 

“Hey—what’s wrong?” I repeated. 

Arjun lowered his gaze to the ground. “We have enough 
werewolves in Wolf Creek,” he murmured. 

“What do you mean?” I cried. “Come on, guys—what do you 
mean by that?” 

But they didn’t answer. 

Instead, they turned and vanished into the woods. 


Aunt Marta invited Hannah to stay for dinner. The four of us squeezed 
around the small kitchen table and spooned up big bowls of steaming 
chicken soup. 

“You make the best soup!” Hannah told my aunt. 

Aunt Marta smiled. A little broth dripped down her chin. She 
reached for her napkin. “Thank you, Hannah. I just throw everything 
in it I can find.” 

“Sorry we were late for dinner,” I said. “I lost track of time. I 
didn’t want to leave the woods. It was so interesting.” 

Uncle Colin’s eyes moved to the kitchen window. He stared up at 
the rising moon. Then he lowered his gaze to the Marlings’ house next 
door. 

“I photographed an awesome-looking tree,” I told him. “It was 
wrinkled and bent over like an old man.” 

Uncle Colin didn’t reply. His eyes were still focused out the 
window. 

“Colin—Alex is talking to you,” Aunt Marta scolded. 

“Huh? Oh.” He turned back to the table, shaking his head as if 
shaking away his thoughts. “Sorry. What were you saying?” 

I told him again about the old tree. 

“TIl help you develop those shots,” he offered. “Maybe tomorrow. 
I set up a darkroom in the little bathroom in the attic. We really need 
a bigger house. Especially with all the work we’ve been doing lately.” 

“What are you photographing now?” I asked. 

“Creatures of the night,” he replied. His eyes wandered to the 
window again. I followed his gaze to the Marlings’ back window. 
Totally dark. 

“We’re photographing nocturnal animals,” Aunt Marta explained. 
“Animals that come out only at night.” 

“You mean like owls?” Hannah asked. 

Aunt Marta nodded. “We’ve found some wonderful owls in the 
woods—haven’t we, Colin?” 

Uncle Colin turned back from the window. Silvery light from the 
full moon washed over the windowpane. “The night creatures don’t 
like to be photographed,” he said, spooning up a carrot and chewing it 
slowly. “They are very private.” 

“Sometimes we wait in one spot for hours,” my aunt added. 
“Waiting for a creature to poke its head up from its hole in the 


ground.” 

“Can I come with you one night?” I asked eagerly. “I can be real 
quiet. Really.” 

Uncle Colin swallowed a chunk of chicken. “That’s a fine idea,” 
he said. But then his expression grew solemn. And he added, “Maybe 
after Halloween.” 

I turned and saw Aunt Marta staring out at the Marlings’ house. 
“The moon is still low,” she said thoughtfully. “But it’s so bright 
tonight.” 

“Almost like daylight out there,” Uncle Colin said. What was that 
expression that quickly passed over his face? Was it fear? 

My aunt and uncle are both acting so weird tonight, I decided. So 
nervous. 

Why do they keep staring out the window? What do they expect 
to see at the Marlings’ house? 

I couldn’t hold it in any longer. “Is everything okay?” I asked 
them. 

“Okay?” Uncle Colin narrowed his eyes at me. “I guess...” 

“Are you two thinking about your Halloween costumes?” Aunt 
Marta demanded, changing the subject. 

“I think I’m going to be a pirate again this year,” Hannah replied. 
She finished her chocolate milk and licked the chocolate syrup on the 
edge of the glass. “You know. Ill wrap a bandanna around my head 
and wear a patch over one eye.” 

“Colin and I might have some funny old clothes you can wear,” 
Aunt Marta offered. She turned to me. “How about you, Alex?” 

I still wanted to be a werewolf. But I remembered the last time I’d 
told that to my aunt and uncle. Uncle Colin had nearly cracked up the 
car! 

So I smiled and quietly told them, “Maybe I'll be a pirate too.” 

I spooned up the last of my soup. 

I had no way of knowing that in a few hours, when the moon rose 
to its peak in the sky, I’d be nearly face-to-face with a real werewolf. 


After Hannah went home, I made my way to my little bedroom. I 
straightened up a bit, shoving clothes into the dresser drawers. 

I’m not the neatest person in the world. Let’s face it—I’m a total 
slob. But I knew if I let the clutter pile up in this tiny room, I’d never 
find anything. 

I sat down at the desk and wrote a short letter to Mom and Dad. I 
told them everything was fine. I wrote that Pd have at least a 
thousand great photographs to show them when they came home from 
France. 

When I finished addressing the letter, I wasn’t feeling sleepy. But I 
decided I should probably go to bed, anyway. 

I started to the closet to find my pajamas. But I stopped at the 
window. 

And stared out at a pale orange light. 

A light in a side window of the Marlings’ house! 

The light shimmered between two tilting trees, their leaves 
vibrating in the wind. A pale orange rectangle of light on the bottom 
floor of the house, near the back. 

A bedroom window? 

I pressed closer to the glass and squinted hard into the darkness. 
Squinted into the dim rectangle of orange. 

Was I about to see one of the Marlings? I held my breath and 
waited. 

I didn’t have to wait long. 

I let out a gasp as a silhouette crossed the window next door. A 
gray figure caught in the rectangle of orange. 

Was it a man? 

I couldn’t tell. 

The silhouette moved. It’s an animal, I realized. 

No. A man. 

Mr. Marling? 

I pressed against the glass, squinting hard. Was it a large dog? A 
man? I couldn’t see clearly. 

The silhouette moved away from the window. 

And then I heard a long, high animal wail. 

The sound floated out through the window next door. Floated 
across the narrow space between our houses. 

The high, animal howl swept into my room. Swirled around me. 


Such an ugly, frightening sound. Half-human, half-animal. A cry I 
had never heard before. 

A chill rolled down my back. And then another. 

Another howl made me gasp. 

I stared out as the silhouette returned to the window. A creature 
with its head tilted back. Its jaws open, uttering such frightening 
animal cries. 

I’ve got to take a picture, I told myself. I’ve got to photograph the 
howling silhouette. 

I spun away from the window. Dove across the tiny room to the 
dresser. 

Reached for my camera. 

My camera? 

It was gone. 


“No—!” I uttered a shocked cry. 

My hands fumbled frantically over the desktop. 

I left the camera there. I knew I had. 

But no. No camera. 

My eyes swept around the room. I had just straightened up. 
Everything was in place. The desktop. The dresser. 

No camera. No camera. 

I dropped to my knees and searched under the bed. 

No camera. 

I crawled over to the closet. Pulled open the door. And searched 
the closet floor. 

As I searched, another wolf howl burst into my room. Higher. 
Shriller. 

And then I heard two howls together. The sirenlike wails blending 
in a strange, sour harmony. 

Was it Mr. and Mrs. Marling? 

As I climbed to my feet, I heard a scraping sound. Wood against 
wood. 

The sound of a window opening. 

I heard a heavy THUD. 

Feet landing hard on the ground. 

And then I heard low grunts. Heavy, thudding footsteps. 

Footsteps right outside my room! 

I dove back to the window. Breathlessly, my heart pounding, I 
stared out. 

Too late. 

No one out there now. 

All dark. The orange light gone from the Marlings’ window. The 
house completely covered in black again. 

The trees shaking, black against the blue-black sky. The leaves 
silvery, shimmering under the bright light of the moon. 

I stared out there for a long moment, waiting for my heart to stop 
racing. Listening for the high howls, the heavy, thudding footsteps. 

Silence now. 

My camera... 

I forced myself to turn away from the window. I hurried out of 
the room and down the short hall to the living room. Did I leave the 
camera case here when Hannah and I returned from the woods? 


No. No sign of it. 

I checked the kitchen. Not there, either. 

“Aunt Marta! Uncle Colin!” I called them. My voice came out 
tinier than I’d planned. 

I ran back down the hall. Past my room. Past the bathroom and 
the linen closet. Their room stood at the end. “Have you seen my 
camera anywhere?” I cried. 

I shoved open the door to their bedroom. 

Dark in there. Dark and empty. 

I could smell Aunt Marta’s flowery perfume. And the sharp odor 
of photo-developing fluid. 

They’ve gone out to the woods to photograph animals, I realized. 

I’m all alone here. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Calm down, Alex, I instructed 
myself. You’re perfectly okay. You’re perfectly safe. 

You will find your camera as soon as you get calm. It’s probably 
right out in plain sight. But you’re so crazy and pumped up, you can’t 
see it. Just calm down! 

I took another long, deep breath. I was starting to feel calmer. 

I closed my aunt and uncle’s bedroom door and started back 
down the hall. 

I was halfway to my room when I heard the soft, scraping sound. 

And then the thud of footsteps. 

I froze. And listened. 

More footsteps. Heavy thuds. 

Where were they coming from? 

Overhead? 

Yes. 

I peered up at the low ceiling. 

Another scraping sound. More thudding footsteps. They’re in the 
attic! I realized. Whatever those howling creatures are—they’re in the 
house! 


I dropped back against the wall. My whole body shook. 

I swallowed hard. And listened to the heavy footsteps above my 
head. 

I’ve got to get out of here! I told myself. I’ve got to get out of this 
house! 

I’ve got to tell Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta! 

But my legs felt like Jell-O. I didn’t know if I could walk. 

I took a shaky step. Then another. 

And then I heard a new sound from upstairs. 

I stopped and listened. 

Humming? Was someone humming? 

With a burst of energy, I grabbed the door to the attic. I pulled it 
open and shouted up the stairs, “Who’s up there? Who is it?” 

“Its me, Alex!” a familiar voice called down. 

“Hannah—?” I choked out. I stared up to the attic. “Wh-what are 
you doing up there?” 

“Didn’t your aunt tell you I came back?” Hannah called. 

“No, she didn’t,” I replied. 

“She said she had some old clothes up here that might make a 
good costume. So I came back to check it out.” 

Her head appeared at the top of the stairs. “Why do you sound so 
weird?” 

“I—I thought—” I began. But the words caught in my throat. 

I started up the stairs. 

“No—!” Hannah cried. “Don’t come up!” 

I stopped on the third step. “How come?” I called. 

‘Tm not dressed. I’m trying on stuff,” she explained. She smiled 
down at me. “Besides, I want to surprise you. There’s some awesome 
old stuff up here. Your aunt and uncle must have looked really weird 
when they were young.” 

Her head disappeared from view. I could hear the rustle of clothes 
up there. 

I backed down the stairs. “Hey—do you know where my camera 
is?” I asked. “I’ve looked all over the house, and—” 

“Oh, no!” Hannah groaned. Her head appeared again. This time 
she wasn’t smiling. 

“What?” I called up to her. 

“Your camera, Alex. Do you think maybe you left it in the 


woods?” 

I gasped. “I don’t know. I thought...” My voice trailed off. I had a 
sick, heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach. 

“You had it when Sean and Arjun left,” Hannah said. “But when 
we came back to the house, I don’t remember you carrying it.” 

“Oh, wow!” I shook my head. “I’ve got to go get it, Hannah. I 
can’t leave it overnight in the woods.” 

“No—!” she cried. “Alex, listen to me. You can’t go out there.” 

“T have to!” I cried. 

“But the woods aren’t safe at night,” she protested. “They really 
aren’t safe.” 

I turned away and ran down the hall. I pulled on my jacket and 
found a flashlight on the floor of the hall closet. I tested it a few times. 
The light was steady and bright. 

“PIL be back in a few minutes,” I shouted up to Hannah. 

“No—please, Alex!” I heard her call down. “Listen to me! Don’t go 
into the woods tonight! Wait for me to get dressed. Just wait for me— 
okay?” 

But I couldn’t leave my camera out there to be ruined. 

I closed the front door behind me and stepped out into the light 
of the moon. 


10 


I began trotting along the side of the house toward the backyard. 
Heavy black clouds covered the moon. The night air felt colder than 
Pd thought. Wet. I zipped my down jacket as I ran. 

I glanced at the Marlings’ house as I jogged past. Nothing to see 
there. The back window had been left wide open. But the house was 
completely dark. Not a light on anywhere. 

The grass was slick and wet from a heavy dew. I felt a splash of 
cold on my forehead. 

A raindrop? 

I groaned as I thought of my camera, sitting out in the woods. It 
was such an expensive camera. I prayed I could find it before it started 
to rain. 

Several tiny animals scampered silently past my feet. 

I stopped. 

No. Not animals. Fat, dead leaves. They scuttled over the dark 
grass, pushed by swirls of wind. 

I lowered my head under a tree branch and entered the woods at 
the back of the yard. The old trees shivered and creaked. 

The steady WHOO of an owl, far in the distance, made me think 
of my aunt and uncle. They were here with their cameras somewhere 
in the woods. I wondered if I would run into them. 

I followed the twisting path through the trees. Another raindrop 
fell heavily on the top of my head. Rain spattered the ground. 

I stopped when the bent tree came into view. The tree I had 
photographed with Hannah that afternoon. I played my flashlight over 
its curved shape. 

“At least I’m heading in the right direction,” I said out loud. 

I stepped over a fallen tree branch and moved deeper into the 
woods. The trees began to hiss, the leaves shaking in the rising wind. I 
could still hear the owl’s steady WHOO WHOO in the distance. 

My flashlight dimmed, then brightened again. Its thin circle of 
light made a path for me between the trees. 

“All right!” 

I cried out when the light swept over my camera case. I had set it 
down on a flat tree stump. How could I have forgotten it there? 

With another happy cry, I picked it up. I actually felt like hugging 
it. I was so happy to have it back. I checked it out carefully, turning it 
under the flashlight. 


I wiped away the few raindrops that clung to the top. Then, 
cradling it under one arm, I started back to the house. 

The rain had stopped, at least for a moment. I started to hum 
happily. I wanted to skip all the way home! 

The camera meant more to me than anything. I promised myself 
Pd never leave it anywhere again. 

I stopped humming when I heard the angry sound. 

An animal snarl. A fierce, throaty roar. 

I dropped the flashlight. 

The creature roared again. 

Where was it? Where was it coming from? 

Right behind me! 


11 


I bent and grabbed up the flashlight. My knees suddenly felt weak. A 
cold wave of panic swept over my body. 

I heard loud animal grunts. Another angry snarl. 

I forced myself to move. I had to get away from here. 

A clump of fat shrubs rose up in front of me. Clutching my 
camera case, I darted behind them. And dropped to my knees. 

Hidden behind the bushes, I struggled to catch my breath. To stop 
my heart from thudding so hard in my chest. 

I couldn’t see around the fat leaves of the bush. But I could hear 
the animal’s grunts and growls. I ducked lower, hoping I was 
completely out of view. 

Hoping it couldn’t smell me. 

And then I heard the crash of heavy feet on the ground. A high 
wail of anger, like a cry of attack. 

A frightened bleat rose up. So high and tiny. A terrified cry—cut 
off quickly. 

Snapped off. 

Leaning into the shrub, my legs trembling, my whole body 
shaking, I heard a struggle. 

So close. So close, I felt I could stand up—reach out—and touch 
the attacker and his prey. 

So close, I heard every grunt, every frightened cry. 

A thud. A growl. Another tiny, helpless bleat. 

A loud ripping sound. 

Wet chewing. The slap of jaws. More rapid chewing. An animal 
burp. Another ripping sound. 

I shut my eyes, picturing what was happening right in front of 
me. 

I heard a thud. Then silence. 

The hiss of the wind seemed to grow louder. 

A hiss... then silence. 

I opened my eyes. 

I stood up shakily. 

And heard heavy footsteps. Twigs and leaves crackling under 
heavy feet. 

The footsteps approaching rapidly. Coming my way. 

Coming for me. The creature—the hungry creature—was moving 
toward me. 


“Ohhhh.” A low cry of terror escaped my throat. 

Gripping the camera case tightly, I spun away from the clump of 
shrubs. And started to run. 

I heard animal grunts behind me. Heavy-breathing pants. 

I didn’t glance back. 

I ran deeper into the woods. I thought I heard the splash and 
trickle of a creek on my right. Wolf Creek? I didn’t stop to see. 

A branch scratched my cheek as I scrambled past it. Pain shot 
over my face. 

I raised one arm to shield myself as I ran. 

Ran blindly. Ran through the darkness. 

Where was the flashlight? 

Oh, no. I’d left it behind in the bushes. 

It was of no use to me, anyway. I was running too fast to keep to 
the path. 

I lowered my shoulder and pushed my way through a patch of tall 
reeds. They snapped back, slapping me wetly as I shot through them. 

My foot caught on a half-buried rock. I slid off it, somehow 
keeping my balance. 

I leaped over an upraised tree root—and kept running. 

Over the harsh gasps of my breath, I listened for the heavy, 
thudding footsteps behind me. The animal growls. 

Was the creature still chasing me? 

I grabbed a smooth, damp tree trunk and stopped. I hugged the 
trunk, struggling to keep my legs from collapsing, struggling to catch 
my breath. 

I turned and gazed back. 

Nothing there. 

No growls. No grunts. No bang of heavy feet on the ground. 

I sucked in breath after breath. My lungs burned. My mouth felt 
so dry, I couldn’t swallow. 

I’m okay, I told myself. I’m safe—for now. 

I gazed into the deep darkness. 

And the creature hit me from behind. 


12 


“Hunh—!” 

I uttered a startled groan. And dropped to the ground. 

I spun around to face my attacker. 

No one there. 

Nothing. 

“Huh?” A shocked cry escaped my lips. 

I started to scramble to my feet—and saw what had hit the back 
of my head. 

A bird’s nest. A dried-up, broken bird’s nest. It must have fallen 
from a tree limb above my head. Probably shaken loose by the gusts 
of wind. 

“Oh, wow.” I shook twigs from my hair. Then, cradling the 
camera case under my arm, I gazed around. 

Where was I? 

Trees up ahead slanted as if leaning against each other. A low 
mound of rocks stood at the edge of a ridge of tall reeds. 

I’m lost, I realized. 

I gazed up at the sky. No moon. The heavy rain clouds covered 
the moon and stars. 

How do I get back? I squinted into the darkness, searching for the 
path. Searching for anything I might recognize. 

Nothing. 

If I could find the creek, maybe I could find the spot where I 
found my camera, I decided. 

But which direction was the creek? 

I was completely turned around. 

I shivered. A cold raindrop spattered on the shoulder of my 
jacket. 

I jumped. That bird’s nest had made me terrified of things falling 
from the sky! 

What should I do? 

My mind whirred frantically with ideas. 

Should I call out for help? Shout to my aunt and uncle? Maybe if I 
called loud enough, they would hear me. 

But, no. If I shout, the animal—the snarling creature—will hear 
me first. 

Was it still searching for me? Was it still nearby? 

I decided I’d better not call for help. 


What should I do? What? 

Start walking in one direction? And just keep going no matter 
what? 

No. I remembered a book I’d read where a guy was lost in the 
desert. And he tried walking in a straight line. And he just made 
circles. He went around and around and didn’t even realize it until he 
saw his own footprints in the sand! 

Maybe I should wait until the sun comes up, I decided. PII never 
find my way in this darkness. When it’s daylight, PII have a much 
better chance. 

I didn’t like the idea of spending the night in the woods. But 
waiting here until I could see where I was going seemed like a good 
idea. 

But then I heard a clattering sound. And felt the rain start to 
pound down hard. A freezing rain, swept by gusting wind. 

I can’t stay here, I realized. 

I have to get back to the house. 

I walked and walked, trying to retrace my steps. I sighed with 
relief when I finally came to the clump of bushes where Pd hid. I 
found the flashlight and gripped it tightly in my free hand. 

I took a guess on which direction to go next. 

Ducking my head against the rain, I started to walk again. 

Less than a minute later, I stumbled over something. 

Something soft. 

I landed on my knees. Turned back to see what I had tripped 
over. 

And let out a cry of horror. 


13 


The flashlight trembled in my hand. The quivering light revealed an 
ugly picture. 

I gaped down at an animal body. No. Two. 

Two animals. 

What were they? I couldn’t tell. They’d been clawed to pieces. 

Completely ripped apart. 

I remembered the ripping sounds I’d heard. The sounds of these 
animals being torn apart. My stomach lurched. 

What kind of animal did this? 

What kind of animal was strong enough to tear other creatures 
apart? 

A chill ran down my back. 

I pulled myself to my feet. I forced myself to look away. 

The rain poured down. I shielded my camera case under my 
jacket—and started to run again. 

I had to get away from that ugly sight. Would I ever be able to 
forget it? 

The wind whipped the rain around me. I felt as if I were running 
through ocean waves. But I couldn’t stop. 

My fear kept me running. 

That fierce creature still lurked in these woods. Still growled and 
hunted, somewhere nearby. 

My sneakers were soaked. I slipped and slid in the soft mud. 

I’m not sure how long I ran. I stopped when I nearly ran right into 
the creek. Pounded by the rain, it splashed over its low bank. 

I turned and followed it, feeling a little more confident. After a 
while, I spotted a narrow path cut through the tilting trees. 

I turned onto the path. Would it lead me out of the woods? I had 
to try it. 

The rain slowed to a soft patter. My sneakers sank deep into the 
mud as I trotted along the curving path. 

Soon I came to the bent, old-man tree. 

“Yes!” I cried out loud. “Yes!” I waved my fist triumphantly in the 
air. I was almost home. 

I picked up my pace. A few minutes later, I burst out of the 
woods, into my aunt and uncle’s backyard. 

I was so happy! I wanted to fly! 

I couldn’t wait to get into the warm house. To pull off my soaked 


clothes and get into something dry. 

But I stopped in the middle of the backyard. 

And stared into the circle of yellow light from my flashlight. 

Stared down at the strange footprints in the wet grass. 

Deep, rutted footprints heading into the Marlings’ backyard. 

I bent into the light to see them better. They weren’t human 
footprints. They were too long and too wide and shaped differently 
from human feet or shoes. 

Animal footprints. 

Keeping the beam of light in front of me, I trailed the footprints, 
following them over the grass. 

Across the Marlings’ weed-choked backyard. 

I stopped when I saw where the strange footprints led. 

Right up to the Marlings’ open bedroom window. 


14 


When I came into the kitchen for breakfast the next morning, Aunt 
Marta was on the phone. She stood at the counter with her back to 
me. But she turned as I said good morning to my uncle, and flashed 
me an angry look. 

“Yes, I understand,” she said into the phone. “Well, it won’t 
happen again.” 

I took my place at the table beside Uncle Colin. He sipped from a 
white coffee mug, his eyes on Aunt Marta. 

“It won’t happen again,” my aunt repeated into the phone. She 
frowned. “Pll make sure he stays away. No. He wasn’t spying on you, 
Mr. Marling.” 

So that’s who she was talking to. 

Uncle Colin shook his head unhappily. “I warned you not to go 
near that place, Alex,” he said. “We don’t need those people calling 
over here.” 

“Sorry,” I murmured. “But—” 

I wanted to tell him about last night, about everything that had 
happened to me and everything ld seen. 

But he raised a finger to his lips, motioning for me to be silent 
while my aunt was on the phone. 

“No. My nephew wasn’t taking pictures of your house, Mr. 
Marling,” Aunt Marta continued. She rolled her eyes. “I promise. He 
won't bother you again. Pll talk to him right now. Yes. Okay. Good- 
bye.” 

She set down the receiver and turned to Uncle Colin with a sigh. 
“Those people,” she murmured. 

“We have to be careful,” Uncle Colin replied, narrowing his eyes 
at me. “We don’t want to get them worked up.” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. “I saw things—” 

“They saw you, Alex,” my aunt interrupted. “They saw you 
prowling around their house late last night. They are very angry about 
it.” 

She poured herself a mug of coffee and came over to the table. 
She sat down and swept a strand of gray hair off her forehead. 

“What were you doing outside last night?” my uncle asked. 

“Tm really sorry. But I had no choice. I left my camera out in the 
woods,” I explained. “I had to run out and get it. I couldn’t leave it out 
all night—especially with the rain.” 


“But you didn’t have to go near the Marlings’ house—did you?” 
Aunt Marta demanded. 

“I—I heard animal howls from inside their house!” I blurted out. 
“And I saw strange footprints going up to the bedroom window at the 
side.” 

Uncle Colin nodded calmly. He took a long sip of coffee. “The 
footprints were probably from their dogs,” he said, glancing at Aunt 
Marta. 

“Dogs?” I cried. 

They both nodded. “They have two huge German shepherds,” my 
aunt explained. “Mean as they come.” 

“And as big as wolves,” Uncle Colin added, shaking his head. He 
reached for a slice of toast and began to butter it. 

I sighed. I felt a little better. 

Two German shepherds. That explained the howls and the 
footprints in the wet grass. 

“Are you ready for school?” Aunt Marta asked. “Hannah will be 
here any minute.” 

‘Tm almost ready,” I replied. I gulped down a glass of orange 
juice. “When I was in the woods last night...” I started. 

They both stared at me. 

“I saw some animals that got ripped up. I mean, killed.” 

Uncle Colin nodded. “The woods are dangerous at night,” he said 
softly. 

“We really don’t want you out there at night, Alex,” Aunt Marta 
said. She pulled a piece of lint off the shoulder of my T-shirt. Then she 
tenderly brushed my hair back with her hand. “Promise us you won’t 
go again.” 

“Promise,” I murmured. 

“And promise that you'll stay away from the Marlings,” my uncle 
added. 

Before I could reply, the doorbell rang. Hannah came into the 
kitchen, weighted down under a bulging backpack. “Ready?” she 
asked. 

I nodded and shoved my chair back from the table. “Yeah. I guess 
I’m ready,” I told her. “This is so weird. Going to someone else’s 
school.” 

“You'll like my teacher, Mr. Shein,” Hannah replied. “He’s very 
interesting. And he’s really nice.” 

I grabbed my backpack and my jacket. We said good-bye to my 
aunt and uncle and headed out the front door. 

I glanced at the Marlings’ house as we made our way to the street. 
The bedroom window at the side had been closed, I saw. The house 


was dark as always. 

“Did you find your camera?” Hannah asked. 

I nodded. “Yeah. But it wasn’t easy.” I told her about my scary 
adventures. 

She tsk-tsked. “I warned you, Alex,” she said. “You wouldn’t catch 
me in the woods after dark.” 

A yellow school bus rumbled past. Some kids in the bus called out 
the window to Hannah. She waved back to them. 

The morning sun still floated low in the sky. A silvery frost clung 
to the lawns. The air felt crisp and cold. 

“One more block to school,” Hannah said. “Are you nervous?” 

I didn’t answer. I was thinking about the Marlings. I told Hannah 
about the howls I’d heard inside their house. “Uncle Colin says they 
have two German shepherds. Really big and really mean,” I told her. 

“No, they don’t,” Hannah replied sharply. 

I stopped walking. “Excuse me?” I cried. 

“The Marlings don’t have any dogs,” she repeated. “I’ve lived here 
as long as they have, and I’ve never seen them.” 

“Then why did my uncle tell me that?” I demanded. 

“So you won’t be scared,” Hannah replied. 

“I—I don’t understand,” I stammered. “If the Marlings don’t have 
dogs, what made those weird footprints outside their window?” 

Hannah shook her head. Her olive-green eyes locked onto mine. 
“Alex, don’t you get it?” she cried. “Haven’t you figured it out yet?” 

“Figured what out?” I asked. 

“The Marlings are werewolves!” Hannah declared. 


15 


Why is everyone in Wolf Creek obsessed with werewolves? I wondered. 

I laughed at Hannah and teased her the rest of the walk to school. 
I mean, how could anyone actually believe in werewolves today? 

“You’re only trying to scare me,” I told her. “But I don’t scare 
easily—remember? I saw one of the German shepherds. It was 
howling in the Marlings’ window.” 

Hannah shrugged. “Believe what you want to believe,” she 
murmured. 

“Don’t try to scare me with werewolves anymore,” I told her. 

But I had a surprise when we arrived at school. Even Mr. Shein, 
the sixth-grade teacher, wanted to talk about werewolves all morning! 

He was about forty, short, and chubby, with thinning brown hair 
and thick black eyeglasses perched on his round pink face. He wore a 
yellow sweater that made him resemble a ripe pear. 

But Hannah was right. He was very nice. Very friendly. He 
welcomed me eagerly and introduced me to the other sixth graders, 
and really made me feel at home. 

He assigned me a seat near the door in back. Hannah sat in the 
front row. 

I spotted Sean and Arjun near the windows on the other side of 
the classroom. They nodded, but didn’t say hi or anything. 

They both looked rumpled and kind of tired. Their baggy clothes 
were very wrinkled. Their hair was wild. They look as if they’d been 
up all night, I thought. 

Weird thought... 

After taking attendance and making a few announcements, Mr. 
Shein sat on the edge of his desk. His eyes traveled around the room. 
He waited for us to settle down. 

“Does anyone know what the study of lycanthropy is?” he asked. 
Behind his glasses, his dark eyes glowed. 

I had never heard the word. But to my surprise, several hands 
shot up. He called on Arjun. 

“Its about people changing into wolves,” Arjun said. 

“Werewolves!” Sean exclaimed. 

Mr. Shein nodded. “Yes. Werewolves,” he repeated. “That’s what 
lycanthropy is the study of.” He cleared his throat. “Since Halloween 
comes later this week, I thought we might spend some time discussing 
lycanthropy.” 


“There is going to be a full moon on Halloween night this year!” a 
tall, athletic-looking boy interrupted. 

“Yes, there is,” Mr. Shein agreed. “Many people believe a full 
moon is needed to bring the werewolf to life—but they are wrong. 
Although a werewolf’s powers do grow stronger as the moon grows 
fuller.” 

Crossing his legs, he leaned back and began to talk. He explained 
how the werewolf legends began over two hundred years ago in 
Europe. A normal person, bitten by a werewolf, becomes a werewolf 
himself when moonlight shines on him. 

“It is a curse that cannot be removed,” Mr. Shein said, speaking in 
a low, steady voice. Trying to sound spooky. “No matter how much he 
tries to live a normal life, a man inflicted with the curse turns into a 
wolf under the light of the moon.” 

“Girls too?” Hannah asked. 

Some kids giggled. 

“Yes. Girls too,” the teacher answered seriously. 

“The werewolf must rage and howl,” Mr. Shein continued. “And 
prowl the woods or forest in search of victims.” 

“Cool!” a red-haired boy in front of me muttered. 

Everyone laughed. 

“At daybreak, the werewolves must shed their wolf skin,” the 
teacher explained. “They return to human form. They must hide their 
wolf skin until the next night. They must hide the skin in a safe place. 
Because if someone takes the werewolf’s skin and burns it... the 
werewolf will die.” 

“Cool!” the red-haired boy repeated. 

More laughter. Kids started talking excitedly. 

It took a while for Mr. Shein to quiet everyone. He jumped to his 
feet, pulled down his yellow sweater, and paced in front of the 
chalkboard. 

“Does anyone in this class believe that werewolves really exist?” 
he asked. 

I snickered. I didn’t think any kids would raise their hands. 

But to my surprise, every single hand in the room shot up. 

“You all believe in werewolves!” Mr. Shein declared. 

“Yes, we do,” I heard Arjun murmur softly. 

“Yes, we do,” Sean repeated. 

I turned and realized they were both staring hard at me. 

I felt a sudden chill. What is their problem? I wondered. Why are 
they acting so weird? 


16 


After school, Sean and Arjun came up to me at the back of the 
classroom. Outside the room, lockers slammed. The tile walls echoed 
with shouts and laughter. 

The two guys studied me solemnly. “What’s up?” I greeted them, 
zipping my backpack. 

Mr. Shein waved and walked out, carrying a bulging briefcase. 
The three of us were alone in the room. 

“How’s it going?” Sean asked. 

“Is it weird being in a new school?” Arjun said. 

“Yeah. Kind of,” I told them. “Especially since I know I’m only 
here for a few weeks.” 

“You're lucky!” Arjun joked. “Sean and I are stuck here.” 

“Wolf Creek isn’t so bad,” I said. I swung the backpack onto my 
shoulder. 

The two boys stared at me intently. They didn’t say anything. 
Sean shoved his hands into his baggy jeans pockets. Arjun fiddled with 
a silver ring on his little finger. 

Finally, Sean broke the silence. “You don’t believe in 
werewolves,” he said softly. 

“Huh? Well...” I hesitated. 

“You didn’t raise your hand,” Arjun added. “Everyone else did.” 

“Yeah. I know,” I replied. “I really don’t believe in them. I mean, 
come on, guys. It’s practically the twenty-first century. See a lot of 
guys with fur on their faces walking around the streets? I don’t think 
so!” 

I meant it to be funny. But they didn’t laugh. They kept staring at 
me with their solemn faces. 

“Werewolves exist,” Arjun said softly. “We can prove it to you.” 

“For sure,” I replied sarcastically, rolling my eyes. “The Easter 
Bunny exists too. I saw him riding a bus back home in Cleveland.” 

“We can prove it to you, Alex,” Arjun insisted. “We can show you 
a werewolf.” 

“A real one,” Sean added. 

“No, thanks,” I said. “I really—” 

“You can take pictures of it,” Arjun interrupted. 

“Yeah. You can take a whole roll!” his friend cried. 

That made me stop and think. I remembered the photo contest I 
planned to enter. I needed a Halloween photo—a really good 


Halloween photo—for the contest. 

They moved closer, surrounding me, forcing me to back up until I 
bumped into the windowsill. 

“Want to see a real werewolf, Alex?” Sean demanded. 

“Want to take photos of a real werewolf?” Arjun asked. 

They stared hard at me, challenging me. 

“What do I have to do?” I asked. 


17 


Aunt Marta laughed. “Hannah—you look dreadful!” she cried, pressing 
her hands against her cheeks. 

“Thank you!” Hannah took a low bow. “Thank you!” 

After dinner, Hannah had come over to show off her Halloween 
costume. She changed her mind about dressing as a pirate. The 
costume she chose instead was hard to describe. She had taken a lot of 
old clothes, torn them all up, and sewn them back together. 

Her baggy pants had one brown leg and one green leg. And they 
had checkered patches at the knees. She wore a ragged shirt of yellow, 
blue, red—every color you can imagine. An even more colorful jacket 
over the shirt. And a floppy rag hat that kept falling over her face. 

“What are you supposed to be?” I asked. “A junkyard?” 

She didn’t laugh. “I’m a rag doll,” she replied. “Don’t you get it?” 
She tugged at the jacket. “Rags?” 

Aunt Marta and Uncle Colin both laughed. I was happy to see 
them enjoying themselves. They had both seemed tired and low at 
dinner. They had barely spoken to me. 

“There used to be a song about a rag doll,” Aunt Marta said. 
“Remember it, Colin?” 

My uncle shook his head. “I don’t remember anything anymore,” 
he replied. “I’m lucky if I remember to get up in the morning!” 

“Oh, give me a break, Colin!” Aunt Marta scolded. She gave him a 
playful shove. She began singing a song about a rag doll. 

Hannah did a silly dance, twirling her hands above her head. One 
of her jacket sleeves fell off, and we all laughed. 

“Where’s your costume, Alex?” my aunt demanded. “Go put it on. 
Come on. Let’s have a preview.” 

“J—I haven’t put one together yet,” I stammered. 

“Well, let’s get some old clothes and make you a costume 
tonight!” Aunt Marta insisted. 

“No. I... need to think about it,” I told her. 

I didn’t have my mind on costumes. I kept glancing out the front 
window at the darkening sky. Thinking about what I planned to do 
later. 

I planned to meet Sean and Arjun in the woods by the creek. At 
school, they told me to take my camera and meet them there. 

They said that the werewolf comes to that spot every night when 
the moon is at the highest point in the sky. “It howls up at the moon,” 


Arjun said in an excited whisper. “And then it lowers its head and laps 
up water from the creek.” 

“Wait till you see it!” Sean exclaimed. “It’s a man and a wolf at 
the same time. He’s half-human, half-animal.” 

I narrowed my eyes at the two of them. I tried to decide if they 
were goofing or not. Their expressions were so serious—and so excited 
—I decided they were telling the truth. 

Was it possible? Did werewolves really exist? 

I pictured the howling creature in the Marlings’ window. And I 
pictured the two animals in the woods, ripped to pieces. 

By a werewolf? 

The back of my neck tingled. Pd never believed in werewolves. 
But Pd seldom been out of the city. 

Here in this small town surrounded by woods, they began to seem 
real. 

“Will you meet us at midnight?” Sean asked. 

I didn’t want to return to the woods at night. Not after what I’d 
seen there. 

But I didn’t want them to know I was afraid. 

And I really needed a great photo to win the contest. A photo of a 
werewolf would definitely win! What else could come close? 

So I agreed to sneak out of the house and meet Sean and Arjun at 
midnight in the woods. But now, as it grew later, I began to feel really 
nervous about it. 

As I glanced out at the darkness beyond the window, I had a 
heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach. And my hands were suddenly 
cold and clammy. 

“Alex, what are you thinking about?” Aunt Marta’s voice broke 
into my thoughts. 

“Huh?” I blinked and shook my head. 

Everyone laughed. “You were staring out the window with the 
strangest look on your face,” Hannah declared. 

“Oh. Just watching the moon,” I said with a shrug. 

“Its Moon Madness!” Uncle Colin joked. “OOOH. Looks like a bad 
case!” 

“What’s that?” I asked. 

“How should I know?” my uncle replied. “I just made it up!” 

We all laughed again. 

Everyone was in such a good mood. I wished I could relax and 
have fun too. But all I could think about was sneaking out to the 
woods. 

Hannah went home a short while later. I said goodnight to my 


aunt and uncle and closed myself up in my room. 

I glanced at the bed-table clock. It read ten fifteen. 

Nearly two hours to wait. 

I checked out my camera. Made sure I had it loaded with high- 
speed film. 

Then I sat down to read a photography magazine—and wait— 
hoping the time would pass quickly. 

My eyes stared at the pages of the magazine. But I couldn’t read. I 
couldn’t concentrate. 

Every few seconds, my eyes went up to the bed-table clock. 

Why does time move so slowly when you’re waiting? 

Finally, at about ten to midnight, I closed my magazine. Pulled on 
an extra sweater and then my jacket. I grabbed my camera case and 
slung the strap over my shoulder. 

Then I tiptoed to the bedroom door. 

My aunt and uncle were probably out in the woods, 
photographing night animals. But in case they decided to stay in 
tonight, I didn’t want them to hear me sneak out. 

I clicked off the lights in my room. Then I reached for the 
doorknob and tugged. 

“Hey—!” 

I turned the knob and tugged again. I turned it the other way and 
gave the door a hard jerk. “I don’t believe it!” I gasped. Pd been 
locked in. 


18 


The door must be stuck, I decided. 

I tugged it hard. Tugged it a dozen times. I even tried pushing. But 
I couldn’t budge it. It had definitely been locked, locked from the 
outside. 

I angrily spun away from the door. 

Why did my aunt and uncle lock me in? I wondered. Because of 
last night? Because of my close calls in the woods? 

“They can’t do this to me!” I exclaimed. 

I ran to the window. I jerked the curtains apart and reached for 
the window handles. 

The window slid up a few inches—and I let out a gasp. 

Metal bars had been installed outside. 

When did they put those on? This afternoon? 

I’m a prisoner! I told myself. I’m locked in this room like an 
animal in a cage! 

“They can’t do this to me!” I repeated. “They can’t!” 

I slid the window up all the way. I grabbed the metal bars with 
both hands and struggled to pry them loose. 

But they wouldn’t budge. 

I was still tugging on the bars when I heard a low growl. 

My hands dropped away, and a sharp cry escaped my throat. 

I froze. 

And heard another growl. Louder this time. 

And close. So close. 

A shrill howl rose up. From the Marlings’ house? 

I moved my face up close to the bars and peered out. Their 
bedroom window stood open again. But the house was completely 
dark. No lights anywhere. 

I squinted into the darkness. The moon had disappeared behind a 
cloud. I could barely see across to their house. 

Pressed against the bars, I heard an animal grunt. And then a 
thud. 

A dark shape dropped down from the Marlings’ open window. 
Another thud. Another shape dropped down on all fours. 

One of the creatures raised its head in a long, mournful howl. 

And then they took off, loping heavily toward the backyard, 
heading to the woods. 

Dogs? Wolves? Humans? 


I couldn’t see clearly in the darkness. 

I stared out, and a silvery light washed over the house as the 
cloud drifted away from the moon. 

But now it was too late. Too late. 

The creatures had vanished. 

I pounded the bars with my fists. 

Sean and Arjun were waiting for me by the creek. And there was 
no way I could get there. 

What would they think? That I was a total chicken? A wimp? 

Pm missing my big chance to take a winning photograph! I 
realized. 

Angrily, I slammed the window shut. 

“Tomorrow night!” I declared out loud. “Tomorrow night I’m 
getting out of here. My aunt and uncle won’t stop me. 

“Tomorrow night I’m going into the woods, and I’m going to find 
out the truth about werewolves!” 


19 


“How could you do that to me?” I shrieked. I burst into the kitchen for 
breakfast the next morning, and strode angrily up to my aunt and 
uncle. 

“How could you lock me in my room without telling me?” I cried. 

Aunt Marta set down her coffee mug. She gazed up at me with a 
troubled expression. Then she turned to Uncle Colin. “Maybe we 
should have told Alex,” she said. 

Uncle Colin narrowed his eyes at me. “Did you try to get out last 
night, Alex?” 

“Well...” I hesitated. I didn’t want to tell them what I had 
planned to do. “I don’t like being in a cage!” I protested. “I’m twelve 
years old, and I really think—” 

“We're sorry,” Aunt Marta interrupted. She glanced at the kitchen 
clock and poured me out a bowl of cornflakes. 

“But we did it for your own good,” Uncle Colin added. He folded 
his napkin tensely between his hands. “We had no choice. We can’t let 
you go running out to the woods the way you did your first night. It 
just isn’t safe.” 

“We’re responsible for you,” Aunt Marta said, pushing the cereal 
bowl across the table to me. “We promised your parents we’d return 
you safe and sound. We don’t want to lock you in, Alex. But we have 
to make sure—” 

“But—but—” I sputtered. 

“Besides, the Marlings called the police yesterday,” Uncle Colin 
said, frowning. 

“They what?” I cried. “They called the police—about me?” 

He nodded. “They complained about you spying on them,” he 
said. 

I let out an angry scream. “That’s totally stupid!” I cried. “I didn’t 
spy on them! I didn’t do anything to them!” 

“Okay, okay.” Aunt Marta came around the table and placed a 
comforting hand on my shoulder. “Don’t worry about the Marlings. 
Just don’t go anywhere near their house—okay?” 

I turned to her. “Are they werewolves?” I blurted out. 

Uncle Colin gasped. 

Aunt Marta uttered a short laugh. “Is that what Hannah told 
you?” she demanded. 

“Well... yes,” I replied. 


She shook her head. “Hannah has a twisted sense of humor,” she 
said. 

“The Marlings are just very odd, very unfriendly people,” Uncle 
Colin told me. He glanced out the kitchen window toward their house. 
And added: “Two unfriendly people with two very unfriendly dogs.” 

“Hannah said they don’t have any dogs,” I insisted. 

Uncle Colin made a disgusted face. “Tell your friend Hannah to 
stop pulling your leg.” 

“What do you mean?” I asked. 

“She’s trying to scare you, Alex. Don’t listen to her.” 

The doorbell rang. Hannah had arrived to walk me to school. 

I was happy to get out of the house. I still felt angry about being 
locked up. 

As we walked to school, I didn’t tell Hannah about it. I knew 
she’d probably think it was funny. And she’d tell other kids about how 
my aunt and uncle were so worried about me, they locked me in like a 
baby. 

I didn’t mention the Marlings’ dogs, either. I didn’t want to get 
into another argument about werewolves. I wanted to find out the 
truth for myself. 

At school, I hung my jacket in my locker and started to Mr. 
Shein’s class. But as I turned the corner, Sean and Arjun stepped up to 
block my path. 

They’d been waiting for me. They moved quickly to back me 
against the wall. Their eyes glowed with excitement. 

“Hey, Alex.” Sean poked me in the shoulder. 

“Seen any werewolves lately?” Arjun demanded. 


20 


“Uh... well...” I didn’t know what to say. “You see... my aunt and 
uncle...” 

Why were they staring at me like that? Were they trying to scare 
me? 

A strange grin spread over Sean’s face. “Have a good time in the 
woods last night?” he asked. 

“Yeah. How was it?” Arjun demanded. “Catch any werewolves, 
Alex?” 

I bumped them off me and stepped away from the wall. “You 
mean you weren’t there?” I cried. 

They both burst out laughing. They slapped each other a high 
five. 

“Of course not!” Arjun declared. “Why would we go into the 
woods in the middle of the night?” 

“I was sound asleep by midnight,” Sean said, grinning. 

They laughed and congratulated each other again. 

A joke. The whole thing had been a joke. They didn’t wait for me 
in the woods at midnight. They never intended to go to the woods. 

“So how was it?” Sean asked. “Were you surprised when Arjun 
and I didn’t show up?” 

“No. I didn’t even think of you,” I told them. “Do you know why? 
Because I was too busy taking photos of the werewolf!” 

“Huh?” Sean cried. 

It was their turn to be surprised. 

Of course I was lying. But they had no way of knowing that I 
hadn’t gone to the woods, either. 

“What did you see?” Arjun asked suspiciously. 

“T followed a werewolf,” I told him, forcing myself not to crack a 
smile. “He came to the creek and he drank, just as you said.” 

“Give me a break,” Sean groaned. 

“Yeah. Really!” Arjun rolled his eyes. “In your dreams.” 

“I can prove it. I took a whole roll of film,” I told them. 

“Let’s see the pictures,” Sean demanded. 

“I haven’t developed them yet,” I replied. 

They stared at me, trying to decide if I was telling the truth. I felt 
a laugh about to explode inside me. But somehow I kept a straight 
face. 

The bell rang. 


“We're late!” Arjun cried. 

The three of us bolted down the hall to the room. We dove into 
our seats two seconds before Mr. Shein walked in. 

Don’t ask me what we talked about all morning. I didn’t hear a 
word. 

I was thinking hard, thinking about Sean and Arjun. What was I 
going to tell them tomorrow when they asked to see the werewolf 
photos? 

Would I have to confess that I lied to them? 

No, I decided. I had a better plan. 


“Im going to sneak out tonight and take pictures of the Marlings’ 
house,” I whispered into the phone. 

“Huh? Alex? Why are you whispering?” Hannah’s voice rang 
shrilly in my ear. 

I was whispering because my aunt and uncle had only one 
telephone. An old-fashioned black phone set on a table in the living 
room. And the two of them were in the next room preparing dinner. I 
could see them from the armchair I slumped in. 

“Hannah, I’m going to hide at the side of the house,” I whispered. 
“And I’m going to snap some pictures of whoever—or whatever— 
jumps out of that bedroom window tonight.” 

“Do you have a sore throat or something?” Hannah demanded. “I 
can’t hear you, Alex.” 

I opened my mouth to repeat what I’d said—but Aunt Marta 
entered the room. “Dinner is ready, Alex. Who are you talking to?” 
she asked. 

“Hannah,” I told my aunt. “I’ve got to go,” I said into the phone. 
“Talk to you later.” I hung up the receiver. 

I hoped that maybe Hannah might want to sneak out at midnight 
and keep me company. IIl have to ask her later, I decided. 


Yawning, pretending to be very sleepy, I went to my room a little after 
ten o’clock. A few minutes later, I heard the lock click outside my 
door. My aunt or uncle had locked me in again. 

But this time, I fooled them. This time, I was prepared. 

Before dinner, Pd jammed a wad of bubblegum into the latch. The 
door wasn’t really closed. 

Once again, I pulled on an extra sweater. And checked out my 
camera. And waited, gazing at the bed-table clock. 

Just before midnight, I swung the camera case over my shoulder. 
Slid the bedroom door open easily. And crept out of the house, under 
the white light of the moon, ready to solve the mystery of the 


Marlings. 


21 


I cast a quick glance at the Marlings’ house. Then I turned away and 
trotted across the wet grass to Hannah’s house. 

No lights were on. The storm door in back hadn’t been shut. The 
wind made it swing open, as if inviting me in. 

But I made my way up to Hannah’s bedroom window on the other 
side of the house. Silver moonlight washed over the glass, making it 
reflect the trees like a mirror. 

I couldn’t see inside. But the window was open a few inches. 

“Hannah—?” I called in a loud whisper. “Hannah—are you 
awake?” 

I heard someone stirring inside. The curtains shifted. “Who’s 
there?” Hannah called out sleepily. 

“Its me!” I whispered, standing on tiptoe. “It’s Alex. Come to the 
window.” 

“Alex? What are you doing out there?” she demanded. 

“I’m going to take photos of the Marlings,” I told her. “Come out 
with me, Hannah.” 

“Huh? Photos?” she called out. “But it’s so late, Alex. I was 
asleep, and—” 

“Every night I hear howls from their house,” I told her. “And then 
someone—or something—jumps out of their bedroom window and 
runs into the woods. My uncle says it’s their dogs, but—” 

“I told you,” she interrupted. “The Marlings don’t have dogs. 
They’re werewolves. I know you don’t believe me. But it’s true. Your 
aunt and uncle know it’s true. But they don’t want you to be scared.” 

“That’s why I want to take photos,” I explained. “I mean, I could 
be the first person in the world to get a werewolf on film! Get dressed, 
Hannah. Come on!” I pleaded. “I want you to see too.” 

“You’re crazy, Alex! Get back in the house!” Hannah warned. She 
appeared at the window. She pulled it up higher and leaned out. 

‘Tm not coming out there,” she insisted. “It’s too dangerous. You 
told me about those two animals you saw. They were ripped to shreds 
—tright? If the Marlings see you, they'll do the same thing to you!” 

Her words sent a cold shiver down the back of my neck. But I was 
desperate to solve the mystery—and to snap a great photo. 

“They won’t see us!” I told her. “We’ll hide behind the bushes at 
the side of the house.” 

“Don’t say us,” Hannah called out. “I’m not doing it, Alex. I’m too 


scared. I’m warning you, go back inside.” 

“Please!” I pleaded. I grabbed her arm. “Come on out, Hannah. 
You want to see the werewolves too—don’t you?” 

“No way!” She jerked her arm away. “Go home, Alex,” she 
repeated. “It’s not a game. It’s really dangerous.” 

“Listen, Hannah—” I started. 

But she slid the window shut. 

I stared at the reflection of the trees in the glass. Maybe she’s 
right, I thought. Another cold shiver ran down my back. Maybe this is 
a big mistake. Maybe it is too dangerous. If the Marlings catch me... 

I gasped when I heard a low growl. 

I froze. 

I didn’t have to turn around. I knew from the sound. 

A werewolf—it had sneaked up behind me. 


22 


Another low grunt made me cry out. 

My knees started to collapse. I took a deep, shivering breath and 
spun around to face the creature. 

No. 

Not there. 

No one there. 

I swallowed. Swallowed again. My mouth suddenly felt bone-dry. 

Another growl. I realized where it came from. From the back of 
the Marlings’ house. 

They’re about to jump out the window, I told myself. Those are 
the sounds I hear every night just before they climb out the bedroom 
window. 

And I’m standing out here in the open. I’ll be the first thing they 
see! 

My legs didn’t want to work. But I gritted my teeth, took a deep 
breath—and forced myself to move. 

My sneakers slid on the wet grass. I slipped, but I didn’t fall. 

I scrambled to the bushes that divided my aunt and uncle’s house 
from the Marlings’ house. 

I dropped to my knees, panting noisily. My heart pounded so 
hard, my chest hurt. 

I ducked my head. And grabbed for the straps on my camera case. 

A high, shrill animal howl floated out from the Marlings’ open 
bedroom window. The light of the moon made the side of their house 
gleam. 

The yard was nearly as bright as day. Everything glistened from 
the frosty dew. 

Ducking low behind the bushes, I could see every leaf, every dew- 
covered blade of grass. 

I tugged at the zipper of my camera case. I knew I had to pull the 
camera out—fast. But my hands were shaking so bad, I couldn’t budge 
the zipper. 

Another howl made me turn back to the window. 

A shadow moved. 

A leg slid out. 

Another leg. 

A slender form dropped to the ground. 

It all happened so quickly. As if time had been put on fast- 


forward. 

My eyes on the window, I struggled to unzip the camera case. 

Another body crawled out from the darkness of the Marlings’ 
bedroom window. 

Two forms stood on the ground and stretched. 

Two humans! 

Not wolves. 

Humans. 

What were they wearing? 

Capes? 

Dark fur capes, draped over their shoulders, hanging heavily 
behind them. 

They had their backs to me. I couldn’t see their faces. 

Hands on their waists, they stretched, bending back, bending 
from side to side, as if limbering up their muscles for a long jog. 

And then they raised their heads to the moon—and howled. 

Turn around! I pleaded silently, trembling behind the bushes. 
Please turn around! I want to see your faces! 

“Ohhhh...” I uttered a startled moan as their fur capes began to 
move. The heavy capes began to curl around them, to tighten around 
their bodies. 

And I realized they weren’t capes. They were some kind of animal 
skins. 

Furry skins. With arms. And legs... 

The dark skins wrapped themselves tightly over the two humans. 
The fur spread over their bodies, slid over their heads, covered their 
legs, their arms, their hands. 

“Ohhhhh...” I shook so hard, I let go of the camera case and 
hugged myself. Hugged myself tight, trying to hold myself in, trying to 
keep myself together. 

The two figures howled again, raising their furry arms over their 
heads. Silvery claws slid out from their paws. 

The two creatures raked the claws at each other playfully, 
pretending to attack. Growling and grunting, they lowered themselves 
to all fours. 

No longer humans. 

Animals... wolf creatures... 

Hannah is right, I realized. She told the truth. The Marlings are 
werewolves. They turned into wolves under the moonlight. 

Gasping for breath, I snatched up the camera case. I fumbled once 
again with the zipper. Finally managed to pull it open. 

And they turned. They both turned toward me. 


Two wolves! 

Their dark eyes stared out from beneath fur-covered foreheads. 
Their furry snouts snapped open to reveal rows of curled animal teeth. 

Werewolves. The Marlings were werewolves. Human and wolf at 
the same time! 

The werewolves nuzzled each other, growling softly. I raised the 
camera. I pulled myself up to my knees. 

I’ve got to snap a picture. Do it now, Alex! I ordered myself. 

But my hands shook so badly, I wasn’t sure I could hold the 
camera steady enough. 

Do it! Do it! 

I raised the viewfinder to my eye. I stood up a little higher to see 
over the top of the bush. 

“Ohhh.” As I raised myself, a sharp twig scraped the side of my 
face. 

And I dropped the camera! 

It landed on the grass with a THUD. 

The two wolf creatures turned. 

And saw me! 


23 


I sank to the ground. Pressed myself flat on my stomach. 

My chest heaved. I breathed through my mouth, struggling to 
keep perfectly still, perfectly silent. 

Did they see me? Did they? 

I raised my head enough to peer out at them beneath the bottom 
branch of the bush. 

They had their fur-covered snouts raised. They sniffed the air. 

Did they smell me? Did they know I was hiding down here? 

Were they about to leap into the bush and rip me apart with those 
long, silvery claws? 

I held my breath, squinting across the grass at them. 

They sniffed some more, grunting softly. 

Then they turned away. Dropped to all fours. And loped off, 
heading to the woods. 

I waited until I could no longer hear the soft thud of their paws or 
their low growls and grunts. Then I slid forward on my stomach, 
reached out, and grabbed my camera. 

My camera! 

I hadn’t snapped any photos. Not a single shot. 

I climbed shakily to my feet and rubbed the wet dew from the 
lens. Then I raised my eyes to the woods. 

I have to follow them, I decided. 

I have to take some photos. This is the chance of a lifetime! 

If I can take the first-ever shots of actual werewolves, Pll be 
famous! I pictured myself in newspapers and on magazine covers. I 
imagined my photos of the Marlings on display in fancy photo 
galleries. 

And I thought of how proud of me Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta 
would be. 

That thought sent a chill down my back. Uncle Colin and Aunt 
Marta—they were working in the woods right now. Busy 
photographing animals of the night. 

Did they know that two werewolves were on the loose? Did they 
know that two werewolves were prowling the woods, searching for 
victims? 

They’re not safe out there, I realized. 

Of course, following the werewolves into the woods was crazy— 
and dangerous. But now I had two reasons to chase after them. 


I had to snap some pictures—and warn my aunt and uncle. 

My eyes on the woods, I jammed the camera into the case and 
slung it over my shoulder. Then I began trotting across the backyard 
toward the trees, following the fresh paw prints in the frosty grass. 

I ducked into the trees and followed the curving path. Moonlight 
trickled through the treetop leaves, making eerie, shifting patterns on 
the ground. 

I didn’t have to go far to catch up with the two werewolves. Just 
past the bent, old-man tree, I heard an animal grunt. And then a shrill 
cry of attack. 

I stopped—and peered through a low evergreen shrub. Mouths 
gaping open, claws raised, the two wolf creatures leaped. 

They’ve caught someone! I realized, frozen in horror. 

Who is it? My aunt? My uncle? 


24 


The two werewolves wrestled with their prey. 

I heard a shrill bleat of pain. Then I saw four hooves shoot up in 
the air. 

Not a human, I realized, squinting into the dim light. They’ve 
trapped a deer. A baby deer. 

They’re going to kill it. 

They’re going to tear it to shreds. 

What can I do? I asked myself. How can I save it? 

I didn’t think. I was too terrified to think clearly. 

I tossed back my head. And I let out a loud wolf howl. 

My cry echoed off the trees. 

The snarling werewolves stopped their attack. They raised their 
heads. 

They turned toward my cry. 

Just long enough for the fawn to scramble to its feet. It shook 
itself—like a dog after a bath—and took off into the trees. 

The werewolves sniffed the air furiously. They didn’t seem to 
notice that the fawn had escaped. Their eyes glowed red in the pale 
moonlight. They turned, uttering low, angry growls. Lowered their 
heads. And came charging at me. 


25 


I staggered back. 

Too frightened to move. 

No time to run. 

The ground seemed to shake under the thunder of the wolves’ 
paws. 

I opened my mouth to scream—but no sound came out. 

The wolves’ jaws snapped. Their red eyes glowed as if on fire. 

I raised my arms in front of me, as if to shield myself. 

Prepared for the attack. 

And the wolves turned away. Turned sharply to the right, running 
together. 

A scrawny brown rabbit scrambled over the path. 

The wolves had turned away from me to chase the rabbit! 

Snarling furiously, they lowered their heads—and caught the 
rabbit easily. 

The little creature didn’t put up much of a fight. 

One wolf snapped its neck. The other bit hungrily into its belly. 

Breathing hard, I swung my camera case around. And pulled the 
camera out with a quick jerk. 

My hand trembled as I raised the viewfinder to my eye. But I 
steadied the camera with both hands. 

And clicked off a shot. 

And then another. 

I snapped a shot of the wolves tugging the rabbit apart. And 
another shot of the two of them eating side by side. 

When the wolves finished, nothing remained of the rabbit. 
Licking their teeth, they turned and loped off into the trees. 

Holding my camera in front of me with both hands, I followed 
after them. 

I guess I was in some kind of shock. I know I wasn’t thinking 
clearly. 

I was barely thinking at all! 

I had nearly been caught by the two werewolves. They would 
have finished me the way they’d finished that poor rabbit. 

But I knew I had to follow them. I had to stay in the woods. 

I had to warn my aunt and uncle. I had to find them and tell them 
they were wrong about the Marlings. That Hannah told the truth. 

I had to let them know the danger they were in. 


And I had to take more photographs. 

Td been through such a horrible scare. My heart pounded, and my 
arms and legs felt all trembly and weak. I didn’t feel like me. I felt as 
if I were outside myself, watching myself. 

But I knew I couldn’t run back to the house. Not until my aunt 
and uncle were safe. 

I kept pretty far behind the creatures, far enough that I could slip 
behind a tree or bush if one of them glanced back. And I kept my 
camera raised, ready to snap off shots. 

They loped slowly to the creek. I watched them lower their heads 
and noisily lap up water. 

They didn’t look at all human now. Their bodies had become wolf 
bodies. I couldn’t see anything human in their faces. Their glowing 
eyes were animal eyes. 

They took a long drink from the creek, washing down their 
dinner, I guess. I steadied my camera and clicked off several shots. 

I wished Hannah had come with me. I wanted someone else to be 
there with me, to see what I was seeing. 

I couldn’t wait to get back and tell her that she was right about 
the Marlings. That they really were werewolves. 

The two wolf creatures suddenly raised their heads from the 
water, turned, and sniffed the air. 

Did they smell me? Or some other prey? 

I slid behind a fat tree trunk and held my breath. 

When I carefully peered out, they were loping along the creek 
shore. I waited until they had gone a short distance, then I crept out 
and followed them. 

I followed the two werewolves all night. I finished one roll of 
film, then popped in another. I shot them rising up on their furry hind 
legs and howling at the moon. And I clicked off several more 
horrifying shots of them devouring small animals. 

And I searched for my aunt and uncle. Desperate to warn them, to 
tell them what I had learned. 

As I trailed behind the creatures—so frightened and excited—I 
completely lost track of time. It was as if I were walking through a 
dream. None of it seemed real. 

Finally, a red crack of sunlight appeared along the ground. To my 
shock, it was nearly daybreak. 

The werewolves moved slowly now. Their loping trot had become 
a stiff-legged walk. 

As they stepped out of the trees into their backyard, they rose up 
onto their hind legs. They staggered awkwardly to the back of their 
house. 


I stayed by the trees, afraid to go too close. The sky was 
brightening as the sun made its way higher. If the wolf creatures 
turned around, they could see me easily. 

I raised my camera. I had only a few shots left. 

The two werewolves staggered on two legs to the side of their 
house. They stretched their furry forearms and raised their faces to the 
brightening sun. 

“Oh!” I couldn’t help it. I uttered a shocked cry as they began to 
shed their skins. 

The fur appeared to peel back. 

The claws slid out of view. And the fur pulled back, revealing 
their human hands. 

As I gaped in amazement, the black wolf fur peeled off their arms 
and legs, then slid off their bodies. 

They had their backs to me. 

The fur skins settled into capes again. The two humans reached 
up and pulled off the heavy capes. 

I’m going to see the Marlings for the first time! I realized. 

They lowered the wolf skin capes to the ground. 

They turned slowly. 

And I saw their faces. 


26 


As the morning sunlight washed over their faces, I nearly cried out— 
in horror and disbelief. 

Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta stretched, brushed back their silvery 
hair, then bent to pick up their wolf skins. 

My aunt and uncle—they were the werewolves! 

Uncle Colin raised his eyes to the woods. I fell back behind a tree. 
Did he see me? 

No. 

My whole body trembled. I wanted to cry out: “No! No! This can’t 
be happening!” 

But I pressed myself against the tree and kept my jaws clamped 
tight. I couldn’t let them see me. I couldn’t let them know that I knew 
the truth. 

The smooth tree trunk felt cool against my forehead. I had to 
think. I had to make a plan. 

What should I do? I knew I couldn’t stay with them any longer. I 
couldn’t live in a house with two werewolves. 

But where could I go? Who would help me? 

Who would believe me? 

I watched my aunt and uncle fold up their wolf skins. Then Uncle 
Colin helped Aunt Marta climb into the Marlings’ bedroom window. 
Once she was inside, he followed her in. 

“The Marlings!” I murmured to myself. Were they okay in there? 
Or did my aunt and uncle do something terrible to them? 

A few minutes later, Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta climbed back 
out of the window. Then they scurried across the driveway, into their 
own house. 

I clung to the tree trunk for a while, watching the two houses. 
Thinking hard. 

Were the Marlings asleep in their house? Did they know that the 
two werewolves were in there? Were the Marlings werewolves too? 

I wanted to run away. To make my way to the street and just 
keep running until I was miles and miles away. 

But I had to find out about the Marlings. I couldn’t leave without 
finding out the truth about them. 

So I watched the two houses for a while longer. No sign of anyone 
moving about. 

I pushed myself away from the tree and quickly made my way 


through the Marlings’ overgrown backyard. 

I ducked behind bushes and kept my eyes on my aunt and uncle’s 
house. The blinds on their bedroom windows were shut. 

Holding my breath, I darted to the Marlings’ bedroom window. I 
grabbed the windowsill and peered inside. Dark. I couldn’t see 
anything. 

“Here goes,” I murmured softly. “Good luck, Alex.” 

I lifted myself up onto the sill, then lowered my legs into the 
room. It took a few seconds for my eyes to adjust to the dim light. 

And then what I saw shocked me nearly as much as learning that 
my aunt and uncle were werewolves. 

I saw nothing. 

The bedroom was completely bare. Not a stick of furniture. No 
artwork or mirrors on the wall. No carpet over the dust-covered 
floorboards. 

Turning to the bedroom door, I spotted the two wolf skins. They 
were neatly folded and piled side by side in front of the closet. 

Taking a deep breath, I moved cautiously to the open doorway. I 
poked my head out into the hall. Also unlit and bare. 

“Anyone home?” I choked out in a tiny voice. “Hello? Anyone 
home?” 

Silence. 

I crept down the hall toward the front of the house. I peered into 
each room. 

They were all bare and empty, covered with a thick layer of dust. 

I stepped into the middle of the living room. No furniture. No 
lights. No sign that anyone had lived here in years! 

“Oh, wow!” I cried out as I realized the truth. My voice echoed off 
the bare walls. 

No one lives here, I told myself. There are no Marlings! 

My aunt and uncle had made them up. They used this house to 
hide their wolf skins. They’d made up the Marlings to keep people out 
of the house. 

No Marlings. No Marlings. No Marlings. 

It was all a lie! 

I have to warn Hannah, I decided. No one is safe around here. 

I pictured my aunt and uncle devouring that helpless little rabbit 
last night. I pictured them wrestling with that baby deer. 

I have to tell Hannah and her family, I decided. And then we have 
to run away from here—as far as we can. 

I turned and made my way quickly through the empty house. 
Then I lowered myself out the bedroom window into the backyard. 


The morning sun was still a red ball, low over the treetops. The 
early dew glistened over the grass. 

“Hannah, I hope you’re awake,” I murmured. “If not, Pll have to 
wake you up.” 

I turned away from the Marlings’ window and began to run across 
the back toward Hannah’s house. 

I went about six or seven steps. Then I stopped with a gasp as 
Aunt Marta’s voice rang out behind me. “Alex—what on earth are you 
doing out there?” 


27 


I spun around. My knees nearly collapsed. The ground tilted up, then 
down. 

Aunt Marta stood in the kitchen doorway. “Alex—why are you up 
so early? It’s Saturday morning.” She narrowed her eyes at me 
suspiciously. 

“J—well...” I was shaking so hard, I couldn’t speak! 

“Where are you going in such a hurry?” my aunt demanded. I saw 
Uncle Colin standing behind her in the kitchen. 

“To... Hannah’s,” I managed to reply. “To talk about... uh... our 
costumes for trick-or-treating tonight.” 

I watched her face. Did she believe me? 

I didn’t think so. 

“It’s too early to be running over to Hannah’s,” she scolded. She 
motioned for me to come inside. “Come in, Alex. Come get some 
breakfast first.” 

I hesitated. My mind whirred. 

Should I make a run for it? Run to the street and keep going? 

How far would I get before they caught me? My aunt and uncle 
were both werewolves. If they caught me—what would they do to 
me? Would I be their breakfast? 

No. I decided not to run. Not just yet, anyway. Not until I had a 
chance to talk to Hannah. 

I felt Aunt Marta’s eyes on me as I made my way slowly into the 
house. Uncle Colin muttered good morning. He stared hard at me too. 
“Early start, huh?” he asked softly. 

I nodded and took my place at the breakfast table. 

“Marta and I worked all night,” Uncle Colin reported. He yawned. 
“We took some pretty good shots.” 

That’s a lie! I wanted to shout. I followed you. I saw what you did. I 
know what you are! 

But I didn’t say anything. Just stared down at my cereal bowl. 

I’m having breakfast with two werewolves! I thought, feeling my 
stomach churn. My aunt and uncle run through the woods at night, 
murdering and ripping animals apart. 

I can’t sit here another minute! I told myself. I started to get up. 

But I felt Uncle Colin’s hand on my shoulder. “Relax, Alex. Have a 
nice breakfast,” he said softly. 

“But, I—” I didn’t know what to say. I was too terrified to eat. I 


wanted him to take his hand off me. It was making my whole body 
tremble. 

“It’s Halloween,” Uncle Colin said. “You'll be out late tonight.” 

“Have a good breakfast,” Aunt Marta chimed in. 

They watched me as I choked down my cornflakes. They didn’t 
smile. They were studying me coldly. 

They know that I followed them, I decided. They know that I 
know their secret. 

They’re not going to let me get away. 

“Uh... I have to go to Hannah’s now,” I said, struggling to sound 
calm and cheerful. I slid my chair back and started to stand up. 

But I felt Uncle Colin’s hand grip my shoulder again. He grasped 
me tightly and held on. 

“Alex, come with me,” he ordered. 


28 


He kept his hand clamped tightly on my shoulder as he led me to the 
back of the garage. He walked quickly and didn’t say a word. 

I wondered if I could break out of his grip and make a run for it. 
How far would I get? 

He let go of my shoulder. What did he plan to do? 

“Tm sorry I followed you,” I said in a choked whisper. “I—I won’t 
tell anyone what I saw.” 

He hadn’t heard me. He had moved to the corner of the garage 
and picked up a long-handled tool. 

He shoved it toward me. “I need your help this morning,” he said. 
“There’s a lot of yard work to be done.” 

I swallowed. “Yard work?” 

Uncle Colin nodded. “That’s a weed whacker. Have you ever used 
one before?” 

“No. Not really,” I confessed. The handle shook in my hand. 

“It’s pretty easy,” he said. “I need you to cut down all these weeds 
behind the garage.” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I replied, feeling dazed. 

“And be careful not to toss any weeds in the Marlings’ yard,” he 
warned. “I’m sure they’ll be watching your every move. Waiting to 
complain to us about you.” 

“No problem,” I replied. 

There are no Marlings! I wanted to scream. 

“PIL work with you,” Uncle Colin said, wiping sweat off his 
forehead with the back of his hand. “Together we can teach these 
weeds a lesson they’ll never forget.” He grinned for the first time that 
morning. 

Does he know that I know? I wondered. Is that why he’s keeping 
me here this morning? 


My uncle and I worked in the yard all day. Whenever I would take a 
short break, ld catch him watching me coldly, studying me. 

I was so frightened. I wanted to drop my tools and run. 

But I couldn’t leave without warning Hannah and her family. 
They had to know that they were in danger too. 

I didn’t see Hannah until after dinner. She burst in just as we 
were finishing. 

“Well? How do I look?” she demanded. She did a fast twirl in her 


rag-doll costume. 

“You look wonderful!” Aunt Marta gushed. 

Hannah frowned at me. “Alex, where’s your costume? Come on. 
You’re not ready to trick-or-treat?” 

“Uh... it’s upstairs,” I told her. “It won’t take me long to get it 
together. Uh... come help me—okay?” 

I practically pulled her all the way to my room. 

“It’s a great night out,” she said. “Perfect for trick-or-treating. The 
night of the full moon.” 

I tugged her into the room and shut the door behind us. “We’ve 
got a problem,” I told her. 

She fiddled with the rag hat that flopped down over her forehead. 
“Problem?” 

“Yeah. Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta are werewolves.” 

“Huh?” Her eyes bulged. “What did you say?” 

I explained everything. Speaking rapidly in a low whisper, I told 
her all that Pd seen last night. “They hide their wolfskins in the 
Marlings’ house,” I finished. 

“But the Marlings—?” Hannah started. 

“There are no Marlings!” I cried. “The house is empty. My aunt 
and uncle use it as a hiding place for their wolf skins.” 

Hannah stared at me openmouthed for a long time. Her chin 
trembled. “But... what are we going to do?” she cried breathlessly. 
“Your aunt and uncle—they seem like such nice people. They’ve 
always been so nice to me.” 

“They’re werewolves!” I cried. “We have to tell your family. We 
have to hurry away from here. We have to get help. Tell the police or 
something.” 

“But—but—” Hannah sputtered, her face twisted in panic. 

And suddenly I had another idea. “Wait!” I cried. “Hannah, what 
did Mr. Shein say about werewolves shedding their skin? Didn’t he say 
that if someone finds their skins and burns them, the werewolves will 
be destroyed?” 

Hannah nodded. “Yes. That’s what he said. But—” 

“So that’s what we’ll do!” I cried excitedly. “We’ll go next door, 
and—” 

“But you don’t want to kill your aunt and uncle—do you?” 
Hannah replied. 

“Oh. No. Of course not,” I told her. “I’m so frightened, I’m not 
thinking clearly. I just thought—” 

“Whoa. Wait a minute, Alex!” Hannah cried, grabbing my arm. “I 
know what we can do. I have a plan that might work!” 


29 


I heard my aunt and uncle moving around in the living room. Outside 
the bedroom window, the white full moon was rising behind the trees. 
Wisps of black cloud floated over it like wriggling snakes. 

Hannah tugged me farther into the room. “What if we hide the 
wolf skins?” she asked in an excited whisper. 

“Hide them?” I whispered back. “What will that do?” 

“Your aunt and uncle won’t be able to find them,” Hannah 
replied. “The night will pass. They won’t be able to change into 
wolves.” 

“So maybe if they go a whole night without the skins, it will cure 
them!” I cried. 

Hannah nodded. “It’s worth a try, Alex. It might just work, and—” 
She stopped. “No. Wait. I have an even better idea. We’ll wear the 
skins!” 

“Excuse me?” I gasped. “Wear them? Why?” 

“Because your aunt and uncle will search everywhere for the 
skins,” Hannah replied. “They’ll search every house, every garage, 
every yard. But they won’t look for them on us! That’s the last place 
they’d look!” 

“I get it,” I replied. “And we’ll make sure to stay away so they 
don’t see us until after daybreak.” 

I wasn’t sure whether the plan made any sense or not. Hannah 
and I were both too frightened to think! 

Maybe... just maybe... we could cure Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta 
by keeping the skins from them until morning. 

“Let’s try it,” I said. 

“Okay,” Hannah agreed. “Quick—get into your pirate costume. 
We don’t want your aunt and uncle to suspect anything. While you’re 
doing that, I’ll sneak next door and slip on one of the wolf skins.” 

She pushed me toward the old clothes I had tossed onto the bed. 
“Hurry. It’s getting late. Meet me in back of the garage. Pll bring out 
your wolf skin for you.” 

Hannah disappeared out the door. I heard her in the living room. 
She said good-bye to Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta and told them she 
was going to meet me outside. 

I heard the front door slam. Hannah was on her way next door to 
get the wolf skins. 

I quickly pulled on the ragged old shirt and torn trousers of my 
costume. I wrapped a bandanna around my head. 


bhi 


A sound at the bedroom door made me spin around. 

“Aunt Marta!” I cried. 

She stood in the doorway, frowning at me. “It won’t work,” she 
said, shaking her head. 

“Huh?” I gasped. 

“Alex, it won’t work,” she repeated unhappily. 


30 


My aunt moved quickly into the room. 

I couldn’t move. No time to try an escape. 

“It won’t work. That costume won’t work,” Aunt Marta said, 
shaking her head. “You need some makeup. Some black stains on your 
face. Something to make you look less clean!” 

I burst out laughing. I thought Aunt Marta had overheard our 
plan. But she only wanted to improve my pirate costume! 

It took several minutes for my aunt to apply the makeup. Then 
she searched several drawers until she found a gold hoop earring, 
which she clipped on one ear. 

“There. Much better,” she said, grinning. “Now, hurry. Hannah is 
waiting for you.” 

I thanked her and hurried out. Hannah was waiting for me. 
Behind the garage. Already in a wolf skin. 

I gasped when I saw her. It was so strange seeing Hannah’s eyes 
peering out from above a fur-covered snout. 

“What took you so long?” she demanded. Her voice was muffled 
inside the furry wolf head. 

“Aunt Marta,” I replied. “She had to fix up my costume.” I 
narrowed my eyes at Hannah. “How does it feel in there?” 

“Very itchy,” she grumbled. “And hot. Here.” She handed me the 
other wolf skin. “Hurry. Put it on. The moon is already high. Your 
aunt and uncle will be looking for these soon.” 

I took the skin from her. My hand sank into the thick fur. I 
unfolded it and held it up. “Here goes,” I whispered. “I said I wanted 
to be a werewolf for Halloween. Guess I get my wish.” 

“Just hurry!” Hannah urged. “We don’t want them to catch us.” 

I pulled the wolf skin over my head. Down over the old clothes of 
my costume. It felt a little tight. Especially the furry legs. The face fit 
snugly over my face. 

“You're right. It’s itchy,” I groaned. “It’s so tight. I’m not sure I 
can walk!” 

“It loosens up after a bit,” Hannah whispered. “Come on. Let’s get 
away from here.” 

She led the way across the backyard. Then we turned and trotted 
along the side of her house and down to the street. 

I heard voices in the next block. Kids shouting, “Trick-or-treat!” 

“We might be safer with other kids,” I suggested. “I mean, if we 


find a whole group and stick with it....” 

“Good idea,” Hannah replied. We crossed the street. 

It was already getting really hot inside my wolf skin. I could feel 
the sweat running down my forehead. 

We walked for several blocks. But most of the kids were younger 
than us. We didn’t find anyone good to hang out with. 

We turned a corner and walked several more blocks, into the next 
neighborhood. 

“Hey—look who’s there!” Hannah declared, bumping my arm. 

I followed her gaze and saw a mummy and a robot carrying trick- 
or-treat bags across someone’s front lawn. 

“It’s Sean and Arjun,” Hannah cried. 

“Let’s trick-or-treat with them!” I suggested. I began running 
across the grass, waving my paw at them. “Hey, guys! Hey!” 

They turned and stared at us. 

“Wait up!” I called through my fur-covered snout. 

They screamed. And dropped their bags. And took off, running 
full speed, shrieking for help. 

Hannah and I stopped at the edge of a driveway and watched 
them run. “Think maybe we scared them?” Hannah said, laughing. 

“Maybe a little,” I replied. 

We both laughed. 

But not for long. 

I heard heavy, running footsteps on the pavement behind us. 

I turned—and let out a gasp as my aunt and uncle came running 
furiously down the street. 

“There they are!” Uncle Colin cried, pointing at us. “Get them!” 


31 


I froze for a moment, horrified by the sight of my aunt and uncle 
running toward us so furiously, so desperately. 

“Don’t move!” Aunt Marta pleaded. “We need those skins!” 

My legs refused to budge. But then Hannah gave me a hard shove. 
And we both took off. 

We ran wildly, across lawns and empty lots. We cut behind 
someone’s house, then dove through an opening in their tall hedge. 

My aunt and uncle stayed close behind, running full speed, and 
calling out as they ran, “Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

Their breathless voices rang in my ears. Their words became an 
eerie chant. 

“Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

We must have run for blocks. It all became a dark blur to me. My 
heavy wolf paws thumped the ground. I struggled to keep my balance. 
Sweat poured down my face inside the heavy fur. 

Another turn. More dark backyards. And then the tilting, tangled 
trees of the woods rose up in front of us. 

Hannah and I dove into the woods, darting between the trees and 
tall weeds. And still my aunt and uncle came after us, chanting, 
chanting their desperate plea: 

“Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

We scrambled up a low hill lined with evergreens. Pinecones slid 
under my heavy paws and rolled down the hill. Hannah stumbled and 
dropped to her knees. She scrambled on all fours to the top. 

“Give us our skins! Give us our skins!” 

The cry grew shrill and breathless. 

And then—suddenly—everything seemed to stop. 

As if the whole world had stopped spinning. 

As if even the wind had stopped blowing on top of that little hill. 

I could feel the silence. 

Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta had stopped their chant. 

Panting, Hannah and I turned to face them. 

“The moon—” Hannah whispered breathlessly to me. She pointed. 
“The full moon, Alex. It’s so high. It must be at its peak.” 

And as she whispered those words, my aunt and uncle dropped to 
their knees. They tossed back their heads. As the white light of the 
moon washed over their faces, I saw their pain, their horror. 

They opened their mouths in long, mournful howls. 


Their howls became hideous screams. They tore at their hair with 
both hands. Shut their eyes. And screamed, screamed in agony. 
“Hannah—what have we done?” I cried. 


32 


Tugging at their hair, my aunt and uncle screamed. 

And then, they lowered their hands. And closed their mouths. 
And a calm seemed to sweep over them. 

As Hannah and I stared down at them, Uncle Colin and Aunt 
Marta helped each other to their feet. They brushed each other off. 
Smoothed down their hair. 

When they finally gazed up at us, I saw tears in their eyes. 

“Thank you,” they both cried. 

“Thank you for saving us!” Uncle Colin exclaimed. 

And then they rushed up the hill to hug us, hug us so joyfully. 

“You freed us from the curse!” Aunt Marta declared, tears running 
down her face. “The moon reached the highest point in the sky, and 
we didn’t transform. Colin and I are no longer werewolves!” 

“How can we ever thank you?” Uncle Colin cried. “You are both 
so wonderful. So brave.” 

“So hot!” I grumbled. “I can’t wait to get out of this itchy skin!” 

Everyone laughed. 

“Let’s go back to our house!” Aunt Marta cried. “We’ll have a real 
celebration!” 

The four of us hurried back to the house. We laughed and joked 
all the way. 

Uncle Colin and Aunt Marta made their way in through the 
kitchen door. “Homemade doughnuts!” Aunt Marta promised. “And 
big mugs of hot chocolate! How does that sound?” 

“Sounds great!” Hannah and I agreed. 

Hannah started to follow them into the house. But I held her 
back. 

“Let’s dump the skins next door,” I said. “No one will ever need 
them again. Let’s dump them in the abandoned house.” 

She hesitated. She seemed afraid to go back into that dark, empty 
house. 

But I went running over to the Marlings’ house. I couldn’t wait to 
take off the hot, smelly wolfskin. 

I pulled myself onto the window ledge, then lowered my legs into 
the open bedroom window. I stepped into the room. Pale moonlight 
washed over the bare floorboards. 

Hannah dropped into the room behind me. “Alex—?” she called. 

I started to tug off the heavy wolf skin. 


But something near the closet caught my eye. 

I stopped and walked over to it. 

A folded-up wolf skin lay on the floor against the wall. 

“Huh?” 

I let out a startled cry. And turned to Hannah. “How can there be 
a wolf skin in here?” I asked. “There were only two of them—right? 
You put one on, and you gave one to me.” 

Hannah stepped up beside me. Her eyes locked on mine. “I didn’t 
wear the one from this house, Alex,” she said softly. “I used my own. I 
just got it last night.” 

“Huh?” I cried. “I don’t get it.” 

“You will,” she whispered. 

She knocked me to the floor with her heavy forepaws, and sank 
her teeth into my chest. 


Scanning, formatting and 
proofing by Undead. 

