
Skip to main content.

 Wikipedia Machine Texts Video Audio Software Images Share
Sign up for free!
Connec
Find more information.
Search for text content.
Search for TV news headlines.
Find radio transcripts.
Search web archives.
Advanced Search
" All 62 pages " All Pages
See more recipes
R. L. Stein;


Something is waiting for us.
In the dark…


Stay outside.
basement;


Gosha - 02
R. L. Stiner;
(Undead Scan v1.5)


“Hey Mom—hold on!”

Casey tossed the Frisbee onto the smooth, green grass. Casey
My father put on a face mask and squinted in the sun. The Frisbee fell to the ground.
It bounced a few times before landing under the program.
home.

“Not today. Pm busy,” Dr. Brewer said and turned and .
He ran into the room. The screen door slammed behind him.

Casey brushed his blonde hair off his forehead.
“What’s his problem?” He called Margaret, his sister, who was
He looked around from the redwood tree near the garage.

“You know,” said Margaret simply. He wiped his hands clean.
He grabbed her jean legs and both of them, lifting each other up. “I’m kidding
Frisbee with you for a while,” he said.

“Good,” Casey said cheerfully. He walked slowly towards
Back the Frisbee under the net.

Margaret approached him. He felt sorry for her. and his father.
They were always together, playing soccer or Frisbee or Nintendo together.
But Dr. Brewer doesn’t seem to have time for that anymore.

Jumping up and grabbing the Frisbee, Margaret realized how excited she was.
For himself, too. My father was no exception. Indeed, he
He spent hours on the floor, not saying a word
her.

He’s not calling me Princess anymore, Margaret thought. it
He hated the name. But at least it was a symbol, a token.
Approach.

He threw the red Frisbee back. Bad mistake. Casey followed
But it eluded him. Margaret visited the Holy Mountains
Their backs.

California, he thought.

It’s cold out here. This is the middle of winter and there
Not a cloud in the sky, Cassie and I are in jeans and t-shirts.
Like it’s the middle of summer.

He caught a dolphin in the wild and flipped it over.
manicured lawn and triumphantly waved a Frisbee above her head.

“Show off,” Casey murmured, unimpressed.

“You’re the hot dog in the family,” cried Margaret.

“No, you’re a druggie.”

“Hey, Casey—do you want me to play with you or not?”


He raised his hand.

Everyone was sober these days, Margaret realized.

It was easy to see why.

He took a long pull. The Frisbee sailed over Cassie’s head. "you
Seek him!” He cried out in anger, putting his hands on his hips.

“No, you!” she screamed.

"you!"

“Casey—you’re eleven. Don’t be like a two-year-old.
he said.

“Well, you’re acting like a one-year-old child,” was his response while smirking.
He went after Frisby.

Margaret realized that it was all my father’s fault. Things were complicated.
Since she started working from home. bottom, bottom, and his
plants and heavy machinery. It never came up for air.

And if he did, he wasn’t holding a frisbee.

Or do two minutes in pairs.

Mother noticed too, Margaret thought, and ran to complete and
Take another position before it hits the side.
Guardian.

Having Dad at home made my mom very sad too. It would be like
Everything is fine. But I can tell he cares.

"Get lucky, bastard!" Casey called out.

Margaret hated the name Fasso more than she ever did.
princess. His family members jokingly called him Faso because he .
He was as thin as his father. He was also about the same height as her, but he had
The mother has light brown hair, brown eyes, and black complexion.

“Don’t tell me about it.” She carried the red decibel on her. He grabbed it.
He got on his knees and gave it back.

They threw him back and forth, not saying much else.
Ten or fifteen minutes. “I’m getting warm,” Margaret said defensively
The eyes are in the orange in his hand. “Let’s go in.”

Casey threw the Frisbee at the garage wall. He fell down.
grass. He came running to her. “Dad plays a long time,” he
said Peovill. “And he throws well. You throw up like a girl.”

“Let me rest,” cried Margaret, slapping him playfully.
She runs towards the back door. “You throw like a chimp.”

“How come my father got fired?” she asked.

She frowned. And stop the run. The question caught him off guard.
Surprisingly. “Huh?”

His black face and markings hardened. "You know. I mean, why?”
he asked, clearly uncomfortable.

And Casey hasn't talked about this in four weeks since.
Mother was at home. Which was unfamiliar because they lived so close.


Being only a year apart.

“I mean, we came all the way here so he could work.
Politics, isn’t it?” Casey asked.

"Yes. Well... she's tied," Margaret said, half whispering.
That his father could hear.

“But why? Did he blow up the lab or something?” Casey smiled.
The idea of ​​him blowing up a giant science lab is hilarious
she.

"No, he didn't blow anything up," said Margaret, pulling away.
A black hair. “Botanists work with trees, you know. They don’t
Have lots of opportunities to blow things up.”

They both laughed.

Casey followed him into the narrow shadowy patch of the lower one.
Animal style horse.

"I'm not quite sure what happened," continued Margaret;
Half silence. “But I heard my father on the phone. I think it was
Talking to Mr. Martin. his department chairman. remember? calm
The little guy who came to dinner that night drank a barbecue
fire?"

Casey nodded his head. "Martinez fired my father?"

Margaret said in a statement: “Probably. “From what I heard, there was
Something going on with the plants my dad was growing, some observations
That was wrong or something.”

“But my father’s clever,” Casey insisted, as did Margaret
To compete with Him. “If his tests are negative, how does he know
Fix them.”

Margaret looked up. “That’s all I know,” he said. "come on,
prison. Let's go inside. I’m dying of thirst! She stuck out her tongue.
She yelled that she needed water.

“You’re a gross,” Casey said. He then turned on the TV.
He ran in front of her so she could get in first.

“Who’s Gross?” Mrs. Brewer asked from the shadows. He struggled.
Say hello to them both. “Don’t answer that.”

Mother is tired today, Margaret thought, observing.
Fine incised lines in the corner of his mother’s eye, and the first
His mother had forty brown hair that was shoulder length. “I hate
This job,” said Mrs. Brewer, returning to the seat.

"what are you doing?" Casey asked, opening the fridge.
and remove a cup of water.

“Tm Christian Devine.”

“Yuck!” cried Margaret.

” Thank you for your help,” Ms. Brewer said dryly. The phone rang.
He wiped his pencils with a towel and hurried on.


Pick up the phone at home.

Margaret found a bottle of water in the fridge and put the straw in it
At the top, and follow Casey forward into the box. Underground;
door, quite closed when Dr. Brewer is working downstairs,
was a little closed.

Casey started to close it, then stopped. “Let us go down and see.
It’s what my mom does,” she advised.

Margaret used a drop of water in the Smith straw and
She held the blank book in her hand. "ok."

He knew they shouldn't hurt their father, but he
curiosity got the better of her. He worked down there for years.
Four weeks now. All kinds of important equipment, lights, and plants.
was delivered. Usually it lasts eight or nine hours
Down there, he’s doing whatever he’s doing. And he wasn’t
Show them once.

"Yes. Let's go," said Margaret. It was their home too, after all.

Besides, their fathers probably expected them to show some
interest. Maybe he's upset that they didn't bother to come
All this time on the floor.

He opened the door the rest of the way, and they stepped in
up the narrow staircase. “Hey, Dad—” Casey called out excitedly. "dad
—Can we see?”

They were halfway down the road when their father jumped at their feet.
up the stairs. He glared at them angrily, his skin turning green.
Under UV light. He was holding his right hand tightly.
Drops of red blood fell on her white dress.

"Stay out of the basement!" he screamed in a voice they never heard.
He had never heard of it before.

Both boys turned around and suddenly their father shouted like
that. It was soft and smooth.

“Stay in the basement,” he repeated, holding her bleeding hand.
“Don’t you ever come down here—I warn you.”


"I agree. Everybody's packed," Mrs. Brewer said, dropping her suitcases.
thud on the road ahead. He poked his head into the room.
Where the television was blaring. “Do you think you can stop the movie to .
One minute to say goodbye to your mother?”

Casey pressed a button on the remote and the screen went out.
blank. He and Margaret walked respectfully to their
Mother kisses.

Margaret Terry Diane Manning, who was living;
Around the corner, followed by their hallway. “You’re going too long
Go, Mrs. Brewer?” he asked, his eyes on the two lungs.
Suitcases.

“I don’t know,” replied Mrs. Braver anxiously. “My sister came inside.
hospital in Tucson this morning. I think IIl should stay until he
I can go home.”

“Well, I’ll be happy to babysit Casey and Margaret while you
away,” Dayne joked.

“Give me a break,” Margaret said, rubbing her eyes. “I’m old.
More than you, Diane.”

“And I’m proud of you both,” Casey added with a .
Patience.

“Pm I’m not worried about you kids,” Mrs. Brewer said, looking away
He’s obsessed with his watch. “I’m worried about your father.”

“Don’t worry,” Margaret told him earnestly. “We take good care of
Him.”

“Just make sure he’s eating something once in a while,” Mum.
Brewer said. “She’s so busy with her work that she doesn’t feel
Eat until you are told.”

He will be left alone here with my mother, Margaret.
thought. My father never leaves the basement.

It had been two weeks since he cried in jail and stayed outside
In the basement. They had been walking ever since, afraid to
He spoke angrily. But for the past two weeks, he has been silent.
To them, except for the occasional “good morning” and “good night”.

“Don’t worry about anything, mom,” he said, smiling forgivingly.
"Just take care of Aunt Eleanor."

“Call PII when I get to Tucson,” Ms. Brewer said, concerned.
Lowering his eyes to his watch again, he takes three long strides.
at the basement door, shouting: “Michael – time to move me.
At the airport!”


After a long wait, Dr. Brewer called for an answer. Then Mrs. Brewer
She turned back to the children. “You think he'll notice 'm gone?” she asked.
Out loud. She wanted to make small talk, but her eyes
He showed some emotion.

A few seconds later, they heard footsteps on the bottom steps.
And their father showed up. She took off her dirty lab coat, showing him
Tight pants and a bright yellow T-shirt and throw on the lab coat
Bannister. Even two weeks later, his right hand, arm
The one in the blood was very well covered.

"ready?" he asked his wife.

Mrs. Brewer sighed. "i guess." She served margarine and casserole
helpless look, then quickly pulled back and gave them all one last kiss.

“Let’s go, then,” said Dr. Brewer impatiently. He took
Two packages and screaming. "Wow. How long do you want to stay? One?
A year?" Then he went out from them at the door, and didn't .
An answer.

“Goodbye, Miss Bravery,” Diane said, taking her hand. “Have a good time.”

“How can you have a good time?” Casey asked gravely. "her
Sister’s in the hospital.”

"You know what I mean," Dean replied, tossing her long red dress.
hair and rolling her eyes.

They watched the lion run down the road, then
He returned to the village. Casey picked up the remote and
Started the movie.

Diana leaned to the side and picked up the bag of potatoes.
He was eating chips.

“Who chose this movie?” Diana asked, patting the bag.
Noisily.

“I did,” Casey said. “Okay.” He was pulling on the couch cushion.
He got down on the carpet in the living room and laid down on it.

Margaret was sitting cross-legged on the floor behind her.
Sitting in a chair, he still thinks about his mother and his girlfriend.
Eleanor. “Well, if you want to blow more people and their
guts flying all over,” he said, making a face for Diane’s sake.

"Yeah. It's fine," Casey said, never taking his eyes off the glow.
The television screen.

“I’ve done a lot of homework. I don’t know why I’m sitting here.”
Diana said as she reached into the bag of applesauce.

“Me too,” Margaret sighed. “I think Pll do it after dinner. do you
Do you have math homework? I think I left my math book at school.”

“Shhh!” Case yelled, kicking Margaret's foot.
direction. “This is a beautiful place.”

“Have you seen this tape before?” Diane screamed.


“Twice,” Casey admitted. He leaned, and the sofa pillow Diane.
He threw the hat over his head.

“It’s a beautiful evening,” Margaret said, throwing her hands up
His head. “Maybe we should go outside. You know. Take a bike or
something."

“You think you’re in Michigan? It’s always nice.
Evening here,” Diana said, swallowing hard. “I don’t even care
anymore."

“Maybe we should do math together,” Margaret said.
suggested hopefully. Diana was better at math than he was.

Diane raised her hand. "Yeah. Sometime." She rolled up the bag and readied
It's on the floor. “Your father seemed worried, you know?”

“Huh? what do you mean?"

“I’m sorry,” Diana said. “How’s it going?”

“Shush,” Casey insisted, picking up the bag of potatoes and
He threw it at Diane.

"You know one. From work and all that.”

“I think it’s alright,” Margaret said anxiously. “I don’t know, really.
He spends most of his time in the basement conducting his experiments. ”

“Tests? Hey—let’s go take a look.” throwing hair back
Behind her shoulder, Diane jumped out of the chrome and white.
Sofa leather.

Diane is a lover of science. Mathematics and Science. Two chapters .
Margaret hated it.

He was supposed to be in the Brewer family, Margaret thought
With a little sense. Maybe Dad will take notice.
Since he sees her in the same thing.

“Come on—” Diane snapped, pulling Margaret out
below. “He’s a botanist, right? What is he doing down there?”

“It’s hard,” Margaret said, crying out loud
And shot to the screen. “He tried to explain it to me once. but-"
Margaret allowed Diane to sit back on her feet.

"close!" Casey yelled watching the movie, the colors fade
The TV screen flickers on her clothes.

“Is he trying to build an evil Frankenstein or something?” Diane
search . “Or a Robocop? Wouldn’t that be easier?”

"close!" Casey repeatedly shouted like Arnold Schwarzenegger.
limited to the screen.

“He has all these machines downstairs,” Margaret .
he said without relaxing. “But he doesn’t want us to go down there.”

“Huh? Like a big secret?” Diane's green eyes sparkled.
excitement. "Take it from there. We're just going to see.”

“No, I don’t think so,” Margaret told him. He couldn't forget.


The look of anger on his father's face two weeks ago when he and Casey
He had tried to visit. Or how he yelled at them.
Go downstairs.

"Get out of there. I dare you,” Diana protested. “Are you a chicken?”

“Pm not afraid,” Margaret insisted tearfully. Diana was always
Doing things he doesn't want to do. Why it matters
For Diane to think she's better than everyone else? Margaret
he asked her.

"Chicken," Diane repeated. She throws her red hair behind her.
Following him, he walked quickly towards the basement door.

“Diane—stop!” cried Margaret, going after her.

“Oh, wait!” Casey Casey Press movie. “Are we going?
Downstairs? Wait for me! He quickly got to his feet.
She quickly joined them at the basement entrance.

“We can’t—” Margaret started, but Diane grabbed the hand
mouth.

“We’ll see soon,” Diana insisted. “We’re just going to see. we
I don’t touch anything. And then we go back upstairs now.”

"Agreed. Pll go first," Casey said, opening the door.

“Why do you want to do this?” Margaret asked her friend. "why
Do you want to go there?”

Diane raised her hand. “He does our math,” she replied, smiling.

Margaret sighed in relief. “Okay, let’s go. But remember - only
Trying to touch it.”

Casey opened the door and made his way to the stairs.
When they reached the landing, they were immediately overwhelmed by heat.
Fresh air. They could run electronics stores and convenience stores
machines. And to the right they could see lights
White lights emanated from Dr. Brewer’s office.

This is kind of fun, Margaret thought as the three of them.
Their path leads down a covered staircase.

It’s a journey.

No problem watching it.

So why was her heart racing? Why did he get this instead?
Scared of fear?


“Yuck! It’s too hot in here!”

Away from the ladder, the wind became a bigger problem.
Hot and mushy.

Margaret sighed. The change in temperature was
to breathe.

“It’s too wet,” Diana said. “It’s good for your hair and body.”

“We studied the rainforest in school,” Casey said. “Maybe, Daddy.
Building a rainforest.”

“Maybe,” said Margaret.

Why was he so alone? Was it because they were
they fall into their father’s land? to do something they weren’t told to do.
being?

She held herself tightly in both directions. It was underground.
They were divided into two large rooms, one of which was unfinished.
The rec room was dark. He couldn't figure out the details.
The pin-point table in the center of the room.

The workspace on the right was too bright, so they were brighter
Wet and dry the eyes. White beams of light poured out.
Descend from large halogen lamps on tracks on the ceiling.

"Whoa! Look!" Casey cried as her eyes widened as she walked away excitedly.
Towards the light.

The tall trees glowed bright against the lights
These, stems and leaves, are made differently.
A huge, low black city.

“It’s like a forest!” Margaret shouted, following Cassie.
White glow.

The vegetation resembles that of a forest - vines with leafy branches and tall;
Tree-like plants, long-barked, thin, medium-sized plants, shrubs;
and striped, cream-colored roots that flow like a master knee
state.

“It looks like a deer or something,” Diana said. “Is it your father .
Just raise these things for five or six weeks?”

"Yes. I'm pretty sure," Margaret replied, looking up at the giant.
Red tomatoes on a soft yellow plant.

“Oh. Feel this,” Diane said.

Margaret looked away while her friend squeezed her hand
Leaves large, straight, tear-dropped. “Diane—we shouldn’t touch—”

“I know, I know,” Daisy said without dropping a leaf. "but .


touch her hand.”

Margaret ignored the word. “It’s not like leaves,” he said.
As Diane turned to try a larger plant. “It’s very good. like
glass."

The three of them stood in the bright white light and stared.
plants for several minutes, touched heavy branches, and driven away.
Hands on the soft, warm leaves, amazed at how big it is
Some plants produced fruits.

“It’s so hot down here,” Casey complained. He took off his T-shirt.
He threw it over his head and threw it to the ground.

“What a bod!” Diane grinned.

She flicked her tongue at him. Then his blue eyes widened.
And it was like he was going to freeze. "Hey!"

“Casey—what’s wrong?” Margaret asked, hurrying off.
she.

“This—” He pointed to a tall, wooden-looking tree. “He’s breathing!”

Diana laughed.

But Margaret heard it too. He grabbed Casey's bare shoulders and
Listen to her. Yes. He could hear the sound of breathing and it sounded like they were
It comes from the stem of a tall, leafy plant.

“What’s your problem?” Diana asked, looking surprised.
There are expressions on Casey and Margaret’s faces.

“Casey’s right,” Margaret said simply, listening.
Voice rhythm. “You can hear his breath.”

Diane rolled her eyes. “Maybe he has a cold. Maybe its grapes.
It’s full.” He laughed at his own joke, but his two friends
didn't join in. “I don’t hear it.” He came closer to her.

All three listened.

silence.

“It—it’s stalled,” said Margaret.

“Stop it, you two,” Diana spat. “You’re not going to scare me.”

"No. Really," Margaret replied.

“Hey—look at this!” Casey was already going through something
else. He was standing in front of a tall glass panel that had been
Trees, on the other hand. It’s like knowing a phone and
The inside of the tank is about shoulder height with lots of ice attached
Back and side.

Margaret's eyes followed the wires to a similar stained glass window.
About 10 feet. Some kind of generator was built between them.
And the two seem to be connected.

“What could that be?” Diana asked, hurrying to Case.

“Don’t touch it,” Margaret warned, giving some to the Breathing Plant.
Finish eye contact, then add to the rest.


But Casey reached for the glass door at the front of the store.
“I just want to see if this will be open,” he said.

He grabbed the mirror – his eyes widened in despair.

Her entire body began to tremble and shake. He shook his head.
wildly from side to side. His eyes were rolled back in his head.

“Oh, help!” She managed to cry, her body shaking and shaking.
Harder and faster. “Help me!” I— can’t stop!”


“Help me!”

Casey’s entire body shook as if there was an electric shock.
charging through it. His head rocked on her shoulder, his eyes.
was out in the woods and it was confusing.

"please!"

Margaret and Diane opened the door in fear. Margaret had
The first one that moved. He jumps out of the cage and reaches out to try to pull it.
Keep away from glass.

“Margaret—don’t!” Diane screamed. “Don’t touch it!”

“But we have to do something!” Margaret Castle.

It took both girls a moment to realize that Casey was stopped
vibes. And he was laughing.

“Casey?” Margaret asked, looking at him with a frightened look on her face.
Getting lost is amazing.

He was sitting in the living room, his body now, his mouth
He was wrapped in a wide, evil grin.

“Gocha!” He stated that. And then she started laughing louder.
He pointed at them and repeated the sentence through his success.
laughter. “Gocha! Gocha!”

“That wasn’t funny!” cried Margaret.

“You were following him?! I don’t believe it!” Diane cried, her face looking like
His bottom lip trembled like the white light above them.

Both girls jumped on the cage and pinned it to the ground. Margaret
She sat on top of him while Diane held her shoulders.

“Gocha! Gocha!” She went on to stop Margaret.
His throat tightened and he couldn’t speak.

“You forgot!” Diane screamed. “You little rat!”

Everyone’s freedom was abruptly interrupted by a low, low voice from the
through the house. All three kids raised their heads and looked
The voice direction.

The vast basement was silent now except for their heavy
Breathing.

“What was that?” Diana whispered.

They listened.

Another habitual scream, the sound of heartbreak, barely audible, like the passing wind
Saxophone.

A plant suddenly jumped and fell like snakes.
They throw themselves on the ground.


Another scream of delight.

“Tt's—things!” Casey said, his face now scared. he
She straddled her sister and climbed to her feet in her lap
Her dyed red hair stood up.

“Trees don’t cry and scream,” Diane said, her eyes wide
Trees that filled the house.

“This will do,” said Margaret.

The eyes moved as if human hands were changing their positions. they
She could hear him breathing again, a slow, steady breath. Then a joy, like
The wind blows.

“Let’s get out of here,” Casey said, heading for the stairs.

“It’s scary down here,” Dean said, following, his
Eyes linger on the changing, chanting trees.

“I’m sure my father can explain,” said Margaret. His word was .
He was quiet, but his voice trembled as he left the room.
Following Diane and Casey.

“Your father is weird,” Diane said, reaching the door.

“No, it’s not,” Casey quickly decided. “It does an important job
here."

A tall tree nodded and seemed to bend towards them.
He lifts his eyebrows as if inviting them, beckoning them back.

“Let’s just get out of here!” cried Margaret.

All three of them were out of breath as they ran back to the stairs.
stairs. Casey closed the door carefully, making sure it was locked.

“Weird,” Diane repeated playfully with one of her
long red hair. "It really is amazing." That was his word that day. but
Margaret had to agree that was good.

“Well,” said Margaret, “my father warned us not to lose sight of it.”
He struggles to hold his breath. “I think she knew he’d be scared
We, and we don’t understand.”

'Tm getting out of here,' said Day, only half joking. it
He walked out of the screen door and turned towards them. "want
To go to math later?”

"Yes. Please."
Changing the trees. Some of them seemed to be avoiding them.
yelled at them. But that was impossible.

“Later,” Diane said, and headed for the car.

Then he disappeared, their father's dark blue car.
He turned the corner around the car. “I just got back from the airport,”
Margaret said. He turned away from the door and walked a few steps towards the cage.
Back in the hallway. “Is the Earth’s edge open?”

“Yeah,” Casey replied, looking at him again to be sure. ” By all means, mom
We know we—”


He stopped. His mouth opened, but no sound came out.

Her face turned pale.

“My T-shirt!” Casey screamed and pounded his chest. “I let it go.
In the basement!”


“Tve got to get it,” Casey said. “If not, my father will know—”

“It’s too late,” Margaret interrupted, her eyes on the driveway.
"He's already pulled over."

“I’ll just take a second,” Casey leans into his hand .
The entrance to the underground. “I run down and run up.”

"No!" Margaret stood in the middle of the narrow street and frowned.
Halfway between the front door and the bottom door, her eyes
Moving forward. “It has stopped. He is getting out of the car.”

“But he knows! He knows!” Casey shouted, his voice loud and
shout.

"so?"

“Remember how mad he was last time?” Casey asked.

“Of course I remember,” replied Margaret. “But it doesn't go away.
Kill us, Cassie, because we looked at his plants, he—”

Margaret stopped. He approached the screen door. "Hey,
wait."

“What’s going on?” Casey asked.

"urgent!" Margaret turned and pointed with both hands. "Go! Army!
Downstairs—quick! Mr. Henry from beside me. He stopped my father. They are
Talking about something in the car.”

Casey opened the basement door with a loud yell.
disappeared. Margaret heard him coming down the stairs.
Then she heard his footsteps hurrying into their father's
Workhouse.

Hurry up, Cassie, he thought.
He watches his father shield his eyes from the sun with one hand as
He spoke with Mr. Harris.

urgent.

You know, Dad doesn’t talk too long with the neighbors.

Mr. Henry seemed to do all the talking. You can ask
Margaret thought my father was a blessing. Mr. Henry was not on hand.
Everyone, like Dr. Brewer. So she always asked Margaret’s father
Come in and help build or set things up.

His father was rubbing his head now, a big smile on his face.

Hurry up, Casey.

Repeat here. where are you?

Still keeping his eyes open, Dr. Brewer quickly resuscitated Henry.
So both men turned and started walking briskly towards their apartment building.


Houses.

Hurry up, Casey.

Casey—it’s coming! urgent! Margaret asked him quietly.

It’s not too late to take your T-shirt down and
Run up the stairs.

It shouldn’t take too long.

His father was walking in front now. He saw it .
in the door and stand up.

Margaret returned the wave and went back to the box.
Go downstairs to the door. “Casey—where are you?” He called out loudly.

No answer.

No sound in the basement.

No sound at all.

Dr. Brewer was standing outside examining the rose bushes
Forward movement of the head.

“Casey?” Margaret called out.

Still no answer.

“Casey—hurry up!”

silence.

His father was tempted to make something out of clay.
Under the rose bushes.

With fear gripping her whole body, Margaret
She realized she didn’t have a choice.

He had to go downstairs and see what was holding the cage.


Casey ran down the stairs and leaned on the metal bars to get it.
He can fly in two planes at once. It fell on the concrete.
Lower down and jump into the bright white light of the tree.
shelter.

He stood in the entrance way and waited for his eyes to adjust.
A light brighter than the sun. He took a deep, sighing breath.
Compressed air, and hold it. It was hot down here and it was sticky. back
He started to shiver. The back of his voice was growling.

The botanical forests stood at attention beneath the white glow.
Views.

He saw his shirt lying on the ground a few feet away.
tall, leafy tree. It looked like the tree was turning into a teaspoon at its height.
Feathers hang from the ground around the trunk.

Casey took a shy step into the room.

Why am I so scared? He wondered to himself.

It’s just a room full of amazing plants.

Why do I feel like they’re staring at me? We are waiting.
I?

Forcing himself to panic, he took a few steps.
towards the girl, who was face down on the ground.

Hey—stay tuned.

Breathing.

He was there again.

Steady breathing. The voice is too loud. It’s also not popular.

Who can breathe? What could be the breath?

Was the giant tree breathing?

Casey looked down at the shirt. It’s that close. What was holding
Grab it and run upstairs? What was holding
The return?

He took a step forward. Then another.

Was breathing increasing?

He jumped and was suddenly startled by a low scream from the large supply.
On the wall.

It was like someone was in there screaming.
pain.

“Casey—where are you?”

Margaret’s voice was long, although she was
At the top of the stairs.


“It’s so good,” he called back. But his word was lost .
whisper. He probably couldn’t hear her.

He took another step. another.

The shirt was three yards away.

A quick one. A quick swim and he gets it.

Another scream from the supply room. It was as if a plant had breathed its last.
Suddenly, from a distant tree, he swooped down and changed leaves.

“Casey?” He could hear his sister talking upstairs, it was awesome.
worried. “Casey—hurry up!”

I try to make him think. I’m trying to be quick.

What had possessed him?

Another scream, this time coming from the other side of the room.

He takes two more steps, then focuses and straightens his arms.
In front of it.

The shirt almost fit.

He heard a scream then more breathing.

He looked up at the tall tree. There were long strings.
Confused. dry. Or did he think so?

No.

They were falling apart. Now they were hard. ready.

Ready to grab it?

“Casey—hurry up!” Margaret called from a distance.

He didn't answer. She was focusing on the shirt. Only some
About 10 feet. Just a few feet. Just one leg.

cried the tree again.

“Casey? Casey?”

The leaves were shaking all the way to the corpse.

It has only one leg. Almost wins.

“Casey? Are you ok? Answer me!”

He tugged at the shirt.

There are two similar skins.

“Huh?” She cried out in fear. “What’s going on?”

The eyes rolled at most.

“Go on!” he shouted as he held onto the t-shirt with one hand.
teeth with the other.

The eyes narrowed and twitched around him slowly.

Margaret? Casey tried to call out, but no sound came out of her
mouth. Margaret?

He shook violently, then stepped forward.

Eyes widened.

They didn’t catch him. They didn’t want to mess it up. or
Pull him back.


But they were not released.

They were warm and moist against his skin. Like animal hands.
It’s not like a tree.

help! She tried to scream again. He pulled again and leaned back.
Moving forward, using all his strength.

Not useful.

He lowered himself, hit the ground, and tried to spin around.

The eyes were sunken.

The tree let out a loud sigh.

“Go on!” Casey shouted, finally finding his voice.

And then there was Margaret standing beside him. He didn’t
He walked down the stairs. He wasn’t allowed inside the house.

“Casey!” she screamed. “What the—”

His mouth dropped open and his eyes ran wide.

“It—won’t let go!” He told her.

"No!" she screamed. and grabbed a lump in both.
hands. He pulled with all his might.

The dragon looked around for a moment, then stilled.

Casey let out a cry of joy and separated himself from the others.
front. Margaret put down the fork and took Casey’s hand and
He started running towards the stairs.

"Oh!"

They both stopped at the bottom of the stairs.

Their father stood above, looking down at them, his
His hands were clasped at his sides, his face contorted with pain.


“Mother—things!” Margaret Castle.

He looked at them, his eyes cold and angry, his eyes unblinking. he
He was silent.

“He grabbed the cage!” Margaret told him.

"I just thought I'd grab my shirt," Casey said, her voice
vibes.

They were looking at him expectantly, waiting for him to move to
unball his fists, relieving his heavy eyelids, to speak. But he looked right
Rely on them for a long time.

Finally, he said, “Are you okay?”

“Yes,” they said in unison, both nodding.

Margaret realized she was still holding Casey's hand. He left
He moved his hand to the wall.

"I'm disappointed in both of you," Dr. Brewer said in a low voice.
Voice, sore but not painful.

“I’m sorry,” Margaret said. “We knew we shouldn’t—”

“We didn’t touch anything. Hey!” Casey yelled.

“He’s absolutely devastated,” their father echoed.

“I’m sorry, Daddy.”

Dr. Brewer motioned for them to come upstairs, then stepped
to the field.

“I thought he was going to yell at us,” Casey said.
Margaret followed him up the stairs.

“That’s not my father’s way,” Margaret whispered back.

“He yelled at us the last time we started on the floor,”
Casey answered.

They followed their father into the kitchen. He showed them the hand .
Sitting on the Formac white table, then falling off the chair
in front of them.

His eyes darted from one to the other as if studying them like a .
Seeing them for the first time. His face was completely pale.
robotlike, showing no emotion at all.

“Because what’s with these trees?” Casey asked.

"what do you mean?" Dr. Brewer asked.

"They're - terrible," Casey said.

"I'll explain some day," he said sternly, looking at her.
Both of them.

“It seems very nice,” Margaret said, looking up.


Good thing.

Was their father trying to calm them down? it
he asked her. If so, he was doing a good job at it.

This wasn’t like him. not at all. He was always a control freak.
Man, thought Margaret. When he’s angry, he says he’s angry. If .
was angry, he would tell them he was angry.

So why was he acting so strangely, so quietly, so… cold?

“I asked you to go downstairs,” he said.
His legs leaned back so that the kitchen chair would tilt at two.
feet. “I think I made it clear.”

Margaret and Casey looked at each other. Finally, Margaret says,
“We’re not going to do that anymore.”

“But can’t you take us down there and tell us what you’re doing?”
Casey asked. He was still not wearing a T-shirt. He was holding her .
The ball is in his hands on the kitchen table.

"Yes. We wish to understand him better," Margaret added tentatively.
With pleasure.

“One day,” their father said. He tilted the chair back on all fours.
His feet were finally on his feet. “We’ll make it soon, okay?” He threw up his hands.
The top of his head stretched. “I need to get back to work.” he
He disappeared into the path ahead.

Casey looked up at Margaret and shrugged. Their father .
He appeared with his lab coat, which he was throwing on the front counter.

“Mom standing alright?” Margaret asked.

She shook her head. "i guess." He pulled the lab coat over his head.

“I hope I’m not going to be okay with Eleanor,” said Margaret.

Dr. Brewer’s reaction was unexpected as he adjusted the lab coat and
“Back,” he said, straightening his neck. It disappears.
outside. They heard him close the basement door behind him.

“I don’t think he’s going to kick us out or anything down
There,” said Margaret, leaning on the table and resting her chin.
with his hands.

“I guess,” Casey said. “He’s acting… amazing.”

“Maybe he’s sad because my mom isn’t there,” Margaret said. He sat down.
And then he hit Casey. "Get out of there. Wee. I have work to do."

“I can’t believe that tree bit me,” Casey said thoughtfully.
He wasn't going to move.

"You don't have to hit," Cassie protested, but she scrambled to her feet.
and left Margaret Street. I will have nightmares.
Tonight,” he said gravely.

“Don’t just think about the basement,” Margaret advised. That's what
In advice, he told himself. But what else could he say?

He went up to his room and thought he forgot about her.


The river is over. Then there's the scene in the basement with Cassie trying to
He got rid of the twin trunks of plants that were played once.
Through his heart.

With a shudder, he grabbed his book and threw himself at it.
His belly is on the bed, ready to study.

But the words on the page blurred like a scream and a breath.
The trees continued to creep into his thoughts.

At least we won’t be punished for staying there.
thought.

At least my dad didn’t yell and scare us this time.

At least my dad promised to bring us downstairs with him.
Tell us about what he’s working on down there.

The thought made Margaret very happy.

He was fine until the next morning, when he got up early.
I went downstairs to make some breakfast. To his surprise, his father
It was already working, the bottom door was secured properly and soon the
Mounted on the door.


The following Saturday afternoon, Margaret was in her room lying
At the top of the bed, talking to her mother on the phone. I'm sorry.
he said, twirling the white phone.
His arm.

“The surgery didn’t go as she had hoped,” her mother said.
She is so tired. “The doctors said he could have had more.
surgery. But they must build his authority first.”

“I guess that means you won’t be coming home anytime soon,”
Margaret said cheerfully.

Mrs. Brewer laughed. “Don’t tell me you forgot about me!”

“Well… yes,” Margaret agreed. He raised his eyes and went.
Bedroom window. Two butterflies fall outside on the window.
And they were talking merrily, distracting Margaret, making
She could barely hear her mother speak in Tucson.

“How’s your dad?” Mrs. Brewer asked. I talked to him.
last night, but he only made cruises.”

“It’s not good for us!” Margaret insisted. He grabbed it.
Cross his ears and let the birds go. “It doesn’t say a
word."

“He’s working really hard,” Ms Brewer said. In the
In the background, Margaret could hear a loudspeaker.
advertisement. His mother was calling from a pay phone.
hospital.

"He never leaves the basement," complained Margaret;
It was a little wetter than expected.


“Your father’s meetings are very important to him,” his
for the mother.

“More important to us?” Margaret Castle. He loved it!
There was a scream in his voice. He wished he hadn’t started to squirm.
about his father on the phone. His mother was getting very worried.
At the hospital. Margaret knew she shouldn’t even do it.
worse.

“Your father has a lot to prove,” Ms. Brewer said. “To himself, and
To other people. I think he works harder because he wants to show off.
Mr. Martinez and everyone else at the university were wrong.
expelled him. He wants to show them they made a big mistake.”

“But we had more of him before he ever got home!”
Margaret insisted.

He could feel his mother’s excitement impatiently. “Margaret, I’m trying.
To clarify for you. You are old enough to understand.”

Margaret said quickly, “I’m sorry. She decided to change.
subject. “He suddenly put on a baseball cap.”

"Who? Prison?”

Margaret replied, “No, dear. “Grandpa. He’s wearing a Dodgers hat.
He never takes it off.”

"really?" Mrs. Brewer was very nice.

Margaret laughed. “We told him he looked like he’d love it, but
He wouldn’t let her go.”

Mrs. Brewer laughed too. “O-oh. I’m calling,” he said.
“Running. Be careful, Mom. Pll try calling later.”

One click and it was gone.

Margaret looked up at the ceiling, watching the shadows of the trees.
The front wheel goes back and forth. The buyers flew away.
There was silence.

Margaret thought.

She was getting worried about her sister and I had to go and complain
About my father.

Why did I do that?

He stood up and listened to the silence. Casey was staying with a friend.
His father worked hard at the basement door.
It is closed behind.

Maybe I’ll call Diane, Margaret thought. He reached out.
over the phone, and then realized he was hungry. At first lunch, he decided.
Then there’s Diana.

She quickly brushed her black hair and shook her head in the mirror.
on his table, then quickly disappeared.

To his surprise, his father was in the kitchen. He was wrapped up.
His back to her.


She started to call out to him, but he stopped her. What was he doing?

Confused, he leaned against the wall and looked
The door leading to the kitchen.

Dr. Brewer looks like he's eating something. And one hand.
She was holding a bag on the counter next to the sink. Hi Margaret
When he finished, he reached into the bag and pulled out a big
She held something in her mouth.

Margaret looked at him, choking on hunger, and the noise came from
Take another hand out of the bag and eat it greedily.

What on earth does he eat? He wondered to himself. He doesn't eat with
Me and Casey. He always says he’s not hungry. But he's hungry.
now! It’s like he’s hungry!

He watched from the doorway as Dr. Brewer continued to shoot
Hand after hand in hand, grabbing his one meal.
After a while, she crumpled up the bag and threw it in the trash
Under the sink. Then he wiped his hands on the side of his white.
Co. Laboratory.

Margaret turned quickly from the door, on her feet.
and entered the house. He held his breath, as did his father.
He walked into the hall and shouted as he did so.

The basement door closed behind him. He listened intently.
Close it up.

When she was sure she was down, Margaret walked away.
He's about to go into the kitchen. He knew what his father was.
eating greedily, hungrily.

He opened the drain and put his hand back in the sink.
He took out the bulky bag.

Then he took a deep breath and ran his eyes over the label.

He saw that his father was eating plant food.


Margaret finished yesterday. His mouth was as dry as cotton. He was surprised.
He realized he was gripping the side of the counter comfortably in his hand.
wrath.

He forced himself to release his grip and looked at the bottom half.
The empty bag of plant food that he dropped on the ground.

He became ill. Couldn't get rid of picture stain
mind. How could his father eat mud?

He not only ate it, he understood it. And he put it in his mouth .
And holding it.

Like he liked it.

Like she needed it.

Eating a plant-based diet should have been part of her investigation, Margaret
she said to herself. But what kind of design? What was he looking at?
Introduce them to these amazing plants.

The contents of the bag smelled like garbage. Margaret took
Take a deep breath and hold it. She suddenly felt sick to her stomach.
Looking at the bag, he couldn't help but think it was a mess.
The person on the inside is to be liked.

Ohhh.

He was about to open his mouth.

How could her father put such a disgusting thing in her mouth?

Still breathing heavily, she reached for the empty bag.
He grabbed it and threw it in the trash. He started to shift
He stepped away from the goal when a hand grabbed his shoulder.

Margaret let out a shriek and spun around. “Casey!”

'Tm home,' she said, smiling at him. “What’s for lunch?”


Later, after making her a peanut butter sandwich, she told Cassie
It is what it is.

Casey laughed.

“That’s not funny,” he said seriously. “Our own father was eating dirt.”

Casey laughed again. For some reason, it made him feel funny.

Margaret tapped him on the shoulder so hard that he
He dropped his sandwich. “I’m sorry, but I don’t see what,” she said quickly.
You’re laughing. It's sick! There’s something about the dad.
Something really bad.”

“He probably had a vegetarian appetite,” Casey still said.
Don’t take it seriously. "You know some. Like you're getting sick of those


By giving roasted peanuts.

“That’s different,” Margaret said. “Eating garbage is easy.
Why won’t you accept it?”

But before Cassie could answer, Margaret continued to drop everything.
His mood was gone now. “Don't you see? My father has changed. more.
Even since Mom left. It takes a lot of time .
basement-"

"That's because my mother isn't here," Cassie interrupted.

"And he's always so quiet and cool with us," Margaret
He continued to look at her. “He wouldn’t say a word to us. When he was a child
each day and asking us about our activities. He never says.
Human speech. He doesn’t call me a king or a fascist, as is common.
He never—”

“You hate those names, fatzo,” Casey said, laughing.
The box is full of peanut oil.

“I know,” Margaret said impatiently. “That’s just an example.”

“So, what do you mean?” Casey asked. “When the father was born
His tree? That he’s out of all the bananas?”

“I—I don’t know,” replied Margaret angrily. “Looking at
He ate this disgusting plant food.
He thought he was going to turn into a tree!”

Casey jumped up and broke the chair.
down. He started to move around the food like a zombie in his eyes.
It’s locked, arms stretched out in front of it. “I’m
Amazing man fruit!” He said he was trying to keep his voice clear.
bold and deep.

“Not funny,” Margaret insisted, crossing her arms over her chest
She refuses to smile.

“Fruit man and weed woman!” Casey revealed surprisingly.
On to Margaret.

"It's not funny," he repeated.

He hit the Clerk and hit his knee. “Oh!”

“It works for you,” said Margaret.

“Flesh man is killing!” she screamed and jumped at him. He ran off.
He moved his head like a man being beaten on the shoulder.

“Casey—you’re going to stop it!” she screamed. “Give me a break!”

“Okay, okay.” He turned away. “If you’ll do me a favor.”

“What’s the point?” Margaret asked, rubbing her eyes.

“Make me another sandwich.”


On Monday afternoon after school, Margaret, Casey, and Diane were
Throwing a Frisbee back and forth after Diana. It was warm.
It’s windy when the sky is filled with small white clouds.


Diane threw the disc up. He walked over Cassie's head and entered.
A row of scented lemon trees stretched out from behind the chalkboard.
garage. Casey ran after her and stayed underground.
sprinkler that was only an inch above the grass.

Both girls laughed.

Cassie, running, threw the Frisbee at Margaret. It’s arrived.
But the wind blew it out of his hands.

“How about finding a mad scientist for a dad?” Diana asked.
suddenly.

"what?" Margaret wasn’t sure she heard him correctly.

“Don't just stop there. Throw it away!” Casey asked from the side.
garage.

Margaret threw the Frisbee up in the air and her brother took it.
All the way. She loved to run and splash.

“Just because he keeps doing amazing experiments doesn’t mean he is.
mad scientist,” said Margaret sternly.

“Strange is right,” Diane said, her face changing. "I
I had a weird dream last night about those weird trees in your land.
They were crying and holding my hand.”

“I’m sorry,” said Margaret earnestly. “I have nightmares, too.”

“Be careful!” Casey shouted. He threw one low, which Diane caught.
around her feet.

Margaret thought he was a mad scientist. Mad Scientist. Mad Scientist.

The words continued to settle in her mind.

The mad scientists were only in the movies - right?

”My dad was talking about your dad the other night,” Diane said .
and transfer the disk to the cache.

“You didn’t tell him to—get downstairs? did
E?" Margaret asked anxiously.

“No,” Diana replied, shaking her head.

“Hey, are these lemons ripe yet?” Casey asked, pointing his hand .
low trees.

“Why don’t you grab one to find out?” Margaret explained.
She was angry that he was interrupting.

“Why wouldn’t you?” She handed him the knife.

“My father said your father was kicked out of Politech because his
Temptations are out of control, and he is not going to stop them.
Secret. He plopped down on the freshly cut grass, looking for
Get off the Frisbee.

"what do you mean?" Margaret asked.

“The university told him that he needed to stop everything he was doing.
Once he did, he refused. She said she couldn’t stop. At least that's it.
My father heard about a man who came into the shop.”


Margaret had not heard this story. This upset her, but she
He thought it might be true.

“Something terrible happened in your father’s lab,” Diane
It's going on. “Someone got hurt or killed or something.”

“That’s not true,” Margaret insisted. “We would have heard it with that.
done."

"Yeah. Probably," Diana admitted. "But my father said your father .
He was expelled because he refused to stop his experiments.

“Well, that doesn’t make you a mad artist,” said Margaret
In terms of defense. He suddenly felt the need to leave it to his father. it
He didn't know why.

“I’m just telling you what I heard,” Diane said, jumping up.
His red hair returned. “You don’t have to bite my head off.”

They played for a few more minutes. Diana fills in the article
and talked about some kids they knew who were eleven but
It’s moving forward. Then they talked about school for a while.

“It’s time,” Margaret called to Casey. He picked up the Frisbee.
He came running out of the grass. “I’ll call you later,” said Margaret.
Diane, giving him a little push. Then he and Casey started running
House, cutting to familiar backgrounds.

“We need a lemon tree,” Casey said as they walked in slow motion.
“They’re good.”

“Oh yes,” replied Margaret sarcastically. “That is what we are.
Our home is needed. Another tree!”

As they walked through the barn and into their backyard, they
Both were surprised to see their father. He was standing at the edge of the rose.
trellis checks rose pin classes.

“Hey Mom!” Casey called out. "keep!" He threw a Frisbee at him.
father.

Dr. Brewer turned slowly. Frisbee looked up
off the top, hitting the Dodgers’ scoreboard. The door opened wide.
surprise. She lifted her hands to cover her head.

But that was too late.

Margaret and Cassie both cried out in surprise as they put it on.
head.

At first, Margaret thought her father's hair had turned green.

But then she saw clearly that there was no hair on his head.

His hair was gone. It all falls apart.

Instead of hair, Dr. Brewer grows bright green leaves.
off the top.


“Children—it’s okay!” Dr. Brewer called. She quickly focused and picked it up.
He changed his head.

A bullet flew down above his head and screamed loudly. Margaret raised
The eyes follow the belly, but the dark leaves are replaced by light.
His father wouldn’t go.

Noura's head started to spin as she thought about what she was going to feel.
You like to pull the leaves off your head.

"Okay. Really," Dr. Braver said, hurrying over to them.

“But, papa, your brain,” Casey finished. She looked at him in surprise.
It’s very difficult.

Margaret got sick. She had difficulty getting up and tried to get out.
high schools.

“Come here, both of you,” their father said gently, waving a hand.
around their shoulders, “Let’s sit in the shade there.
and hold a speech. I spoke to your mother on the phone this morning. it
Tell me you’re sorry about my job.”

“Your head—it’s all green!” Casey sat down.

“I know,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling. “That’s why I wore the cap. I
I don’t want you two to worry.”

He led them into the shadow of the tall, running ducks.
Garcia, and they sat down on the grass. “I don’t think you two think your
Daddy’s pretty impressed, huh?”

He looked Margaret in the eye. Uncomfortable, he tried
far.

Screaming in panic, he jumped to another
direction.

“Margaret, don’t say a word,” said her father, pushing her away.
She has her hand between hers. “What's wrong? What do you want
Tell me?”

Margaret sighed and pulled away from her father's eyes. "come on.
Tell us. Why are the leaves coming off your head?” she asked.
Especially.

"It's just a precaution," he told her, continuing to hold her hand. "it is
Just for a little while. It goes quickly and my hair grows all the time.”

“But how did that happen?” Casey asked, looking into his father's eyes.
A few Dodgers green leaves came out.

“Maybe you two will be more comfortable if I explain what I’m looking at.
to do down in the basement,” said Dr. Brewer, shifting his weight and .
He leaned on his hands. “I was on my .


Because of the presentations, I haven’t had much time to talk to you.”

“You haven’t got time,” Margaret noted.

“Tm sorry” she narrowed her eyes. “I really am. But this work
I love what I do and it’s hard.”

“Did you discover a new species of plant?” Casey asked, passing his
His feet are under him.

“No, I want to create a new species of plant,” Dr. Brewer said.
explained.

“Huh?” Casey shouted.

“Did you talk about DNA in school?” their father asked.
They shook their heads. "Well, it's very complicated," he began.
Dr. Brewer thought for a moment. “Let me try to put it simply.
terms,” he said, holding the gun in his hand. “Let’s say it.
We hired someone who was very smart. You know. Real brain
pressure."

“Like me,” Casey interrupted.

“Casey, shut up,” Margaret said sternly.

“A real brain. Like Casey,” Dr. Brewer said with approval. “And let’s .
“We were able to isolate a molecule or a gene or part of a gene,” he says.
This is why human beings have this high level of intelligence. And then our
Let’s say we were able to transmit it to other brains. And then this brain
Power could be passed from generation to generation. and more
There were a lot of people’s minds. Do you understand?” He first looked
In Casey, then in Margaret.

"Yes. " said Margaret. "You take the right approach.
one person and integrate it with others. And then they have good
quality too, and they pass it on to their kids and beyond.”

“Very well,” said Dr. Brewer, smiling for the first time in weeks.
“That’s what a lot of botanists do with trees. They’re trying to go
Seedlings from one plant are transplanted into another.
Start a new plant that will produce at least five times more fruit.
food or vegetables;

“And that’s all you do?” Casey asked.

“Not quite,” their father said, clearing his throat. “I’m doing
Something a little unusual. I don't want to go into details.
now. But IIl will tell you that what I'm going to do is build a tree type
which has never been done and can never be done. I'm trying to build a niche.
It’s a beast.”

Casey and Margaret looked at their father in surprise. Margaret
That’s the first point. “You’re saying you’re taking cells from an animal
And put them in a tree?”

She shook her head. “I don’t really want to say too much. Understand you both.
Why should this be a secret.” He then looked down at Margaret


Casey, read their responses.

“How do you do that?” Margaret asked thoughtfully.
He had just told them everything. “How do you get these cells.
For the animals to the tree?”

“I try to do that by breaking them up electronically,” he said.
reply. I have two glass chambers connected to the power supply.
Generator. You may have seen them when you were browsing
Yes downstairs.” She made a serious face.

"Yeah. They're like phones," Casey said.

“One policy is for the sender and one for the receiver,” he explained. "I am
Try to send the right DNA, and the right construct, from one
booth to the others. It’s a very good job.”

“And you did?” Margaret asked.

"I'm so near," said Dr. Brewer, breaking into a happy smile.
Her face. The smile only lasted a few seconds. Then, his words
Sighing, he scrambled to his feet. “She needs to get back to work,”
she said simply. “See you later.” He started walking past
lawn, taking long walks.

“But papa,” Margaret called after him. He and Cassie went up.
Their feet too. “Your head. Leaves. You didn’t explain,” he said.
as he and his brother rushed to catch up to him.

Dr. Brewer shrugged. “There’s nothing to explain,” he said. “Only
Colored ingredients.” He adjusted his Dodger cap. “Don't worry about it. it is
Just for a little while. Just clowns.”

Then she hurried into the house.


Cassie seems happy with their father's explanation of what was
It happens on the ground. “Dad’s doing important work,” he
It was said harshly.

But, when Margaret entered the house, she found herself
He was shocked by what his father said. And what to worry about
He didn't say.

Margaret locked her room and laid her on the bed.
Think things through. His father didn't really describe the leaves.
on his head. “Just” doesn’t explain much yet.

Where does a bone come from? What really caused it? What happened
Hair falling out? When will her hair grow back?

He obviously didn't want to talk to them about it. he
She hurried back to her basement and told them that it was
It's just clover.

A bone.

It made Margaret sick every time she thought about it.

What should it be? Green leaves rise from your pores.


Based on your head.

Yuki. Thinking of this, she gets goosebumps all over her body. He knew he would
Have nightmares tonight.

She grabbed his cock and kissed his neck and twirled it around.
Her arms wrap around him.

There were so many questions Casey and I needed to ask.
She decided. Like why were the trees down there weeping? why
Some of them look like they're breathing? Why is this tree
Case in point? What animal did the mother use?

Lots of questions.

Not to mention what Margaret wanted to ask more than ever: why
Have you been eating that weird plant food?

But he couldn't ask that. He couldn't trust his father to
He was jealous of her.

He and Cassie had no questions about what they were doing.
Find the answer. They were so happy that their father
He decided to sit and talk with them even for a few minutes.

Her presentation was very interesting, and by the way, Margaret
decided. And it was nice to know that he got to do it.
Absolutely amazing, something that really does
famous.

But what about the rest?

A dreadful thought entered his mind: Could he be lying?
To them?

No, she decided quickly. No, my dad wouldn’t lie to us.

There are just some questions he hasn’t answered yet.

She was thinking about all those questions later that night.
-After dinner, after talking with Diane on the phone for an hour, then
Homework, after watching some TV, after going to bed. And he was
It still rubs off on them.

When he heard his father's soft feet across the carpet
stairs, and sat down on the bed. A gentle breeze moved the curtains.
shelter. He heard his father's footsteps as he walked through his room and listened
Go into the bathroom, the water is running in the toilet.

I should ask him, he decided.

He looked at the clock and saw that it was two and a half.
morning.

But then she realized she was dying.

I have to ask her about the vegetarian diet.

Otherwise, it would drive me crazy. Think about it and think
About that and thinking about it. Every time I see it, I picture it.
He stands over the sink, a hand over his mouth.

There must be a simple explanation, he told himself, grinning.


Getting out of bed. There has to be a logical explanation.

And I should know.

As he approached the opening, a shaft of light escaped.
to the bathroom door, which was slightly open. Water is still running
On to the pipe.

He heard a cough, then heard the water turn on.

I need to know the answer, he thought.

Pll just ask him bridge-black.

He stepped into the narrow triangle of light and looked around.
bathroom.

He was standing in the mirror, sitting on his chest, his
The shirt is thrown to the floor behind him. He wore a baseball cap.
The closed toilet and the leaves that were covering his head glistened
Under the bathroom light.

Margaret held her breath.

The leaves were delicious and delicious.

He didn't notice. He was focusing on his gun.
have. He used a small pair of scissors to cut the barrier away.

Margaret saw that the hand was bleeding.

Or was it?

What would be lost in cutting off his father’s arm?

She's still holding her breath as she looks at him, "He says it's okay."
Under hot water. Then he looked at her, and his eyes widened.
Update.

After washing, the cut continued to bleed.

Margaret looked into his eyes and settled them intently.

It can’t be blood, can it?

It can’t be blood falling down the drain.

It was bright green!

He sighed and started running back to his room. The city screamed.
under his feet.

“Who’s there?” Dr. Brave Earl Castle. “Margaret? Casey?”

She stuck her head out of the way and Margaret disappeared
in his room.

When he saw me, he understood, jumping into bed.

He saw me, and now he’s coming after me.


10


Margaret pulled the covers up to her chin. She realized she was
He shudders, his whole body trembling and cold.

He held his breath and listened.

He could hear the water running in the toilet.

But there was no foot.

"He's not coming after me," she told herself, drawing out a long sigh.
sigh.

How could I have thought that? How could I be so
Scared of my own father?

I’m scared.

It was the first time the phrase had crossed his mind.

But as he sat on the bed, shaking violently, he held her
She closes hard, listening to the approaching footsteps, Margaret.
She realized he was scared.

his father’s.

If he was home, he would think.

Without thinking, she picked up the phone. He had an idea .
Head called his mother and woke her up and told her to come home as
As fast as you can make it. Tell him something terrible is happening to my father.
That he was changing. That he was doing amazing things….

He looked at the clock. Two, forty-three.

No, he couldn’t do that. His poor mother was so
During the worst times in Tucson, trying to take care of his sister. Margaret couldn’t
Scare him that way.

Besides, what could he say? How could he explain to her?
for how was he afraid of his own father?

Mrs. Braver was just telling him to calm down. His father still
He loved her. That he would never harm her. that he was now caught
in his work.

Caught….

Leaves were falling from his head, he was eating dirt, and his
The blood was green.

Caught….

She heard open water on the screen. She heard the toilet.
The light clicked on. Then he suddenly heard his father say
The room at the end of the hall.

Margaret sighed slightly, turned over in bed, and took out her
On the offices. He closed his eyes and cleared his mind.


He counted the sheep.

That never worked. He tried to count to one thousand. at 375,
He got up and sat down. His head snapped up. His mouth was as dry as cotton.

She decided to go downstairs and get some cold water.
In the fridge .

I'm going to be a heir tomorrow, he thought as he walked away.
He walked down the hall and down the stairs.

That’s tomorrow.

What am I going to do? I need to sleep.

The kitchen floor was creaking under her feet. fridge
The engine clicked audibly to alert him.

Be cool, she told herself. You have to be cool.

She opened the fridge and started getting water.
Blush when a hand grabbed his shoulder.

“No!” he yelled and dropped the opened bottle on the floor.
The cold water was around her feet. He flew backwards, but his legs.
They were soaked.

“Casey—you scared me!” he said. "what are you doing
above?"

“What are you doing?” "Half asleep, blue haired," she replied.
It was on his forehead.

“I can’t sleep. Help me wash this water away.”

“I didn’t hit her,” he said, following her. “You cleaned it up.”

“Let me fuck her!” Margaret said, crying. He grabbed a
Remove some paper towels from the counter and give her some.
"Get out of there. Sir."

They both fell to their knees in the light.
In the fridge, it started cleaning cold water.

“I’m just thinking about things,” Casey said, frowning.
There is a paper towel on the counter. “That’s why I can’t sleep.”

“Me too,” Margaret shrugged.

He started to say something else, but a noise came from outside.
Make him stop. It was a scream, a scream full of emotion.

Margaret sighed and stopped drinking. “What was that .
that?"

Casey's eyes filled with fear.

Then they heard it again, and it sounded painful, like a whisper.
Pray.

“It—it’s from below,” said Margaret.

“Do you think it’s a tree?” Casey asked quietly. "do you
You think that’s one of my dad’s trees?”

Margaret didn’t answer. He leaned back on his knees and didn't smile.


I just listen.

Another scream, softer this time, but just as loud.

he told Casey looking at him.
His eyes. She was pale and scared in the dim light of the refrigerator. "I
Don’t expect a tomato plant to make the same noise.

Margaret scrambled to her feet and gathered the wet papers.
towel, and put them in a trash can under the running tap. Then he
She closed the fridge door and locked the room in darkness.

He held her hand to cry as he led her out of the kitchen.
and through the hall. They stopped at the basement entrance and
Listen to her.

Silence now.

Casey looked at the door. It was perfect.

Another low moan now comes from beside me.

“He’s very human,” Casey whispered.

Margaret shuddered. What was happening downstairs?
What was really going on?

He led the way up the stairs and waited at her door for
Casey was safe in his room. He takes a deep breath and watches in silence.
Then he closed the door behind him.

A few seconds later, Margaret was back on her bed, the covers
He pulled it close to his chin despite the heat of the night. The door was
He was dry, she realized. He could never get enough.

Somehow, he fell into a restful sleep.

His alarm went off at seven thirty. He stood up and thought.
school. Then he remembered that school wasn’t for two people.
Sometimes because of some teachers’ meetings.

He turned off the radio clock, focused on his headphones, and
He tried to go back to sleep. But he was waking up now, memories
The night before he went to sleep, his mind filled him with dread.
She had thought about it for a few hours.

He got up and stretched and decided to go talk to his father.
Making fun of him first, asking all the questions he wanted to ask.

If I don’t, he disappears into the basement and I sit.
He thinks about this fear all the time, he told himself.

I don't want to be afraid of my own father.

I don't.

He pulled a small circle on his jacket and found it.
steps into the cramped box and out into the hallway. it
It was hot and humid in the room, almost suffocating. Black, morning light.
Filtered by light from above.

He stood very still in front of the house, wondering if he should
He stood up so he too could ask their father.


No, he insisted. The poor thing was at midnight. Let her
sleep.

Taking a deep breath, she walked into the rest of the room and stood
in her parents’ bedroom. The door was locked.

"dad?"

No answer.

"Father? Are you awake?"

He stepped into the room. "dad?"

It was as if he wasn't there.

The air here was thick and smelled amazing. that
The curtains were drawn. The bedclothes were crumpled and thrown on the floor.
At the foot of the bed. Margaret took a few steps towards the bed.

"dad?"

No, he had forgotten her. He was probably locked in his
Downstairs in the workshop, she happily realized.

He needs to get up soon—

What was on the bed?

Margaret pressed the horn and pulled up next to
bed.

“Oh, yes!” he cried, raising his hands to his face in fear.

The bed was covered with a thick layer of dirt. group;
dirty.

Margaret looked at him, breathless, unmoving.

The dirt was black and looked damp.

And the dirt kept moving.

Are you moving?

That’s impossible, Margaret thought. This is impossible.

He leaned in and looked into the layer of dirt.

No, the dirt wasn’t moving.

The dirt was full of moving insects. and long,
Brown oils. It all winds up in the damp black mountains.
He made his father’s bed.


11


Casey didn’t get off until thirteen. Before he came.
Margaret made herself breakfast, managed to put on jeans and
Moore had been talking to Diane on the phone for half an hour and had
He spent the rest of the day walking back to the living room.
Deciding to decide what to do.

Desperate to talk to her father, she did a few times.
The basement door, shyly at first, then loudly. But he couldn't
Whether he listens to it or chooses not to. He didn't answer.

When Casey came out, he put a long blanket over her.
Orange juice and took it out to the back to talk. It was in the fog.
During the day, the sky is mostly yellow, and the air is warm.
The sun was low over the mountains.

As he walked towards the green shade covered with thorns, he
She told her brother about their father's green blood and bugs.
He filled his bed with dirt.

Cassie was sitting with her mouth hanging open, holding another glass of orange juice.
In front of him, untouched. He looked at Margaret and didn’t say
Everything took a very long time.

Finally, he poured the orange juice on the grass and said, “What.
Should we?” in a voice above a whisper.

Margaret looked up. “I want my mom to call.”

“Are you going to tell her everything?” Casey asked, rubbing her arms.
in his pants pockets.

“I guess,” Margaret said. “I don’t know if he believes that, but—”

“It’s very scary,” Casey said. “I mean, he is our father. We know
Our whole life is with Him. I mean-"

“I know,” said Margaret. “But it is not the same. It’s—”

“Maybe he can explain it all,” Casey mused. "maybe
There is a good reason for everything. You know. Like the leaves on it.
head."

“We asked him about it,” Margaret reminded her brother. "he
Just say it was a bone. There’s no explanation.”

Casey nodded, but didn't answer.

“T said some to Diane,” admitted Margaret.

Casey looked up in surprise.

“Well, I should’ve told someone,” she said gravely. “Diane thought .
I have to call the police.”

“Huh?” Casey shook his head. “My father did nothing wrong.


—Is he? What are the police doing?”

“I know,” Margaret replied. “I told Diane that. But he
He said there should be a law against mad scientists.”

“My father is not a mad scientist,” Casey said angrily. “That's crazy.
It’s just—it’s just—.”

Just what? Margaret thought. What is it?

A few hours later, they were in the back, looking
What should we do when the restaurant closed and their father called
Enter them.

Margaret looked at the case in surprise. “I don’t believe that. He came.
above."

“Maybe we can talk to him,” Casey said.

The two ran into the kitchen. Dr. Brewer, atop his Dodger cape
place, she smiled at them as she set down two bowls of soup.
table. “Thank you,” she said, brightly. “Lunch time.”

“Huh? Did you have lunch?” Casey cried, unable to control his
Amazing.

“Because we need to talk,” Margaret said seriously.

“I’m afraid I don’t have much time,” she said, avoiding his eyes. "sit
down. Try this new food. I want to see if you like it.”

Margaret and Casey took their places at the head of the table.
“What’s this?” Casey shouted.

Both plates were filled with something green. “It’s like .
Like mashed potatoes,” Casey said, making a face.

“It’s something different,” said Dr. Brewer cryptically, standing
on the table. "To Taga. Hurt him. Please, please."
Be thankful.”

“Dad - you’ve never made us lunch before,” Margaret said.
He tries to remove the doubt from his voice.

“I just wanted you to see that,” she said, tearing up. “You’re
My pigs.

“We have some things we want to ask you,” said Margaret, rising.
His butt, but he doesn’t eat green waste.

Their father said, “Your mother called you this morning.”

"when?" Margaret asked hopefully.

“It’s not just temporary. I thought you were outside and didn’t hear.
The phone rings.”

“What did he say?” Casey asked, pointing to the plate.
In front of it.

“Aunt Eleanor is better. She came out strong.
Gentleman. Maybe your mom can come home soon.”

"great!" Margaret and Casey cried in unison.


“Eat,” Dr. Brewer advised, pointing to the bowls.

“Whoa… aren’t you going to have some?” Casey asked, looking at his
Wrap the tube around your fingers.

“No,” their father quickly replied. “I’ve already eaten.” He leaned in.
Both hands on the table. Margaret sees that he has a severed arm.
New tape.

“Mom, last night—” he began.

But he cut through. “Are you eating? Look at him.”

“But what’s that?” Casey demanded, crying. It doesn’t smell.
good."

“I think you’ll like the taste of it,” Dr. Brewer insisted patiently. "it
It should be very sweet.”

He watched them intently as they ate the green stuff.

Margaret was looking at the ingredients in the bowl.
He was suddenly frozen with fear. It is important that we eat this with him.
He thought as he looked back at his brother.

He was very disappointed.

He had never had lunch before. Why did he do this?

And why doesn’t He tell us what that is?

What’s going on here? He wondered to himself. and Casey’s comment
He explained that he was only looking for one thing.

Is there anything Daddy wants to do for us? Is this green thing going to
To swallow us up or torture us… or rake our leaves too?

Margaret understood that in terms of bad ideas.

But he also realized that he was afraid of whatever
He was trying to drive them away.

“What’s wrong with you two?” cried their father impatiently.
He raised his hand to eat. “Take your cubes. come
on. What are you waiting for?”

Margaret and Casey picked up their cups and dropped them.
Soft, green substance. But they didn’t lift the cups in their
Doors.

They couldn’t.

"Eat! Eat!" Dr. Brewer shouted, banging the table with his
Good hands. “What are you waiting for? Eat your lunch. proceed. eat
it!"

It doesn’t give us any choice, Margaret thought.

Her hand was shaking as she lifted the spoon to him.
mouth.


12


"To Tagga. You'll like it," Dr. Brewer insisted, leaning over the table.

Casey watched as Margaret lifted the button to her lips.

The doorman called.

“Who could that be?” Dr. Brewer asked, exasperated.
cutting. “You can go back now, kids.” He walked out to the front.
building.

“Saved by the bell,” Margaret said, dropping the spoon.
Tea with plump patient.

"This thing's good," Casey whispered. “That’s something
Plant food or something. Yuki!”

"Quickly—" Margaret said, jumping up and grabbing the two.
bowls. “Help me.”

They ran to the sink, emptied the garbage bag, and grabbed a bucket.
Dispose of the contents of the two trash cans. Then they took both away.
“They put the tables back on the table and sit down next to the buttons.

“Let’s go see who watches the door,” Casey said.

They turned and entered the house in time to see a man carrying a black
The officer walks in the front door and greets their father with
Short sleeve. The man was green-haired and wearing a
Big glasses and blue lenses. He had a Marine boss and was
He wore a blue suit with a red and white tie.

“Mr. Martinez!” said their father. “What’s… amazing.”

“This is my father’s old boss in politics,” Margaret repeated
prison.

“I know,” Casey replied with a smile.

“I’ve been saying for weeks that I’m going to come see your next work.
along,” said Martin, taking a few deep breaths. Wellington.
He gave me a call. My car is in the garage – for a change. ”

“Well, PML-N. Not really ready,” Dr. Brewer concluded, looking very
He didn’t even feel comfortable leaving Margaret’s place behind him. "I
He wasn’t expecting anyone. I mean… I don’t think this is a good time.”

"No big deal. Just a quick PII check," Martin said, adding .
He put his hand on Dr. Breyer’s shoulder as if to steady him. “I’ve always been like that
He needs your work. You know. And you know it’s not
I thought of sending you away. The office forced me. They didn’t give me any choice.
But I'm not forcing you. I give you that promise. come on. Let's see
What progress you’re making.”

“Well…” Dr. Braver couldn’t hide his annoyance from Mr.
Martens’ surprise sight. She grimaced and tried to


The way to the underground steps.

At least that was the case with Margaret, who kept her silence.
Next to his brother.

Mr. Martin walked over to Dr. Brewer and opened it.
The underground door. “Thank you guys.” Mr. Martinez offered the two children;
She lifted her bag as if it weighed two pounds.

Their father was surprised to see them there. “You children
Finished your lunch?”

“Yeah, it was pretty good,” Casey lied.

Dr. Brewer seemed to like the results. to set the door.
His Dodger cap, worn at Mt. Behind Martinez on the floor,
He closed the door and locked it behind him.

“Maybe he’ll give my dad his business,” Casey said, returning.
Getting into the kitchen. He opened the fridge to look for something
At lunch.

“Don’t be silly,” Margaret said, putting her hand on his shoulder and .
Salted egg rolls. “If my father is really growing plants that grow .
Animal, he'll be famous. He doesn’t need to work.”

“Yeah, I guess,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Is that all there is? just
Egg salad?”

“Pll make you a sandwich,” said Margaret.

“I’m really not hungry,” Casey replied. “That green thing made me
sick. Why do you think He wanted us to eat it?”

“I don’t know,” said Margaret. He put a hand on Casey's gun.
shoulder. “I was so scared, Casey. I wish my mom was home.”

“Me too,” he said.

Margaret put the egg salad in the fridge. He closed
at the door, and leaned his hot forehead against it. “Casey—”

"what?"

“Do you think mom’s telling us the truth?”

“For what?”

“About anything?”

"I don't know," Casey shook his head. Then his explanation
He suddenly changed. “There’s only one way to find out,” he said, rolling his eyes.
to turn on the light.

“Huh? What do you mean?” Margaret avoided.
fridge.

“The first chance we get, the first time my dad’s not there,” Cassie
"Let's go back to the basement and see for ourselves," he said in a whisper.
It’s what a mother does.”


13


They got lucky the next afternoon when their father
From the basement, a red metal tool box is at hand. “I promised Mr.
Henry next door will help him install a new faucet in his bathroom.”
He explained, adjusting his Dodger cap with his free hand.

“When are you coming back?” Casey asked looking directly at Margaret.

Margaret thought, rolling her eyes.

“It shouldn’t be more than two hours,” Dr. Brewer said.
She disappeared through the kitchen door.

They watched him mow the lawns in the back and
You were at Mr. Harry's back door. “It’s now or never,” Margaret said .
He looks at the case suspiciously. “You think we can do this?” He looked
mouth. Closed, as usual.

“No problem,” Casey said, a wicked smile spreading across his
face. “Go get a paper. Let me show you what my friend Kevin made.
I was last week.”

Margaret found a piece of paper on her desk and came
He gives it to her. Casey rushed the pen out, then put it in the drawer.
Within a few seconds, he had mastered the art and c
The door is open.

“Now you’re an expert skater, aren’t you? Your friend Kevin is
Good man to know,” Margaret shook her head.

Casey smiled and motioned for Margaret to take it first.

"Agreed. Let's think about it. Let's just do it," Margaret said.
Muster his courage and take to the water.

A few seconds later, they were down.

Knowing a little bit about what to expect here didn't hurt.
There’s nothing to be afraid of. They were immediately hit with a hot blast.
wind. Margaret realized that the air was so humid and heavy that it blew
It immediately stuck to his skin.

They rubbed their eyes in the bright light and stopped.
The door to the tree house. The trees seemed taller, thicker, and more
More so than the first time they showed up here.

Long, muscular coats fall into dark yellow clumps. broad
The green and yellow leaves are cut and shaky, shiny.
white light. The leaves are pounded together, making them soft and moist.
noise. An oily tomato fell from the floor.

Everything seemed to glow. All the trees seemed to shake.
And it’s expected. They weren’t stopping there. It looked like they were coming
up, reaching out, vibrating with energy as they grow.


Brown rattlesnakes snake out of the dirt and coil around themselves
Around other plants, around each other. A mature plant has grown to
ceiling, bent over, and started making his way back down again.

"Wow!" Casey cried, surprised by the shaking, bright.
issue. “Are these plants all new?”

“That’s what I think,” Margaret said weakly. “They’re like the face of history!”

They heard the sound of breathing, a loud sigh, a low rush coming.
from the supply side to the wall.

Suddenly, a ball came from a distant branch. Margaret took her
Casey returned. “Look at yourselves. Don’t get too close,” he warned.

“I know,” he said, reassuring her. “Don't hold it.
Like that. You scared me.”

The leather slid harmlessly into the dirt.

“I’m sorry,” he said, rubbing his cheek affectionately. "it is
just… yeah, you remember last time.”

“PIL, be careful,” he said.

Margaret shuddered.

He heard breathing. Steady, calm breaths.

These plants were thought to be unhealthy. He took a
Stepping back, he roamed his eyes over the strange forest.
Trees that rejoice.

As he was about to look, he heard Cassie's panicked cry.
shout.

"Help! He got me! He caught me!"


14


Margaret let out a terrified cry and pulled herself out of the trees to
He found his brother.

"help!" Casey shouted.

Panicked, Margaret took a few steps towards Casey, then
He saw a small gray creature hit the ground.

She started laughing.

“Casey, that’s a joke!”

"what?" His voice was high pitched most of the time. “He—he
He grabbed my leg and—”

“Look,” Margaret said, pointing. “It's a lie. See how scary
it is. It should run for you now.”

"Oh." Casey cheered. The color began to return to its gray hue.
face. “I thought it was… a tree.”

"A handful. A purple plant," said Margaret, shaking her head. She
Heart was pounding in his chest. “You just scared me!
Casey.”

The squirrel stopped several feet away, turned around, and got up on
The hind legs, and looking behind them, it vibrates everywhere.

“How did a butterfly end up here?” Casey asked him.
He’s still shaking.

Margaret looked up. “The mice always come in,” he said.
“And remember that legacy we couldn’t get out of?” Then he
He looked out the small window on the ground level above.
in front of the wall. “That window - it’s locked,” he told Casey. “The truck .
He needs to climb up there.”

"home!" Casey shouted over the shield. He started looking for her. that
The lizard's tail flew through the air and then got up and ran away.
through a mixture of plants. “Get out! Get out!” Casey shouted.

Smirking at Casey instead, he whirled around.
trees twice. He then turned to the far wall, jumped onto a card, then
On a long map, then out of the open window.

Casey stopped running and looked up out the window.

“Great job,” Margaret said. “Now, let's get out of here. We don't
Find out what each item is. We don’t have a clue what we’re looking for. So we can't
Whether my father is telling the truth or not.

He started towards the stairs, but when he stopped he
The sound of percussion. “Casey—did you hear that?” she asked.
The brother, however, was hidden by dense foliage. “Casey?”


"Yes. I heard him," she answered, not even seeing him. "He's coming.
From the supply chain.”

The loud noise startled Margaret. She was with him.
Like someone was banging on a wall.

“Casey, let’s see,” he said.

No answer.

The banging grew louder.

“Casey?”

Why wasn’t he answering her?

“Casey—where are you? You’re scaring me,” Margaret called out.
Get closer to bright plants. Another tomato popped up.
The ground, so close to his feet, allowed him to fly.

Despite the intense heat, he felt a chill all over his body.

“Casey?”

“Margaret—come here. I found something,” he said at last. he
He seemed unsure, confused.

She quickly looked around the plants and saw him standing out front.
The work table next to the supply chain. A knock from the room.
It was standing still.

“Casey, what’s wrong? You scared me,” Margaret scolded. it
He stopped and leaned against the wooden work table.

“Look,” her brother says, holding up a stuffed black bag. "I
Got this. On the ground. It is loaded under this workbench.

“Huh? What is that?” Margaret asked.

Casey opened. It was a vampire. Blue cow. red
A striped tie was wrapped around it.

"It's Mr. Martin's," Casey said, tugging at his collar.
The vacuum held between his hands. “That’s his jacket and tie.”

Margaret’s door opened suddenly. "you
You mean leave it here?”

“If he did, why was he arrested and shot.
Table?" Casey asked.

Margaret looked at Jack. He ran his hand over the silk.
Striped tie.

“Did you see Mr. Martin leaving the house yesterday afternoon?”
Casey asked.

“No,” Margaret replied. “But he has to go. I mean, his car.
He was going.”

“He didn’t drive, remember? He told my dad he got a promotion. ”

Margaret raised her eyes from Wake Creek to her brother's
worried face. “Casey—what are you saying? Mr. Martens did not.
leave? That a tree ate him or something? That’s ridiculous!”


“Then why are his coat and tie so hidden?” crying
search .


Margaret couldn’t answer.

They both froze when they heard loud footsteps on the stairs.
Someone was hurrying downstairs.

"hide!" Margaret whispered.

"where?" Casey asked, his eyes wide with fear.


15


Margaret jumped onto the carpet, then hugged herself
Small open window. Great shop but he did get better at
grass. Then she turned to help Casey.

This clown became a friend and he thought he was getting it.
in brother's hands as he made his way downstairs. He showed us
It's an escape route.

The afternoon air was cold compared to the summer
basement. They both bent down to look
window. “Who is it?” Casey whispered.

Margaret didn’t answer. The two saw their father walk away.
In the white light, his eyes searched the treehouse.

“Why is my father back?” Casey asked.

“Shhh!” Margaret pressed a finger to her mouth. Then he went upstairs.
Her feet dragged Cassie towards the back door. "Get out of there. Sir."

The back door was opened. They went into the kitchen.
When their father left the basement, there was a dangerous conversation.
Her face. “Hey—there you are!” he said.

“Thank you, dear,” Margaret said, trying to lighten the mood. “Why y
Back?”

“I should have gotten more tools,” he replied, studying their faces. he
She looked at them suspiciously. “Where have you two been?”

“Later, later,” Margaret said quickly. “When we entered the scene.
We heard the back door bang.”

Dr. Brewer shook his head. “Never lie .
For me,” he said. I know you went down into the basement again.
You left the door open.”

“We just wanted to check,” Casey said quickly, looking away.
Margaret, her face horrified.

“We got Mr. Martin’s jacket and tie,” said Margaret. "what
Did that happen to him?”

“Huh?” The question seemed to catch Dr. Brewer by surprise.

“Why did he drop his jacket and hide there?” Margaret
asked.

“Pm raising two snoops,” his father snapped. “Martinez was hot;
ok? I should keep the basement in the high tropics.
High levels of heat and humidity. Martinez didn’t get a break.
He took off his jacket and tie and placed them on the work table.
Then he forgot about them when he left.”

Dr. Brewer smiled. “I think he was in a bad mood to get out.


I showed him everything down there. No wonder he forgot about it.
stuff. But I called Martin this morning. I go to the car and
Return his things when I’m done with Mr. Harry.”

Margaret saw the small smile on Cassie's face. It’s so peaceful.
also. It was good to know that Mr. Martin was okay.

I like to suspect my dad of doing something wrong.
To someone, he thought.

But he couldn’t help himself. The fear always returned to her
He saw it.

'Td be better than," Dr. Brewer said. moving the tools he had
picked up, started towards the back door. But he stopped in the end.
He turned back into the hall. “Don’t go back downstairs, okay?
It can be really dangerous. You can be very sorry.”

Margaret heard the TV door click behind her.

Is it a warning or a threat? He wondered to himself.


16


Margaret spent Saturday morning biking on Golden Mountain and
Diane. The morning sun burned through the smoke, and the sky
It will be blue. A strong breeze prevented them from overheating. that
The narrow path was lined with red and yellow wildflowers and margarine
It was like traveling somewhere far, far away.

They had lunch at Diana's - tomato soup and avocado salad
—Then he went back to Margaret’s house to see how it was
Make the rest of the beautiful afternoon.

Dr. Brewer was merely following the wheel on the road as
Margaret and Diane got on their bikes. He rolled back down.
Windows, a big smile on her face. “Good news!” she screamed. "your
My mom is on her way home. I’m going to the airport to pick him up!

“Oh, that’s great!” cried Margaret, so excited that she might
cry. Margaret and Diane waved goodbye and headed for the driveway.

I’m so glad, Margaret thought. It would be nice to have it back.
Someone I can talk to. Someone who can explain… about Papa.

They looked at some of the older versions of Sassy and Peoples in the 1990s.
Margaret's house, listening to some tapes by Margaret lately.
order. Three hours later, Diane suddenly remembered.
He takes a piano makeup lesson, which he came up with. He ran out.
The horse was terrified and jumped on his bike and shouted, “Hello to your mother!”
For me!” And he disappeared from the car.

Margaret was at the back of the house watching the boats.
She wonders what she's going to do to pass the time with her mom.
We got home. The strong swirling wind was cold in his face. it
He decided to get a book and go sit with it in the shade.
There is a sassafras tree in the center of the cocoon.

She turned to open the kitchen door and in walked Cassie.
Running on. “Where are our shirts?” She asked breathlessly.

“Kites? I don’t know. Why?" Margaret asked. “Hey—” she
He held her shoulders and watched her, “Mom is coming home. it
He should be here in an hour or so.

"great!" she screamed. “Time to fly some cherries. That's what
windy. come on. Want to fly 'em with me?”

“Certainly,” said Margaret. It helps pass the time. he thought.
Instead, “Are they .
garage?"

“No,” Casey told him. "I do. They're downstairs. Over that
Truffles. Also debt.” He carried her into the house. "sick


jimmy the lock and come down and get them.”

“Hey, Casey, be careful down there,” he called after her. he
He disappears into the hallway. Margaret had second thoughts. it
He didn't want Casey downstairs, alone in the tree house. "wait
up,” he called. “I’ll come with you.”

They quickly made their way up the stairs into the warmth.
The dusty air drifted into the twinkling lights.

The plants seem to be cared for and touched as if
They walked away. Margaret tried to ignore them. I walk behind him.
Casey, he stared at the tall metal bars in front of him.

The shelves were deep and filled with old toys and toys.
Sports equipment, a plastic tent and some old sleeping bags. Casey is
Ye first and started sliding down on the tarps. "I
Just know they’re here somewhere,” he said.

"Yes. I remember keeping you here," Margaret said, running away.
Eyes on the stars above.

Cassie, on her knees, started to pull the poles off the floor
shelf. Suddenly he stopped. “Uh—Margaret.”

“Huh?” He took a step back. “What’s that?”

“Look at this,” Casey said. He took something out.
Then he stood up and twisted it in his hand.

Margaret saw that he had a pair of black shoes. and a
Two pairs of blue pants.

Blue pants?

His face suddenly went black, his emotions drawn, and Cassie let go of the boots.
Falling to the ground. He unzipped his pants and held them in front.
her.

“Hey—look at the back jacket,” Margaret said, pointing.

Casey reached into his back pocket and pulled out a black leather
wallet.

“I don’t believe this,” said Margaret.

Casey’s hands shook as he opened the wallet and searched for
in. He pulled out a green American card and .
The name on it.

“It belongs to Mr. Martin,” he said, swallowing hard. He stood up.
His eyes look into Margaret's. “This is Mr. Martin’s favorite.”


17


“My father lied,” Casey said, looking nervously at the pen in his hand.
“Mr. Martinez can walk away without charges. But he didn't want to go
Without his pants and shoes.”

“But—what happened?” Margaret asked, feeling ill.

Casey closed the briefcase. She shook her head sadly, but
He didn't answer.

In the middle of the house a tree seemed to cry out, and the voice
Enticing the two children.

“Dad’s lying,” Cassie said, looking down at the pants and shoes.
below. “Father lied to us.”

“What are we going to do?” Margaret Cash: Fear and Hope
In his words. “We need to tell someone what’s going on here. but
who?"

cried the tree again. The fields were dying of dirt. leave
They slapped each other lightly, wetly.

Then the beating started again near the supply room.
Truffles.

Margaret looked at the box. “That whisper. What is that?”

They both listened to the clicking sound. A little scream.
from the book, then the louder one, both
mournful, both have a lot of human tone.

“I think there’s someone!” cried Margaret.

"Perhaps Mr. Martin," Casey suggested, catching up.
The wallet was tight in his hand.

Dude, dude, dude.

“Do you think we should open the book?” Casey asked sheepishly.

A tree groaned as if in response.

"Yes. I think we should," replied Margaret, completely cold.
“Tf Mr. Martin is there, we should get him out.”

Casey placed the wallet on Tara. Then they quickly moved .
to the product line.

In front of them, the trees seem to shift and move as the two
The kids did. They heard the sound of breathing and another cart ran.
Sounds. There were leaves on their frames. Eyes fall and he winces.

“Hey—look!” Casey shouted.

“I do,” said Margaret. The box door wasn’t closed. two-
by-four was on it.

Dot dot. Dude, dude, dude.


“There’s someone—I know it!” Margaret Castle.

“TIL get the hammer,” Casey said. Staying close to the wall.
Avoiding the plants as best he could, he picked his way to the
Work table.

A few seconds later, he returned with a hammer.

Dot dot.

They worked together, getting two and four out of the door. it
He shouted from the ground.

The knock from the supply chain got louder.
to decide.

“Now what are we going to do about Luke?” Margaret asked, looking into his eyes.
it.

Casey shook his head. They both had sweat.
Their faces were lowered. The hot, dusty air made them more difficult to hold.
Breaths.

“I don’t know how to unpack it,” Casey said, quietly.

“If we try to get out of the way the way we got out.
Two and four?” Margaret asked.

Dude, dude, dude.

Casey raised his hand. "I don't know. Let's see.”

They tried to steal the bull from the rock hole, they tried
Push the door closer to the lock. When he couldn't move, they
He moved to the door and tried it there.

“Its not moving,” Casey said, wiping his forehead with his hand.

“Keep looking,” said Margaret. "There. We both felt it."

Digging a nail down into the top of the car, they both struck.
with all his might.

“He—he’s a little lonely,” said Margaret, breathing heavily.

They stayed at it. The wet wood began to crack. They were both touched.
Hitting the nail on the rock.

Finally, with a loud bang, they were able to open the door.
of.

“Huh?” Casey dropped the hammer.

They both frowned into the darkness.

And they cried out in terror when they saw what was inside.


18


"see!" Margaret cried, her heart pounding. Suddenly, he felt dizzy.
He grabbed the side of the cake to steady himself.

“I—I don’t believe this,” Casey said weakly, his voice shaking like a .
He looked into the tall, narrow closet.

They both looked at the amazing trees that filled the page.

Were they trees?

There was a dim light bulb under the ceiling, and they turned carefully.
Breath, breathe. The branches shook, the leaves shone and moved, elongated.
The plants leaned forward as if reaching for Margaret and Cassie.

“Look at one of these!” cried Cassie, taking a step back and kicking
in Margaret. “It has hands!”

“Oh.” Margaret followed Cassie’s eyes. The prison was clean. long,
It’s like having a leafy plant in your hands that just drops.
stem.

Margaret’s eyes darted around the cake. Because of her fear, she
He realized that there seemed to be many trees in the human form—green
hands, yellow hand, with three fingers, two pointed
The foot stem is where it should be.

He and his brother screamed when they saw the tree and
face. In the larger leaves it seems to blossom.
Round green tomatoes. But Tomato’s nose looked like a human and
The door is open, where he repeats the happy words over and over again.
And crying.

Another plant, a short plant with broad leaves;
It had two green, human-like faces, partially hidden by leaves, both
Yelling through closed doors.

“Let’s get out of here!” cried Cassie, holding Margaret's hand.
Scare and take him out of his cage. “This is—evil!”

The trees were moaning and rejoicing. The green hands have reached the fingers.
To Margaret and Casey. Yellow wood that looks like a patient near the wall
Made sounds. A tall flower creeps towards them.
The rounded hand looks like a dagger.

"wait!" Margaret cried, pulling her hand away from Case. it
He saw something on the floor behind the screams and turned
plants. “Casey—what’s that?” he asked curiously.

He strained to focus his eyes on the dim light of the cake. on
The ground behind the plants, near the wall on the back wall;
Two human legs.

Margaret entered the box cautiously. He saw the legs.


They were tied by the legs.

“Margaret—let’s go!” Casey asked.

"No. Look. There's someone in the back," Margaret said, turning around.
hard.

“Huh?”

" someone. Not a plant,” Margaret said. He took another step. a
His green hand flexed at his side.

“Margaret, what are you doing?” Casey asked, his voice getting louder and
frightened.

Margaret said, “I must see who it is.

He took a deep breath and held it. Then, forgetting the screams,
She’s happy, the green hands go to her, the wild green tomatoes
Faces, he continued through the trees to the back of the bed.

"dad!" she screamed.

Her father was lying on the floor with his hands and feet bound.
With plant skins, close the mouth with a wide soft band.

“Margaret—” Casey was next to her. He lowered his eyes to
down. “Oh yes!”

Their father looked at them searchingly.
“Mmm!” he shouted as he charged further into the hallway.

Margaret sank to the ground and began to stretch.

“No—stop!” Casey cried, pulling him back by the shoulder.

“Casey, leave. What is wrong with you?” Margaret Castle
with pain. “I’m a dad. he-"

“It can’t be dad!” Casey said, still holding him by the hips.
“Remember mom?”

Behind them, the trees seem to cry out in unison,
Terrible fear. A tall plant fell and spun towards the field.
Book section.

“Mmmmm!” Their father continued to pray, persevering.
tendrils that imprisoned him.

“I must let him go,” Margaret told her brother. “Get me out.”

“No,” Casey insisted. “Margaret—look at his head.”

Margaret dropped her eyes to her father's head. It was
Empty head. No Dodger Cap. It had green leaves that were changing.
Her hair is where it should be.

“We’ve seen that before,” said Margaret. “It’s a challenge,
Hoping?" He reached over to help his father tighten the ropes.

“No—don’t!” Casey insisted.

“All right, all right,” said Margaret. I’ll just take the tape out of his mouth.
I will not let him go.”

He reached over and pulled the trigger until he saw it.


He was able to pull it off.
“Kids—I’m so glad for you,” Dr. Brewer said. "Quick! Evacuate
I."

“How did you get in here?” Casey demanded, standing upstairs.
With her hands on her hips, she looks at him suspiciously. “We saw it happen.
You’re coming out with a smile on your face.”

“That’s not me,” Dr. Brewer said. I've been locked up here since.
Empty time.”

“Huh?” Casey shouted.

“But we saw you—” Margaret began.

“I wasn’t there. It’s a tree,” Dr. Brewer said. “It’s a big tree .
I."

“Mother—” Casey said.

"I beg you. There is no time to explain," their father said quickly.
He lifted his leaf-covered head and looked towards the box door, “Just.
Keep me warm. quick!"

“What father have we seen? Is it a tree?” Margaret Castle
Waking up with difficulty.

"Yes. Please—let me go!”

Margaret put her hand to her eyes.

"No!" Casey insisted. “How do we know you’re telling the truth?”

“I’ll explain everything. I promise,” he pleaded. "The city. Our lives."
They’re in trouble. Mr. Martin is here too.”

Startled, Margaret stared at the far wall. ofcourse
Mr. Martinez was also lying on the ground, gagged.

“Let me out—please!” his father shouted.

Behind them the trees creaked and groaned.

Margaret could bear it no longer. “I’ll let it go,” he said.
Casey, and he shrugged, starting to look at each other.

His father was grateful. Casey knocks him down and refuses
He also started working in tanneries.

Eventually, they were released so their father could lose
leave. He slowly got to his feet and stretched out his hands to shake it.
His feet, taking care of his knees. “Man, that’s awesome,” he said, getting .
Margaret and Casey smiled wickedly.

"Mom - should we charge Mr. Martinez?" Margaret asked.

However, without warning, Dr. Brewer passed the two children and
He worked his way out of the book.

“Mother—wow! Where are you going?” Margaret called out.

“You said you’d explain everything!” Casey insisted. And his
The sister ran through the howling trees and followed their father.

“T is. I will.” Breathing heavily, Dr. Brewer walked briskly away.


woodpile against the far wall.

Margaret and Cassie both held their breaths as he took the chainsaw.

He spun around to face them and grabbed the handle of the hatchet.
Both hands. His face froze in dismay, and he began.
they.

“Mother—what are you doing?” Margaret Castle.


19


Swinging the saw over his shoulder, Dr. Brewer approached Margaret.
And the prison. he shouted as he struggled to lift the heavy equipment.
Face red, eyes wide, happy.

“Father, please!” cried Margaret, grabbing Casey's shoulder and following him.
To the forest of trees in the center of the house.

"what are you doing?" He sat on it.

“He’s not our real father!” Casey shouted. I told you we shouldn’t.
Stop it!”

“He’s our real father!” Margaret insisted. “I know he is!” it
He turned his eyes to his father, waiting for an answer.

But then he looked at her, his face full of confusion and
menace, the ax in his hand glows brighter and brighter .

“Mother—answer us!” Margaret asked. “Answer us!”

Before Dr. Brewer could answer, they heard fast footsteps.
Descend the basement steps.

The four of them turned to the edge of the treehouse to look
Dr. Braver entered, looking scared. He kept his money.
Dodgers cap as he walked angrily toward the two kids.

“What are you two doing down here?” she screamed. “Make a promise.
I. This is your mother. Don’t you want to—?”

Mrs. Brewer appeared beside him. He started calling
He greeted but stopped in horror when he saw the mess
scene.

"No!" he cried, seeing another Dr. Braver, Dr. Capital.
Braver, sword held in front of both hands. "No!" her
The face is full of fear. He turned to Dr. Brewer who was sleeping.
He brought her home.

He blamed Margaret and Casey. “What do you have .
done? Let him run?”

“He’s our father,” said Margaret, in a voice so small she didn’t
has been recognized.

“I’m your father!” cried Dr. Braver at the door. "not
she! He’s not your father. He’s not even human! It’s a tree!”

Margaret and Casey both froze and stared in horror.

“You’re the tree!” Dr. Brewer's empty brain is accused of waking up
Thomas.

“It’s dangerous!” Dr. Brewer said. “How can that be.
Did you let him out?”


Caught in the middle, Margaret and Casey stared at the same father
to the others.
Who was their father?


20


“That’s not your father!” Dr. Brewer and Dodger's cap roared again.
He goes into the room. “He is a friend. A big tree. One of my
unsuccessful experiments. I locked it in the closet.
Because it is dangerous.”

“You’re the friend!” Dr. Brewer, on the other hand, acquitted him, and pleaded .
ax again.

Margaret and Cassie stood there in shock.
The eyes.

“Children—what have you done?” Mrs. Brewer wept her hands.
He pressed his cheeks together, his eyes wide with determination.

“What did we do?” Margaret asked her brother in a low voice.

Casey also seems to keep her eyes from one man to another
Afraid to answer.

“I—I don’t know what to do,” Casey managed to whisper.

What can we do? Margaret fell silent and realized that her
The whole body was shaking.

“It must be destroyed!” cried Dr. Brewer.
He looks around the room at his friends.

Next to them the trees shook and shook with great joy. festivals
slithered on the dirt. The leaves were shiny and whispering.

“Put on the towel. You’re not fooling anyone,” said another doctor.
Brewer said.

“You must perish!” Dr. Brewer doesn't have to return his cape
His eyes are wild, his face red as he moves closer to her, fists glowing like
Electricity under white light.

Margaret realized that my father would never be like her. Casey and I had
fools! We ran it right out of the book. And now it’s trying to kill our spirit
dad. And mom.

And then… us!

What can I do? He tried to think seriously, though
His mind was wandering out of control.

What can I do?

With a terrible shriek, Margaret sprang forward and
He grabbed the trigger from the impostor's hand.

She looked away suddenly as she took his hand. it
It was heavier than expected. “Get back!” she screamed. “Come back.
-now!"

“Margaret—stay tuned!” cried his mother, too afraid to move.


From the door.

Dr. Brewer, who was speechless, reached for the call. “Give it to me!
You don’t know what you’re doing!” He prayed and groaned.
Hold on to it.

Margaret returned to moving the chainsaw. “Stay back. everyone,
Stay back.”

“Thank God!” Dr. Brewer and Dodger Cap shouted.
“We need to get him back in the book. It is very dangerous.” he
He turned to Margaret. “Give me the smile.”

Margaret hesitated.

“Give me the shirt,” he insisted.

Margaret turned to her mother. “What should I do?”

Mrs. Brewer looked up, helpless. “I—I don’t know.”

“Miss—don’t do that,” Dr. Brewer said softly, looking at her.
Margaret in the eye.

He called me Princess, Margaret understood.

One was never found.

Does this mean that the father in the book is my real father?

“Margaret—give me time.” What’s in the cup is the tool
it.

Margaret turned and moved the saw again.

“Return! Both of you—stay behind!” She warned.

'Tm warning you,' said Dr. Brewer. “It is dangerous.
Listen, my Margaret.

“Get back!” She listened, trying to figure out what to do next.

Who is my real father?

Who? Who? Who?

His eyes darting back and forth from one to the other, he
that each had a gun in their right hand. And he did .
It’s an idea.

“Casey, there’s a knife in the wall over there,” Hallibur said.
Then grab the saw. “I got it—quick!”

Casey hurried to the wall. It just took a while to
You will find a knife hanging in the toolbox, within his reach.
Footsteps dragged him downstairs, then hurried back to Margaret.

Margaret dropped the shield and picked up the long knife
she.

“Margaret - you gave me the shit,” insisted the man in the Dodger cap
Impatiently.

“Margaret, what are you doing?” The guy in the produce department
he asked, looking scared.

“I’ve got an idea,” Margaret said doubtfully.


He took a deep breath.
Then he got through to the guy in the produce department and
He squeezed the knife in his hand.


21


“Oh!” He screamed as the blade cut through his skin.

Margaret pulled back the knife, finishing the stab.
hole.

Red blood gushed out of the hole.

“He’s our real father,” she told Casey calmly. "here,
Father." She gave him a smile.

“Margaret—you’re wrong!” The man in the baseball cap yelled
alarm. “He cheated on you! He tricked you!”

Dr. Brewer, who was not wearing a capsule, moved quickly. He picked up a pair of scissors.
He took three steps forward, pulled the knife back, and swung it with all his might.
might.

Dr. Brewer, who was in tears, opened his mouth and said something
A silent scream. The scream cut through with the ease of a razor blade.
through his body, cutting it in two.

Green fluid poured out of the wound. When the man fell.
With her mouth hanging open in disbelief and fear, Margaret could see
His body was made of wood. He has no bones, no human organs.

The body flew to the ground. There was green water all around.

“Princess—we’re good!” cried Dr. Brewer, throwing his knife aside.
“You thought right!”

“It’s not free,” Margaret said, pulling it out of her hand. "I
Blood green, he thought. I saw it. It’s a long night. Some of you were
In the toilet, green blood comes out. I knew my dad would be ready.
Red blood.”

“You were right!” cried Mrs. Brewer, running after her husband.
hands. “We are good. We’re all good!”

The four of them ran together in the family’s embrace.

“One more thing we need to do,” their father said, folding his arms.
Around two kids. “Let’s get Mr. Martin out of the book.”


2)


By dinnertime, things were back to normal.

They were able to drive their mother home, and
She tried to explain everything to him in his absence.

Mr. Martinez was rescued from the facility and was not
She’s bad at dressing. He spent a long time with Dr. Brewer
Discussion of past experiences and Dr. Brewer's career.

He revealed all the confusion about Dr. Brewer
It happened, but he knew it well enough to understand that it was historic.


“Maybe you need a structured environment in a lab on campus.
retention. Pll talk to management to get you back on staff”
Martin said. It was his way of inviting their father back to work.

After Mr. Martens fled home, Dr. Brewer disappeared.
Underground for about an hour. She returned with an annoyed look on her face.
exhausted. “I destroyed most of the trees,” he explained, sighing.
A chair. “I had to. They were suffering. Later, the PIL is
rest."

“All the trees?” Mrs. Brewer asked.

“Well… there’s some I can put down.
Garden,” he said. She shook her head with a sigh. “Just a few people.”

At dinner he finally found the strength to explain to Margaret.
Casey, and Mrs. Brewer, what happened below.

“I was working for a big company, trying to
Electronic cloning of new plants using DNA fragments extracted from others
plants. Then I reached for a cherry. I don’t know!
But some of my blood got mixed with the plant molecules I was
to work. When I turned on the machine, my molecules were mixed with
Plant Molecules - and I ended up with something that was part
A human, a tree.”

“That’s good!” Casey yelled, filling the foil.
Potatoes.

“Well, a Pm scientist,” said Dr. Brewer, “So I don’t think it’s
gross. I thought it was really cool. I mean, I was here shooting one.
It’s a new belief system.”

“Those things with faces—” Margaret began.

His father shook his head. "Yeah. Those are things I did by entering
turn human material into plant material. I continued to pour them.
Supply Box. I drew near. I didn’t know where I could go.
How could I turn trees into humans. I could see my preferences.
was unhappy, suffering. But I couldn’t stop. It was very sweet.”

He took a long drink from his glass.

“You didn’t tell me any of this,” said Mrs. Braver, shaking her head.
head.

“I couldn’t,” she said. “I couldn’t tell anyone. I—I was too.
give up. Then one day I went far away. I created a plant that was
How accurate I am in every way. He was just like me. he shouted.
Like me. And he had my brain, my mind.”

“But it was like a tree in some ways,” says Margaret. "he
Eat plant foods and—”

“It wasn’t perfect,” Dr. Brewer said, leaning forward.
At the dinner table, speaking in hushed tones, with partners. “He had a world. But he was
Strong and smart enough to overpower me and lock me inside.


closet, to take my picture—and continue my experiment. and when
Martin arrives out of nowhere and locks Martin in the closet.
So that his secret would be safe.”

“Is the head full of leaves a world?” Casey asked.

Dr. Brewer shook his head. Yes߸
Almost perfect human beings, but not all.”

“But Papa,” Margaret pointed out, pointing to her hand , “you have green leaves
The head, too.”

He lifted his hand and took one out. “I know,” she said quietly.
A confused face. “Is that a bad thing?”

Everyone agreed.

When I cut my hand, some of the plants were tangled.
With my blood, it got into my system,” he explained. “And then I flipped .
On the machine. The device caused a powerful chemical reaction.
Between plant material and my blood. Then my hair fell out.
Every night. And the leaves started to grow. never mind,
guys. The leaves are already falling. I think my hair will grow.
back."

Margaret and Casey screamed.

“I think things can get back to normal here,” Ms. Brewer
She said smiling at him.

“Well, well,” he said, smiling at her. “With Martin .
I convinced the office to reinstate my services, please.
downstairs and turn it into the best playhouse you’ve ever seen!”

Margaret and Casey spoke again.

“We’re alive and safe,” Dr. Brewer said, hugging the two children .
once. “Thank you both.”

It was the happiest dinner that Margaret could remember. After them
They all got out of bed. It was going to be .
When they returned.

Dr. Brewer looked down.

“Hey—where you goin’?” His wife called him hesitantly.

'Tm just going to deal with the rest of the tree,” Dr.
Brewer conceded. “I want to make sure everything is gone, that
This terrible chapter is gone from our lives.”


By the end of this week, most of the trees were gone. value;
Leaves, flowers and stems were burned in the fire that lasted.
hours. A few small plants were pruned outside. All that
The specimens were removed and trucked to the lab.

On Saturday, four braves will go to choose a pool table .
New resident rec room. On Sunday, Margaret found herself standing
Behind him is the open garden, overlooking the golden mountains.


Peaceful now, she thought happily.

So there is peace here. And it’s very good.

The tears streamed down her face when she heard him whisper to her.
feet. “Margaret.”

She looked down to see a small yellow flower tickling her toes.

“Margaret,” Flower whispered, “help me. Please—help me. I am
Your father. really! I am your true father.”


Survey, design and
The review is by Undead.

