WELCOME TO 
CAMP NIGHTMARE 

1 

I stared out the dusty window as the camp bus bounced over the narrow, winding 
road. I could see sloping red hills in the distance beneath a bright yellow sky. 

Stumpy white trees lined the road like fence posts. We were way out in the 
wilderness. We hadnt passed a house or a farm for nearly an hour. 

The bus seats were made of hard blue plastic. When the bus hit a bump, we 
all bounced up off our seats. Everyone laughed and shouted. The driver kept 
growling at us, yelling for us to pipe down. 

There were twenty-two kids going to camp on the bus. I was sitting in the 
back row on the aisle, so I could count them all. 

There were eighteen boys and only four girls. I guessed that the boys were 
all going to Camp Nightmoon, which is where I was going. The girls were going 
to a girls camp nearby. 

The girls sat together in the front rows and talked quietly to each other. 
Every once in a while, theyd glance back quickly to check out the boys. 

The boys were a lot louder than the girls, cracking jokes, laughing, making 
funny noises, shouting out dumb things. It was a long bus ride, but we were 
having a good time. 

The boy next to me was named Mike. He had the window seat. Mike 
looked a little like a bulldog. He was kind of chubby, with a round face and 
pudgy arms and legs. He had short, spiky black hair, which he scratched a lot. 
He was wearing baggy brown shorts and a sleeveless green T-shirt. 

We had been sitting together the whole trip, but Mike didnt say much. I 
figured he was shy, or maybe very nervous. He told me this was his first time at 
sleepaway camp. 

It was my first time, too. And I have to admit that, as the bus took me 
farther and farther from my home, I was already starting to miss my mom and 
dad just a little. 

Im twelve, but Ive never really stayed away from home before. Even 
though the long bus ride was fun, I had this sad kind of feeling. And I think 
Mike was feeling the same way. 

He pressed his chubby face against the window glass and stared out at the 
red hills rolling by in the distance. 

Are you okay, Mike? I asked. 

Yeah. Sure, Billy, he replied quickly without turning around. 

I thought about my mom and dad. Back at the bus station, they had seemed 
so serious. I guess they were nervous, too, about me going off to camp for the 
first time. 

Well write every day, Dad said. 

Do your best, Mom said, hugging me harder than usual. 

What a weird thing to say. Why didnt she say, Have a good time? Why did 
she say, Do your best? 

As you can tell, Im a bit of a worrier. 

The only other boys Id met so far were the two in the seat in front of us. 
One was named Colin. He had long brown hair down to his collar, and he wore 
silver sunglasses so you couldnt see his eyes. He acted kind of tough, and he 
wore a red bandanna on his forehead. He kept tying and untying the bandanna. 

Sitting next to him in the seat on the aisle was a big, loud kid named Jay. 
Jay talked a lot about sports and kept bragging about what a good athlete he was. 
He liked showing off his big, muscular arms, especially when one of the girls 
turned around to check us out. 

Jay teased Colin a lot and kept wrestling with him, gripping Colins head in 
a headlock and messing up Colins bandanna. You know. Just kidding around. 

Jay had wild, bushy red hair that looked as if it had never been brushed. He 
had big blue eyes. He never stopped grinning and horsing around. He spent the 
whole trip telling gross jokes and shouting things at the girls. 

Heywhats your name? Jay called to a blond-haired girl who sat at the front 
by the window. 

She ignored him for a long time. But the fourth time Jay called out the 
question, she turned around, her green eyes flashing. Dawn, she replied. Then 
she pointed to the red-haired girl next to her. And this is my friend Dori. 

Heythats amazing! My name is Dawn, too! Jay joked. 

A lot of the guys laughed, but Dawn didnt crack a smile. Nice to meet you, 
Dawn, she called back to him. Then she turned around to the front. 

The bus bounced over a hole in the road, and we all bounced with it. 

Hey, look, Billy, Mike said suddenly, pointing out the window. 

Mike hadnt said anything for a long time. I leaned toward the window, 
trying to see what he was pointing at. 

I think I saw a prairie cat, he said, still staring hard. 

Huh? Really? I saw a clump of low white trees and a lot of jagged red 
rocks. But I couldnt see any prairie cats. 

It went behind those rocks, Mike said, still pointing. Then he turned toward 
me. Have you seen any towns or anything? 

I shook my head. Just desert. 

But isnt the camp supposed to be near a town? Mike looked worried. 

I dont think so, I told him. My dad told me that Camp Nightmoon is past 
the desert, way out in the woods. 

Mike thought about this for a while, frowning. Well, what if we want to call 
home or something? he asked. 

They probably have phones at the camp, I told him. 

I glanced up in time to see Jay toss something up toward the girls at the 
front. It looked like a green ball. It hit Dawn on the back of the head and stuck in 
her blond hair. 

Hey! Dawn cried out angrily. She pulled the sticky green ball from her hair. 
What is this? She turned to glare at Jay. 

Jay giggled his high-pitched giggle. I dont know. I found it stuck under the 
seat! he called to her. 

Dawn scowled at him and heaved the green ball back. It missed Jay and hit 
the rear window, where it stuck with a loud plop. 

Everyone laughed. Dawn and her friend Dori made faces at Jay. 

Colin fiddled with his red bandanna. Jay slumped down low and raised his 
knees against the seat in front of him. 

A few rows ahead of me, two grinning boys were singing a song we all 
knew but with really gross words replacing the original words. 

A few other kids began to sing along. 

Suddenly, without warning, the bus squealed to a stop, the tires skidding 
loudly over the road. 

We all cried out in surprise. I bounced off my seat, and my chest hit the seat 
in front of me. 

Ugh! That hurt. 

As I slid back in the seat, my heart still pounding, the bus driver stood up 
and turned to us, leaning heavily into the aisle. 

Ohh! Several loud gasps filled the bus as we saw the drivers face. 

His head was enormous and pink, topped with a mop of wild bright blue 
hair that stood straight up. He had long, pointed ears. His huge red eyeballs 

bulged out from their dark sockets, bouncing in front of his snoutlike nose. 
Sharp white fangs drooped from his gaping mouth. A green liquid oozed over his 
heavy black lips. 

As we goggled in silent horror, the driver tilted back his monstrous head 
and uttered an animal roar. 

2 

The driver roared so loud, the bus windows rattled. 

Several kids shrieked in fright. 

Mike and I both ducked down low, hiding behind the seat in front of us. 

Hes turned into a monster! Mike whispered, his eyes wide with fear. 

Then we heard laughter at the front of the bus. 

I raised myself up in time to see the bus driver reach one hand up to his 
bright blue hair. He tuggedand his face slid right off! 

Ohhh! Several kids shrieked in horror. 

But we quickly realized that the face dangling from the drivers hand was a 
mask. He had been wearing a rubber monster mask. 

His real face was perfectly normal, I saw with relief. He had pale skin, 
short, thinning black hair, and tiny blue eyes. He laughed, shaking his head, 
enjoying his joke. 

This fools em every time! he declared, holding up the ugly mask. 

A few kids laughed along with him. But most of us were too surprised and 
confused to think it was funny. 

Suddenly, his expression changed. Everybody out! he ordered gruffly. 

He pulled a lever and the door slid open with a whoosh. 

Where are we? someone called out. 

But the driver ignored the question. He tossed the mask onto the drivers 
seat. Then, lowering his head so he wouldnt bump the roof, he quickly made his 
way out the door. 

I leaned across Mike and stared out the window, but I couldnt see much. 
Just mile after mile of flat yellow ground, broken occasionally by clumps of red 
rock. It looked like a desert. 

Why are we getting out here? Mike asked, turning to me. I could see he was 
really worried. 

Maybe this is the camp, I joked. Mike didnt think that was funny. 

We were all confused as we pushed and shoved our way off the bus. Mike 
and I were the last ones off since we were sitting in the back. 

As I stepped onto the hard ground, I shielded my eyes against the bright 
sunlight high in the afternoon sky. We were in a flat, open area. The bus was 

parked beside a concrete platform, about the size of a tennis court. 

It must be some kind of bus station or something, I told Mike. You know. A 
drop-off point. 

He had his hands shoved into the pockets of his shorts. He kicked at the dirt 
but didnt say anything. 

On the other side of the platform, Jay was messing around with a boy I 
hadnt met yet. Colin was leaning against the side of the bus, being cool. The four 
girls were standing in a circle near the front of the platform, talking quietly about 
something. 

I watched the driver walk over to the side of the bus and pull open the 
luggage compartment. He began pulling out bags and camp trunks and carrying 
them to the concrete platform. 

A couple of guys had sat down on the edge of the platform to watch the 
driver work. Across the platform, Jay and the other guy started a contest, tossing 
little red pebbles as far as they could. 

Mike, his hands still buried in his pockets, stepped up behind the sweating 
bus driver. Hey, where are we? Why are we stopping here? Mike asked him 
nervously. 

The driver slid a heavy black trunk from the back of the luggage 
compartment. He completely ignored Mikes questions. Mike asked them again. 
And again the driver pretended Mike wasnt there. 

Mike made his way back to where I was standing, walking slowly, dragging 
his shoes across the hard ground. He looked really worried. 

I was confused, but I wasnt worried. I mean, the bus driver was calmly 
going about his business, unloading the bus. He knew what he was doing. 

Why wont he answer me? Why wont he tell us anything? Mike demanded. 

I felt bad that Mike was so nervous. But I didnt want to hear any more of 
his questions. He was starting to make me nervous, too. 

I wandered away from him, making my way along the side of the platform 
to where the four girls were standing. Across the platform, Jay and his buddies 
were still having their stone-throwing contest. 

Dawn smiled at me as I came closer. Then she glanced quickly away. Shes 
really pretty, I thought. Her blond hair gleamed in the bright sunlight. 

Are you from Center City? her friend Dori asked, squinting at me, her 
freckled face twisted against the sun. 

No, I told her. Im from Midlands. Its north of Center City. Near Outreach 

Bay. 

I know where Midlands is! Dori snapped snottily. The other three girls 
laughed. 

I could feel myself blushing. 

Whats your name? Dawn asked, staring at me with her green eyes. 

Billy, I told her. 

My birds name is Billy! she exclaimed, and the girls all laughed again. 

Where are you girls going? I asked quickly, eager to change the subject. I 
mean, what camp? 

Camp Nightmoon. Theres one for boys and one for girls, Dori answered. 
This is an all-Camp Nightmoon bus. 

Is your camp near ours? I asked. I didnt even know there was a Camp 
Nightmoon for girls. 

Dori shrugged. We dont know, Dawn replied. This is our first year. 

All of us, Dori added. 

Me, too, I told them. I wonder why we stopped here. 

The girls all shrugged. 

I saw that Mike was lingering behind me, looking even more scared. I 
turned and made my way back to him. 

Look. The driver is finished carrying out our stuff, he said, pointing. 

I turned in time to see the driver slam the luggage compartment door shut. 

Whats happening? Mike cried. Is someone picking us up here? Why did he 
unload all our stuff? 

Ill go find out, I said quietly. I started to jog over to the driver. He was 
standing in front of the open bus door, mopping his perspiring forehead with the 
short sleeve of his tan drivers uniform. 

He saw me comingand quickly climbed into the bus. He slid into the drivers 
seat, pulling a green sun visor down over his forehead as I stepped up to the 
door. 

Is someone coming for us? I called in to him. 

To my surprise, he pulled the lever, and the bus door slammed shut in my 

face. 

The engine started up with a roar and a burst of gray exhaust fumes. 

Hey! I screamed, and pounded angrily on the glass door. 

I had to leap back as the bus squealed away, its tires spinning noisily on the 
hard dirt. Hey! I shouted. You dont have to run me over! 

I stared angrily as the bus bounced onto the road and roared away. Then I 
turned back to Mike. He was standing beside the four girls. They were all 
looking upset now. 

Hehe left, Mike stammered as I approached them. He just left us here in the 
middle of nowhere. 

We gazed down the road at the bus until it disappeared over the darkening 
horizon. We all grew very quiet. 

A few seconds later, we heard the frightening animal cries. 

Very close. And getting closer. 

3 

Wh-whats that? Mike stammered. 

We turned in the direction of the shrill cries. 

They seemed to be coming from across the platform. At first, I thought that 
Jay and Colin and their friends were playing a joke on us, making the animal 
cries to frighten us. 

But then I saw the scared, wide-eyed expressions on their faces. Jay, Colin, 
and the others had frozen in place. They werent making the noises. 

The cries grew louder. Closer. 

Shrill warnings. 

And then, staring into the distance beyond the platform, I saw them. Small, 
dark creatures, keeping low, rolling rapidly along the flat ground, tossing their 
heads back and uttering excited shrieks as they came toward us. 

What are they? Mike cried, moving close to me. 

Are they prairie wolves? Dori asked in a trembling voice. 

I hope not! one of the other girls called out. 

We all climbed onto the concrete platform and huddled behind our trunks 
and bags. 

The animal cries grew louder as the creatures drew near. I could see dozens 
of them. They scurried toward us over the flat ground as if being blown by the 
wind. 

Help! Somebody help us! I heard Mike scream. 

Next to me, Jay still had two of the red pebbles from his stone-throwing 
competition in his hand. Pick up rocks! he was shouting frantically. Maybe we 
can scare them away! 

The creatures stopped a few yards from the concrete platform and raised 
themselves up menacingly on their hind feet. 

Huddled between Mike and Jay, I could see them clearly now. They were 
wolves or wildcats of some sort. Standing upright, they were nearly three feet 
tall. 

They had slender, almost scrawny bodies covered with spotty red-brown 
fur. Their paws had long silvery claws growing out of them. Their heads were 
nearly as slender as their bodies. Tiny red weasel eyes stared hungrily at us. 

Their long mouths snapped open and shut, revealing double rows of silvery, 
daggerlike teeth. 

No! No! Help! Mike dropped to his knees. His entire body convulsed in a 
shudder of terror. 

Some of the kids were crying. Others gaped at the advancing creatures in 
stunned silence. 

I was too scared to cry out or move or do anything. 

I stared at the row of creatures, my heart thudding, my mouth as dry as 
cotton. 

The creatures grew silent. Standing a few feet from the platform, they eyed 
us, snapping their jaws loudly, hungrily. White froth began to drip from their 
mouths. 

Theytheyre going to attack! a boy yelled. 

They look hungry! I heard one of the girls say. 

The white froth poured thickly over their pointed teeth. They continued to 
snap their jaws. It sounded like a dozen steel traps being snapped shut. 

Suddenly, one of them leaped onto the edge of the platform. 

No! several kids cried out in unison. 

We huddled closer together, trying to stay behind the pile of trunks and 

bags. 

Another creature climbed onto the platform. Then three more. 

I took a step back. 

I saw Jay pull back his arm and heave a red rock at one of the frothing 
creatures. The rock hit the platform with a crack and bounced away. 

The creatures were not frightened. They arched their backs, preparing to 
attack. 

They began to make a high-pitched chattering sound. 

And moved nearer. Nearer. 

Jay threw another rock. 

This one hit one of the advancing creatures on the side. It uttered a shrill 
eek of surprise. But it kept moving steadily forward, its red eyes trained on Jay, 
its jaws snapping hungrily. 

Go away! Dori cried in a trembling voice. Go home! Go away! Go away! 

But her shouts had no effect. 

The creatures advanced. 

Run! I urged. Run! 

We cant outrun them! someone shouted. 

The shrill chittering grew louder. Deafening. Until it seemed as if we were 
surrounded by a wall of sound. 

The ugly creatures lowered themselves to pounce. 

Run! I repeated. Come onrun! 

My legs wouldnt cooperate. They felt rubbery and weak. 

Trying to back away from the attacking creatures, I toppled over backward 
off the platform. 

I saw flashing stars as the back of my head hit the hard ground. 

Theyre going to get me, I realized. 

I cant get away. 

4 

I heard the sirenlike attack cry. 

I heard the scrape of the creatures long claws over the concrete platform. 

I heard the screams and cries of the frightened campers. 

Then, as I struggled frantically to pull myself up, I heard the deafening roar. 

At first I thought it was an explosion. 

I thought the platform had blown up. 

But then I turned and saw the rifle. 

Another explosion of gunfire. White smoke filled the air. 

The creatures spun around and darted away, silent now, their scraggly fur 
scraping the ground as they kept low, their tails between their furry legs. 

Ha-ha! Look at em run! A man kept a rifle poised on his shoulder as he 
watched the creatures retreat. 

Behind him stood a long green bus. 

I pulled myself up and brushed myself off. 

Everyone was laughing now, jumping up and down joyfully, celebrating the 
narrow escape. 

I was still too shaken up to celebrate. 

Theyre running like jackrabbits! the man declared in a booming voice. He 
lowered the rifle. 

It took me a while to realize he had come out of the camp bus to rescue us. 
We hadnt heard or seen the bus pull up because of the attack cries of the animals. 

Are you okay, Mike? I asked, walking over to my frightened-looking new 
friend. 

I guess, he replied uncertainly. I guess Im okay now. 

Dawn slapped me on the back, grinning. Were okay! she cried. Were all 
okay! 

We gathered in front of the man with the rifle. 

He was big and red-faced, mostly bald except for a fringe of curly yellow 
hair around his head. He had a blond mustache under an enormous beak of a 
nose and tiny black bird eyes beneath bushy blond eyebrows. 

Hi, guys! Im Uncle Al. Im your friendly camp director. I hope you enjoyed 

that welcome to Camp Nightmoon! he boomed in a deep voice. 

I heard muttered replies. 

He leaned the rifle against the bus and took a few steps toward us, studying 
our faces. He was wearing white shorts and a bright green camp T-shirt that 
stretched over his big belly. Two young guys, also in green and white, stepped 
out of the bus, serious expressions on their faces. 

Lets load up, Uncle A1 instructed them in his deep voice. 

He didnt apologize for being late. 

He didnt explain about the weird animals. And he didnt ask if we were okay 
after that scare. 

The two counselors began dragging the camp trunks and shoving them into 
the luggage compartment on the bus. 

Looks like a good group this year, Uncle A1 shouted. Well drop you girls 
off first across the river. Then well get you boys settled in. 

What were those awful animals? Dori called to Uncle Al. 

He didnt seem to hear her. 

We began climbing onto the bus. I looked for Mike and found him near the 
end of the line. His face was pale, and he still looked really shaken. II was really 
scared, he admitted. 

But were okay, I reassured him. Now we can relax and have fun. 

Im so hungry, Mike complained. I havent eaten all day. 

One of the counselors overheard him. You wont be hungry when you taste 
the camp food, he told Mike. 

We piled into the bus. I sat next to Mike. I could hear the poor guys 
stomach growling. I suddenly realized I was starving, too. And I was really eager 
to see what Camp Nightmoon looked like. I hoped it wouldnt be a long bus ride 
to get there. 

How far away is our camp? I called to Uncle Al, who had slid into the 
drivers seat. 

He didnt seem to hear me. 

Hey, Mike, were on our way! I said happily as the bus pulled onto the road. 

Mike forced a smile. Im so glad to get away from there! 

To my surprise, the bus ride took less than five minutes. 

We all muttered our shock at what a short trip it was. Why hadnt the first 
bus taken us all the way? 

A big wooden sign proclaiming camp nightmoon came into view, and Uncle 

A1 turned the bus onto a gravel road that led through a patch of short trees into 
the camp. 

We followed the narrow, winding road across a green river. Several small 
cabins came into view. Girls camp, Uncle A1 announced. The bus stopped to let 
the four girls off. Dawn waved to me as she climbed down. 

A few minutes later, we pulled into the boys camp. Through the bus 
window I could see a row of small white cabins. On top of a gently sloping hill 
stood a large white-shingled building, probably a meeting lodge or mess hall. 

At the edge of a field, three counselors, all dressed in white shorts and 
green T-shirts, were working to start a fire in a large stone barbecue pit. 

Hey, were going to have a cookout! I exclaimed to Mike. I was starting to 
feel really excited. 

Mike smiled, too. He was practically drooling at the thought of food! 

The bus came to an abrupt stop at the end of the row of small bunks. Uncle 
A1 pulled himself up quickly from the drivers seat and turned to us. Welcome to 
beautiful Camp Nightmoon! he bellowed. Step down and line up for your bunk 
assignments. Once you get unpacked and have dinner, Ill see you at the 
campfire. 

We pushed our way noisily out of the bus. I saw Jay enthusiastically 
slapping another boy on the back. I think we were all feeling a lot better, 
forgetting about our close call. 

I stepped down and took a deep breath. The cool air smelled really sweet 
and fresh. I saw a long row of short evergreen trees behind the white lodge on 
the hill. 

As I took my place in line, I searched for the waterfront. I could hear the 
soft rush of the river behind a thick row of evergreens, but I couldnt see it. 

Mike, Jay, Colin, and I were assigned to the same bunk. It was Bunk 4. I 
thought the bunk should have a more interesting name. But it just had a number. 
Bunk 4. 

It was really small, with a low ceiling and windows on two sides. It was just 
big enough for six campers. There were bunk beds against three walls and a tall 
dresser on the fourth wall, with a little square of space in the middle. 

There was no bathroom. I guessed it was in another building. 

As the four of us entered the bunk, we saw that one of the beds had already 
been claimed. It had been carefully made, the green blanket tucked in neatly, 
some sports magazines and a radio resting on top. 

That must belong to our counselor, Jay said, inspecting the radio. 

Hope we dont have to wear those ugly green T-shirts, Colin said, grinning. 
He was still wearing his silver sunglasses, even though the sun was nearly down 
and it was just about as dark as night in the cabin. 

Jay claimed a top bunk, and Colin took the bed beneath his. 

Can I have a lower one? Mike asked me. I roll around a lot at night. Im 
afraid I might fall out of a top one. 

Yeah. Sure. No problem, I replied. I wanted the top bunk anyway. It would 
be a lot more fun. 

Hope you guys dont snore, Colin said. 

Were not going to sleep in here anyway, Jay said. Were going to party all 
night! He playfully slapped Mike on the back, so hard that Mike went sprawling 
into the dresser. 

Hey! Mike whined. That hurt! 

Sorry. Guess I dont know my own strength, Jay replied, grinning at Colin. 

The cabin door opened, and a redheaded guy with dark freckles all over his 
face walked in, carrying a big gray plastic bag. He was tall and very skinny and 
was wearing white shorts and a green camp T-shirt. 

Hey, guys, he said, and dropped the large bag on the cabin floor with a 
groan. He checked us out, then pointed to the bag. Theres your bed stuff, he said. 
Make your beds. Try to make them as neat as mine. He pointed to the bunk 
against the window with the radio on it. 

Are you our counselor? I asked. 

He nodded. Yeah. Im the lucky one. He turned and started to walk out. 

Whats your name? Jay called after him. 

Larry, he said, pushing open the cabin door. Your trunks will be here in a 
few minutes, he told us. You can fight it out over drawer space. Two of the 
drawers are stuck shut. 

He started out the door, then turned back to us. Keep away from my stuff. 
The door slammed hard behind him. 

Peering out the window, I watched him lope away, taking long, fast strides, 
bobbing his head as he walked. 

Great guy, Colin muttered sarcastically. 

Real friendly, Jay added, shaking his head. 

Then we dived into the plastic bag and pulled out sheets and wool blankets. 
Jay and Colin got into a wrestling match over a blanket they claimed was softer 

than the others. 

I tossed a sheet onto my mattress and started to climb up to tuck it in. 
I was halfway up the ladder when I heard Mike scream. 

5 


Mike was right beneath me, making his bed. He screamed so loud, I cried out 
and nearly fell off the ladder. 

I leaped off the ladder, my heart pounding, and stepped beside him. 

Staring straight ahead, his mouth wide open in horror, Mike backed away 
from his bed. 

Mikewhats wrong? I asked. What is it? 

S-snakes! Mike stammered, staring straight ahead at his unmade bed as he 
backed away. 

Huh? I followed his gaze. It was too dark to see anything. 

Colin laughed. Not that old joke! he cried. 

Larry put rubber snakes in your bed, Jay said, grinning as he stepped up 
beside us. 

Theyre not rubber! Theyre real! Mike insisted, his voice trembling. 

Jay laughed and shook his head. I cant believe you fell for that old gag. He 
took a few steps toward the bedthen stopped. Hey! 

I moved close, and the two snakes came into focus. Raising themselves 
from the shadows, they arched their heads, pulling back as if preparing to attack. 

Theyre real! Jay cried, turning back to Colin. Two of them! 

Probably not poisonous, Colin said, venturing closer. 

The two let out angry hisses, raising themselves high off the bed. They were 
very long and skinny. Their heads were wider than their bodies. Their tongues 
flicked from side to side as they arched themselves menacingly. 

Im scared of snakes, Mike uttered in a soft voice. 

Theyre probably scared of youl Jay joked, slapping Mike on the back. 

Mike winced. He was in no mood for Jays horseplay. Weve got to get Larry 
or somebody, Mike said. 

No way! Jay insisted. You can handle em, Mike. Theres only two of them! 

Jay gave Mike a playful shove toward the bed. He only meant to give him a 
scare. 

But Mike stumbledand fell onto the bed. 

The snakes darted in unison. 

I saw one of them clamp its teeth into Mikes hand. 

Mike raised himself to his feet. He didnt react at first. Then he uttered a 
high-pitched shriek. 

Two drops of blood appeared on the back of his right hand. He stared down 
at them, then grabbed the hand. 

It bit me! he shrieked. 

Oh, no! I cried. 

Did it puncture the skin? Colin asked. Is it bleeding? 

Jay rushed forward and grabbed Mikes shoulder. Hey, manlm really sorry, 
he said. I didnt mean to 

Mike groaned in pain. Itreally hurts, he whispered. He was breathing really 
hard, his chest heaving, making weird noises as he breathed. 

The snakes, coiled in the middle of his lower bunk, began to hiss again. 

Youd better hurry to the nurse, Jay said, his hand still on Mikes shoulder. Ill 
come with you. 

N-no, Mike stammered. His face was as pale as a ghosts. He held his hand 
tightly. Ill go find her! He burst out of the cabin, running at full speed. The door 
slammed behind him. 

Heyl didnt mean to push him, you know, Jay explained to us. I could see he 
was really upset. I was just joking, just trying to scare him a little. I didnt mean 
for him to fall or anything. His voice trailed off. 

What are we going to do about them ? I asked, pointing at the two coiled 
snakes. 

Ill get Larry, Colin offered. He started toward the door. 

No, wait. I called him back. Look. Theyve moved onto Mikes sheet, right? 

Jay and Colin followed my gaze to the bed. The snakes arched themselves 
high, preparing to bite again. 

So? Jay asked, scratching his disheveled hair. 

So we can wrap them up in the sheet and carry them outside, I said. 

Jay stared at me. Wish Id thought of that. Lets do it, man! 

Youll get bit, Colin warned. 

I stared at the snakes. They seemed to be studying me, too. They cant bite 
us through the sheet, I said. 

They can try! Colin exclaimed, hanging back. 

If were fast enough, I said, taking a cautious step toward the bed, we can 
wrap them up before they know whats happening. 

The snakes hissed out a warning, drawing themselves higher. 

How did they get in here, anyway? Colin asked. 

Maybe the camp is crawling with snakes, Jay said, grinning. Maybe youve 
got some in your bed, too, Colin! He laughed. 

Lets get serious here, I said sternly, my eyes locked on the coiled snakes. 
Are we going to try this or not? 

Yeah. Lets do it, Jay answered. I mean, I owe it to Mike. 

Colin remained silent. 

Ill bet I could grab one by the tail and swing him out through the window, 
Jay said. You could grab the tail end of the other one and 

Lets try my plan first, I suggested quietly. 

We crept over to the snakes, sneaking up on them. It was kind of silly since 
they were staring right at us. 

I pointed to one end of the sheet, which was folded up onto the bed. Grab it 
there, I instructed Jay. Then pull it up. 

He hesitated. What if I miss? Or you miss? 

Then were in trouble, I replied grimly. My eyes on the snakes, I reached my 
hand forward to the other corner of the sheet. Ready? On three, I whispered. 

My heart was in my mouth. I could barely choke out, One, two, three. 

At the count of three, we both grabbed for the ends of the sheet. 

Pull! I cried in a shrill voice I couldnt believe was coming from me. 

We pulled up the sheet and brought the ends together, making a bundle. 

At the bottom of the bundle, the snakes wriggled frantically. I heard their 
jaws snap. They wriggled so hard, the bottom of the bundle swung back and 
forth. 

They dont like this, Jay said as we hurried to the door, carrying our 
wriggling, swaying bundle between us, trying to keep our bodies as far away 
from it as possible. 

I pushed open the door with my shoulder, and we ran out onto the grass. 

Now what? Jay asked. 

Keep going, I replied. I could see one of the snakes poking its head out. 
Hurry! 

We ran past the cabins toward a small clump of shrubs. Beyond the shrubs 
stood a patch of low trees. When we reached the trees, we swung the bundle 
back, then heaved the whole sheet into the trees. 

It opened as it fell to the ground. The two snakes slithered out instantly and 

pulled themselves to shelter under the trees. 

Jay and I let out loud sighs of relief. We stood there for a moment, hunched 
over, hands on our knees, trying to catch our breath. 

Crouching down, I looked for the snakes. But they had slithered deep into 
the safety of the evergreens. 

I stood up. I guess we should take back Mikes sheet, I said. 

He probably wont want to sleep on it, Jay said. But he reached down and 
pulled it up from the grass. He balled it up and tossed it to me. Its probably 
dripping with snake venom, he said, making a disgusted face. 

When we got back to the cabin, Colin had made his bed and was busily 
unpacking the contents of his trunk, shoving everything into the top dresser 
drawer. He turned as we entered. Howd it go? he asked casually. 

Horrible, Jay replied quickly, his expression grim. We both got bit. Twice. 

Youre a terrible liar! Colin told him, laughing. You shouldnt even try. 

Jay laughed, too. 

Colin turned to me. Youre a hero, he said. 

Thanks for all your help, Jay told him sarcastically. 

Colin started to reply. But the cabin door opened, and Larry poked his 
freckled face in. Hows it going? he asked. Youre not finished yet? 

We had a little problem, Jay told him. 

Wheres the fourth guy? The chubby one? Larry asked, lowering his head so 
he wouldnt bump it on the door frame as he stepped inside. 

Mike got bit. By a snake, I told him. 

There were two snakes in his bed, Jay added. 

Larrys expression didnt change. He didnt seem at all surprised. So where 
did Mike go? he asked casually, swatting a mosquito on his arm. 

His hand was bleeding. He went to the nurse to get it taken care of, I told 

him. 

Huh? Larrys mouth dropped open. 

He went to find the nurse, I repeated. 

Larry tossed back his head and started to laugh. Nurse? he cried, laughing 
hard. What nurse?! 

6 

The door opened and Mike returned, still holding his wounded hand. His face 
was pale, his expression frightened. They said there was no nurse, he told me. 

Then he saw Larry sitting on his bunk. Larrymy hand, Mike said. He held 
the hand out so the counselor could see it. It was stained with bright red blood. 

Larry stood up. I think I have some bandages, he told Mike. He pulled out a 
slender black case from beneath his bunk and began to search through it. 

Mike stood beside him, holding up his hand. Drops of blood splashed on 
the cabin floor. They said the camp doesnt have a nurse, Mike repeated. 

Larry shook his head. If you get hurt in this camp, he told Mike seriously, 
youre on your own. 

I think my hand is swelling a little, Mike said. 

Larry handed him a roll of bandages. The washroom is at the end of this 
row of cabins, he told Mike, closing the case and shoving it back under the bed. 
Go wash the hand and bandage it. Hurry. Its almost dinnertime. 

Holding the bandages tightly in his good hand, Mike hurried off to follow 
Larrys instructions. 

By the way, howd you guys get the snakes out of here? Larry asked, 
glancing around the cabin. 

We carried them out in Mikes sheet, Jay told him. He pointed at me. It was 
Billys idea. 

Larry stared hard at me. Hey, Im impressed, Billy, he said. That was pretty 
brave, man. 

Maybe I inherited something from my parents, I told him. Theyre scientists. 
Explorers, kind of. They go off for months at a time, exploring the wildest 
places. 

Well, Camp Nightmoon is pretty wild, Larry said. And you guys had better 
be careful. Im warning you. His expression turned serious. Theres no nurse at 
Camp Nightmoon. Uncle A1 doesnt believe in coddling you guys. 

The hot dogs were all charred black, but we were so hungry, we didnt care. I 
shoved three of them down in less than five minutes. I dont think Id ever been so 
hungry in all my life. 

The campfire was in a flat clearing surrounded by a circle of round white 
stones. Behind us, the large white-shingled lodge loomed over the sloping hill. 
Ahead of us a thick line of evergreen trees formed a fence that hid the river from 
view. 

Through a small gap in the trees, I could see a flickering campfire in the 
distance on the other side of the river. I wondered if that was the campfire of the 
girls camp. 

I thought about Dawn and Dori. I wondered if the two camps ever got 
together, if Id ever see them again. 

Dinner around the big campfire seemed to put everyone in a good mood. 
Jay was the only one sitting near me who complained about the hot dogs being 
burned. But I think he put away four or five of them anyway! 

Mike had trouble eating because of his bandaged hand. When he dropped 
his first hot dog, I thought he was going to burst into tears. By the end of dinner, 
he was in a much better mood. His wounded hand had swelled up just a little. 
But he said it didnt hurt as much as before. 

The counselors were easy to spot. They all wore their identical white shorts 
and green T-shirts. There were eight or ten of them, all young guys probably 
sixteen or seventeen. They ate together quietly, away from us campers. I kept 
looking at Larry, but he never once turned around to look at any of us. 

I was thinking about Larry, trying to figure out if he was shy or if he just 
didnt like us campers very much. Suddenly, Uncle A1 climbed to his feet and 
motioned with both hands for us all to be quiet. 

I want to welcome you boys to Camp Nightmoon, he began. I hope youre 
all unpacked and comfortable in your bunks. I know that most of you are first¬ 
time campers. 

He was speaking quickly, without any pauses between sentences, as if he 
was running through this for the thousandth time and wanted to get it over with. 

Id like to tell you some of our basic rules, he continued. First, lights-out is 
at nine sharp. 

A lot of guys groaned. 

You might think you can ignore this rule, Uncle A1 continued, paying no 
attention to their reaction. You might think you can sneak out of your cabins to 
meet or take a walk by the river. But Im warning you now that we dont allow it, 
and we have very good ways of making sure this rule is obeyed. 

He paused to clear his throat. 

Some boys were giggling about something. Across from me, Jay burped 
loudly, which caused more giggles. 

Uncle A1 didnt seem to hear any of this. On the other side of the river is the 
girls camp, he continued loudly, motioning to the trees. You might be able to see 
their campfire. Well, I want to make it clear that swimming or rowing over to the 
girls camp is strictly forbidden. 

Several boys groaned loudly. This made everyone laugh. Even some of the 
counselors laughed. Uncle A1 remained grim-faced. 

The woods around Camp Nightmoon are filled with grizzlies and tree bears, 
Uncle A1 continued. They come to the river to bathe and to drink. And theyre 
usually hungry. 

This caused another big reaction from all of us sitting around the fading 
campfire. Someone made a loud growling sound. Another kid screamed. Then 
everyone laughed. 

You wont be laughing if a bear claws your head off, Uncle A1 said sternly. 

He turned to the group of counselors outside our circle. Larry, Kurt, come 
over here, he ordered. 

The two counselors climbed obediently to their feet and made their way to 
the center of the circle beside Uncle Al. 

I want you two to demonstrate to the new campers the procedure to follow 
whener, I mean, z’/you are attacked by a grizzly bear. 

Immediately, the two counselors dropped to the ground on their stomachs. 
They lay flat and covered the backs of their heads with their hands. 

Thats right. I hope youre all paying close attention, the camp director 
thundered at us. 

Cover your neck and head. Try your best not to move. He motioned to the 
two counselors. Thanks, guys. You can get up. 

Have there ever been any bear attacks here? I called out, cupping my hands 
so Uncle Al could hear me. 

He turned in my direction. Two last summer, he replied. 

Several boys gasped. 

It wasnt pretty, Uncle Al continued. Its hard to remain still when a huge 
bear is pawing you and drooling all over you. But if you move His voice trailed 
off, leaving the rest to our imaginations, I guess. 

I felt a cold shiver run down my back. I didnt want to think about bears and 
bear attacks. 

What kind of camp did Mom and Dad send me to? I found myself 
wondering. I couldnt wait to call them and tell them about all that had happened 
already. 

Uncle A1 waited for everyone to quiet down, then pointed off to the side. 
Do you see that cabin over there? he asked. 

In the dim evening light, I could make out a cabin standing halfway up the 
hill toward the lodge. It appeared to be a little larger than the other cabins. It 
seemed to be built on a slant, sort of tipping on its side, as if the wind had tried 
to blow it over. 

I want you to make sure you see that cabin, Uncle A1 warned, his voice 
thundering out above the crackling of the purple fire. That is known as the 
Forbidden Bunk. We dont talk about that bunkand we dont go near it. 

I felt another cold shiver as I stared through the gray evening light at the 
shadowy, tilted cabin. I felt a sharp sting on the back of my neck and slapped a 
mosquito, too late to keep it from biting me. 

Im going to repeat what I just said, Uncle A1 shouted, still pointing to the 
dark cabin on the hill. That is known as the Forbidden Bunk. It has been closed 
and boarded up for many years. No one is to go near that cabin. No one. 

This started everyone talking and laughing. Nervous laughter, I think. 

Why is the Forbidden Bunk forbidden? someone called out. 

We never talk about it, Uncle A1 replied sharply. 

Jay leaned over and whispered in my ear, Lets go check it out. 

I laughed. Then I turned back to Jay uncertainly. Youre kiddingright? 

He grinned in reply and didnt say anything. 

I turned back toward the fire. Uncle A1 was wishing us all a good stay and 
saying how much he was looking forward to camp this year. And one more rule, 
he called out. You must write to your parents every day. Every day! We want 
them to know what a great time youre having at Camp Nightmoon. 

I saw Mike holding his wounded hand gingerly. Its starting to throb, he told 
me, sounding very frightened. 

Maybe Larry has something to put on it, I said. Lets go ask him. 

Uncle A1 dismissed us. We all climbed to our feet, stretching and yawning, 
and started to make our way in small groups back to the bunks. 

Mike and I lingered behind, hoping to talk to Larry. We saw him talking to 
the other counselors. He was at least a head taller than all of them. 

Hey, Larry! Mike called. 

But by the time we pushed our way through the groups of kids heading the 
other way, Larry had disappeared. 

Maybe hes going to our bunk to make sure we obey lights-out, I suggested. 

Lets go see, Mike replied anxiously. 

We walked quickly past the dying campfire. It had stopped crackling but 
still glowed a deep purple-red. Then we headed along the curve of the hill 
toward Bunk 4. 

My hand really hurts, Mike groaned, holding it tenderly in front of him. Im 
not just complaining. Its throbbing and its swelling up. And Im starting to have 
chills. 

Larry will know what to do, I replied, trying to sound reassuring. 

I hope so, Mike said shakily. 

We both stopped when we heard the howls. 

Hideous howls. Like an animal in pain. But too human to be from an 
animal. 

Long, shrill howls that cut through the air and echoed down the hill. 

Mike uttered a quiet gasp. He turned to me. Even in the darkness, I could 
see the fright on his face. 

Those cries, he whispered. Theyre coming from the Forbidden Bunk! 

7 

A few minutes later, Mike and I trudged into the cabin. Jay and Colin were 
sitting tensely on their beds. Wheres Larry? Mike asked, fear creeping into his 
voice. 

Not here, Colin replied. 

Where is he? Mike demanded shrilly. Ive got to find him. My hand! 

He should be here soon, Jay offered. 

I could still hear the strange howls through the open window. Do you hear 
that? I asked, walking over to the window and listening hard. 

Probably a prairie cat, Colin said. 

Prairie cats dont howl, Mike told him. Prairie cats screech, but they dont 
howl. 

How do you know? Colin asked, walking over to Larrys bunk and sitting 
down on the bottom bed. 

We studied them in school, Mike replied. 

Another howl made us all stop and listen. 

It sounds like a man, Jay offered, his eyes lighting up excitedly. A man 
whos been locked up in the Forbidden Bunk for years and years. 

Mike swallowed hard. Do you really think so? 

Jay and Colin laughed. 

What should I do about my hand? Mike asked, holding it up. It was 
definitely swollen. 

Go wash it again, I told him. And put a fresh bandage on it. I peered out the 
window into the darkness. Maybe Larry will show up soon. He probably knows 
where to get something to put on it. 

I cant believe theres no nurse, Mike whined. Why would my parents send 
me to a camp where theres no nurse or infirmary or anything? 

Uncle A1 doesnt like to coddle us, Colin said, repeating Larrys words. 

Jay stood up and broke into an imitation of Uncle Al. Stay away from the 
Forbidden Bunk! he cried in a booming deep voice. He sounded a lot like him. 
We dont talk about it and we dont ever go near it! 

We all laughed at Jays impression. Even Mike. 

We should go there tonight! Colin said enthusiastically. We should check it 

out immediately! 

We heard another long, sorrowful howl roll down the hill from the direction 
of the Forbidden Bunk. 

II dont think we should, Mike said softly, examining his hand. He started 
for the door. Im going to go wash this. The door slammed behind him. 

Hes scared, Jay scoffed. 

Im a little scared, too, I admitted. I mean, those awful howls 

Jay and Colin both laughed. Every camp has something like the Forbidden 
Bunk. The camp director makes it up, Colin said. 

Yeah, Jay agreed. Camp directors love scaring kids. Its the only fun they 
have. 

He puffed out his chest and imitated Uncle A1 again: Dont leave the bunk 
after lights-out or youll never be seen again! he thundered, then burst out 
laughing. 

Theres nothing in that Forbidden Bunk, Colin said, shaking his head. Its 
probably completely empty. Its all just a joke. You know. Like camp ghost 
stories. Every camp has its own ghost story. 

How do you know? I asked, dropping down onto Mikes bed. Have you ever 
been to camp before? 

No, Colin replied. But I have friends who told me about their camp. He 
reached up and pulled off his silver sunglasses for the first time. He had bright 
sky-blue eyes, like big blue marbles. 

We suddenly heard a bugle repeating a slow, sad-sounding tune. 

That must be the signal for lights-out, I said, yawning. I started to pull off 
my shoes. I was too tired to change or wash up. I planned to sleep in my clothes. 

Lets sneak out and explore the Forbidden Bunk, Jay urged. Come on. We 
can be the first ones to do it! 

I yawned again. Im really too tired, I told them. 

Me, too, Colin said. He turned to Jay. How about tomorrow night? 

Jays face fell in disappointment. 

Tomorrow, Colin insisted, kicking his shoes into the corner and starting to 
pull off his socks. 

I wouldnt do it if I were you! 

The voice startled all three of us. We turned to the window where Larrys 
head suddenly appeared from out of the darkness. He grinned in at us. Id listen 
to Uncle A1 if I were you, he said. 

How long had he been out there listening to us? I wondered. Was he 
deliberately spying on us? 

The door opened. Larry lowered his head as he loped in. His grin had faded. 
Unde A1 wasnt kidding around, he said seriously. 

Yeah. Sure, Colin replied sarcastically. He went over to his bed and slid 
beneath the wool blanket. 

I guess the camp ghost will get us if we go out after lights-out, Jay joked, 
tossing a towel across the room. 

No. No ghost, Larry said softly. But Sabre will. He pulled out his drawer 
and began searching for something inside it. 

Huh? Whos Sabre? I asked, suddenly wide-awake. 

Sabre is an it, Larry answered mysteriously. 

Sabre is a red-eyed monster who eats a camper every night, Colin sneered. 
He stared at me. There is no Sabre. Larrys just giving us another phony camp 
story. 

Larry stopped searching his drawer and gazed up at Colin. No, Im not, he 
insisted in a low voice. Im trying to save you guys some trouble. Im not trying to 
scare you. 

Then what is Sabre? I asked impatiently. 

Larry pulled a sweater from the drawer, then pushed the drawer shut. You 
dont want to find out, he replied. 

Come on. Tell us what it is, I begged. 

He isnt going to, Colin said. 

Ill tell you guys only one thing. Sabre will rip your heart out, Larry said 
flatly. 

Jay snickered. Yeah. Sure. 

Im serious! Larry snapped. Im not kidding, you guys! He pulled the sweater 
over his head. You dont believe me? Go out one night. Go out and meet Sabre. 
He struggled to get his arm into the sweater sleeve. But before you do, he 
warned, leave me a note with your address so Ill know where to send your stuff. 

8 

We had fun the next morning. 

We all woke up really early. The sun was just rising over the horizon to the 
south, and the air was still cool and damp. I could hear birds chirping. 

The sound reminded me of home. As I lowered myself to the floor and 
stretched, I thought of my mom and dad and wished I could call them and tell 
them about the camp. But it was only the second day. Id be too embarrassed to 
call them on the second day. 

I was definitely homesick. But luckily there wasnt any time to feel sad. 
After we pulled on fresh clothes, we hurried up to the lodge on the hill, which 
served as a meeting hall, theater, and mess hall. 

Long tables and benches were set up in straight rows in the center of the 
enormous room. The floorboards and walls were all dark redwood. Redwood 
ceiling beams crisscrossed high above our heads. There were very few windows, 
so it felt as if we were in an enormous dark cave. 

The clatter of dishes and cups and silverware was deafening. Our shouts 
and laughter rang off the high ceiling, echoed off the hardwood walls. Mike 
shouted something to me from across the table, but I couldnt hear him because 
of the racket. 

Some guys complained about the food, but I thought it was okay. We had 
scrambled egg squares, bacon strips, fried potatoes, and toast, with tall cups of 
juice. I never eat a breakfast that big at home. But I found that I was really 
starved, and I gobbled it up. 

After breakfast we lined up outside the lodge to form different activity 
groups. The sun had climbed high in the sky. It was going to be really hot. Our 
excited voices echoed off the sloping hill. We were all laughing and talking, 
feeling good. 

Larry and two other counselors, clipboards in hand, stood in front of us, 
shielding their eyes from the bright sun as they divided us into groups. The first 
group of about ten boys headed off to the river for a morning swim. 

Some people have all the luck, I thought. I was eager to get to the 
waterfront and see what the river was like. 

As I waited for my name to be called, I spotted a pay phone on the wall of 

the lodge. My parents flashed into my mind again. Maybe I will call them later, I 
decided. I was so eager to describe the camp to them and tell them about my new 
friends. 

Okay, guys. Follow me to the ball field, Larry instructed us. Were going to 
play our first game of scratchball. 

About twelve of us, including everyone from my bunk, followed Larry 
down the hill toward the flat grassy area that formed the playing field. 

I jogged to catch up to Larry, who always seemed to walk at top speed, 
stretching out his long legs as if he were in a terrible hurry. Are we going to 
swim after this? I asked. 

Without slowing his pace, he glanced at his clipboard. Yeah. I guess, he 
replied. You guysll need a swim. Were going to work up a sweat. 

You ever play scratchball before? Jay asked me as we hurried to keep up 
with Larry. 

Yeah. Sure, I replied. We play it a lot in school. 

Scratchball is an easy game to learn. The batter throws the ball in the air as 
high and as far as he can. Then he has to run the bases before someone on the 
other team catches the ball, tags him with it, or throws him out. 

Larry stopped at the far corner of the wide green field, where the bases and 
batters square had already been set up. He made us line up and divided us into 
two teams. 

He started calling out names. But when he called out Mikes name, Mike 
stepped up to Larry, holding his bandaged hand tenderly. II dont think I can play, 
Larry, Mike stammered. 

Come on, Mike. Dont whine, Larry snapped. 

But it really hurts, Mike insisted. Its throbbing like crazy, Larry. The pain is 
shooting all the way up and down my side. And lookhe raised the hand to Larrys 
faceits all swelled up! 

Larry pushed the arm away gently with his clipboard. Go sit in the shade, 
he told Mike. 

Shouldnt I get some medicine or something to put on it? Mike asked shrilly. 
I could see the poor guy was really in bad shape. 

Just sit over there, Larry ordered, pointing to a clump of short leafy trees at 
the edge of the field. Well talk about it later. 

Larry turned away from Mike and blew a whistle to start the game. Ill take 
Mikes place on the Blue team, he announced, jogging onto the field. 

I forgot about Mike as soon as the game got underway. We were having a 
lot of fun. Most of the guys were pretty good scratchball players, and we played 
much faster than my friends do back home at the playground. 

My first time up at the batters square, I heaved the ball really high. But it 
dropped right into a fielders hands, and I was out. My second time up, I made it 
to three bases before I was tagged out. 

Larry was a great player. When he came up to the batters square, he tossed 
the ball harder than I ever saw anyone toss it. It sailed over the fielders heads 
and, as they chased after it, Larry rounded all the bases, his long legs stretching 
out gracefully as he ran. 

By the fourth inning, our team, the Blue team, was ahead twelve to six. We 
had all played hard and were really hot and sweaty. I was looking forward to that 
swim at the waterfront. 

Colin was on the Red team. I noticed that he was the only player who wasnt 
enjoying the game. He had been tagged out twice, and hed missed an easy catch 
in the field. 

I realized that Colin wasnt very athletic. He had long, skinny arms without 
any muscles, and he also ran awkwardly. 

In the third inning Colin got into an argument with a player on my team 
about whether a toss had been foul or not. A few minutes later, Colin argued 
angrily with Larry about a ball that he claimed should have been out. 

He and Larry shouted at each other for a few minutes. It was no big deal, a 
typical sports argument. Larry finally ordered Colin to shut up and get back to 
the outfield. Colin grudgingly obeyed, and the game continued. 

I didnt think about it again. I mean, that kind of arguing happens all the 
time in ball games. And there are guys who enjoy the arguments as much as the 
game. 

But then, in the next inning, something strange happened that gave me a 
really bad feeling and made me stop and wonder just what was going on. 

Colins team came to bat. Colin stepped up to the batters square and 
prepared to toss the ball. 

Larry was playing the outfield. I was standing nearby, also in the field. 

Colin tossed the ball high but not very far. 

Larry and I both came running in to get it. 

Larry got there first. He picked up the small hard ball on the first bounce, 
drew back his armand then I saw his expression change. 

I saw his features tighten in anger. I saw his eyes narrow, his copper-colored 
eyebrows lower in concentration. 

With a loud grunt of effort, Larry heaved the ball as hard as he could. 

It struck Colin in the back of the head, making a loud crack sound as it hit. 

Colins silver sunglasses went flying in the air. 

Colin stopped short and uttered a short, high-pitched cry. His arms flew up 
as if hed been shot. Then his knees buckled. 

He collapsed in a heap, facedown on the grass. He didnt move. 

The ball rolled away over the grass. 

I cried out in shock. 

Then I saw Larrys expression change again. His eyes opened wide in 
disbelief. His mouth dropped open in horror. 

No! he cried. It slipped! I didnt mean to throw it at him! 

I knew Larry was lying. I had seen the anger on his face before he threw the 

ball. 

I sank down to my knees on the ground as Larry went running toward 
Colin. I felt dizzy and upset and confused. I had this sick feeling in my stomach. 

The ball slipped! Larry was yelling. It just slipped. 

Liar, I thought. Liar. Liar. Liar. 

I forced myself up on my feet and hurried to join the circle of guys around 
Colin. When I got there, Larry was kneeling over Colin, raising Colins head off 
the ground gently with both hands. 

Colins eyes were open wide. He stared up at Larry groggily and uttered low 
moans. 

Give him room, Larry was shouting. Give him room. He gazed down at 
Colin. The ball slipped. Im real sorry. The ball slipped. 

Colin moaned. His eyes rolled around in his head. Larry pulled off Colins 
red bandanna and mopped Colins forehead with it. 

Colin moaned again. His eyes closed. 

Help me carry him to the lodge, Larry instructed two guys from the Red 
team. The rest of you guys, get changed for your swim. The waterfront counselor 
will be waiting for you. 

I watched as Larry and the two guys hoisted Colin up and started to carry 
him toward the lodge. Larry gripped him under the shoulders. The two boys 
awkwardly took hold of his legs. 

The sick feeling in my stomach hadnt gone away. I kept picturing the 

intense expression of anger on Larrys face as he heaved the ball at the back of 
Colins head. 

I knew it had been deliberate. 

I started to follow them. I dont know why. I guess I was so upset, I wasnt 
thinking clearly. 

They were nearly to the bottom of the hill when I saw Mike catch up to 
them. He ran alongside Larry, holding his swollen hand. 

Can I come, too? Mike pleaded. Someone has to look at my hand. Its really 
bad, Larry. Pleasecan I come, too? 

Yeah. Youd better, I heard Larry reply curtly. 

Good, I thought. Finally someone was going to pay some attention to Mikes 
snakebite wound. 

Ignoring the sweat pouring down my forehead, I watched them make their 
way up the hill to the lodge. 

This shouldnt have happened, I thought, suddenly feeling a chill despite the 
hot sun. 

Something is wrong. Something is terribly wrong here. 

How was I to know that the horrors were just beginning? 

9 

Later that afternoon, Jay and I were writing our letters to our parents. I was 
feeling pretty upset about things. I kept seeing the angry expression on Larrys 
face as he heaved the ball at the back of Colins head. 

I wrote about it in my letter, and I also told my mom and dad about how 
there was no nurse here, and about the Forbidden Bunk. 

Jay stopped writing and looked at me from his bunk. He was really 
sunburned. His cheeks and forehead were bright red. 

He scratched his red hair. Were dropping like flies, he said, gesturing 
around the nearly empty cabin. 

Yeah, I agreed wistfully. I hope Colin and Mike are okay. And then I 
blurted out, Larry deliberately hit Colin. 

Huh? Jay stopped scratching his hair and lowered his hand to the bunk. He 
what ? 

He deliberately threw at Colins head. I saw him, I said, my voice shaky. I 
wasnt going to tell anyone, but now I was glad I did. It made me feel a little bit 
better to get it out. 

But then I saw that Jay didnt believe me. Thats impossible, he said quietly. 
Larrys our counselor. His hand slipped. Thats all. 

I started to argue when the cabin door opened and Colin entered, with Larry 
at his side. 

Colin! How are you? I cried. 

Jay and I both jumped down from our beds. 

Not bad, Colin replied. He forced a thin smile. I couldnt see his eyes. They 
were hidden once again behind his silver sunglasses. 

Hes still a little wobbly, but hes okay, Larry said cheerfully, holding Colins 

arm. 

Im sort of seeing double, Colin admitted. I mean, this cabin looks really 
crowded to me. There are two of each of you. 

Jay and I uttered short, uncomfortable laughs. 

Larry helped Colin over to his lower bunk. Hell be just fine in a day or two, 
Larry told us. 

Yeah. The headache is a little better already, Colin said, gently rubbing the 

back of his head, then lying down on top of the bedcovers. 

Did you see a doctor? I asked. 

Uh-uh. Just Uncle Al, Colin replied. He looked it over and said Id be fine. 

I cast a suspicious glance at Larry, but he turned his back on us and 
crouched down to search for something in the duffel bag he kept under his bed. 

Wheres Mike? Is he okay? Jay asked Larry. 

Uh-huh, Larry answered without turning around. Hes fine. 

But where is he? I demanded. 

Larry shrugged. Still at the lodge, I guess. I dont really know. 

But is he coming back? I insisted. 

Larry shoved the bag under his bed and stood up. Have you guys finished 
your letters? he asked. Hurry and get changed for dinner. You can mail your 
letters at the lodge. 

He started for the door. Hey, dont forget tonight is Tent Night. You guys are 
sleeping in a tent tonight. 

We all groaned. But, Larry, its too cold out! Jay protested. 

Larry ignored him and turned away. 

Hey, Larry, do you have anything I can put on this sunburn? Jay called after 

him. 

No, Larry replied, and disappeared out the door. 

Jay and I helped Colin up to the lodge. He was still seeing double, and his 
headache was pretty bad. The three of us sat at the end of the long table nearest 
the window. A strong breeze blew cool air over the table, which felt good on our 
sunburned skin. 

We had some kind of meat with potatoes and gravy for dinner. It wasnt 
great, but I was so hungry, it didnt matter. Colin didnt have much of an appetite. 
He picked at the edges of his gray meat. 

The mess hall was as noisy as ever. Kids were laughing and shouting to 
friends across the long tables. At one table, the guys were throwing breadsticks 
back and forth like javelins. 

As usual, the counselors, dressed in their green and white, ate together at a 
table in the far corner and ignored us campers completely. 

The rumor spread that we were going to learn all of the camp songs after 
dinner. Guys were groaning and complaining about that. 

About halfway through dinner, Jay and the boy across the table, a kid 

named Roger, started horsing around, trying to wrestle a breadstick from each 
other. Jay pulled hard and won the breadstickand spilled his entire cup of grape 
juice on my tan shorts. 

Hey! I jumped up angrily, staring down as the purple stain spread across the 
front of my shorts. 

Billy had an accident! Roger cried out. And everyone laughed. 

Yeah. He purpled in his pants! Jay added. 

Everyone thought that was hilarious. Someone threw a breadstick at me. It 
bounced off my chest and landed on my dinner plate. More laughter. 

The food fight lasted only a few minutes. Then two of the counselors broke 
it up. I decided Id better run back to the bunk and change my shorts. As I hurried 
out, I could hear Jay and Roger calling out jokes about me. 

I ran full speed down the hill toward the bunks. I wanted to get back up to 
the mess hall in time for dessert. 

Pushing open the bunk door with my shoulder, I darted across the small 
room to the dresser and pulled open my drawer. 

Huh? 

To my surprise, I stared into an empty drawer. It had been completely 
cleaned out. 

Whats going on here? I asked aloud. Wheres my stuff? 

Confused, I took a step backand realized I had opened the wrong drawer. 
This wasnt my drawer. 

It was Mikes. 

I stared for a long while into the empty drawer. 

Mikes clothes had all been removed. I turned and looked for his trunk, 
which had been stacked on its side behind our bunk. 

Mikes trunk was gone, too. 

Mike wasnt coming back. 

* * * 

I was so upset, I ran back to the mess hall without changing my shorts. 

Panting loudly, I made my way to the counselors table and came up behind 
Larry. He was talking to the counselor next to him, a fat guy with long, scraggly 
blond hair. LarryMikes gone! I cried breathlessly. 

Larry didnt turn around. He kept talking to the other counselor as if I 

werent there. 

I grabbed Larrys shoulder. Larrylisten! I cried. Mikehes gone! 

Larry turned around slowly, his expression annoyed. Go back to your table, 
Billy, he snapped. This table is for counselors only. 

But what about Mike? I insisted shrilly. His stuff is gone. What happened to 
him? Is he okay? 

How should I know? Larry replied impatiently. 

Did they send him home? I asked, refusing to back away until I had some 
kind of an answer. 

Yeah. Maybe. Larry shrugged and lowered his gaze. You spilled something 
on your shorts. 

My heart was pounding so hard, I could feel the blood pulsing at my 
temples. You really dont know what happened to Mike? I asked, feeling 
defeated. 

Larry shook his head. Im sure hes fine, he replied, turning back to his pals. 

He probably went for a swim, the scraggly haired guy next to him 
snickered. 

Larry and some of the other counselors laughed, too. 

I didnt think it was funny. I felt pretty sick. And a little frightened. 

Dont the counselors at this camp care what happens to us? I asked myself 
glumly. 

I made my way back to the table. They were passing out chocolate pudding 
for dessert, but I wasnt hungry. 

I told Colin and Jay and Roger about Mikes dresser drawer being cleaned 
out, and about how Larry pretended he didnt know anything about it. They didnt 
get as upset about it as I was. 

Uncle A1 probably had to send Mike home because of his hand, Colin said 
quietly, spooning up his pudding. It was pretty swollen. 

But why wouldnt Larry tell me the truth? I asked, my stomach still feeling 
as if I had eaten a giant rock for dinner. Why did he say he didnt know what 
happened to Mike? 

Counselors dont like to talk about bad stuff, Jay said, slapping the top of his 
pudding with his spoon. It might give us poor little kids nightmares. He filled his 
spoon with pudding, tilted it back, and flung a dark gob of pudding onto Rogers 
forehead. 

Jayyoure dead meat now! Roger cried, plunging his spoon into the 

chocolate goo. He shot a gob of it onto the front of Jays sleeveless T-shirt. 

That started a pudding war that spread down the long table. 

There was no more talk about Mike. 

After dinner, Uncle A1 talked about Tent Night and what a great time we 
were going to have sleeping in tents tonight. Just be very quiet so the bears cant 
find you! he joked. Some joke. 

Then he and the counselors taught us the camp songs. Uncle A1 made us 
sing them over and over until we learned them. 

I didnt feel much like singing. But Jay and Roger began making up really 
gross words to the songs. And pretty soon, a whole bunch of us joined in, 
singing our own versions of the songs as loudly as we could. 

Later, we were all making our way down the hill toward our tents. It was a 
cool, clear night. A wash of pale stars covered the purple-black sky. 

I helped Colin down the hill. He was still seeing double and feeling a little 
weak. 

Jay and Roger walked a few steps ahead of us, shoving each other with 
their shoulders, first to the left, then to the right. 

Suddenly, Jay turned back to Colin and me. Tonights the night, he 
whispered, a devilish grin spreading across his face. 

Huh? Tonights what night? I demanded. 

Ssshhh. He raised a finger to his lips. When everyones asleep, Roger and I 
are going to go check out the Forbidden Bunk. He turned to Colin. You with us? 

Colin shook his head sadly. I dont think I can, Jay. 

Walking backward in front of us, Jay locked his eyes on mine. How about 
you, Billy? You coming? 

10 

II think Ill stay with Colin, I told him. 

I heard Roger mutter something about me being a chicken. Jay looked 
disappointed. Youre going to miss out, he said. 

Thats okay. Im kind of tired, I said. It was true. I felt so weary after this 
long day, every muscle ached. Even my hair hurt! 

Jay and Roger made whispered plans all the way back to the tent. 

At the bottom of the hill, I stopped and gazed up at the Forbidden Bunk. It 
appeared to lean toward me in the pale starlight. I listened for the familiar howls 
that seemed to come from inside it. But tonight there was only a heavy silence. 

The large plastic tents were lined up in the bunk area. I crawled into ours 
and lay down on top of my sleeping bag. The ground was really hard. I could see 
this was going to be a long night. 

Jay and Colin were messing around with their sleeping bags at the back of 
the tent. It seems weird without Mike here, I said, feeling a sudden chill. 

Now youll have more room to put your stuff, Jay replied casually. He sat 
hunched against the tent wall, his expression tense, his eyes on the darkness 
outside the tent door, which was left open a few inches. 

Larry was nowhere in sight. Colin sat quietly. He still wasnt feeling right. 

I shifted my weight and stretched out, trying to find a comfortable position. 
I really wanted to go to sleep. But I knew I wouldnt be able to sleep until after 
Jay and Roger returned from their adventure. 

Time moved slowly. It was cold outside, and the air was heavy and wet 
inside the tent. 

I stared up at the dark plastic tent walls. A bug crawled across my forehead. 
I squashed it with my hand. 

I could hear Jay and Colin whispering behind me, but I couldnt make out 
their words. Jay snickered nervously. 

I must have dozed off. An insistent whispering sound woke me up. It took 
me a while to realize it was someone whispering outside the tent. 

I lifted my head and saw Rogers face peering in. I sat up, alert. 

Wish us luck, Jay whispered. 

Good luck, I whispered back, my voice clogged from sleep. 

In the darkness, I saw Jays large shadowy form crawl quickly to the tent 
door. He pushed it open, revealing a square of purple sky, then vanished into the 
darkness. 

I shivered. Lets sneak back to the bunk, I whispered to Colin. Its too cold 
out here. And the ground feels like solid rock. 

Colin agreed. We both scrambled out of the tent and made our way silently 
to our nice, warm bunk. Inside, we headed to the window to try to see Jay and 
Roger. 

Theyre going to get caught, I whispered. I just know it. 

They wont get caught, Colin disagreed. But they wont see anything, either. 
Theres nothing to see up there. Its just a stupid cabin. 

Poking my head out the window, I could hear Jay and Roger giggling 
quietly somewhere out in the dark. The camp was so silent, so eerily silent. I 
could hear their whispers, their legs brushing through the tall grass. 

Theyd better be quiet, Colin muttered, leaning against the window frame. 
Theyre making too much noise. 

They must be up to the hill by now, I whispered. I stuck my head out as far 
as I could, but I couldnt see them. 

Colin started to reply, but the first scream made him stop. 

It was a scream of horror that cut through the silent air. 

Oh! I cried out, and pulled my head in. 

Was that Jay or Roger? Colin asked, his voice trembling. 

The second scream was more terrifying than the first. 

Before it died down, I heard animal snarls. Loud and angry. Like an 
eruption of thunder. 

Then I heard Jays desperate plea: Help us! Pleasesomebody help us! 

My heart thudding in my chest, I lurched to the cabin door and pulled it 
open. The hideous screams still ringing in my ears, I plunged out into the 
darkness, the dew-covered ground soaking my bare feet. 

Jaywhere are you? I heard myself calling, but I didnt recognize my shrill, 
frightened voice. 

And then I saw a dark form running toward me, running bent over, arms 
outstretched. 

Jay! I cried. What/s it? What happened? 

He ran up to me, still bent forward, his face twisted in horror, his eyes wide 
and unblinking. His bushy hair appeared to stand straight up. 

Itit got Roger, he moaned, his chest heaving as he struggled to straighten 
up. 

What did? I demanded. 

What was it? Colin asked, right behind me. 

II dont know! Jay stammered, shutting his eyes tight. Itit tore Roger to 
pieces. 

Jay uttered a loud sob. Then he opened his eyes and spun around in terror. 
Here it comes! he shrieked. Now its coming after us! 

11 

In the pale starlight, I saw Jays eyes roll up in his head. His knees collapsed, and 
he began to slump to the ground. 

I grabbed him before he fell and dragged him into the cabin. Colin slammed 
the door behind us. 

Once inside, Jay recovered slowly. The three of us froze in place and 
listened hard. I was still holding on to Jays heaving shoulders. He was as pale as 
a bedsheet, and his breath came out in short, frightened moans. 

We listened. 

Silence. 

The air hung frozen and still. 

Nothing moved. 

No footsteps. No animal approaching. 

Just Jays frightened moans and the pounding of my heart. 

And then, somewhere far in the distance, I heard the howl. Soft and low at 
first, then rising on the wind. A howl that chilled my blood and made me cry out. 

Its Sabre! 

Dont let it get me! Jay shrieked, covering his face with his hands. He 
dropped to his knees on the cabin floor. Dont let it get me! 

I raised my eyes to Colin, who was huddled against the wall, away from the 
window. We have to get Larry, I managed to choke out. We have to get help. 

But how? Colin demanded in a trembling voice. 

Dont let it get me! Jay repeated, crumpled on the floor. 

It isnt coming here, I told him, trying to sound certain, trying to sound 
soothing. Were okay inside the bunk, Jay. It isnt coming here. 

But it got Roger and Jay started. His entire body convulsed in a shudder of 
terror. 

Thinking about Roger, I felt a stab of fear in my chest. 

Was it really true? Was it true that Roger had been attacked by some kind of 
creature? That hed been slashed to pieces? 

Id heard the screams from the hillside. Two bloodcurdling screams. 

Theyd been so loud, so horrifying. Hadnt anyone else in camp heard them, 

too? Hadnt any other kids heard Rogers cries? Hadnt any counselors heard? 

I froze in place and listened. 

Silence. The whisper of the breeze rustling the tree leaves. 

No voices. No cries of alarm. No hurried footsteps. 

I turned back toward the others. Colin had helped Jay to his bunk. Where 
can Larry be? Colin asked. His eyes, for once not hidden behind the silver 
sunglasses, showed real fear. 

Where can everyone be? I asked, crossing my arms over my chest and 
starting to pace back and forth in the small space between the beds. There isnt a 
sound out there. 

I saw Jays eyes go wide with horror. He was staring at the open window. 
The creature he cried. Here it comes! Its coming through the window! 

12 

All three of us gaped in horror at the open window. 

But no creature jumped in. 

As I stared, frozen in the center of the cabin, I could see only darkness and 
a fringe of pale stars. 

Outside in the trees, crickets started up a shrill clatter. There was no other 
sound. 

Poor Jay was so frightened and upset, he was seeing things. 

Somehow Colin and I got him a little calmed down. We made him take off 
his sneakers and lie down on his bed. And we covered him up with three 
blankets to help him to stop trembling. 

Colin and I wanted to run for help. But we were too frightened to go 
outside. 

The three of us were up all night. Larry never showed up. 

Except for the crickets and the brush of the wind through the trees, the 
camp was silent. 

I think I must have finally dozed off just before dawn. I had strange 
nightmares about fires and people trying to run away. 

I was awakened by Colin shaking me hard. Breakfast, he said hoarsely. 
Hurry. Were late. 

I sat up groggily. Wheres Larry? 

He never showed, Colin replied, motioning to Larrys unused bunk. 

Weve got to find him! Weve got to tell him what happened! Jay cried, 
hurrying to the cabin door with his sneakers untied. 

Colin and I stumbled after him, both of us only half awake. It was a cool, 
gray morning. The sun was trying hard to poke through high white clouds. 

The three of us stopped halfway up the hill to the mess hall. Reluctantly, 
our eyes searched the ground around the Forbidden Bunk. 

I dont know what I expected to see. But there was no sign of Roger. 

No sign of any struggle. No dried blood on the ground. The tall grass wasnt 
bent or matted down. 

Weird, I heard Jay mutter, shaking his head. Thats weird. 

I tugged his arm to get him moving, and we hurried the rest of the way up 

to the lodge. 

The mess hall was as noisy as ever. Kids were laughing and shouting to 
each other. It all seemed perfectly normal. I guessed that no one had made an 
announcement about Roger yet. 

Some kids called to Colin and me. But we ignored them and searched for 
Roger, moving quickly through the aisles between the tables. 

No sign of him. 

I had a heavy, queasy feeling in my stomach as we hurried to the counselors 
table in the corner. 

Larry glanced up from a big plate of scrambled eggs and bacon as the three 
of us advanced on him. 

What happened to Roger? 

Is he okay? 

Where were you last night? 

Roger and I were attacked. 

We were afraid to go find you. 

All three of us bombarded Larry at once. 

His face was filled with confusion, and he raised both hands to silence us. 
Whoa, he said. Take a breath, guys. What are you talking about? 

About Roger! Jay screamed, his face turning bright red. The creatureit 
jumped on him. Andand 

Larry glanced at the other counselors at the table, who looked as confused 
as he did. Creature? What creature? Larry demanded. 

It attacked Roger! Jay screamed. It was coming after me and 

Larry stared up at Jay. Someone was attacked? I dont think so, Jay. He 
turned to the counselor next to him, a pudgy boy named Derek. Did you hear 
anything in your area? 

Derek shook his head. 

Isnt Roger in your group? Larry asked Derek. 

Derek shook his head. Not in my group. 

But Roger Jay insisted. 

We didnt get any report about any attack, Larry said, interrupting. If a 
camper was attacked by a bear or something, wed hear about it. 

And wed hear the noise, Derek offered. You know. Screams or something. 

I heard screams, I told them. 

We both heard screams, Colin added quickly. And Jay came running back, 

crying for help. 

Well, why didnt anyone else hear it? Larry demanded, turning his gaze on 
Jay. His expression changed. Where did this happen? When? he asked 
suspiciously. 

Jays face darkened to a deeper red. After lights-out, he admitted. Roger and 
I went up to the Forbidden Bunk, and 

Are you sure it wasnt a bear? Derek interrupted. Some bears were spotted 
downriver yesterday afternoon. 

It was a creature! Jay screamed angrily. 

You shouldnt have been out, Larry said, shaking his head. 

Why wont you listen to me? Jay screamed. Roger was attacked. This big 
thing jumped on him and 

We would have heard something, Derek said calmly, glancing at Larry. 

Yeah, Larry agreed. The counselors were all up here at the lodge. We 
wouldve heard any screams. 

But, Larryyouve got to check it out! I cried. Jay isnt making it up. It really 
happened! 

Okay, okay, Larry replied, raising his hands as if surrendering. Ill go ask 
Uncle A1 about it, okay? 

Hurry, Jay insisted. Please! 

Ill ask Uncle A1 after breakfast, Larry said, turning back to his eggs and 
bacon. Ill see you guys at morning swim later. Ill report what Uncle A1 says. 

But, Larry Jay pleaded. 

Ill ask Uncle Al, Larry said firmly. If anything happened last night, hell 
know about it. He raised a strip of bacon to his mouth and chewed on it. I think 
you just had a bad nightmare or something, he continued, eyeing Jay 
suspiciously. But Ill let you know what Uncle Al says. 

It wasnt a nightmare! Jay cried shrilly. Larry turned his back on us and 
continued eating his breakfast. Dont you care? Jay screamed at him. Dont you 
care what happens to us? 

I saw that a lot of kids had stopped eating their breakfast to gawk at us. I 
pulled Jay away and tried to get him to go to our table. But he insisted on 
searching the entire mess hall again. I know Roger isnt here, he insisted. Hehe 
cant be! 

For the second time, the three of us made our way up and down the aisles 
between the tables, studying every face. 

One thing was for sure: Roger was nowhere to be seen. 

The sun burned through the high clouds just as we reached the waterfront for 
morning swim. The air was still cool. The thick, leafy shrubs along the riverbank 
glistened wetly in the white glare of sunlight. 

I dropped my towel under a bush and turned to the gently flowing green 
water. Ill bet its cold this morning, I said to Colin, who was retying the string on 
his swim trunks. 

I just want to go back to the bunk and go to sleep, Colin said, plucking at a 
knot. He wasnt seeing double any longer, but he was tired from being up all 
night. 

Several guys were already wading into the river. They were complaining 
about the cold water, splashing each other, shoving each other forward. 

Wheres Larry? Jay demanded breathlessly, pushing his way through the 
clump of shrubs to get to us. His red hair was a mess, half of it standing straight 
up on the side of his head. His eyes were red-rimmed and bloodshot. 

Wheres Larry? He promised hed be here, Jay said, frantically searching the 
waterfront. 

Here I am. The three of us spun around as Larry appeared from the bushes 
behind us. He was wearing baggy green Camp Nightmoon swim trunks. 

Well? Jay demanded. What did Uncle A1 say? About Roger? 

Larrys expression was serious. His eyes locked on Jays. Uncle A1 and I 
went all around the Forbidden Bunk, he told Jay. There wasnt any attack there. 
There couldnt have been. 

But itit got Roger, Jay cried shrilly. It slashed him. I saw it! 

Larry shook his head, his eyes still burning into Jays. Thats the other thing, 
he said softly. Uncle A1 and I went up to the office and checked the records, Jay. 
And there is no camper here this year named Roger. Not a first name or a middle 
name. No Roger. No Roger at all. 

13 

Jays mouth dropped open, and he uttered a low gasp. 

The three of us stared in disbelief at Larry, letting this startling news sink 
in. 

Someones made a mistake, Jay said finally, his voice trembling with 
emotion. We searched the mess hall for him, Larry. And hes gone. Roger isnt 
here. 

He never was here, Larry said without any emotion at all. 

II just dont believe this! Jay cried. 

How about a swim, guys? Larry said, motioning to the water. 

Well, what do you think? I demanded of Larry. I couldnt believe he was 
being so calm about this. What do you think happened last night? 

Larry shrugged. I dont know what to think, he replied, his eyes on the 
cluster of swimmers farthest from the shore. Maybe you guys are trying to pull a 
weird joke on me. 

Huh? Is that what you think? Jay cried. That its a joke?\ 

Larry shrugged again. Swim time, guys. Get some exercise, okay? 

Jay started to say more, but Larry quickly turned and went running into the 
green water. He took four or five running steps off the shore, then dived, pulling 
himself quickly through the water, taking long, steady strokes. 

Im not going in, Jay insisted angrily. Im going back to the bunk. His face 
was bright red. His chin was trembling. I could see that he was about to cry. He 
turned and began running through the bushes, dragging his towel along the 
ground. 

Hey, wait up! Colin went running after him. 

I stood there trying to decide what to do. I didnt want to follow Jay to the 
bunk. There wasnt anything I could do to help him. 

Maybe a cold swim will make me feel better, I thought. 

Maybe nothing will make me feel better, I told myself glumly. 

I stared out at the other guys in the water. Larry and another counselor were 
setting up a race. I could hear them discussing what kind of stroke should be 
used. 

They all seem to be having a great time, I thought, watching them line up. 

So why arent I? 

Why have I been so frightened and unhappy since I arrived here? Why dont 
the other campers see how weird and frightening this place is? 

I shook my head, unable to answer my questions. 

I need a swim, I decided. 

I took a step toward the water. 

But someone reached out from the bushes and grabbed me roughly from 
behind. 

I started to scream out in protest. 

But my attacker quickly clamped a hand over my mouth to silence me. 

14 

I tried to pull away, but Id been caught off guard. 

As the hands tugged me, I lost my balance and I was pulled back into the 
bushes. 

Is this a joke? Whats going on? I wondered. 

Suddenly, as I tried to tug myself free, the hands let go. 

I went sailing headfirst into a clump of fat green leaves. 

It took me a long moment to pull myself up. Then I spun around to face my 
attacker. 

Dawn! I cried. 

Ssshhhh! She leaped forward and clamped a hand over my mouth again. 
Duck down, she whispered urgently. Theyll see you. 

I obediently ducked behind the low bush. She let go of me again and moved 
back. She was wearing a blue one-piece bathing suit. It was wet. Her blond hair 
was also wet, dripping down onto her bare shoulders. 

Dawnwhat are you doing here? I whispered, settling onto my knees. 

Before Dawn could reply, another figure in a bathing suit moved quickly 
from the bushes, crouching low. It was Dawns friend Dori. 

We swam over. Early this morning, Dori whispered, nervously pushing at 
her curly red hair. We waited here. In the bushes. 

But its not allowed, I said, unable to hide my confusion. If youre caught 

We had to talk to you, Dawn interrupted, raising her head to peek over the 
top of the bushes, then quickly ducking back down. 

We decided to risk it, Dori added. 

Whatwhats wrong? I stammered. A red-and-black bug crawled up my 
shoulder. I brushed it away. 

The girls camp. Its a nightmare, Dori whispered. 

Everyone calls it Camp Nightmare instead of Camp Nightmoon, Dawn 
added. Strange things have been happening. 

Huh? I gaped at her. Not far from us in the water, I could hear the shouts 
and splashes of the swim race beginning. What kinds of strange things? 

Scary things, Dori replied, her expression solemn. 

Girls have disappeared, Dawn told me. Just vanished from sight. 

And no one seems to care, Dori added in a trembling whisper. 

I dont believe it! I uttered. The same thing has happened here. At the boys 
camp. I swallowed hard. Remember Mike? 

Both girls nodded. 

Mike disappeared, I told them. They removed his stuff, and he just 
disappeared. 

Its unbelievable, Dori said. Three girls are gone from our camp. 

They announced that one was attacked by a bear, Dawn whispered. 

What about the other two? I asked. 

Just gone, Dawn replied, the words catching in her throat. 

I could hear whistles blowing in the water. The race had ended. Another 
one was being organized. 

The sun disappeared once again behind high white clouds. Shadows 
lengthened and grew darker. 

I told them quickly about Roger and Jay and the attack at the Forbidden 
Bunk. They listened in openmouthed silence. Just like at our camp, Dawn said. 

We have to do something, Dori said heatedly. 

We have to get together. The boys and the girls, Dawn whispered, peering 
once again over the tops of the leaves. We have to make a plan. 

You mean to escape? I asked, not really understanding. 

The two girls nodded. We cant stay here, Dawn said grimly. Every day 
another girl disappears. And the counselors act as if nothing is happening. 

I think they want us to get killed or something, Dori added with emotion. 

Have you written to your parents? I asked. 

We write every day, Dori replied. But we havent heard from them. 

I suddenly realized that I hadnt received any mail from my parents, either. 
They had both promised to write every day. But I had been at camp for nearly a 
week, and I hadnt received a single piece of mail. 

Visitors Day is next week, I said. Our parents will be here. We can tell them 
everything. 

It may be too late, Dawn said grimly. 

Everyone is so scared! Dori declared. I havent slept in two nights. I hear 
these horrible screams outside every night. 

Another whistle blew, closer to shore. I could hear the swimmers returning. 
Morning swim was ending. 

II dont know what to say, I told them. Youve got to be careful. Dont get 
caught. 

Well swim back to the girls camp when everyone has left, Dawn said. But 
we have to meet again, Billy. We have to get more guys together. You know. 
Maybe if we all get organized Her voice trailed off. 

Theres something bad going on at this camp, Dori said with a shiver, 
narrowing her eyes. Something evil. 

II know, I agreed. I could hear boys voices now. Close by. Just on the other 
side of the leafy bushes. Ive got to go. 

Well try to meet here again the day after tomorrow, Dawn whispered. Be 
careful, Billy. 

You be careful, I whispered. Dont get caught. 

They slipped back, deeper in the bushes. 

Crouching low, I made my way away from the shore. When I was past the 
clump of bushes, I stood up and began to run. I couldnt wait to tell Colin and Jay 
about what the girls had said. 

I felt frightened and excited at the same time. I thought maybe it would 
make Jay feel a little better to know that the same kinds of horrible things were 
happening across the river at the girls camp. 

Halfway to the bunks, I had an idea. I stopped and turned toward the lodge. 

I suddenly remembered seeing a pay phone on the wall on the side of the 
building. Someone had told me that phone was the only one campers were 
allowed to use. 

III call Mom and Dad, I decided. 

Why hadnt I thought of it before? 

I can call my parents, I realized, and tell them everything. I can ask them to 
come and get me. And they could get Jay, Colin, Dawn, and Dori, too. 

Behind me, I saw my group heading toward the scratchball field, their 
swimming towels slung over their shoulders. I wondered if anyone had noticed 
that I was missing. 

Jay and Colin were missing, too, I told myself. Larry and the others 
probably think Im with them. 

I watched them trooping across the tall grass in twos and threes. Then I 
turned and started jogging up the hill toward the lodge. 

The idea of calling home had cheered me up already. 

I was so eager to hear my parents voices, so eager to tell them the strange 

things that were happening here. 

Would they believe me? 

Of course they would. My parents always believed me. Because they 
trusted me. 

As I ran up the hill, the dark pay phone came into view on the white lodge 
wall. I started to run at full speed. I wanted to fly to the phone. 

I hope Mom and Dad are home, I thought. 

Theyve got to be home. 

I was panting loudly as I reached the wall. I lowered my hands to my knees 
and crouched there for a moment, waiting to catch my breath. 

Then I reached up to take the receiver down. 

And gasped. 

The pay phone was plastic. Just a stage prop. 

A phony. 

It was a thin sheet of molded plastic held to the wall by a nail, made to look 
just like a telephone. 

It wasnt real. It was a fake. 

They dont want us to call out, I thought with a sudden chill. 

My heart thudding, my head spinning in bitter disappointment, I turned 
away from the walland bumped right into Uncle Al. 

15 

Billywhat are you doing up here? Unde A1 asked. He was wearing baggy green 
camp shorts and a sleeveless white T-shirt that revealed his meaty pink arms. He 
carried a brown clipboard filled with papers. Where are you supposed to be? 

I uh wanted to make a phone call, I stammered, taking a step back. I wanted 
to call my parents. 

He eyed me suspiciously and fingered his yellow mustache. Really? 

Yeah. Just to say hi, I told him. But the phone 

Uncle A1 followed my gaze to the plastic phone. He chuckled. Someone put 
that up as a joke, he said, grinning at me. Did it fool you? 

Yeah, I admitted, feeling my face grow hot. I raised my eyes to his. Where 
is the real phone? 

His grin faded. His expression turned serious. No phone, he replied sharply. 
Campers arent allowed to call out. Its a rule, Billy. 

Oh. I didnt know what to say. 

Are you really homesick? Uncle A1 asked softly. 

I nodded. 

Well, go write your mom and dad a long letter, he said. Itll make you feel a 
lot better. 

Okay, I said. I didnt think it would make me feel better. But I wanted to get 
away from Uncle Al. 

He raised his clipboard and gazed at it. Where are you supposed to be now? 
he asked. 

Scratchball, I think, I replied. I didnt feel too well, see. So I 

And when is your canoe trip? he asked, not listening to me. He flipped 
through the sheets of paper on the clipboard, glancing over them quickly. 

Canoe trip? I hadnt heard about any canoe trip. 

Tomorrow, he said, answering his own question. Your group goes 
tomorrow. Are you excited? He lowered his eyes to mine. 

II didnt really know about it, I confessed. 

Lots of fun! he exclaimed enthusiastically. The river doesnt look like much 
up here. But it gets pretty exciting a few miles down. Youll find yourself in some 
good rapids. 

He squeezed my shoulder briefly. Youll enjoy it, he said, grinning. 
Everyone always enjoys the canoe trip. 

Great, I said. I tried to sound a little excited, but my voice came out flat and 
uncertain. 

Uncle A1 gave me a wave with his clipboard and headed around toward the 
front of the lodge, taking long strides. I stood watching him till he disappeared 
around the corner of the building. Then I made my way down the hill to the 
bunk. 

I found Colin and Jay on the grass at the side of the cabin. Colin had his 
shirt off and was sprawled on his back, his hands behind his head. Jay sat cross- 
legged beside him, nervously pulling up long, slender strands of grass, then 
tossing them down. 

Come inside, I told them, glancing around to make sure no one else could 

hear. 

They followed me into the cabin. I closed the door. 

Whats up? Colin asked, dropping onto his bunk. He picked up his red 
bandanna and twisted it in his hands. 

I told them about Dawn and Dori and what they had reported about the girls 
camp. 

Colin and Jay both reacted with shock. 

They really swam over here and waited for you? Jay asked. 

I nodded. They think we have to get organized or escape or something, I 

said. 

They could get in big trouble if they get caught, Jay said thoughtfully. 

Were all in big trouble, I told him. We have to get out! 

Visitors Day is next week, Colin muttered. 

Im going to write my parents right now, I said, pulling out the case from 
under my bunk where I kept my paper and pens. Im going to tell them I have to 
come home on Visitors Day. 

I guess I will, too, Jay said, tapping his fingers nervously against the bunk 
frame. 

Me, too, Colin agreed. Its just too weird here! 

I pulled out a couple of sheets of paper and sat down on the bed to write. 
Dawn and Dori were really scared, I told them. 

So am I, Jay admitted. 

I started to write my letter. I wrote Dear Mom and Dad, HELP! then 

stopped. I raised my eyes across the cabin to Jay and Colin. Do you guys know 
about the canoe trip tomorrow? I asked. 

They stared back at me, their expressions surprised. 

Whoa! Colin declared. A three-mile hike this afternoon, and a canoe trip 
tomorrow? 

It was my turn to be surprised. Hike? What hike? 

Arent you coming on it? Jay asked. 

You know that really tall counselor? Frank? The one who wears the yellow 
cap? Colin asked. He told Jay and me were going on a three-mile hike after 
lunch. 

No one told me, I replied, chewing on the end of my pen. 

Maybe youre not in the hike group, Jay said. 

Youd better ask Frank at lunch, Colin suggested. Maybe he couldnt find 
you. Maybe youre supposed to come, too. 

I groaned. Who wants to go on a three-mile hike in this heat? 

Colin and Jay both shrugged. 

Frank said wed really like it, Colin told me, knotting and unknotting the red 
bandanna. 

I just want to get out of here, I said, returning to my letter. 

I wrote quickly, intensely. I wanted to tell my parents all the frightening, 
strange things that had happened. I wanted to make them see why I couldnt stay 
at Camp Nightmoon. 

I had written nearly a page and a half, and I was up to the part where Jay 
and Roger went out to explore the Forbidden Bunk, when Larry burst in. You 
guys taking the day off? he asked, his eyes going from one of us to the other. 
You on vacation or something? 

Just hanging out, Jay replied. 

I folded up my letter and started to tuck it under my pillow. I didnt want 
Larry to see it. I realized I didnt trust Larry at all. I had no reason to. 

What are you doing, Billy? he asked suspiciously, his eyes stopping on the 
letter I was shoving under the pillow. 

Just writing home, I replied softly. 

You homesick or something? he asked, a grin spreading across his face. 

Maybe, I muttered. 

Well, its lunchtime, guys, he announced. Lets hustle, okay? 

We all climbed out of our bunks. 

Jay and Colin are going on a hike with Frank this afternoon, I heard, Larry 
said. Lucky guys. He turned and started out the door. 

Larry! I called to him. Hey, Larrywhat about me? Am I supposed to go on 
the hike too? 

Not today, he called back. 

But why not? I said. 

But Larry disappeared out the door. 

I turned back to my two bunk mates. Lucky guys! I teased them. 

They both growled back at me in reply. Then we headed up the hill to 
lunch. 

They served pizza for lunch, which is usually my favorite. But today, the pizza 
was cold and tasted like cardboard, and the cheese stuck to the roof of my 
mouth. 

I wasnt really hungry. 

I kept thinking about Dawn and Dori, how frightened they were, how 
desperate. I wondered when Id see them again. I wondered if they would swim 
over and hide at the boys camp again before Visitors Day. 

After lunch, Frank came by our table to pick up Jay and Colin. I asked him 
if I was supposed to come, too. 

You werent on the list, Billy, he said, scratching at a mosquito bite on his 
neck. I can only take two at a time, you know? The trail gets a little dangerous. 

Dangerous? Jay asked, climbing up from the table. 

Frank grinned at him. Youre a big strong guy, he told Jay. Youll do okay. 

I watched Frank lead Colin and Jay out of the mess hall. Our table was 
empty now, except for a couple of blond-haired guys I didnt know who were arm 
wrestling down at the end near the wall. 

I pushed my tray away and stood up. I wanted to go back to the bunk and 
finish the letter to my parents. But as I took a few steps toward the door, I felt a 
hand on my shoulder. 

I turned to see Larry grinning down at me. Tennis tournament, he said. 

Huh? I reacted with surprise. 

Billy, youre representing Bunk Four in the tennis tournament, Larry said. 
Didnt you see the lineup? It was posted on the announcements board. 

But Im a terrible tennis player! I protested. 

Were counting on you, Larry replied. Get a racket and get your bod to the 

courts! 

I spent the afternoon playing tennis. I beat a little kid in straight sets. I had 
the feeling he had never held a tennis racket before. Then I lost a long, hard- 
fought match to one of the blond-haired boys whod been arm wrestling at lunch. 

I was drowning in sweat, and every muscle in my body ached when the 
match was over. I headed to the waterfront for a refreshing swim. 

Then I returned to the bunk, changed into jeans and a green-and-white 
Camp Nightmoon T-shirt, and finished my letter to my parents. 

It was nearly dinnertime. Jay and Colin werent back from their hike yet. I 
decided to go up to the lodge and mail my letter. As I headed up the hill, I saw 
clusters of kids hurrying to their bunks to change for dinner. But no sign of my 
two bunk mates. 

Holding the letter tightly, I headed around to the back of the lodge building, 
where the camp office was located. The door was wide open, so I walked in. A 
young woman was usually behind the counter to answer questions and to take 
the letters to be mailed. 

Anyone here? I called, leaning over the counter and peering into the tiny 
back room, which was dark. 

No reply. 

Hi. Anyone here? I repeated, clutching the envelope. 

No. The office was empty. 

Disappointed, I started to leave. Then I glimpsed the large burlap bag on the 
floor just inside the tiny back room. 

The mailbag! 

I decided to put my letter in the bag with the others to be mailed. I slipped 
around the counter and into the back room and crouched down to put my 
envelope into the bag. 

To my surprise, the mailbag was stuffed full with letters. As I pulled the bag 
open and started to shove my letter inside, a bunch of letters fell out onto the 
floor. 

I started to scoop them up when a letter caught my eye. 

It was one of mine. Addressed to my parents. 

One I had written yesterday. 

Weird, I muttered aloud. 

Bending over the bag, I reached in and pulled out a big handful of letters. I 
sifted through them quickly. I found a letter Colin had written. 

I pulled out another pile. 

And my eyes fell upon two other letters I had written nearly a week ago 
when I first arrived at camp. 

I stared at them, feeling a cold chill run down my back. 

All of our letters, all of the letters we had written since the first day of 
camp, were here. In this mailbag. 

None of them had been mailed. 

We couldnt call home. 

And we couldnt write home. 

Frantically, my hands trembling, I began shoving the envelopes back into 
the mailbag. 

What is going on here? I wondered. What is going on? 

16 

By the time I got into the mess hall, Uncle A1 was finishing the evening 
announcements. I slid into my seat, hoping I hadnt missed anything important. 

I expected to see Jay and Colin across the table from me. But their places 
on the bench were empty. 

Thats strange, I thought, still shaken from my discovery about the mailbag. 
They should be back by now. 

I wanted to tell them about the mail. I wanted to share the news that our 
parents werent getting any of the letters we wrote. 

And we werent getting any of theirs. 

The camp had to be keeping our mail from us, I suddenly realized. 

Colin and Jaywhere are you? 

The fried chicken was greasy, and the mashed potatoes were lumpy and 
tasted like paste. As I forced the food down, I kept turning to glance at the mess 
hall door, expecting to see my two bunk mates. 

But they didnt show up. 

A heavy feeling of dread formed in my stomach. Through the mess hall 
window, I could see that it was already dark outside. 

Where could they be? 

A three-mile hike and back shouldnt take this many hours. 

I pulled myself up and made my way to the counselors table in the corner. 
Larry was having a loud argument about sports with two of the other counselors. 
They were shouting and gesturing with their hands. 

Franks chair was empty. 

Larry, did Frank get back? I interrupted their discussion. 

Larry turned, a startled expression on his face. Frank? He motioned to the 
empty chair at the table. Guess not. 

He took Jay and Colin on the hike, I said. Shouldnt they be back by now? 

Larry shrugged. Beats me. He returned to his argument, leaving me 
standing there staring at Franks empty chair. 

After the trays had been cleared, we pushed the tables and benches against 
the wall and had indoor relay races. Everyone seemed to be having a great time. 
The shouts and cheers echoed off the high-raftered ceiling. 

I was too worried about Jay and Colin to enjoy the games. 

Maybe they decided to camp out overnight, I told myself. 

But I had seen them leave, and I knew they hadnt taken any tents or 
sleeping bags or other overnight supplies. 

So where were they? 

The games ended a little before lights-out. As I followed the crowd to the 
door, Larry appeared beside me. Were leaving early tomorrow, he said. First 
thing. 

Huh? I didnt understand what he meant. 

The canoe trip. Im the canoe counselor. Ill be taking you guys, he 
explained, seeing my confusion. 

Oh. Okay, I replied without enthusiasm. I was so worried about Jay and 
Colin, Id nearly forgotten about the canoe trip. 

Right after breakfast, Larry said. Wear a bathing suit. Bring a change of 
clothes. Meet me at the waterfront. He hurried back to help the other counselors 
pull the tables into place. 

After breakfast, I muttered. I wondered if Jay and Colin were also coming 
on the canoe trip. I had forgotten to ask Larry. 

I headed quickly down the dark hill. The dew had already fallen, and the 
tall grass was slippery and wet. Halfway down, I could see the dark outline of 
the Forbidden Bunk, hunched forward as if preparing to strike. 

Forcing myself to look away, I jogged the rest of the way to Bunk 4. 

To my surprise, I could see through the window that someone was moving 
around inside. 

Colin and Jay are back! I thought. 

Eagerly, I pushed open the door and burst inside. Heywhereve you guys 
been? I cried. 

I stopped short. And gasped. 

Two strangers stared back at me. 

One was sitting on the edge of Colins bunk, pulling off his sneakers. The 
other was leaning over the dresser, pulling a T-shirt from one of the drawers. 

Hi. You in here? the boy at the dresser stood up straight, his eyes studying 
me. He had very short black hair and a gold stud in one ear. 

I swallowed hard. Am I in the wrong bunk? Is this Bunk Four? 

They both stared at me, confused. 

I saw that the other boy, the one in Colins bunk, also had black hair, but his 

was long and scraggly and fell over his forehead. Yeah. This is Bunk Four, he 
said. 

Were new, the short-haired boy added. Im Tommy, and hes Chris. We just 
started today. 

Hi, I said uncertainly. My names Billy. My heart was pounding like a tom¬ 
tom in my chest. Wherere Colin and Jay? 

Who? Chris asked. They told us this bunk was mostly empty. 

Well, Colin and Jay I started. 

We just arrived. We dont know anyone, Tommy interrupted. He pushed the 
drawer shut. 

But thats Jays drawer, I said, bewildered, pointing. What did you do with 
Jays stuff? 

Tommy gazed back at me in surprise. The drawer was empty, he replied. 

Almost all the drawers were empty, Chris added, tossing his sneakers to the 
floor. Except for the bottom two drawers. 

Thats my stuff, I said, my head spinning. But Colin and Jaytheir stuff was 
here, I insisted. 

The whole cabin was empty, Tommy said. Maybe your friends got moved. 

Maybe, I said weakly. I sat down on the lower bunk beneath my bed. My 
legs felt shaky. A million thoughts were whirring through my mind, all of them 
frightening. 

This is weird, I said aloud. 

Its not a bad bunk, Chris said, pulling down his blanket and settling in. 
Kind of cozy. 

How long you staying at camp? Tommy asked, pulling on an oversized 
white T-shirt. All summer? 

No! I exclaimed with a shudder. Im not staying! I sputtered. I mean I mean 
Im leaving. On uh Im leaving on Visitors Day next week. 

Chris flashed Tommy a surprised glance. Huh? When are you leaving? he 
asked again. 

On Visitors Day, I repeated. When my parents come up for Visitors Day. 

But didnt you hear Uncle Als announcement before dinner? Tommy asked, 
staring hard at me. Visitors Day has been canceled! 

17 

I drifted in and out of a troubled sleep that night. Even with the blanket pulled up 
to my chin, I felt chilled and afraid. 

It felt so weird to have two strange guys in the bunk, sleeping where Jay 
and Colin had slept. I was worried about my missing friends. 

What had happened to them? Why hadnt they come back? 

As I tossed restlessly in my top bunk, I heard howls off in the distance. 
Animal cries, probably coming from the Forbidden Bunk. Long, frightening 
howls carried by the wind into our open bunk windows. 

At one point, I thought I heard kids screaming. I sat up straight, suddenly 
alert, and listened. 

Had I dreamed the frightful shrieks? I was so scared and confused, it was 
impossible to tell what was real and what was a nightmare. 

It took hours to fall back to sleep. 

I awoke to a gray, overcast morning, the air heavy and cold. Pulling on 
swim trunks and a T-shirt, I raced to the lodge to find Larry. I had to find out 
what had happened to Jay and Colin. 

I searched everywhere for him without success. Larry wasnt at breakfast. 
None of the other counselors admitted to knowing anything. Frank, the 
counselor who had taken my two friends on the hike, was also not there. 

I finally found Larry at the waterfront, preparing a long metal canoe for our 
river trip. Larrywhere are they? I cried out breathlessly. 

He gazed up at me, holding an armload of canoe paddles. His expression 
turned to bewilderment. Huh? Chris and Tommy? Theyll be here soon. 

No! I cried, grabbing his arm. Jay and Colin! Where are they? What 
happened to them, Larry? Youve got to tell me! 

I gripped his arm tightly. I was gasping for breath. I could feel the blood 
pulsing at my temples. Youve got to tell me! I repeated shrilly. 

He pulled away from me and let the paddles fall beside the canoe. I dont 
know anything about them, he replied quietly. 

But, Larry! 

Really, I dont, he insisted in the same quiet voice. His expression softened. 
He placed a hand on my trembling shoulder. Tell you what, Billy, he said, staring 



hard into my eyes. Ill ask Uncle A1 about it after our trip, okay? Ill find out for 
you. When we get back. 

I stared back at him, trying to decide if he was being honest. 

I couldnt tell. His eyes were as calm and cold as marbles. 

He leaned forward and pushed the canoe into the shallow river water. Here. 
Take one of those life preservers, he said, pointing to a pile of blue rubber vests 
behind me. Strap it on. Then get in. 

I did as he instructed. I saw that I had no choice. 

Chris and Tommy came running up to us a few seconds later. They 
obediently followed Larrys instructions and strapped on the life preserver vests. 

A few minutes later, the four of us were seated cross-legged inside the long, 
slender canoe, drifting slowly away from the shore. 

The sky was still charcoal gray, the sun hidden behind hovering dark 
clouds. The canoe bumped over the choppy river water. The current was stronger 
than I had realized. We began to pick up speed. The low trees and shrubs along 
the riverbank slid past rapidly. 

Larry sat facing us in the front of the canoe. He demonstrated how to 
paddle as the river carried us away. 

He watched carefully, a tight frown on his face, as the three of us struggled 
to pick up the rhythm he was showing us. Then, when we finally seemed to 
catch on, Larry grinned and carefully turned around, gripping the sides of the 
canoe as he shifted his position. 

The sun is trying to come out, he said, his voice muffled in the strong 
breeze over the rippling water. 

I glanced up. The sky looked darker than before. 

He stayed with his back to us, facing forward, allowing the three of us to do 
the paddling. I had never paddled a canoe before. It was harder than Id imagined. 
But as I fell into the rhythm of it with Tommy and Chris, I began to enjoy it. 

Dark water smacked against the prow of the canoe, sending up splashes of 
white froth. The current grew stronger, and we picked up speed. The air was still 
cold, but the steady work of rowing warmed me. After a while, I realized I was 
sweating. 

We rowed past tangles of yellow- and gray-trunked trees. The river 
suddenly divided in two, and we shifted our paddles to take the left branch. 
Larry began paddling again, working to keep us off the tall rocks that jutted 
between the river branches. 

The canoe bobbed up and slapped down. Bobbed up and slapped down. 
Cold water poured over the sides. 

The sky darkened even more. I wondered if it was about to storm. 

As the river widened, the current grew rapid and strong. I realized we didnt 
really need to paddle. The river was doing most of the work. 

The river sloped down. Wide swirls of frothing white water made the canoe 
leap and bounce. 

Here come the rapids! Larry shouted, cupping his hands around his mouth 
so we could hear him. Hang on! It gets pretty wild! 

I felt a tremor of fear as a wave of icy water splashed over me. The canoe 
rose up on a shelf of white water, then hit hard as it landed. 

I could hear Tommy and Chris laughing excitedly behind me. 

Another icy wave rolled over the canoe, startling me. I cried out and nearly 
let go of my paddle. 

Tommy and Chris laughed again. 

I took a deep breath and held on tightly to the paddle, struggling to keep up 
the rhythm. 

Hey, look! Larry cried suddenly. 

To my astonishment, he climbed to his feet. He leaned forward, pointing to 
the swirling white water. 

Look at those fish! 

As he leaned down, the canoe was jarred by a powerful rush of current. The 
canoe spun to the right. 

I saw the startled look on Larrys face as he lost his balance. His arms shot 
forward, and he plunged headfirst into the tossing waters. 

Noooooo! I screamed. 

I glanced back at Tommy and Chris, who had stopped paddling and were 
staring into the swirling murky waters, their expressions frozen in openmouthed 
horror. 

Larry! Larry! I was screaming the name over and over without realizing it. 

The canoe continued to slide rapidly down the churning waters. 

Larry didnt come up. 

Larry! 

Behind me, Tommy and Chris also called out his name, their voices shrill 
and frightened. 

Where was he? Why didnt he swim to the surface? 

The canoe was drifting farther and farther downriver. 

Larrrrrry! 

We have to stop! I screamed. We have to slow down! 

We cant! Chris shouted back. We dont know how! 

Still no sign of Larry. I realized he must be in trouble. 

Without thinking, I tossed my paddle into the river, climbed to my feet, and 
plunged into the murky swirling waters to save him. 

18 

I jumped without thinking and swallowed a mouthful of water as I went down. 

My heart thudded in my chest as I struggled frantically to the surface, 
sputtering and choking. 

Gasping in a deep breath, I lowered my head and tried to swim against the 
current. My sneakers felt as if they weighed a thousand pounds. 

I realized I should have pulled them off before I jumped. 

The water heaved and tossed. I moved my arms in long, desperate strokes, 
pulling myself toward the spot where Larry had fallen. Glancing back, I saw the 
canoe, a dark blur growing smaller and smaller. 

Wait! I wanted to shout to Tommy and Chris. Wait for me to get Larry! 

But I knew that they didnt know how to slow the canoe. They were helpless 
as the current carried them away. 

Where was Larry? 

I sucked in another mouthful of airand froze as I felt a sharp cramp in my 
right leg. 

The pain shot up through my entire right side. 

I slid under the water and waited for the pain to lessen. 

The cramp seemed to tighten until I could barely move my leg. Water 
rushed over me. I struggled to pull myself up to the surface. 

As I choked in more air, I stroked rapidly and hard, pulling myself up, 
ignoring the sharp pain in my leg. 

Hey! 

What was that object floating just ahead of me? A piece of driftwood being 
carried by the current? 

Murky water washed over me, blinding me, tossing me back. Sputtering, I 
pulled myself back up. 

Water rolled down my face. I struggled to see. 

Larry! 

He came floating right to me. 

Larry! Larry! I managed to scream. 

But he didnt answer me. I could see clearly now that he was floating 

facedown. 

The leg cramp started to loosen up as I reached out with both arms and 
grabbed Larrys shoulders. I pulled his head up from the water, rolled him onto 
his back, and wrapped my arm around his neck. I was using the lifesaving 
technique my parents had taught me. 

Turning downriver, I searched for the canoe. But the current had carried it 
out of sight. 

I swallowed another mouthful of icy water. Choking, I held on to Larry. I 
kicked hard. My right leg still felt tight and weak, but at least the pain had gone. 
Kicking and pulling with my free hand, I dragged Larry toward the shore. 

To my relief, the current helped. It seemed to pull in the same direction. 

A few seconds later, I was close enough to shore to stand. Wearily, panting 
like a wild animal, I tottered to my feet and dragged Larry onto the wet mud of 
the shore. 

Was he dead? Had he drowned before I reached him? 

I stretched him out on his back and, still panting loudly, struggling to catch 
my breath, to stop my entire body from trembling, I leaned over him. 

And he opened his eyes. 

He stared up at me blankly, as if he didnt recognize me. 

Finally, he whispered my name. Billy, he choked out, are we okay? 

Larry and I rested for a bit. Then we walked back to camp, following the river 
upstream. 

We were soaked clear through and drenched with mud, but I didnt care. We 
were alive. We were okay. I had saved Larrys life. 

We didnt talk much on the way back. It was taking every ounce of strength 
we had just to walk. 

I asked Larry if he thought Tommy and Chris would be okay. 

Hope so, he muttered, breathing hard. Theyll probably ride to shore and 
walk back like us. 

I took this opportunity to ask him again about Jay and Colin. I thought 
maybe Larry would tell me the truth since we were completely alone and since I 
had just saved his life. 

But he insisted he didnt know anything about my two bunk mates. As we 
walked, he raised one hand and swore he didnt know anything at all. 

So many frightening things have happened, I muttered. 

He nodded, keeping his eyes straight ahead. Its been strange, he agreed. 

I waited for him to say more. But he walked on in silence. 

It took three hours to walk back. We hadnt traveled downriver as far as I 
had thought, but the muddy shore kept twisting and turning, making our journey 
longer. 

As the camp came into view, my knees buckled and my legs nearly 
collapsed under me. 

Breathing hard, drenched in perspiration, our clothes still damp and covered 
in mud, we trudged wearily onto the waterfront. 

Hey! a voice called from the swim area. Uncle Al, dressed in baggy green 
sweats, came hurrying across the dirt to us. What happened? he asked Larry. 

We had an accident! I cried, before Larry had a chance to reply. 

I fell in, Larry admitted, his face reddening beneath the splattered mud. 
Billy jumped in and saved me. We walked back. 

But Tommy and Chris couldnt stop the canoe. They drifted away! I cried. 

We both nearly drowned, Larry told the frowning camp director. But 
Billyhe saved my life. 

Can you send someone to find Tommy and Chris? I asked, suddenly starting 
to shake all over, from exhaustion, I guess. 

The two boys floated on downriver? Uncle Al asked, staring hard at Larry, 
scratching the back of his fringe of yellow hair. 

Larry nodded. 

We have to find them! I insisted, trembling harder. 

Uncle Al continued to glare at Larry. What about my canoe? he demanded 
angrily. Thats our best canoe! How am I supposed to replace it? 

Larry shrugged unhappily. 

Well have to go look for that canoe tomorrow, Uncle Al snapped. 

He doesnt care about the two boys, I realized. He doesnt care about them at 
all. 

Go get into dry clothes, Uncle Al instructed Larry and me. He stormed off 
toward the lodge, shaking his head. 

I turned and started for the cabin, feeling chilled, my entire body still 
trembling. I could feel a strong wave of anger sweep over me. 

I had just saved Larrys life, but Uncle Al didnt care about that. 

And he didnt care that two campers were lost on the river. 

He didnt care that two campers and a counselor never returned from their 

hike. 

He didnt care that boys were attacked by creatures! 

He didnt care that kids disappeared and were never mentioned again. 

He didnt care about any of us. 

He only cared about his canoe. 

My anger quickly turned to fear. 

Of course, I had no way of knowing that the scariest part of my summer 
was still to come. 

19 

I was all alone in the bunk that night. 

I pulled an extra blanket onto my bed and slid into a tight ball beneath the 
covers. I wondered if Id be able to fall asleep. Or if my frightened, angry 
thoughts would keep me tossing and turning for another night. 

But I was so weary and exhausted, even the eerie, mournful howls from the 
Forbidden Bunk couldnt keep me awake. 

I fell into deep blackness and didnt wake up until I felt someone shaking 
my shoulders. 

Startled alert, I sat straight up. Larry! I cried, my voice still clogged with 
sleep. Whats happening? 

I squinted across the room. Larrys bed was rumpled, the blanket balled up 
at the end. He had obviously come in late and slept in the bunk. 

But Tommys and Chris beds were still untouched from the day before. 

Special hike, Larry said, walking over to his bunk. Hurry. Get dressed. 

Huh? I stretched and yawned. Outside the window, it was still gray. The sun 
hadnt risen. What kind of hike? 

Uncle A1 called a special hike, Larry replied, his back to me. He grabbed 
the sheet and started to make his bed. 

With a groan, I lowered myself to the cabin floor. It felt cold beneath my 
bare feet. Dont we get to rest? I mean, after what happened yesterday? I glanced 
once again at Tommys and Chris unused beds. 

Its not just us, Larry replied, smoothing the sheet. Its the whole camp. 
Everyones going. Uncle A1 is leading it. 

I pulled on a pair of jeans, stumbling across the cabin with one leg in. A 
sudden feeling of dread fell over me. It wasnt scheduled, I said darkly. Where is 
Uncle A1 taking us? 

Larry didnt reply. 

Where? I repeated shrilly. 

He pretended he didnt hear me. 

Tommy and Christhey didnt come back? I asked glumly, pulling on my 
sneakers. Luckily, I had brought two pairs. My shoes from yesterday sat in the 
corner, still soaked through and mud-covered. 

Theyll turn up, Larry replied finally. But he didnt sound as if he meant it. 

I finished getting dressed, then ran up the hill to get breakfast. It was a 
warm, gray morning. It must have rained during the night. The tall grass 
glistened wetly. 

Yawning and blinking against the harsh gray light, campers headed quietly 
up the hill. I saw that most of them had the same confused expression I had. 

Why were we going on this unscheduled hike so early in the morning? How 
long was it going to be? Where were we going? 

I hoped that Uncle A1 or one of the counselors would explain everything to 
us at breakfast, but none of them appeared in the mess hall. 

We ate quietly, without the usual joking around. 

I found myself thinking about the terrifying canoe trip yesterday. I could 
almost taste the brackish water again. I saw Larry coming toward me, facedown, 
floating on the churning water like a clump of seaweed. 

I pictured myself trying to get to him, struggling to swim, struggling to go 
against the current, to keep afloat in the swirls of white water. 

And I saw a blur of the canoe as the strong river current carried it out of 
sight. 

Suddenly, Dawn and Dori burst into my thoughts. I wondered if they were 
okay. I wondered if they were going to try to meet me again by the waterfront. 

Breakfast was French toast with syrup. It was usually my favorite. But this 
morning, I just poked at it with my fork. 

Line up outside! a counselor cried from the doorway. 

Chairs scraped loudly. We all obediently climbed to our feet and began 
making our way outside. 

Where are they taking us ? 

Why doesnt anyone tell us what this is about? 

The sky had brightened to pink, but the sun still hadnt risen over the 
horizon. 

We formed a single line along the side wall of the lodge. I was near the end 
of the line toward the bottom of the hill. 

Some kids were cracking jokes and playfully shoving each other. But most 
were standing quietly or leaning against the wall, waiting to see what was going 
to happen. 

Once the line was formed, one of the counselors walked the length of it, 
pointing his finger and moving his lips in concentration as he counted us. He 

counted us twice to make sure he had the right number. 

Then Uncle A1 appeared at the front of the line. He wore a brown-and-green 
camouflage outfit, the kind soldiers wear. He had on very black sunglasses, even 
though the sun wasnt up yet. 

He didnt say a word. He signaled to Larry and another counselor, who were 
both carrying very large, heavy-looking brown bags over their shoulders. Then 
Uncle A1 strode quickly down the hill, his eyes hidden behind the dark glasses, 
his features set in a tight frown. 

He stopped in front of the last camper. This way! he announced loudly, 
pointing toward the waterfront. 

Those were his only words. This way! 

And we began to follow, walking at a pretty fast clip. Our sneakers slid 
against the wet grass. A few kids were giggling about something behind me. 

To my surprise, I realized I was now nearly at the front of the line. I was 
close enough to call out to Uncle Al. So I did. Where are we going? I shouted. 

He quickened his pace and didnt reply. 

Uncle Alis this a long hike? I called. 

He pretended he hadnt heard. 

I decided to give up. 

He led us toward the waterfront, then turned right. Thick clumps of trees 
stood a short way up ahead where the river narrowed. 

Glancing back to the end of the line, I saw Larry and the other counselor, 
bags on their shoulders, hurrying to catch up to Uncle Al. 

What is this about? I wondered. 

And as I stared at the clumps of low, tangled trees up ahead, a thought 
pushed its way into my head. 

I can escape. 

The thought was so frighteningbut suddenly so realit took a long time to 
form. 

I can escape into these trees. 

I can run away from Uncle Al and this frightening camp. 

The idea was so exciting, I nearly stumbled over my own feet. I bumped 
into the kid ahead of me, a big bruiser of a guy named Tyler, and he turned and 
glared at me. 

Whoa, I told myself, feeling my heart start to pound in my chest. Think 
about this. Think carefully. 

I kept my eyes locked on the woods. As we drew closer, I could see that the 
thick trees, so close together that their branches were all intertwined, seemed to 
stretch on forever. 

Theyd never find me in there, I told myself. It would be really easy to hide 
in those woods. 

But then what? 

I couldnt stay in the woods forever. 

Then what? 

Staring at the trees, I forced myself to concentrate, forced myself to think 
clearly. 

I could follow the river. Yes. Stay on the shore. 

Follow the river. It was bound to come to a town eventually. It had to come 
to a town. 

Id walk to the first town. Then Id call my parents. 

I can do it, I thought, so excited I could barely stay in line. 

I just have to run. Make a dash for it. When no one is looking. Into the 
woods. Deep into the woods. 

We were at the edge of the trees now. The sun had pulled itself up, 
brightening the rose-colored morning sky. We stood in the shadows of the trees. 

I can do it, I told myself. 

Soon. 

My heart thudded loudly. I was sweating even though the air was still cool. 

Calm down, Billy, I warned myself. Just calm down. 

Wait for your chance. 

Wait till the time is right. 

Then leave Camp Nightmare behind. Forever. 

Standing in the shade, I studied the trees. I spotted a narrow path into the 
woods a few yards up head. 

I tried to calculate how long it would take me to reach the path. Probably 
ten seconds at most. And then in another five seconds, I could be into the 
protection of the trees. 

I can do it, I thought. 

I can be gone in less than ten seconds. 

I took a deep breath. I braced myself. I tensed my leg muscles, preparing to 

mn. 

Then I glanced to the front of the line. 

To my horror, Unde A1 was staring directly at me. And he held a rifle in his 
hands. 

20 

I cried out when I saw the rifle in his hands. 

Had he read my thoughts? Did he know I was about to make a run for it? 

A cold chill slid down my back as I gaped at the rifle. As I raised my eyes 
to Uncle Als face, I realized he wasnt looking at me. 

He had turned his attention to the two counselors. They had lowered the 
bags to the ground and were bending over them, trying to get them open. 

Why did we stop? Tyler, the kid ahead of me, asked. 

Is the hike over? another kid joked. A few kids laughed. 

Guess we can go back now, another kid said. 

I stood watching in disbelief as Larry and the other counselor began 
unloading rifles from the two bags. 

Line up and get one, Uncle A1 instructed us, tapping the handle of his own 
rifle against the ground. One rifle per boy. Come onhurry! 

No one moved. I think everyone thought Uncle A1 was kidding or 
something. 

Whats wrong with you boys? I said hurry! he snapped angrily. He grabbed 
up an armload of rifles and began moving down the line, pushing one into each 
boys hands. 

He pushed a rifle against my chest so hard, I staggered back a few steps. I 
grabbed it by the barrel before it fell to the ground. 

Whats going on? Tyler asked me. 

I shrugged, studying the rifle with horror. Id never held any kind of real gun 
before. My parents were both opposed to firearms of all kinds. 

A few minutes later, we were all lined up in the shadow of the trees, each 
holding a rifle. Uncle A1 stood near the middle of the line and motioned us into a 
tight circle so we could hear him. 

Whats going on? Is this target practice? one boy asked. 

Larry and the other counselor snickered at that. Uncle Als features 
remained hard and serious. 

Listen up, he barked. No more jokes. This is serious business. 

The circle of campers tightened around him. We grew silent. A bird 
squawked noisily in a nearby tree. Somehow it reminded me of my plan to 

escape. 

Was I about to be really sorry that I hadnt made a run for it? 

Two girls escaped from the girls camp last night, Uncle A1 announced in a 
flat, businesslike tone. A blonde and a redhead. 

Dawn and Dori! I exclaimed to myself. Ill bet it was them! 

I believe, Uncle A1 continued, that these are the same two girls who 
sneaked over to the boys camp and hid near the waterfront a few days ago. 

Yes! I thought happily. It is Dawn and Dori! They escaped! 

I suddenly realized a broad smile had broken out on my face. I quickly 
forced it away before Uncle A1 could see my happy reaction to the news. 

The two girls are in these woods, boys. Theyre nearby, Uncle A1 continued. 
He raised his rifle. Your guns are loaded. Aim carefully when you see them. 
They wont get away from us! 

21 

Huh? I gasped in disbelief. You mean were supposed to shoot them? 

I glanced around the circle of campers. They all looked as dazed and 
confused as I did. 

Yeah. Youre supposed to shoot them, Uncle A1 replied coldly. I told 
youtheyre trying to escape. 

But we cant! I cried. 

Its easy, Uncle A1 said. He raised his rifle to his shoulder and pretended to 
fire it. See? Nothing to it. 

But we cant kill people! I insisted. 

Kill? His expression changed behind the dark glasses. I didnt say anything 
about killing, did I? These guns are loaded with tranquilizer darts. We just want 
to stop these girlsnot hurt them. 

Uncle A1 took two steps toward me, the rifle still in his hands. He stood 
over me menacingly, lowering his face close to mine. 

You got a problem with that, Billy? he demanded. 

He was challenging me. 

I saw the other boys back away. 

The woods grew silent. Even the bird stopped squawking. 

You got a problem with that? Uncle A1 repeated, his face so close to mine, I 
could smell his sour breath. 

Terrified, I took a step back, then another. 

Why was he doing this to me? Why was he challenging me like this? 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then I screamed as loudly as I could: II 
wont do it! 

Without completely realizing what I was doing, I raised the rifle to my 
shoulder and aimed the barrel at Uncle Als chest. 

Youre gonna be sorry, Uncle A1 growled in a low voice. He tore off the 
sunglasses and heaved them into the woods. Then he narrowed his eyes furiously 
at me. Drop the rifle, Billy. Im gonna make you sorry. 

No, I told him, standing my ground. Youre not. Camp is over. Youre not 
going to do anything. 

My legs were trembling so hard, I could barely stand. 

But I wasnt going to go hunting Dawn and Dori. I wasnt going to do 
anything else Uncle A1 said. Ever. 

Give me the rifle, Billy, he said in his low, menacing voice. He reached out 
a hand toward my gun. Hand it over, boy. 

No! I cried. 

Hand it over now, he ordered, his eyes narrowed, burning into mine. Now! 
No! I cried. 

He blinked once. Twice. 

Then he leaped at me. 

I took a step back with the rifle aimed at Uncle Aland pulled the trigger. 

22 

The rifle emitted a soft pop. 

Uncle A1 tossed his head back and laughed. He let his rifle drop to the 
ground at his feet. 

Hey! I cried out, confused. I kept the rifle aimed at his chest. 

Congratulations, Billy, Uncle A1 said, grinning warmly at me. You passed. 
He stepped forward and reached out his hand to shake mine. 

The other campers dropped their rifles. Glancing at them, I saw that they 
were all grinning, too. Larry, also grinning, flashed me a thumbs-up sign. 

Whats going on? I demanded suspiciously. I slowly lowered the rifle. 

Uncle A1 grabbed my hand and squeezed it hard. Congratulations, Billy. I 
knew youd pass. 

Huh? I dont understand! I screamed, totally frustrated. 

But instead of explaining anything to me, Uncle A1 turned to the trees and 
shouted, Okay, everyone! Its over! He passed! Come out and congratulate him! 

And as I stared in disbelief, my wide-open mouth hanging down around my 
knees, people began stepping out from behind the trees. 

First came Dawn and Dori. 

You were hiding in the woods! I cried. 

They laughed in response. Congratulations! Dawn cried. 

And then others came out, grinning and congratulating me. I screamed 
when I recognized Mike. He was okay! 

Beside him were Jay and Roger! 

Colin stepped out of the woods, followed by Tommy and Chris. All smiling 
and happy and okay. 

Whatwhats going on here? I stammered. I was totally stunned. I felt dizzy. 

I didnt get it. I really didnt get it. 

And then my mom and dad stepped out from the trees. Mom rushed up and 
gave me a hug. Dad patted the top of my head. I knew youd pass, Billy, he said. I 
could see happy tears in his eyes. 

Finally, I couldnt take it anymore. I pushed Mom gently away. Passed 
what! ? I demanded. What is this? Whats going on? 

Uncle A1 put his arm around my shoulders and guided me away from the 
group of campers. Mom and Dad followed close behind. 

This isnt really a summer camp, Uncle A1 explained, still grinning at me, 
his face bright pink. Its a government testing lab. 

Huh? I swallowed hard. 

You know your parents are scientists, Billy, Uncle A1 continued. Well, 
theyre about to leave on a very important expedition. And this time they wanted 
to take you along with them. 

How come you didnt tell me? I asked my parents. 

We couldnt! Mom exclaimed. 

According to government rules, Billy, Uncle A1 continued, children arent 
allowed to go on official expeditions unless they pass certain tests. Thats what 
youve been doing here. Youve been taking tests. 

Tests to see what? I demanded, still dazed. 

Well, we wanted to see if you could obey orders, Uncle A1 explained. You 
passed when you refused to go to the Forbidden Bunk. He held up two fingers. 
Second, we had to test your bravery. You demonstrated that by rescuing Larry. 
He held up a third finger. Third, we had to see if you knew when not to follow 
orders. You passed that test by refusing to hunt for Dawn and Dori. 

And everyone was in on it? I asked. All the campers? The counselors? 
Everyone? They were all actors? 

Uncle A1 nodded. They all work here at the testing lab. His expression 
turned serious. You see, Billy, your parents want to take you to a very dangerous 
place, perhaps the most dangerous place in the known universe. So we had to 
make sure you can handle it. 

The most dangerous place in the universe? 

Where? I asked my parents. Where are you taking me? 

Its a very strange planet called Earth, Dad replied, glancing at Mom. Its 
very far from here. But it could be exciting. The inhabitants there are weird and 
unpredictable, and no one has ever studied them. 

Laughing, I stepped between my mom and dad and put my arms around 
them. Earth?! It sounds pretty weird. But it could never be as dangerous or 
exciting as Camp Nightmoon! I exclaimed. 

Well see, Mom replied quietly. Well see. 
