WELCOME TO 
DEAD HOUSE 


Goosebumps - 01 
R.L. Stine 



1 


Josh and I hated our new house. 

Sure, it was big. It looked like a mansion compared to our old house. It 
was a tall redbrick house with a sloping black roof and rows of windows 
framed by black shutters. 

It’s so dark, I thought, studying it from the street. The whole house 
was covered in darkness, as if it were hiding in the shadows of the gnarled, 
old trees that bent over it. 

It was the middle of July, but dead brown leaves blanketed the front 
yard. Our sneakers crunched over them as we tmdged up the gravel 
driveway. 

Tall weeds poked up everywhere through the dead leaves. Thick 
clumps of weeds had completely overgrown an old flower bed beside the 
front porch. 

This house is creepy, I thought unhappily. 

Josh must have been thinking the same thing. Looking up at the old 
house, we both groaned loudly. 

Mr. Dawes, the friendly young man from the local real estate office, 
stopped near the front walk and turned around. 

“Everything okay?” he asked, staring first at Josh, then at me, with his 
crinkly blue eyes. 

“Josh and Amanda aren’t happy about moving,” Dad explained, 
tucking his shirttail in. Dad is a little overweight, and his shirts always seem 
to be coming untucked. 

“It’s hard for kids,” my mother added, smiling at Mr. Dawes, her hands 
shoved into her jeans pockets as she continued up to the front door. “You 
know. Leaving all of their friends behind. Moving to a strange new place.” 

“Strange is right,” Josh said, shaking his head. “This house is gross.” 

Mr. Dawes chuckled. “It’s an old house, that’s for sure,” he said, 
patting Josh on the shoulder. 

“It just needs some work, Josh,” Dad said, smiling at Mr. Dawes. “No 
one has lived in it for a while, so it’ll take some fixing up.” 

“Look how big it is,” Mom added, smoothing back her straight black 



hair and smiling at Josh. “We’ll have room for a den and maybe a rec room, 
too. You’d like that—wouldn’t you, Amanda?” 

I shrugged. A cold breeze made me shiver. It was actually a beautiful, 
hot summer day. But the closer we got to the house, the colder I felt. 

I guessed it was because of all the tall, old trees. 

I was wearing white tennis shorts and a sleeveless blue T-shirt. It had 
been hot in the car. But now I was freezing. Maybe it’ll be warmer in the 
house, I thought. 

“How old are they?” Mr. Dawes asked Mom, stepping onto the front 
porch. 

“Amanda is twelve,” Mom answered. “And Josh turned eleven last 
month.” 

“They look so much alike,” Mr. Dawes told Mom. 

I couldn’t decide if that was a compliment or not. I guess it’s true. Josh 
and I are both tall and thin and have curly brown hair like Dad’s, and dark 
brown eyes. Everyone says we have “serious” faces. 

“I really want to go home,” Josh said, his voice cracking. “I hate this 
place.” 

My brother is the most impatient kid in the world. And when he makes 
up his mind about something, that’s it. He’s a little spoiled. At least, I think 
so. Whenever he makes a big fuss about something, he usually gets his way. 

We may look alike, but we’re really not that similar. I’m a lot more 
patient than Josh is. A lot more sensible. Probably because I’m older and 
because I’m a girl. 

Josh had hold of Dad’s hand and was trying to pull him back to the car. 
“Let’s go. Come on, Dad. Let’s go.” 

I knew this was one time Josh wouldn’t get his way. We were moving 
to this house. No doubt about it. After all, the house was absolutely free. A 
great-uncle of Dad’s, a man we didn’t even know, had died and left the 
house to Dad in his will. 

I’ll never forget the look on Dad’s face when he got the letter from the 
lawyer. He let out a loud whoop and began dancing around the living room. 
Josh and I thought he’d flipped or something. 

“My Great-Uncle Charles has left us a house in his will,” Dad 
explained, reading and rereading the letter. “It’s in a town called Dark 
Palls.” 



“Huh?” Josh and I cried. “Where’s Dark Falls?” 

Dad shrugged. 

“I don’t remember your Uncle Charles,” Mom said, moving behind 
Dad to read the letter over his shoulder. 

“Neither do I,” admitted Dad. “But he must’ve been a great guy! 
Wow! This sounds like an incredible house!” He grabbed Mom’s hands and 
began dancing happily with her across the living room. 

Dad sure was excited. He’d been looking for an excuse to quit his 
boring office job and devote all of his time to his writing career. This house 
—absolutely free—would be just the excuse he needed. 

And now, a week later, here we were in Dark Falls, a four-hour drive 
from our home, seeing our new house for the first time. We hadn’t even 
gone inside, and Josh was trying to drag Dad back to the car. 

“Josh—stop pulling me,” Dad snapped impatiently, trying to tug his 
hand out of Josh’s grasp. 

Dad glanced helplessly at Mr. Dawes. I could see that he was 
embarrassed by how Josh was carrying on. I decided maybe I could help. 

“Let go, Josh,” I said quietly, grabbing Josh by the shoulder. “We 
promised we’d give Dark Falls a chance—remember?” 

“I already gave it a chance,” Josh whined, not letting go of Dad’s hand. 
“This house is old and ugly and I hate it.” 

“You haven’t even gone inside,” Dad said angrily. 

“Yes. Let’s go in,” Mr. Dawes urged, staring at Josh. 

“I’m staying outside,” Josh insisted. 

He can be really stubborn sometimes. I felt just as unhappy as Josh 
looking at this dark, old house. But I’d never carry on the way Josh was. 

“Josh, don’t you want to pick out your own room?” Mom asked. 

“No,” Josh muttered. 

He and I both glanced up to the second floor. There were two large bay 
windows side by side up there. They looked like two dark eyes staring back 
at us. 

“How long have you lived in your present house?” Mr. Dawes asked 

Dad. 

Dad had to think for a second. “About fourteen years,” he answered. 
“The kids have lived there for their whole lives.” 

“Moving is always hard,” Mr. Dawes said sympathetically, turning his 



gaze on me. “You know, Amanda, I moved here to Dark Falls just a few 
months ago. I didn’t like it much either, at first. But now I wouldn’t live 
anywhere else.” He winked at me. He had a cute dimple in his chin when he 
smiled. “Let’s go inside. It’s really quite nice. You’ll be surprised.” 

All of us followed Mr. Dawes, except Josh. “Are there other kids on 
this block?” Josh demanded. He made it sound more like a challenge than a 
question. 

Mr. Dawes nodded. “The school’s just two blocks away,” he said, 
pointing up the street. 

“See?” Mom quickly cut in. “A short walk to school. No more long 
bus rides every morning.” 

“I liked the bus,” Josh insisted. 

His mind was made up. He wasn’t going to give my parents a break, 
even though we’d both promised to be open-minded about this move. 

I don’t know what Josh thought he had to gain by being such a pain. I 
mean, Dad already had plenty to worry about. For one thing, he hadn’t been 
able to sell our old house yet. 

I didn’t like the idea of moving. But I knew that inheriting this big 
house was a great opportunity for us. We were so cramped in our little 
house. 

And once Dad managed to sell the old place, we wouldn’t have to 
worry at all about money anymore. 

Josh should at least give it a chance. That’s what I thought. 

Suddenly, from our car at the foot of the driveway, we heard Petey 
barking and howling and making a fuss. 

Petey is our dog, a white, curly-haired terrier, cute as a button, and 
usually well-behaved. He never minded being left in the car. But now he 
was yowling and yapping at full volume and scratching at the car window, 
desperate to get out. 

“Petey—quiet! Quiet!” I shouted. Petey usually listened to me. 

But not this time. 

“I’m going to let him out!” Josh declared, and took off down the 
driveway toward the car. 

“No. Wait—” Dad called. 

But I don’t think Josh could hear him over Petey’s wails. 

“Might as well let the dog explore,” Mr. Dawes said. “It’s going to be 



his house, too.” 

A few seconds later, Petey came charging across the lawn, kicking up 
brown leaves, yipping excitedly as he ran up to us. He jumped on all of us 
as if he hadn’t seen us in weeks and then, to our surprise, he started 
growling menacingly and barking at Mr. Dawes. 

“Petey—stop!” Mom yelled. 

“He’s never done this,” Dad said apologetically. “Really. He’s usually 
very friendly.” 

“He probably smells something on me. Another dog, maybe,” Mr. 
Dawes said, loosening his striped tie, looking warily at our growling dog. 

Finally, Josh grabbed Petey around the middle and lifted him away 
from Mr. Dawes. “Stop it, Petey,” Josh scolded, holding the dog up close to 
his face so that they were nose-to-nose. “Mr. Dawes is our friend.” 

Petey whimpered and licked Josh’s face. After a short while, Josh set 
him back down on the ground. Petey looked up at Mr. Dawes, then at me, 
then decided to go sniffing around the yard, letting his nose lead the way. 

“Let’s go inside,” Mr. Dawes urged, moving a hand through his short 
blond hair. He unlocked the front door and pushed it open. 

Mr. Dawes held the screen door open for us. I started to follow my 
parents into the house. 

“I’ll stay out here with Petey,” Josh insisted from the walk. 

Dad started to protest, but changed his mind. “Okay. Fine,” he said, 
sighing and shaking his head. “I’m not going to argue with you. Don’t come 
in. You can live outside if you want.” He sounded really exasperated. 

“I want to stay with Petey,” Josh said again, watching Petey nose his 
way through the dead flower bed. 

Mr. Dawes followed us into the hallway, gently closing the screen door 
behind him, giving Josh a final glance. “He’ll be fine,” he said softly, 
smiling at Mom. 

“He can be so stubborn sometimes,” Mom said apologetically. She 
peeked into the living room. “I’m really sorry about Petey. I don’t know 
what got into that dog.” 

“No problem. Let’s start in the living room,” Mr. Dawes said, leading 
the way. “I think you’ll be pleasantly surprised by how spacious it is. Of 
course, it needs work.” 

He took us on a tour of every room in the house. I was beginning to 



get excited. The house was really kind of neat. There were so many rooms 
and so many closets. And my room was huge and had its own bathroom and 
an old-fashioned window seat where I could sit at the window and look 
down at the street. 

I wished Josh had come inside with us. If he could see how great the 
house was inside, I knew he’d start to cheer up. 

I couldn’t believe how many rooms there were. Even a finished attic 
filled with old furniture and stacks of old, mysterious cartons we could 
explore. 

We must have been inside for at least half an hour. I didn’t really keep 
track of the time. I think all three of us were feeling cheered up. 

“Well, I think I’ve shown you everything,” Mr. Dawes said, glancing 
at his watch. He led the way to the front door. 

“Wait—I want to take one more look at my room,” I told them 
excitedly. I started up the stairs, taking them two at a time. “I’ll be down in 
a second.” 

“Hurry, dear. I’m sure Mr. Dawes has other appointments,” Mom 
called after me. 

I reached the second-floor landing and hurried down the narrow 
hallway and into my new room. “Wow!” I said aloud, and the word echoed 
faintly against the empty walls. 

It was so big. And I loved the bay window with the window seat. I 
walked over to it and peered out. Through the trees, I could see our car in 
the driveway and, beyond it, a house that looked a lot like ours across the 
street. 

I’m going to put my bed against that wall across from the window, I 
thought happily. And my desk can go over there. I’ll have room for a 
computer now! 

I took one more look at my closet, a long, walk-in closet with a light in 
the ceiling, and wide shelves against the back wall. 

I was heading to the door, thinking about which of my posters I 
wanted to bring with me, when I saw the boy. 

He stood in the doorway for just a second. And then he turned and 
disappeared down the hall. 

“Josh?” I cried. “Hey—come look!” 

With a shock, I realized it wasn’t Josh. 



For one thing, the boy had blond hair. 

“Hey!” I called and ran to the hallway, stopping just outside my 
bedroom door, looking both ways. “Who’s here?” 

But the long hall was empty. All of the doors were closed. 

“Whoa, Amanda,” I said aloud. 

Was I seeing things? 

Mom and Dad were calling from downstairs. I took one last look down 
the dark corridor, then hurried to rejoin them. 

“Hey, Mr. Dawes,” I called as I ran down the stairs, “is this house 
haunted?” 

He chuckled. The question seemed to strike him funny. “No. Sorry,” he 
said, looking at me with those crinkly blue eyes. “No ghost included. A lot 
of old houses around here are said to be haunted. But I’m afraid this isn’t 
one of them.” 

“I—I thought I saw something,” I said, feeling a little foolish. 

“Probably just shadows,” Mom said. “With all the trees, this house is 
so dark.” 

“Why don’t you run outside and tell Josh about the house,” Dad 
suggested, tucking in the front of his shirt. “Your Mom and I have some 
things to talk over with Mr. Dawes.” 

“Yes, master,” I said with a little bow, and obediently ran out to tell 
Josh all about what he had missed. “Hey, Josh,” I called, eagerly searching 
the yard. “Josh?” 

My heart sank. 

Josh and Petey were gone. 



2 


“Josh! Josh!” 

First I called Josh. Then I called Petey. But there was no sign of either 
of them. 

I ran down to the bottom of the driveway and peered into the car, but 
they weren’t there. Mom and Dad were still inside talking with Mr. Dawes. 
I looked along the street in both directions, but there was no sign of them. 

“Josh! Hey, Josh!” 

Finally, Mom and Dad came hurrying out the front door, looking 
alarmed. I guess they heard my shouts. “I can’t find Josh or Petey!” I yelled 
up to them from the street. 

“Maybe they’re around back,” Dad shouted down to me. 

I headed up the driveway, kicking away dead leaves as I ran. It was 
sunny down on the street, but as soon as I entered our yard, I was back in 
the shade, and it was immediately cool again. 

“Hey, Josh! Josh—where are you?” 

Why did I feel so scared? It was perfectly natural for Josh to wander 
off. He did it all the time. 

I ran full speed along the side of the house. Tall trees leaned over the 
house on this side, blocking out nearly all of the sunlight. 

The backyard was bigger than I’d expected, a long rectangle that 
sloped gradually down to a wooden fence at the back. Just like the front, 
this yard was a mass of tall weeds, poking up through a thick covering of 
brown leaves. A stone birdbath had toppled onto its side. Beyond it, I could 
see the side of the garage, a dark, brick building that matched the house. 

“Hey—Josh!” 

He wasn’t back here. I stopped and searched the ground for footprints 
or a sign that he had run through the thick leaves. 

“Well?” Out of breath, Dad came jogging up to me. 

“No sign of him,” I said, surprised at how worried I felt. 

“Did you check the car?” He sounded more angry than worried. 

“Yes. It’s the first place I looked.” I gave the backyard a last quick 
search. “I don’t believe Josh would just take off.” 



“I do,” Dad said, rolling his eyes. “You know your brother when he 
doesn’t get his way. Maybe he wants us to think he’s run away from home.” 
He frowned. 

“Where is he?” Mom asked as we returned to the front of the house. 

Dad and I both shrugged. “Maybe he made a friend and wandered off,” 
Dad said. He raised a hand and scratched his curly brown hair. I could tell 
that he was starting to worry, too. 

“We’ve got to find him,” Mom said, gazing down to the street. “He 
doesn’t know this neighborhood at all. He probably wandered off and got 
lost.” 

Mr. Dawes locked the front door and stepped down off the porch, 
pocketing the keys. “He couldn’t have gotten far,” he said, giving Mom a 
reassuring smile. “Let’s drive around the block. I’m sure we’ll find him.” 

Mom shook her head and glanced nervously at Dad. “I’ll kill him,” she 
muttered. Dad patted her on the shoulder. 

Mr. Dawes opened the trunk of the small Honda, pulled off his dark 
blazer, and tossed it inside. Then he took out a wide-brimmed, black 
cowboy hat and put it on his head. 

“Hey—that’s quite a hat,” Dad said, climbing into the front passenger 

seat. 

“Keeps the sun away,” Mr. Dawes said, sliding behind the wheel and 
slamming the car door. 

Mom and I got in back. Glancing over at her, I saw that Mom was as 
worried as I was. 

We headed down the block in silence, all four of us staring out the car 
windows. The houses we passed all seemed old. Most of them were even 
bigger than our house. All of them seemed to be in better condition, nicely 
painted with neat, well-trimmed lawns. 

I didn’t see any people in the houses or yards, and there was no one on 
the street. 

It certainly is a quiet neighborhood, I thought. And shady. The houses 
all seemed to be surrounded by tall, leafy trees. The front yards we drove 
slowly past all seemed to be bathed in shade. The street was the only sunny 
place, a narrow gold ribbon that ran through the shadows on both sides. 

Maybe that’s why it’s called Dark Falls, I thought. 

“Where is that son of mine?” Dad asked, staring hard out the 



windshield. 

“I’ll kill him. I really will,” Mom muttered. It wasn’t the first time she 
had said that about Josh. 

We had gone around the block twice. No sign of him. 

Mr. Dawes suggested we drive around the next few blocks, and Dad 
quickly agreed. “Hope I don’t get lost. I’m new here, too,” Mr. Dawes said, 
turning a corner. “Hey, there’s the school,” he announced, pointing out the 
window at a tall redbrick building. It looked very old-fashioned, with white 
columns on both sides of the double front doors. “Of course, it’s closed 
now,” Mr. Dawes added. 

My eyes searched the fenced-in playground behind the school. It was 
empty. No one there. 

“Could Josh have walked this far?” Mom asked, her voice tight and 
higher than usual. 

“Josh doesn’t walk,” Dad said, rolling his eyes. “He runs.” 

“We’ll find him,” Mr. Dawes said confidently, tapping his fingers on 
the wheel as he steered. 

We turned a corner onto another shady block. A street sign read 
“Cemetery Drive”, and sure enough, a large cemetery rose up in front of us. 
Granite gravestones rolled along a low hill, which sloped down and then up 
again onto a large flat stretch, also marked with rows of low grave markers 
and monuments. 

A few shrubs dotted the cemetery, but there weren’t many trees. As we 
drove slowly past, the gravestones passing by in a blur on the left, I realized 
that this was the sunniest spot I had seen in the whole town. 

“There’s your son.” Mr. Dawes, pointing out the window, stopped the 
car suddenly. 

“Oh, thank goodness!” Mom exclaimed, leaning down to see out the 
window on my side of the car. 

Sure enough, there was Josh, running wildly along a crooked row of 
low, white gravestones. “What’s he doing here?” I asked, pushing open my 
car door. 

I stepped down from the car, took a few steps onto the grass, and 
called to him. At first, he didn’t react to my shouts. He seemed to be 
ducking and dodging through the tombstones. He would run in one 
direction, then cut to the side, then head in another direction. 



Why was he doing that? 

I took another few steps—and then stopped, gripped with fear. 

I suddenly realized why Josh was darting and ducking like that, 
running so wildly through the tombstones. He was being chased. 

Someone—or something—was after him. 



3 


Then, as I took a few reluctant steps toward Josh, watching him bend low, 
then change directions, his arms outstretched as he ran, I realized I had it 
completely backward. 

Josh wasn’t being chased. Josh was chasing. 

He was chasing after Petey. 

Okay, okay. So sometimes my imagination runs away with me. 
Running through an old graveyard like this—even in bright daylight—it’s 
only natural that a person might start to have weird thoughts. 

I called to Josh again, and this time he heard me and turned around. He 
looked worried. “Amanda—come help me! ” he cried. 

“Josh, what’s the matter?” I ran as fast as I could to catch up with him, 
but he kept darting through the gravestones, moving from row to row. 

“Help!” 

“Josh—what’s wrong?” I turned and saw that Mom and Dad were 
right behind me. 

“It’s Petey,” Josh explained, out of breath. “I can’t get him to stop. I 
caught him once, but he pulled away from me.” 

“Petey! Petey!” Dad started calling the dog. But Petey was moving 
from stone to stone, sniffing each one, then running to the next. 

“How did you get all the way over here?” Dad asked as he caught up 
with my brother. 

“I had to follow Petey,” Josh explained, still looking very worried. “He 
just took off. One second he was sniffing around that dead flower bed in our 
front yard. The next second, he just started to run. He wouldn’t stop when I 
called. Wouldn’t even look back. He kept running till he got here. I had to 
follow. I was afraid he’d get lost.” 

Josh stopped and gratefully let Dad take over the chase. “I don’t know 
what that dumb dog’s problem is,” he said to me. “He’s just weird.” 

It took Dad a few tries, but he finally managed to grab Petey and pick 
him up off the ground. Our little terrier gave a halfhearted yelp of protest, 
then allowed himself to be carried away. 

We all trooped back to the car on the side of the road. Mr. Dawes was 



waiting by the car. “Maybe you’d better get a leash for that dog,” he said, 
looking very concerned. 

“Petey’s never been on a leash,” Josh protested, wearily climbing into 
the backseat. 

“Well, we might have to try one for a while,” Dad said quietly. 
“Especially if he keeps running away.” Dad tossed Petey into the backseat. 
The dog eagerly curled up in Josh’s arms. 

The rest of us piled into the car, and Mr. Dawes drove us back to his 
office, a tiny, white, flat-roofed building at the end of a row of small offices. 
As we rode, I reached over and stroked the back of Petey’s head. 

Why did the dog run away like that? I wondered. Petey had never done 
that before. 

I guessed that Petey was also upset about our moving. After all, Petey 
had spent his whole life in our old house. He probably felt a lot like Josh 
and I did about having to pack up and move and never see the old 
neighborhood again. 

The new house, the new streets, and all the new smells must have 
freaked the poor dog out. Josh wanted to run away from the whole idea. 
And so did Petey. 

Anyway, that was my theory. 

Mr. Dawes parked the car in front of his tiny office, shook Dad’s hand, 
and gave him a business card. “You can come by next week,” he told Mom 
and Dad. “I’ll have all the legal work done by then. After you sign the 
papers, you can move in anytime.” 

He pushed open the car door and, giving us all a final smile, prepared 
to climb out. 

“Compton Dawes,” Mom said, reading the white business card over 
Dad’s shoulder. “That’s an unusual name. Is Compton an old family name?” 

Mr. Dawes shook his head. “No,” he said, “I’m the only Compton in 
my family. I have no idea where the name comes from. No idea at all. 
Maybe my parents didn’t know how to spell Charlie!” 

Chuckling at his terrible joke, he climbed out of the car, lowered the 
wide black Stetson hat on his head, pulled his blazer from the tmnk, and 
disappeared into the small white building. 

Dad climbed behind the wheel, moving the seat back to make room for 
his big stomach. Mom got up front, and we started the long drive home. “I 



guess you and Petey had quite an adventure today,” Mom said to Josh, 
rolling up her window because Dad had turned on the air conditioner. 

“I guess,” Josh said without enthusiasm. Petey was sound asleep in his 
lap, snoring quietly. 

“You’re going to love your room,” I told Josh. “The whole house is 
great. Really.” 

Josh stared at me thoughtfully, but didn’t answer. 

I poked him in the ribs with my elbow. “Say something. Did you hear 
what I said?” 

But the weird, thoughtful look didn’t fade from Josh’s face. 

The next couple of weeks seemed to crawl by. I walked around the house 
thinking about how I’d never see my room again, how I’d never eat 
breakfast in this kitchen again, how I’d never watch TV in the living room 
again. Morbid stuff like that. 

I had this sick feeling when the movers came one afternoon and 
delivered a tall stack of cartons. Time to pack up. It was really happening. 
Even though it was the middle of the afternoon, I went up to my room and 
flopped down on my bed. I didn’t nap or anything. I just stared at the 
ceiling for more than an hour, and all these wild, unconnected thoughts ran 
through my head, like a dream, only I was awake. 

I wasn’t the only one who was nervous about the move. Mom and Dad 
were snapping at each other over nothing at all. One morning they had a big 
fight over whether the bacon was too crispy or not. 

In a way, it was funny to see them being so childish. Josh was acting 
really sullen all the time. He hardly spoke a word to anyone. And Petey 
sulked, too. That dumb dog wouldn’t even pick himself up and come over 
to me when I had some table scraps for him. 

I guess the hardest part about moving was saying good-bye to my 
friends. Carol and Amy were away at camp, so I had to write to them. But 
Kathy was home, and she was my oldest and best friend, and the hardest to 
say good-bye to. 

I think some people were surprised that Kathy and I had stayed such 
good friends. For one thing, we look so different. I’m tall and thin and dark, 
and she’s fair-skinned, with long blonde hair, and a little chubby. But we’ve 
been friends since preschool, and best friends since fourth grade. 



When she came over the night before the move, we were both terribly 
awkward. “Kathy, you shouldn’t be nervous,” I told her. “You’re not the 
one who’s moving away forever.” 

“It’s not like you’re moving to China or something,” she answered, 
chewing hard on her bubble gum. “Dark Falls is only four hours away, 
Amanda. We’ll see each other a lot.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” I said. But I didn’t believe it. Four hours away was as 
bad as being in China, as far as I was concerned. “I guess we can still talk 
on the phone,” I said glumly. 

She blew a small green bubble, then sucked it back into her mouth. 
“Yeah. Sure,” she said, pretending to be enthusiastic. “You’re lucky, you 
know. Moving out of this crummy neighborhood to a big house.” 

“It’s not a crummy neighborhood,” I insisted. I don’t know why I was 
defending the neighborhood. I never had before. One of our favorite 
pastimes was thinking of places we’d rather be growing up. 

“School won’t be the same without you,” she sighed, curling her legs 
under her on the chair. “Who’s going to slip me the answers in math?” 

I laughed. “I always slipped you the wrong answers.” 

“But it was the thought that counted,” Kathy said. And then she 
groaned. “Ugh. Junior high. Is your new junior high part of the high school 
or part of the elementary school?” 

I made a disgusted face. “Everything’s in one building. It’s a small 
town, remember? There’s no separate high school. At least, I didn’t see 
one.” 

“Bummer,” she said. 

Bummer was right. 

We chatted for hours. Until Kathy’s mom called and said it was time 
for her to come home. 

Then we hugged. I had made up my mind that I wouldn’t cry, but I 
could feel the big, hot tears forming in the corners of my eyes. And then 
they were running down my cheeks. 

“I’m so miserable!” I wailed. 

I had planned to be really controlled and mature. But Kathy was my 
best friend, after all, and what could I do? 

We made a promise that we’d always be together on our birthdays—no 
matter what. We’d force our parents to make sure we didn’t miss each 



other’s birthdays. 

And then we hugged—again. And Kathy said, “Don’t worry. We’ll see 
each other a lot. Really.” And she had tears in her eyes, too. 

She turned and ran out the door. The screen door slammed hard behind 
her. I stood there staring out into the darkness until Petey came scampering 
in, his toenails clicking across the linoleum, and started to lick my hand. 

The next morning, moving day, was a rainy Saturday. Not a downpour. No 
thunder or lightning. But just enough rain and wind to make the long drive 
slow and unpleasant. 

The sky seemed to get darker as we neared the new neighborhood. The 
heavy trees bent low over the street. “Slow down, Jack,” Mom warned 
shrilly. “The street is really slick.” 

But Dad was in a hurry to get to the house before the moving van did. 
“They’ll just put the stuff anywhere if we’re not there to supervise,” he 
explained. 

Josh, beside me in the backseat, was being a real pain, as usual. He 
kept complaining that he was thirsty. When that didn’t get results, he started 
whining that he was starving. But we had all had a big breakfast, so that 
didn’t get any reaction, either. 

He just wanted attention, of course. I kept trying to cheer him up by 
telling him how great the house was inside and how big his room was. He 
still hadn’t seen it. 

But he didn’t want to be cheered up. He started wrestling with Petey, 
getting the poor dog all worked up, until Dad had to shout at him to stop. 

“Let’s all try really hard not to get on each other’s nerves,” Mom 
suggested. 

Dad laughed. “Good idea, dear.” 

“Don’t make fun of me,” she snapped. 

They started to argue about who was more exhausted from all the 
packing. Petey stood up on his hind legs and started to howl at the back 
window. 

“Can’t you shut him up?” Mom screamed. 

I pulled Petey down, but he struggled back up and started howling 
again. “He’s never done this before,” I said. 

“Just get him quiet!” Mom insisted. 



I pulled Petey down by his hind legs, and Josh started to howl. Mom 
turned around and gave him a dirty look. Josh didn’t stop howling, though. 
He thought he was a riot. 

Finally, Dad pulled the car up the driveway of the new house. The tires 
crunched over the wet gravel. Rain pounded on the roof. 

“Home sweet home,” Mom said. I couldn’t tell if she was being 
sarcastic or not. I think she was really glad the long car ride was over. 

“At least we beat the movers,” Dad said, glancing at his watch. Then 
his expression changed. “Hope they’re not lost.” 

“It’s as dark as night out there,” Josh complained. 

Petey was jumping up and down in my lap, desperate to get out of the 
car. He was usually a good traveler. But once the car stopped, he wanted out 
immediately. 

I opened my car door and he leaped onto the driveway with a splash 
and started to run in a wild zigzag across the front yard. 

“At least someone’s glad to be here,” Josh said quietly. 

Dad ran up to the porch and, fumbling with the unfamiliar keys, 
managed to get the front door open. Then he motioned for us to come into 
the house. 

Mom and Josh ran across the walk, eager to get in out of the rain. I 
closed the car door behind me and started to jog after them. 

But something caught my eye. I stopped and looked up to the twin bay 
windows above the porch. 

I held a hand over my eyebrows to shield my eyes and squinted 
through the rain. 

Yes. I saw it. 

A face. In the window on the left. 

The boy. 

The same boy was up there, staring down at me. 



4 


“Wipe your feet! Don’t track mud on the nice clean floors!” Mom called. 
Her voice echoed against the bare walls of the empty living room. 

I stepped into the hallway. The house smelled of paint. The painters 
had just finished on Thursday. It was hot in the house, much hotter than 
outside. 

“This kitchen light won’t go on,” Dad called from the back. “Did the 
painters turn off the electricity or something?” 

“How should I know?” Mom shouted back. 

Their voices sounded so loud in the big, empty house. 

“Mom—there’s someone upstairs!” I cried, wiping my feet on the new 
welcome mat and hurrying into the living room. 

She was at the window, staring out at the rain, looking for the movers 
probably. She spun around as I came in. “What?” 

“There’s a boy upstairs. I saw him in the window,” I said, struggling to 
catch my breath. 

Josh entered the room from the back hallway. He’d probably been with 
Dad. He laughed. “Is someone already living here?” 

“There’s no one upstairs,” Mom said, rolling her eyes. “Are you two 
going to give me a break today, or what?” 

“What did I do?” Josh whined. 

“Listen, Amanda, we’re all a little on edge today—” Mom started. 

But I interrupted her. “I saw his face, Mom. In the window. I’m not 
crazy, you know.” 

“Says who?” Josh cracked. 

“Amanda!” Mom bit her lower lip, the way she always did when she 
was really exasperated. “You saw a reflection of something. Of a tree 
probably.” She turned back to the window. The rain was coming down in 
sheets now, the wind driving it noisily against the large picture window. 

I ran to the stairway, cupped my hands over my mouth, and shouted up 
to the second floor, “Who’s up there?” 

No answer. 

“Who’s up there?” I called, a little louder. 



Mom had her hands over her ears. “Amanda—please!” 

Josh had disappeared through the dining room. He was finally 
exploring the house. 

“There’s someone up there,” I insisted and, impulsively, I started up 
the wooden stairway, my sneakers thudding loudly on the bare steps. 

“Amanda—” I heard Mom call after me. 

But I was too angry to stop. Why didn’t she believe me? Why did she 
have to say it was a reflection of a tree I saw up there? 

I was curious. I had to know who was upstairs. I had to prove Mom 
wrong. I had to show her I hadn’t seen a stupid reflection. I guess I can be 
pretty stubborn, too. Maybe it’s a family trait. 

The stairs squeaked and creaked under me as I climbed. I didn’t feel at 
all scared until I reached the second-floor landing. Then I suddenly had this 
heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach. 

I stopped, breathing hard, leaning on the banister. 

Who could it be? A burglar? A bored neighborhood kid who had 
broken into an empty house for a thrill? 

Maybe I shouldn’t be up here alone, I realized. 

Maybe the boy in the window was dangerous. 

“Anybody up here?” I called, my voice suddenly trembly and weak. 

Still leaning against the banister, I listened. 

And I could hear footsteps scampering across the hallway. 

No. 

Not footsteps. 

The rain. That’s what it was. The patter of rain against the slate- 
shingled roof. 

For some reason, the sound made me feel a little calmer. I let go of the 
banister and stepped into the long, narrow hallway. It was dark up here, 
except for a rectangle of gray light from a small window at the other end. 

I took a few steps, the old wooden floorboards creaking noisily 
beneath me. “Anybody up here?” 

Again no answer. 

I stepped up to the first doorway on my left. The door was closed. The 
smell of fresh paint was suffocating. There was a light switch on the wall 
near the door. Maybe it’s for the hall light, I thought. I clicked it on. But 
nothing happened. 



“Anybody here?” 

My hand was trembling as I grabbed the doorknob. It felt warm in my 
hand. And damp. 

I turned it and, taking a deep breath, pushed open the door. 

I peered into the room. Gray light filtered in through the bay window. 
A flash of lightning made me jump back. The thunder that followed was a 
dull, distant roar. 

Slowly, carefully, I took a step into the room. Then another. 

No sign of anyone. 

This was a guest bedroom. Or it could be Josh’s room if he decided he 
liked it. 

Another flash of lightning. The sky seemed to be darkening. It was 
pitch-black out there even though it was just after lunchtime. 

I backed into the hall. The next room down was going to be mine. It 
also had a bay window that looked down on the front yard. 

Was the boy I saw staring down at me in my room? 

I crept down the hall, letting my hand run along the wall for some 
reason, and stopped outside my door, which was also closed. 

Taking a deep breath, I knocked on the door. “Who’s in there?” I 
called. 

I listened. 

Silence. 

Then a clap of thunder, closer than the last. I froze as if I were 
paralyzed, holding my breath. It was so hot up here, hot and damp. And the 
smell of paint was making me dizzy. 

I grabbed the doorknob. “Anybody in there?” 

I started to turn the knob—when the boy crept up from behind and 
grabbed my shoulder. 



5 


I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t cry out. 

My heart seemed to stop. My chest felt as if it were about to explode. 

With a desperate, terrified effort, I spun around. 

“Josh!” I shrieked. “You scared me to death! I thought—” 

He let go of me and took a step back. “Gotcha!” he declared, and then 
started to laugh, a high-pitched laugh that echoed down the long, bare 
hallway. 

My heart was pounding hard now. My forehead throbbed. “You’re not 
funny,” I said angrily. I shoved him against the wall. “You really scared 
me.” 

He laughed and rolled around on the floor. He’s really a sicko. I tried 
to shove him again but missed. 

Angrily, I turned away from him—just in time to see my bedroom 
door slowly swinging open. 

I gasped in disbelief. And froze, gaping at the moving door. 

Josh stopped laughing and stood up, immediately serious, his dark 
eyes wide with fright. 

I could hear someone moving inside the room. 

I could hear whispering. 

Excited giggles. 

“Who—who’s there?” I managed to stammer in a high little voice I 
didn’t recognize. 

The door, creaking loudly, opened a bit more, then started to close. 

“Who’s there?” I demanded, a bit more forcefully. 

Again, I could hear whispering, someone moving about. 

Josh had backed up against the wall and was edging away, toward the 
stairs. He had an expression on his face I’d never seen before—sheer terror. 

The door, creaking like a door in a movie haunted house, closed a little 
more. 

Josh was nearly to the stairway. He was staring at me, violently 
motioning with his hand for me to follow. 



But instead, I stepped forward, grabbed the doorknob, and pushed the 
door open hard. 

It didn’t resist. 

I let go of the doorknob and stood blocking the doorway. “Who’s 
there?” 

The room was empty. 

Thunder crashed. 

It took me a few seconds to realize what was making the door move. 
The window on the opposite wall had been left open several inches. The 
gusting wind through the open window must have been opening and closing 
the door. I guessed that also explained the other sounds I heard inside the 
room, the sounds I thought were whispers. 

Who had left the window open? The painters, probably. 

I took a deep breath and let it out slowly, waiting for my pounding 
heart to settle down to normal. 

Feeling a little foolish, I walked quickly to the window and pushed it 

shut. 

“Amanda—are you all right?” Josh whispered from the hallway. 

I started to answer him. But then I had a better idea. 

He had practically scared me to death a few minutes before. Why not 
give him a little scare? He deserved it. 

So I didn’t answer him. 

I could hear him take a few timid steps closer to my room. “Amanda? 
Amanda? You okay?” 

I tiptoed over to my closet, pulled the door open a third of the way. 
Then I laid down flat on the floor, on my back, with my head and shoulders 
hidden inside the closet and the rest of me out in the room. 

“Amanda?” Josh sounded very scared. 

“Ohhhhh,” I moaned loudly. 

I knew when he saw me sprawled on the floor like this, he’d totally 
freak out! 

“Amanda—what’s happening?” 

He was in the doorway now. He’d see me any second now, lying in the 
dark room, my head hidden from view, the lightning flashing impressively 
and the thunder cracking outside the old window. 

I took a deep breath and held it to keep from giggling. 



“Amanda?” he whispered. And then he must have seen me, because he 
uttered a loud “Huh?!” And I heard him gasp. 

And then he screamed at the top of his lungs. I heard him running 
down the hall to the stairway, shrieking, “Mom! Dad!” And I heard his 
sneakers thudding down the wooden stairs, with him screaming and calling 
all the way down. 

I snickered to myself. Then, before I could pull myself up, I felt a 
rough, warm tongue licking my face. 

“Petey!” 

He was licking my cheeks, licking my eyelids, licking me frantically, 
as if he were trying to revive me, or as if to let me know that everything 
was okay. 

“Oh, Petey! Petey!” I cried, laughing and throwing my arms around 
the sweet dog. “Stop! You’re getting me all sticky!” 

But he wouldn’t stop. He kept on licking fiercely. 

The poor dog is nervous, too, I thought. 

“Come on, Petey, shape up,” I told him, holding his panting face away 
with both my hands. “There’s nothing to be nervous about. This new place 
is going to be fun. You’ll see.” 



6 


That night, I was smiling to myself as I fluffed up my pillow and slid into 
bed. I was thinking about how terrified Josh had been that afternoon, how 
frightened he looked even after I came prancing down the stairs, perfectly 
okay. How angry he was that I’d fooled him. 

Of course, Mom and Dad didn’t think it was funny. They were both 
nervous and upset because the moving van had just arrived, an hour late. 
They forced Josh and me to call a truce. No more scaring each other. 

“It’s hard not to get scared in this creepy old place,” Josh muttered. 
But we reluctantly agreed not to play any more jokes on each other, if we 
could possibly help it. 

The men, complaining about the rain, started carrying in all of our 
furniture. Josh and I helped show them where we wanted stuff in our rooms. 
They dropped my dresser on the stairs, but it only got a small scratch. 

The furniture looked strange and small in this big house. Josh and I 
tried to stay out of the way while Mom and Dad worked all day, arranging 
things, emptying cartons, putting clothes away. Mom even managed to get 
the curtains hung in my room. 

What a day! 

Now, a little after ten o’clock, trying to get to sleep for the first time in 
my new room, I turned onto my side, then onto my back. Even though this 
was my old bed, I couldn’t get comfortable. 

Everything seemed so different, so wrong. The bed didn’t face the 
same direction as in my old bedroom. The walls were bare. I hadn’t had 
time to hang any of my posters. The room seemed so large and empty. The 
shadows seemed so much darker. 

My back started to itch, and then I suddenly felt itchy all over. The bed 
is filled with bugs! I thought, sitting up. But of course that was ridiculous. It 
was my same old bed with clean sheets. 

I forced myself to settle back down and closed my eyes. Sometimes 
when I can’t get to sleep, I count silently by twos, picturing each number in 
my mind as I think it. It usually helps to clear my mind so that I can drift off 
to sleep. 



I tried it now, burying my face in the pillow, picturing the numbers 
rolling past... 4 ... 6 ... 8 ... 

I yawned loudly, still wide awake at two-twenty. 

I’m going to be awake forever, I thought. I’m never going to be able to 
sleep in this new room. 

But then I must have drifted off without realizing it. I don’t know how 
long I slept. An hour or two at the most. It was a light, uncomfortable sleep. 
Then something woke me. I sat straight up, startled. 

Despite the heat of the room, I felt cold all over. Looking down to the 
end of the bed, I saw that I had kicked off the sheet and light blanket. With 
a groan, I reached down for them, but then froze. 

I heard whispers. 

Someone was whispering across the room. 

“Who—who’s there?” My voice was a whisper, too, tiny and 
frightened. 

I grabbed my covers and pulled them up to my chin. 

I heard more whispers. The room came into focus as my eyes adjusted 
to the dim light. 

The curtains. The long, sheer curtains from my old room that my 
mother had hung that afternoon were fluttering at the window. 

So. That explained the whispers. The billowing curtains must have 
woken me up. 

A soft, gray light floated in from outside. The curtains cast moving 
shadows onto the foot of my bed. 

Yawning, I stretched and climbed out of bed. I felt chilled all over as I 
crept across the wooden floor to close the window. 

As I came near, the curtains stopped billowing and floated back into 
place. I pushed them aside and reached out to close the window. 

“Oh!” 

I uttered a soft cry when I realized that the window was closed. 

But how could the curtains flutter like that with the window closed? I 
stood there for a while, staring out at the grays of the night. There wasn’t 
much of a draft. The window seemed pretty airtight. 

Had I imagined the curtains billowing? Were my eyes playing tricks on 

me? 

Yawning, I hurried back through the strange shadows to my bed and 



pulled the covers up as high as they would go. “Amanda, stop scaring 
yourself,” I scolded. 

When I fell back to sleep a few minutes later, I had the ugliest, most 
terrifying dream. 

I dreamed that we were all dead. Mom, Dad, Josh, and me. 

At first, I saw us sitting around the dinner table in the new dining 
room. The room was very bright, so bright I couldn’t see our faces very 
well. They were just a bright, white blur. 

But, then, slowly, slowly, everything came into focus, and I could see 
that beneath our hair, we had no faces. Our skin was gone, and only our 
gray-green skulls were left. Bits of flesh clung to my bony cheeks. There 
were only deep, black sockets where my eyes had been. 

The four of us, all dead, sat eating in silence. Our dinner plates, I saw, 
were filled with small bones. A big platter in the center of the table was 
piled high with gray-green bones, human-looking bones. 

And then, in this dream, our disgusting meal was interrupted by a loud 
knocking on the door, an insistent pounding that grew louder and louder. It 
was Kathy, my friend from back home. I could see her at our front door, 
pounding on it with both fists. 

I wanted to go answer the door. I wanted to run from the dining room 
and pull open the door and greet Kathy. I wanted to talk to Kathy. I wanted 
to tell her what had happened to me, to explain that I was dead and that my 
face had fallen away. 

I wanted to see Kathy so badly. 

But I couldn’t get up from the table. I tried and tried, but I couldn’t get 
up. 

The pounding on the door grew louder and louder, until it was 
deafening. But I just sat there with my gruesome family, picking up bones 
from my dinner plate and eating them. 

I woke up with a start, the horror of the dream still with me. I could 
still hear the pounding in my ears. I shook my head, trying to chase the 
dream away. 

It was morning. I could tell from the blue of the sky outside the 
window. 

“Oh, no.” 

The curtains. They were billowing again, flapping noisily as they blew 



into the room. 

I sat up and stared. 

The window was still closed. 



7 


“I’ll take a look at the window. There must be a draft or a leak or 
something,” Dad said at breakfast. He shoveled in another mouthful of 
scrambled eggs and ham. 

“But, Dad—it’s so weird!” I insisted, still feeling scared. “The curtains 
were blowing like crazy, and the window was closed !” 

“There might be a pane missing,” Dad suggested. 

“Amanda is a pain!” Josh cracked. His idea of a really witty joke. 

“Don’t start with your sister,” Mom said, putting her plate down on the 
table and dropping into her chair. She looked tired. Her black hair, usually 
carefully pulled back, was disheveled. She tugged at the belt on her 
bathrobe. “Whew. I don’t think I slept two hours last night.” 

“Neither did I,” I said, sighing. “I kept thinking that boy would show 
up in my room again.” 

“Amanda—you’ve really got to stop this,” Mom said sharply. “Boys in 
your room. Curtains blowing. You have to realize that you’re nervous, and 
your imagination is working overtime.” 

“But, Mom—” I started. 

“Maybe a ghost was behind the curtains,” Josh said, teasing. He raised 
up his hands and made a ghostly “oooooooh” wail. 

“Whoa.” Mom put a hand on Josh’s shoulder. “Remember what you 
promised about scaring each other?” 

“It’s going to be hard for all of us to adjust to this place,” Dad said. 
“You may have dreamed about the curtains blowing, Amanda. You said you 
had bad dreams, right?” 

The terrifying nightmare flashed back into my mind. Once again I saw 
the big platter of bones on the table. I shivered. 

“It’s so damp in here,” Mom said. 

“A little sunshine will help dry the place out,” Dad said. 

I peered out the window. The sky had turned solid gray. Trees seemed 
to spread darkness over our backyard. “Where’s Petey?” I asked. 

“Out back,” Mom replied, swallowing a mouthful of eggs. “He got up 
early, too. Couldn’t sleep, I guess. So I let him out.” 



“What are we doing today?” Josh asked. He always needed to know 
the plan for the day. Every detail. Mainly so he could argue about it. 

“Your father and I still have a lot of unpacking to do,” Mom said, 
glancing to the back hallway, which was cluttered with unopened cartons. 
“You two can explore the neighborhood. See what you can find out. See if 
there are any other kids your age around.” 

“In other words, you want us to get lost!” I said. 

Mom and Dad both laughed. “You’re very smart, Amanda.” 

“But I want to help unpack my stuff,” Josh whined. I knew he’d argue 
with the plan, just like always. 

“Go get dressed and take a long walk,” Dad said. “Take Petey with 
you, okay? And take a leash for him. I left one by the front stairs.” 

“What about our bikes? Why can’t we ride our bikes?” Josh asked. 

“They’re buried in the back of the garage,” Dad told him. “You’ll 
never be able to get to them. Besides, you have a flat tire.” 

“If I can’t ride my bike, I’m not going out,” Josh insisted, crossing his 
arms in front of his chest. 

Mom and Dad had to argue with him. Then threaten him. Finally, he 
agreed to go for “a short walk.” 

I finished my breakfast, thinking about Kathy and my other friends 
back home. I wondered what the kids were like in Dark Falls. I wondered if 
I’d be able to find new friends, real friends. 

I volunteered to do the breakfast dishes since Mom and Dad had so 
much work to do. The warm water felt soothing on my hands as I sponged 
the dishes clean. I guess maybe I’m weird. I like washing dishes. 

Behind me, from somewhere in the front of the house, I could hear 
Josh arguing with Dad. I could just barely make out the words over the 
trickle of the tap water. 

“Your basketball is packed in one of these cartons,” Dad was saying. 
Then Josh said something. Then Dad said, “How should I know which 
one?” Then Josh said something. Then Dad said, “No, I don’t have time to 
look now. Believe it or not, your basketball isn’t at the top of my list.” 

I stacked the last dish onto the counter to drain, and looked for a dish 
towel to dry my hands. There was none in sight. I guess they hadn’t been 
unpacked yet. 

Wiping off my hands on the front of my robe, I headed for the stairs. 



“I’ll be dressed in five minutes,” I called to Josh, who was still arguing with 
Dad in the living room. “Then we can go out.” 

I started up the front stairs, and then stopped. 

Above me on the landing stood a strange girl, about my age, with short 
black hair. She was smiling down at me, not a warm smile, not a friendly 
smile, but the coldest, most frightening smile I had ever seen. 



8 


A hand touched my shoulder. 

I spun around. 

It was Josh. “I’m not going for a walk unless I can take my 
basketball,” he said. 

“Josh—please!” I looked back up to the landing, and the girl was gone. 

I felt cold all over. My legs were all trembly. I grabbed the banister. 

“Dad! Come here—please!” I called. 

Josh’s face filled with alarm. “Hey, I didn’t do anything!” he shouted. 

“No—it’s—it’s not you,” I said, and called Dad again. 

“Amanda, I’m kind of busy,” Dad said, appearing below at the foot of 
the stairs, already perspiring from uncrating living room stuff. 

“Dad, I saw somebody,” I told him. “Up there. A girl.” I pointed. 

“Amanda, please,” he replied, making a face. “Stop seeing things— 
okay? There’s no one in this house except the four of us.... and maybe a 
few mice.” 

“Mice?” Josh asked with sudden interest. “Really? Where?” 

“Dad, I didn’t imagine it,” I said, my voice cracking. I was really hurt 
that he didn’t believe me. 

“Amanda, look up there,” Dad said, gazing up to the landing. “What 
do you see?” 

I followed his gaze. There was a pile of my clothes on the landing. 
Mom must have just unpacked them. 

“It’s just clothes,” Dad said impatiently. “It’s not a girl. It’s clothes.” 
He rolled his eyes. 

“Sorry,” I said quietly. I repeated it as I started up the stairs. “Sorry.” 

But I didn’t really feel sorry. I felt confused. 

And still scared. 

Was it possible that I thought a pile of clothes was a smiling girl? 

No. I didn’t think so. 

I’m not crazy. And I have really good eyesight. 

So then, what was going on? 



I opened the door to my room, turned on the ceiling light, and saw the 
curtains billowing in front of the bay window. 

Oh, no. Not again, I thought. 

I hurried over to them. This time, the window was open. 

Who opened it? 

Mom, I guessed. 

Warm, wet air blew into the room. The sky was heavy and gray. It 
smelled like rain. 

Turning to my bed, I had another shock. 

Someone had laid out an outfit for me. A pair of faded jeans and a pale 
blue, sleeveless T-shirt. They were spread out side by side at the foot of the 
bed. 

Who had put them there? Mom? 

I stood at the doorway and called to her. “Mom? Mom? Did you pick 
out clothes for me?” 

I could hear her shout something from downstairs, but I couldn’t make 
out the words. 

Calm down, Amanda, I told myself. Calm down. 

Of course Mom pulled the clothes out. Of course Mom put them there. 

From the doorway, I heard whispering in my closet. 

Whispering and hushed giggling behind the closet door. 

This was the last straw. “What’s going on here?” I yelled at the top of 
my lungs. 

I stormed over to the closet and pulled open the door. 

Frantically, I pushed clothes out of the way. No one in there. 

Mice? I thought. Had I heard the mice that Dad was talking about? 

“I’ve got to get out of here,” I said aloud. 

The room, I realized, was driving me crazy. 

No. I was driving myself crazy. Imagining all of these weird things. 

There was a logical explanation for everything. Everything. 

As I pulled up my jeans and fastened them, I said the word “logical” 
over and over in my mind. I said it so many times that it didn’t sound like a 
real word anymore. 

Calm down, Amanda. Calm down. 

I took a deep breath and held it to ten. 

“Boo!” 



“Josh—cut it out. You didn’t scare me,” I told him, sounding more 
cross than I had meant to. 

“Let’s get out of here,” he said, staring at me from the doorway. “This 
place gives me the creeps.” 

“Huh? You, too?” I exclaimed. “What’s your problem?” 

He started to say something, then stopped. He suddenly looked 
embarrassed. “Forget it,” he muttered. 

“No, tell me,” I insisted. “What were you going to say?” 

He kicked at the floor molding. “I had a really creepy dream last 
night,” he finally admitted, looking past me to the fluttering curtains at the 
window. 

“A dream?” I remembered my horrible dream. 

“Yeah. There were these two boys in my room. And they were mean.” 

“What did they do?” I asked. 

“I don’t remember,” Josh said, avoiding my eyes. “I just remember 
they were scary.” 

“And what happened?” I asked, turning to the mirror to brush my hair. 

“I woke up,” he said. And then added impatiently, “Come on. Let’s 

go.” 

“Did the boys say anything to you?” I asked. 

“No. I don’t think so,” he answered thoughtfully. “They just laughed.” 

“Laughed?” 

“Well, giggled, sort of,” Josh said. “I don’t want to talk about it 
anymore,” he snapped. “Are we going for this dumb walk, or not?” 

“Okay. I’m ready,” I said, putting down my brush, taking one last look 
in the mirror. “Let’s go on this dumb walk.” 

I followed him down the hall. As we passed the stack of clothes on the 
landing, I thought about the girl I had seen standing there. And I thought 
about the boy in the window when we first arrived. And the two boys Josh 
had seen in his dream. 

I decided it proved that Josh and I were both really nervous about 
moving to this new place. Maybe Mom and Dad were right. We were letting 
our imaginations run away with us. 

It had to be our imaginations. 

I mean, what else could it be? 



9 


A few seconds later, we stepped into the backyard to get Petey. He was as 
glad to see us as ever, leaping on us with his muddy paws, yapping 
excitedly, running in frantic circles through the leaves. It cheered me up just 
to see him. 

It was hot and muggy even though the sky was gray. There was no 
wind at all. The heavy, old trees stood as still as statues. 

We headed down the gravel driveway toward the street, our sneakers 
kicking at the dead, brown leaves, Petey running in zigzags at our sides, 
first in front of us, then behind. “At least Dad hasn’t asked us to rake all 
these old leaves,” Josh said. 

“He will,” I warned. “I don’t think he’s unpacked the rake yet.” 

Josh made a face. We stood at the curb, looking up at our house, the 
two second-floor bay windows staring back at us like eyes. 

The house next door, I noticed for the first time, was about the same 
size as ours, except it was shingle instead of brick. The curtains in the living 
room were drawn shut. Some of the upstairs windows were shuttered. Tall 
trees cast the neighbors’ house in darkness, too. 

“Which way?” Josh asked, tossing a stick for Petey to chase. 

I pointed up the street. “The school is up that way,” I said. “Let’s check 
it out.” 

The road sloped uphill. Josh picked up a small tree branch from the 
side of the road and used it as a walking stick. Petey kept trying to chew on 
it while Josh walked. 

We didn’t see anyone on the street or in any of the front yards we 
passed. No cars went by. 

I was beginning to think the whole town was deserted, until the boy 
stepped out from behind the low ledge. 

He popped out so suddenly, both Josh and I stopped in our tracks. 
“Hi,” he said shyly, giving us a little wave. 

“Hi,” Josh and I answered at the same time. 

Then, before we could pull him back, Petey ran up to the boy, sniffed 
his sneakers, and began snarling and barking. The boy stepped back and 



raised his hands as if he were protecting himself. He looked really 
frightened. 

“Petey—stop!” I cried. 

Josh grabbed the dog and picked him up, but he kept growling. 

“He doesn’t bite,” I told the boy. “He usually doesn’t bark, either. I’m 
sorry.” 

“That’s okay,” the boy said, staring at Petey, who was squirming to get 
out of Josh’s arms. “He probably smells something on me.” 

“Petey, stop!” I shouted. The dog wouldn’t stop squirming. “You don’t 
want the leash—do you?” 

The boy had short, wavy blond hair and very pale blue eyes. He had a 
funny turned-up nose that seemed out of place on his serious-looking face. 
He was wearing a maroon long-sleeved sweatshirt despite the mugginess of 
the day, and black straight-legged jeans. He had a blue baseball cap stuffed 
into the back pocket of his jeans. 

“I’m Amanda Benson,” I said. “And this is my brother Josh.” 

Josh hesitantly put Petey back on the ground. The dog yipped once, 
stared up at the boy, whimpered softly, then sat down on the street and 
began to scratch himself. 

“I’m Ray Thurston,” the boy said, stuffing his hands into his jeans 
pockets, still staring warily at Petey. He seemed to relax a little, though, 
seeing that the dog had lost interest in barking and growling at him. 

I suddenly realized that Ray looked familiar. Where had I seen him 
before? Where? I stared hard at him until I remembered. 

And then I gasped in sudden fright. 

Ray was the boy, the boy in my room. The boy in the window. 

“You—” I stammered accusingly. “You were in our house!” 

He looked confused. “Huh?” 

“You were in my room—right?” I insisted. 

He laughed. “I don’t get it,” he said. “In your room?” 

Petey raised his head and gave a low growl in Ray’s direction. Then he 
went back to his serious scratching. 

“I thought I saw you,” I said, beginning to feel a little doubtful. Maybe 
it wasn’t him. Maybe.... 

“I haven’t been in your house in a long time,” Ray said, looking down 
warily at Petey. 



“A long time?” 

“Yeah. I used to live in your house,” he replied. 

“Huh?” Josh and I stared at him in surprise. “Our house?” 

Ray nodded. “When we first moved here,” he said. He picked up a flat 
pebble and heaved it down the street. 

Petey growled, started to chase it, changed his mind, and plopped back 
down on the street, his stub of a tail wagging excitedly. 

Heavy clouds lowered across the sky. It seemed to grow darker. 
“Where do you live now?” I asked. 

Ray tossed another stone, then pointed up the road. 

“Did you like our house?” Josh asked Ray. 

“Yeah, it was okay,” Ray told him. “Nice and shady.” 

“You liked it?” Josh cried. “I think it’s gross. It’s so dark and—” 

Petey interrupted. He decided to start barking at Ray again, running up 
till he was a few inches in front of Ray, then backing away. Ray took a few 
cautious steps back to the edge of the curb. 

Josh pulled the leash from the pocket of his shorts. “Sorry, Petey,” he 
said. I held the growling dog while Josh attached the leash to his collar. 

“He’s never done this before. Really,” I said, apologizing to Ray. 

The leash seemed to confuse Petey. He tugged against it, pulling Josh 
across the street. But at least he stopped barking. 

“Let’s do something,” Josh said impatiently. 

“Like what?” Ray asked, relaxing again now that Petey was on the 
leash. 

We all thought for a while. 

“Maybe we could go to your house,” Josh suggested to Ray. 

Ray shook his head. “No. I don’t think so,” he said. “Not now 
anyway.” 

“Where is everyone?” I asked, looking up and down the empty street. 
“It’s really dead around here, huh?” 

He chuckled. “Yeah. I guess you could say that,” he said. “Want to go 
to the playground behind the school?” 

“Yeah. Okay,” I agreed. 

The three of us headed up the street, Ray leading the way, me walking 
a few feet behind him, Josh holding his tree branch in one hand, the leash in 
the other, Petey running this way, then that, giving Josh a really hard time. 



We didn’t see the gang of kids till we turned the corner. 

There were ten or twelve of them, mostly boys but a few girls, too. 
They were laughing and shouting, shoving each other playfully as they 
came toward us down the center of the street. Some of them, I saw, were 
about my age. The rest were teenagers. They were wearing jeans and dark 
T-shirts. One of the girls stood out because she had long, straight blonde 
hair and was wearing green spandex tights. 

“Hey, look!” a tall boy with slicked-back black hair cried, pointing at 
us. 

Seeing Ray, Josh, and me, they grew quiet but didn’t stop moving 
toward us. A few of them giggled, as if they were enjoying some kind of 
private joke. 

The three of us stopped and watched them approach. I smiled and 
waited to say hi. Petey was pulling at his leash and barking his head off. 

“Hi, guys,” the tall boy with the black hair said, grinning. The others 
thought this was very funny for some reason. They laughed. The girl in the 
green tights gave a short, red-haired boy a shove that almost sent him 
sprawling into me. 

“How’s it going, Ray?” a girl with short black hair asked, smiling at 

Ray. 

“Not bad. Hi, guys,” Ray answered. He turned to Josh and me. “These 
are some of my friends. They’re all from the neighborhood.” 

“Hi,” I said, feeling awkward. I wished Petey would stop barking and 
pulling at his leash like that. Poor Josh was having a terrible time holding 
onto him. 

“This is George Carpenter,” Ray said, pointing to the short, red-haired 
boy, who nodded. “And Jerry Franklin, Karen Somerset, Bill Gregory...” 
He went around the circle, naming each kid. I tried to remember all the 
names but, of course it was impossible. 

“How do you like Dark Falls?” one of the girls asked me. 

“I don’t really know,” I told her. “It’s my first day here, really. It seems 
nice.” 

Some of the kids laughed at my answer, for some reason. 

“What kind of dog is that?” George Carpenter asked Josh. 

Josh, holding tight to the leash handle, told him. George stared hard at 
Petey, studying him, as if he had never seen a dog like Petey before. 



Karen Somerset, a tall, pretty girl with short blonde hair, came up to 
me while some of the other kids were admiring Petey. “You know, I used to 
live in your house,” she said softly. 

“What?” I wasn’t sure I’d heard her correctly. 

“Let’s go to the playground,” Ray said, interrupting. 

No one responded to Ray’s suggestion. 

They grew quiet. Even Petey stopped barking. 

Had Karen really said that she used to live in our house? I wanted to 
ask her, but she had stepped back into the circle of kids. 

The circle. 

My mouth dropped open as I realized they had formed a circle around 
Josh and me. 

I felt a stab of fear. Was I imagining it? Was something going on? 

They all suddenly looked different to me. They were smiling, but their 
faces were tense, watchful, as if they expected trouble. 

Two of them, I noticed, were carrying baseball bats. The girl with the 
green tights stared at me, looking me up and down, checking me out. 

No one said a word. The street was silent except for Petey, who was 
now whimpering softly. 

I suddenly felt very afraid. 

Why were they staring at us like that? 

Or was my imagination running away with me again? 

I turned to Ray, who was still beside me. He didn’t seem at all 
troubled. But he didn’t return my gaze. 

“Hey, guys—” I said. “What’s going on?” I tried to keep it light, but 
my voice was a little shaky. 

I looked over at Josh. He was busy soothing Petey and hadn’t noticed 
that things had changed. 

The two boys with baseball bats held them up waist high and moved 
forward. 

I glanced around the circle, feeling the fear tighten my chest. 

The circle tightened. The kids were closing in on us. 



10 


The black clouds overhead seemed to lower. The air felt heavy and damp. 

Josh was fussing with Petey’s collar and still didn’t see what was 
happening. I wondered if Ray was going to say anything, if he was going to 
do anything to stop them. But he stayed frozen and expressionless beside 
me. 

The circle grew smaller as the kids closed in. 

I realized I’d been holding my breath. I took a deep breath and opened 
my mouth to cry out. 

“Hey, kids—what’s going on?” 

It was a man’s voice, calling from outside the circle. 

Everyone turned to see Mr. Dawes coming quickly toward us, taking 
long strides as he crossed the street, his open blazer flapping behind him. 
He had a friendly smile on his face. “What’s going on?” he asked again. 

He didn’t seem to realize that the gang of kids had been closing in on 
Josh and me. 

“We’re heading to the playground,” George Carpenter told him, 
twirling the bat in his hand. “You know. To play softball.” 

“Good deal,” Mr. Dawes said, pulling down his striped tie, which had 
blown over his shoulder. He looked up at the darkening sky. “Hope you 
don’t get rained out.” 

Several of the kids had backed up. They were standing in small groups 
of two and three now. The circle had completely broken up. 

“Is that bat for softball or hardball?” Mr. Dawes asked George. 

“George doesn’t know,” another kid replied quickly. “He’s never hit 
anything with it!” 

The kids all laughed. George playfully menaced the kid, pretending to 
come at him with the bat. 

Mr. Dawes gave a little wave and started to leave. But then he stopped, 
and his eyes opened wide with surprise. “Hey,” he said, flashing me a 
friendly smile. “Josh. Amanda. I didn’t see you there.” 

“Good morning,” I muttered. I was feeling very confused. A moment 
ago, I’d felt terribly scared. Now everyone was laughing and kidding 



around. 

Had I imagined that the kids were moving in on us? Ray and Josh 
hadn’t seemed to notice anything peculiar. Was it just me and my overactive 
imagination? 

What would have happened if Mr. Dawes hadn’t come along? 

“How are you two getting along in the new house?” Mr. Dawes asked, 
smoothing back his wavy blond hair. 

“Okay,” Josh and I answered together. Looking up at Mr. Dawes, 
Petey began to bark and pull at the leash. 

Mr. Dawes put an exaggerated hurt expression on his face. “I’m 
crushed,” he said. “Your dog still doesn’t like me.” He bent over Petey. 
“Hey, dog—lighten up.” 

Petey barked back angrily. 

“He doesn’t seem to like anybody today,” I told Mr. Dawes 
apologetically. 

Mr. Dawes stood back up and shrugged. “Can’t win ’em all.” He 
started back to his car, parked a few yards down the street. “I’m heading 
over to your house,” he told Josh and me. “Just want to see if there’s 
anything I can do to help your parents. Have fun, kids.” 

I watched him climb into his car and drive away. 

“He’s a nice guy,” Ray said. 

“Yeah,” I agreed. I was still feeling uncomfortable, wondering what 
the kids would do now that Mr. Dawes was gone. 

Would they form that frightening circle again? 

No. Everyone started walking, heading down the block to the 
playground behind the school. They were kidding each other and talking 
normally, and pretty much ignored Josh and me. 

I was starting to feel a little silly. It was obvious that they hadn’t been 
trying to scare Josh and me. I must have made the whole thing up in my 
mind. 

I must have. 

At least, I told myself, I hadn’t screamed or made a scene. At least I 
hadn’t made a total fool of myself. 

The playground was completely empty. I guessed that most kids had 
stayed inside because of the threatening sky. The playground was a large, 
flat grassy field, surrounded on all four sides by a tall metal fence. There 



were swings and slides at the end nearest the school building. There were 
two baseball diamonds on the other end. Beyond the fence, I could see a 
row of tennis courts, also deserted. 

Josh tied Petey to the fence, then came running over to join the rest of 

us. The boy named Jerry Franklin made up the teams. Ray and I were on 
the same team. Josh was on the other. 

As our team took the field, I felt excited and a little nervous. I’m not 
the best softball player in the world. I can hit the ball pretty well. But in the 
field, I’m a complete klutz. Luckily, Jerry sent me out to right field where 
not many balls are hit. 

The clouds began to part a little and the sky got lighter. We played two 
full innings. The other team was winning, eight to two. I was having fun. 

I had only messed up on one play. And I hit a double my first time at 

bat. 

It was fun being with a whole new group of kids. They seemed really 
nice, especially the girl named Karen Somerset, who talked with me while 
we waited for our turn at bat. Karen had a great smile, even though she 
wore braces on all her teeth, up and down. She seemed very eager to be 
friends. 

The sun was coming out as my team started to take the field for the 
beginning of the third inning. Suddenly, I heard a loud, shrill whistle. I 
looked around until I saw that it was Jerry Franklin, blowing a silver 
whistle. 

Everyone came running up to him. “We’d better quit,” he said, looking 
up at the brightening sky. “We promised our folks, remember, that we’d be 
home for lunch.” 

I glanced at my watch. It was only eleven-thirty. Still early. 

But to my surprise, no one protested. 

They all waved to each other and called out farewells, and then began 
to run. I couldn’t believe how fast everyone left. It was as if they were 
racing or something. 

Karen ran past me like the others, her head down, a serious expression 
on her pretty face. Then she stopped suddenly and turned around. “Nice 
meeting you, Amanda,” she called back. “We should get together 
sometime.” 

“Great!” I called to her. “Do you know where I live?” 



I couldn’t hear her answer very well. She nodded, and I thought she 
said, “Yes. I know it. I used to live in your house.” 

But that couldn’t have been what she said. 



11 


Several days went by. Josh and I were getting used to our new house and 
our new friends. 

The kids we met every day at the playground weren’t exactly friends 
yet. They talked with Josh and me, and let us on their teams. But it was 
really hard to get to know them. 

In my room, I kept hearing whispers late at night, and soft giggling, 
but I forced myself to ignore it. One night, I thought I saw a girl dressed all 
in white at the end of the upstairs hall. But when I walked over to 
investigate, there was just a pile of dirty sheets and other bedclothes against 
the wall. 

Josh and I were adjusting, but Petey was still acting really strange. We 
took him with us to the playground every day, but we had to leash him to 
the fence. Otherwise, he’d bark and snap at all the kids. 

“He’s still nervous being in a new place,” I told Josh. “He’ll calm 
down.” 

But Petey didn’t calm down. And about two weeks later, we were 
finishing up a softball game with Ray, and Karen Somerset, and Jerry 
Franklin, and George Carpenter, and a bunch of other kids, when I looked 
over to the fence and saw that Petey was gone. 

Somehow he had broken out of his leash and run away. 

We looked for hours, calling “Petey!” wandering from block to block, 
searching front yards and backyards, empty lots and woods. Then, after 
circling the neighborhood twice, Josh and I suddenly realized we had no 
idea where we were. 

The streets of Dark Falls looked the same. They were all lined with 
sprawling old brick or shingle houses, all filled with shady old trees. 

“I don’t believe it. We’re lost,” Josh said, leaning against a tree trunk, 
trying to catch his breath. 

“That stupid dog,” I muttered, my eyes searching up the street. “Why 
did he do this? He’s never run away before.” 

“I don’t know how he got loose,” Josh said, shaking his head, then 
wiping his sweaty forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. “I tied him up 



really well.” 

“Hey—maybe he ran home,” I said. The idea immediately cheered me 
up. 

“Yeah!” Josh stepped away from the tree and headed back over to me. 
“HI bet you’re right, Amanda. He’s probably been home for hours. Wow. 
We’ve been stupid. We should’ve checked home first. Let’s go!” 

“Well,” I said, looking around at the empty yards, “we just have to 
figure out which way is home.” 

I looked up and down the street, trying to figure out which way we’d 
turned when we left the school playground. I couldn’t remember, so we just 
started walking. 

Luckily, as we reached the next corner, the school came into sight. We 
had made a full circle. It was easy to find our way from there. 

Passing the playground, I stared at the spot on the fence where Petey 
had been tied. That troublemaking dog. He’d been acting so badly ever 
since we came to Dark Falls. 

Would he be home when we got there? I hoped so. 

A few minutes later, Josh and I were running up the gravel driveway, 
calling the dog’s name at the top of our lungs. The front door burst open 
and Mom, her hair tied in a red bandanna, the knees of her jeans covered 
with dust, leaned out. She and Dad had been painting the back porch. 
“Where have you two been? Lunchtime was two hours ago!” 

Josh and I both answered at the same time. “Is Petey here?” 

“We’ve been looking for Petey!” 

“Is he here?” 

Mom’s face filled with confusion. “Petey? I thought he was with you.” 

My heart sank. Josh slumped to the driveway with a loud sigh, 
sprawling flat on his back in the gravel and leaves. 

“You haven’t seen him?” I asked, my trembling voice showing my 
disappointment. “He was with us. But he ran away.” 

“Oh. I’m sorry,” Mom said, motioning for Josh to get up from the 
driveway. “He ran away? I thought you’ve been keeping him on a leash.” 

“You’ve got to help us find him,” Josh pleaded, not budging from the 
ground. “Get the car. We’ve got to find him—right now!” 

“I’m sure he hasn’t gotten far,” Mom said. “You must be starving. 
Come in and have some lunch and then we’ll—” 



“No. Right now!” Josh screamed. 

“What’s going on?” Dad, his face and hair covered with tiny flecks of 
white paint, joined Mom on the front porch. “Josh—what’s all the yelling?” 

We explained to Dad what had happened. He said he was too busy to 
drive around looking for Petey. Mom said she’d do it, but only after we had 
some lunch. I pulled Josh up by both arms and dragged him into the house. 

We washed up and gulped down some peanut butter and jelly 
sandwiches. Then Mom took the car out of the garage, and we drove around 
and around the neighborhood searching for our lost pet. 

With no luck. 

No sign of him. 

Josh and I were miserable. Heartbroken. Mom and Dad called the local 
police. Dad kept saying that Petey had a good sense of direction, that he’d 
show up any minute. 

But we didn’t really believe it. 

Where was he? 

The four of us ate dinner in silence. It was the longest, most horrible 
evening of my life. “I tied him up really good,” Josh repeated, close to 
tears, his dinner plate still full. 

“Dogs are great escape artists,” Dad said, “Don’t worry. He’ll show 

up.” 

“Some night for a party,” Mom said glumly. 

I’d completely forgotten that they were going out. Some neighbors on 
the next block had invited them to a big potluck dinner party. 

“I sure don’t feel like partying, either,” Dad said with a sigh. “I’m beat 
from painting all day. But I guess we have to be neighborly. Sure you kids 
will be okay here?” 

“Yeah, I guess,” I said, thinking about Petey. I kept listening for his 
bark, listening for scratching at the door. 

But no. The hours dragged by. Petey still hadn’t shown up by bedtime. 

Josh and I both slinked upstairs. I felt really tired, weary from all the 
worrying, and the running around and searching for Petey, I guess. But I 
knew I’d never be able to get to sleep. 

In the hall outside my bedroom door, I heard whispering from inside 
my room and quiet footsteps. The usual sounds my room made. I wasn’t at 
all scared of them or surprised by them anymore. 



Without hesitating, I stepped into my room and clicked on the light. 
The room was empty, as I knew it would be. The mysterious sounds 
disappeared. I glanced at the curtains, which lay straight and still. 

Then I saw the clothes strewn all over my bed. 

Several pairs of jeans. Several T-shirts. A couple of sweatshirts. My 
only dress-up skirt. 

That’s strange, I thought. Mom was such a neat freak. If she had 
washed these things, she surely would have hung them up or put them into 
dresser drawers. 

Sighing wearily, I started to gather up the clothes and put them away. I 
figured that Mom simply had too much to do to be bothered. She had 
probably washed the stuff and then left it here for me to put away. Or she 
had put it all down, planning to come back later and put it away, and then 
got busy with other chores. 

Half an hour later, I was tucked into my bed wide awake, staring at the 
shadows on the ceiling. 

Some time after that—I lost track of the time—I was still wide awake, 
still thinking about Petey, thinking about the new kids I’d met, thinking 
about the new neighborhood, when I heard my bedroom door creak and 
swing open. 

Footsteps on the creaking floorboards. 

I sat up in the darkness as someone crept into my room. 

“Amanda—ssshh—it’s me.” 

Alarmed, it took me a few seconds to recognize the hushed whisper. 
“Josh! What do you want? What are you doing in here?” 

I gasped as a blinding light forced me to cover my eyes. “Oops. 
Sorry,” Josh said. “My flashlight. I didn’t mean to—” 

“Ow, that’s bright,” I said, blinking. He aimed the powerful beam of 
white light up at the ceiling. 

“Yeah. It’s a halogen flashlight,” he said. 

“Well, what do you want?” I asked irritably. I still couldn’t see well. I 
mbbed my eyes, but it didn’t help. 

“I know where Petey is,” Josh whispered, “and I’m going to go get 
him. Come with me?” 

“Huh?” I looked at the little clock on my bed table. “It’s after 
midnight, Josh.” 



“So? It won’t take long. Really.” 

My eyes were nearly normal by now. Staring at Josh in the light from 
the halogen flashlight, I noticed for the first time that he was fully dressed 
in jeans and a long-sleeved T-shirt. 

“I don’t get it, Josh,” I said, swinging around and putting my feet on 
the floor. “We looked everywhere. Where do you think Petey is?” 

“In the cemetery,” Josh answered. His eyes looked big and dark and 
serious in the white light. 

“Huh?” 

“That’s where he ran the first time, remember? When we first came to 
Dark Falls? He ran to that cemetery just past the school.” 

“Now, wait a minute—” I started. 

“We drove past it this afternoon, but we didn’t look inside. He’s there, 
Amanda. I know he is. And I’m going to go get him whether you come or 
not.” 

“Josh, calm down,” I said, putting my hands on his narrow shoulders. I 
was surprised to discover that he was trembling. “There’s no reason for 
Petey to be in that cemetery.” 

“That’s where he went the first time,” Josh insisted. “He was looking 
for something there that day. I could tell. I know he’s there again, Amanda.” 
He pulled away from me. “Are you coming or not?” 

My brother has to be the stubbornest, most headstrong person in the 
world. 

“Josh, you’re really going to walk into a strange cemetery so late at 
night?” I asked. 

“I’m not afraid,” he said, shining the bright light around my room. 

For a brief second, I thought the light caught someone, lurking behind 
the curtains. I opened my mouth to cry out. But there was no one there. 

“You coming or not?” he repeated impatiently. 

I was going to say no. But then, glancing at the curtains, I thought, it’s 
probably no more spooky out there in that cemetery than it is here in my 
own bedroom! 

“Yeah. Okay,” I said grudgingly. “Get out of here and let me get 
dressed.” 

“Okay,” he whispered, turning off the flashlight, plunging us into 
blackness. “Meet me down at the end of the driveway.” 



“Josh—one quick look at the cemetery, then we hurry home. Got it?” I 
told him. 

“Yeah. Right. We’ll be home before Mom and Dad get back from that 
party.” He crept out. I could hear him making his way quickly down the 
stairs. 

This is the craziest idea ever, I told myself as I searched in the 
darkness for some clothes to pull on. 

And it was also kind of exciting. 

Josh was wrong. No doubt about it. Petey wouldn’t be hanging around 
in that cemetery now. Why on earth should he? 

But at least it wasn’t a long walk. And it was an adventure. Something 
to write about to Kathy back home. 

And if Josh happened to be right, and we did manage to find poor, lost 
Petey, well, that would be great, too. 

A few minutes later, dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt, I crept out of the 
house and joined Josh at the bottom of the driveway. The night was still 
warm. A heavy blanket of clouds covered the moon. I realized for the first 
time that there were no streetlights on our block. 

Josh had the halogen flashlight on, aimed down at our feet. “You 
ready?” he asked. 

Dumb question. Would I be standing there if I weren’t ready? 

We crunched over dead leaves as we headed up the block, toward the 
school. From there, it was just two blocks to the cemetery. 

“It’s so dark,” I whispered. The houses were black and silent. There 
was no breeze at all. It was as if we were all alone in the world. 

“It’s too quiet,” I said, hurrying to keep up with Josh. “No crickets or 
anything. Are you sure you really want to go to the cemetery?” 

“I’m sure,” he said, his eyes following the circle of light from the 
flashlight as it bumped over the ground. “I really think Petey is there.” 

We walked in the street, keeping close to the curb. We had gone nearly 
two blocks. The school was just coming into sight on the next block when 
we heard the scraping steps behind us on the pavement. 

Josh and I both stopped. He lowered the light. 

We both heard the sounds. I wasn’t imagining them. 

Someone was following us. 



12 


Josh was so startled, the flashlight tumbled from his hand and clattered onto 
the street. The light flickered but didn’t go out. 

By the time Josh had managed to pick it up, our pursuer had caught up 
to us. I spun around to face him, my heart pounding in my chest. 

“Ray! What are you doing here?” 

Josh aimed the light at Ray’s face, but Ray shot his arms up to shield 
his face and ducked back into the darkness. “What are you two doing here?” 
he cried, sounding almost as startled as I did. 

“You—you scared us,” Josh said angrily, aiming the flashlight back 
down at our feet. 

“Sorry,” Ray said, “I would’ve called out, but I wasn’t sure it was 
you.” 

“Josh has this crazy idea about where Petey might be,” I told him, still 
struggling to catch my breath. “That’s why we’re out here.” 

“What about you?” Josh asked Ray. 

“Well, sometimes I have trouble sleeping,” Ray said softly. 

“Don’t your parents mind you being out so late?” I asked. 

In the glow from the flashlight, I could see a wicked smile cross his 
face. “They don’t know.” 

“Are we going to the cemetery or not?” Josh asked impatiently. 
Without waiting for an answer, he started jogging up the road, the light 
bobbing on the pavement in front of him. I turned and followed, wanting to 
stay close to the light. 

“Where are you going?” Ray called, hurrying to catch up. 

“The cemetery,” I called back. 

“No,” Ray said. “You’re not.” 

His voice was so low, so threatening, that I stopped. “What?” 

“You’re not going there,” Ray repeated. I couldn’t see his face. It was 
hidden in darkness. But his words sounded menacing. 

“Hurry!” Josh called back to us. He hadn’t slowed down. He didn’t 
seem to notice the threat in Ray’s words. 

“Stop, Josh!” Ray called. It sounded more like an order than a request. 



“You can’t go there!” 

“Why not?” I demanded, suddenly afraid. Was Ray threatening Josh 
and me? Did he know something we didn’t? Or was I making a big deal out 
of nothing once again? 

I stared into the darkness, trying to see his face. 

“You’d be nuts to go there at night!” he declared. 

I began to think I had misjudged him. He was afraid to go there. That’s 
why he was trying to stop us. 

“Are you coming or not?” Josh demanded, getting farther and farther 
ahead of us. 

“I don’t think we should,” Ray warned. 

Yes, he’s afraid, I decided. I only imagined that he was threatening us. 

“You don’t have to. But we do,” Josh insisted, picking up his speed. 

“No. Really,” Ray said. “This is a bad idea.” But now he and I were 
running side by side to catch up with Josh. 

“Petey’s there,” Josh said, “I know he is.” 

We passed the dark, silent school. It seemed much bigger at night. 
Josh’s light flashed through the low tree branches as we turned the corner 
onto Cemetery Drive. 

“Wait—please,” Ray pleaded. But Josh didn’t slow down. Neither did 
1.1 was eager to get there and get it over with. 

I wiped my forehead with my sleeve. The air was hot and still. I 
wished I hadn’t worn long sleeves. I felt my hair. It was dripping wet. 

The clouds still covered the moon as we reached the cemetery. We 
stepped through a gate in the low wall. In the darkness, I could see the 
crooked rows of gravestones. 

Josh’s light traveled from stone to stone, jumping up and down as he 
walked. “Petey!” he called suddenly, interrupting the silence. 

He’s disturbing the sleep of the dead, I thought, feeling a sudden chill 
of fear. 

Don’t be silly, Amanda. “Petey!” I called, too, forcing away my 
morbid thoughts. 

“This is a very bad idea,” Ray said, standing very close to me. 

“Petey! Petey!” Josh called. 

“I know it’s a bad idea,” I admitted to Ray. “But I didn’t want Josh to 
come here by himself.” 



“But we shouldn’t be here,” Ray insisted. 

I was beginning to wish he’d go away. No one had forced him to 
come. Why was he giving us such a hard time? 

“Hey—look at this!” Josh called from several yards up ahead. 

My sneakers crunching over the soft ground, I hurried between the 
rows of graves. I hadn’t realized that we had already walked the entire 
length of the graveyard. 

“Look,” Josh said again, his flashlight playing over a strange structure 
built at the edge of the cemetery. 

It took me a little while to figure out what it was in the small circle of 
light. It was so unexpected. It was some kind of theater. An amphitheater, I 
guess you’d call it, circular rows of bench seats dug into the ground, 
descending like stairs to a low stagelike platform at the bottom. 

“What on earth!” I exclaimed. 

I started forward to get a closer look. 

“Amanda—wait. Let’s go home,” Ray called. He grabbed at my arm, 
but I hurried away, and he grabbed only air. 

“Weird! Who would build an outdoor theater at the edge of a 
cemetery?” I asked. 

I looked back to see if Josh and Ray were following me, and my 
sneaker caught against something. I stumbled to the ground, hitting my 
knee hard. 

“Ow. What was that?” 

Josh shone the light on it as I climbed slowly, painfully, to my feet. I 
had tripped over an enormous, upraised tree root. 

In the flickering light, I followed the gnarled root over to a wide, old 
tree several yards away. The huge tree was bent over the strange below¬ 
ground theater, leaning at such a low angle that it looked likely to topple 
over at any second. Big clumps of roots were raised up from the ground. 
Overhead, the tree’s branches, heavy with leaves, seemed to lean to the 
ground. 

“Timberrr!” Josh yelled. 

“How weird!” I exclaimed. “Hey, Ray—what is this place?” 

“It’s a meeting place,” Ray said quietly, standing close beside me, 
staring straight ahead at the leaning tree. “They use it sort of like a town 
hall. They have town meetings here.” 



“In the cemetery?” I cried, finding it hard to believe. 

“Let’s go,” Ray urged, looking very nervous. 

All three of us heard the footsteps. They were behind us, somewhere in 
the rows of graves. We turned around. Josh’s light swept over the ground. 

“Petey!” 

There he was, standing between the nearest row of low, stone grave 
markers. I turned happily to Josh. “I don’t believe it!” I cried. “You were 
right!” 

“Petey! Petey!” Josh and I both started running toward our dog. 

But Petey arched back on his hind legs as if he were getting ready to 
mn away. He stared at us, his eyes red as jewels in the light of the 
flashlight. 

“Petey! We found you!” I cried. 

The dog lowered his head and started to trot away. 

“Petey! Hey—come back! Don’t you recognize us?” 

With a burst of speed, Josh caught up with him and grabbed him up off 
the ground. “Hey, Petey, what’s the matter, fella?” 

As I hurried over, Josh dropped Petey back to the ground and stepped 
back. “Ooh—he stinks!” 

“What?” I cried. 

“Petey—he stinks. He smells like a dead rat!” Josh held his nose. 

Petey started to walk slowly away. 

“Josh, he isn’t glad to see us,” I wailed. “He doesn’t even seem to 
recognize us. Look at him!” 

It was true. Petey walked to the next row of gravestones, then turned 
and glared at us. 

I suddenly felt sick. What had happened to Petey? Why was he acting 
so differently? Why wasn’t he glad to see us? 

“I don’t get it,” Josh said, still making a face from the odor the dog 
gave off. “Usually, if we leave the room for thirty seconds, he goes nuts 
when we come back.” 

“We’d better go!” Ray called. He was still at the edge of the cemetery 
near the leaning tree. 

“Petey—what’s wrong with you?” I called to the dog. He didn’t 
respond. “Don’t you remember your name? Petey? Petey?” 

“Yuck! What a stink!” Josh exclaimed. 



“We’ve got to get him home and give him a bath,” I said. My voice 
was shaking. I felt really sad. And frightened. 

“Maybe this isn’t Petey,” Josh said thoughtfully. The dog’s eyes again 
glared red in the beam of light. 

“It’s him all right,” I said quietly. “Look. He’s dragging the leash. Go 
get him, Josh—and let’s go home.” 

“You get him!” Josh cried. “He smells too bad!” 

“Just grab his leash. You don’t have to pick him up,” I said. 

“No. You.” 

Josh was being stubborn again. I could see that I had no choice. 
“Okay,” I said. “I’ll get him. But I’ll need the light.” I grabbed the flashlight 
from Josh’s hand and started to run toward Petey. 

“Sit, Petey. Sit!” I ordered. It was the only command Petey ever 
obeyed. 

But he didn’t obey it this time. Instead, he turned and trotted away, 
holding his head down low. 

“Petey—stop! Petey, come on!” I yelled, exasperated. “Don’t make me 
chase you.” 

“Don’t let him get away!” Josh yelled, running up behind me. 

I moved the flashlight from side to side along the ground. “Where is 

he?” 

“Petey! Petey!” Josh called, sounding shrill and desperate. 

I couldn’t see him. 

“Oh, no. Don’t tell me we’ve lost him again!” I said. 

We both started to call him. “What’s wrong with that mutt?” I cried. 

I moved the beam of light down one long row of gravestones, then, 
moving quickly, down the next. No sign of him. We both kept calling his 
name. 

And then the circle of light came to rest on the front of a granite 
tombstone. 

Reading the name on the stone, I stopped short. 

And gasped. 

“Josh—look!” I grabbed Josh’s sleeve. I held on tight. 

“Huh? What’s wrong?” His face filled with confusion. 

“Look! The name on the gravestone.” 

It was Karen Somerset. 



Josh read the name. He stared at me, still confused. 

“That’s my new friend Karen. The one I talk to on the playground 
every day,” I said. 

“Huh? It must be her grandmother or something,” Josh said, and then 
added impatiently, “Come on. Look for Petey.” 

“No. Look at the dates,” I said to him. 

We both read the dates under Karen Somerset’s name. 1960-1972. 

“It can’t be her mother or grandmother,” I said, keeping the beam of 
light on the stone despite my trembling hand. “This girl died when she was 
twelve. My age. And Karen is twelve, too. She told me.” 

“Amanda—” Josh scowled and looked away. 

But I took a few steps and beamed the light onto the next gravestone. 
There was a name on it I’d never heard before. I moved on to the next 
stone. Another name I’d never heard. 

“Amanda, come on!” Josh whined. 

The next gravestone had the name George Carpenter on it. 1975-1988. 

“Josh—look! It’s George from the playground,” I called. 

“Amanda, we have to get Petey,” he insisted. 

But I couldn’t pull myself away from the gravestones. I went from one 
to the next, moving the flashlight over the engraved letters. 

To my growing horror, I found Jerry Franklin. And then Bill Gregory. 

All the kids we had played softball with. They all had gravestones 

here. 

My heart thudding, I moved down the crooked row, my sneakers 
sinking into the soft grass. I felt numb, numb with fear. I struggled to hold 
the light steady as I beamed it onto the last stone in the row. 

RAY THURSTON. 1977-1988. 

“Huh?” 

I could hear Josh calling me, but I couldn’t make out what he was 
saying. 

The rest of the world seemed to fall away. I read the deeply etched 
inscription again: 

RAY THURSTON. 1977-1988. 

I stood there, staring at the letters and numbers. I stared at them till 
they didn’t make sense anymore, until they were just a gray blur. 

Suddenly, I realized that Ray had crept up beside the gravestone and 



was staring at me. 

“Ray—” I managed to say, moving the light over the name on the 
stone. “Ray, this one is... you!” 

His eyes flared, glowing like dying embers. 

“Yes, it’s me,” he said softly, moving toward me. “I’m so sorry, 
Amanda.” 



13 


I took a step back, my sneakers sinking into the soft ground. The air was 
heavy and still. No one made a sound. Nothing moved. 

Dead. 

I’m surrounded by death, I thought. 

Then, frozen to the spot, unable to breathe, the darkness swirling 
around me, the gravestones spinning in their own black shadows, I thought: 
What is he going to do to me? 

“Ray—” I managed to call out. My voice sounded faint and far away. 
“Ray, are you really dead?” 

“I’m sorry. You weren’t supposed to find out yet,” he said, his voice 
floating low and heavy on the stifling night air. 

“But—how? I mean... I don’t understand....” I looked past him to the 
darting white light of the flashlight. Josh was several rows away, almost to 
the street, still searching for Petey. 

“Petey!” I whispered, dread choking my throat, my stomach tightening 
in horror. 

“Dogs always know,” Ray said in a low, flat tone. “Dogs always 
recognize the living dead. That’s why they have to go first. They always 
know.” 

“You mean—Petey’s... dead?” I choked out the words. 

Ray nodded. “They kill the dogs first.” 

“No!” I screamed and took another step back, nearly losing my 
balance as I bumped into a low marble gravestone. I jumped away from it. 

“You weren’t supposed to see this,” Ray said, his narrow face 
expressionless except for his dark eyes, which revealed real sadness. “You 
weren’t supposed to know. Not for another few weeks, anyway. I’m the 
watcher. I was supposed to watch, to make sure you didn’t see until it was 
time.” 

He took a step toward me, his eyes lighting up red, burning into mine. 

“Were you watching me from the window?” I cried. “Was that you in 
my room?” 

Again he nodded yes. “I used to live in your house,” he said, taking 



another step closer, forcing me back against the cold marble stone. “I’m the 
watcher.” 

I forced myself to look away, to stop staring into his glowing eyes. I 
wanted to scream to Josh to run and get help. But he was too far away. And 
I was frozen there, frozen with fear. 

“We need fresh blood,” Ray said. 

“What?” I cried. “What are you saying?” 

“The town—it can’t survive without fresh blood. None of us can. 
You’ll understand soon, Amanda. You’ll understand why we had to invite 
you to the house, to the... Dead House.” 

In the darting, zigzagging beam of light, I could see Josh moving 
closer, heading our way. 

Run, Josh, I thought. Run away. Fast. Get someone. Get anyone. 

I could think the words. Why couldn’t I scream them? 

Ray’s eyes glowed brighter. He was standing right in front of me now, 
his features set, hard and cold. 

“Ray?” Even through my jeans, the marble gravestone felt cold against 
the back of my legs. 

“I messed up,” he whispered. “I was the watcher. But I messed up.” 

“Ray—what are you going to do?” 

His red eyes flickered. “I’m really sorry.” 

He started to raise himself off the ground, to float over me. 

I could feel myself start to choke. I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t move. I 
opened my mouth to call out to Josh, but no sound came out. 

Josh? Where was he? 

I looked down the rows of gravestones but couldn’t see his light. 

Ray floated up a little higher. He hovered over me, choking me 
somehow, blinding me, suffocating me. 

I’m dead, I thought. Dead. 

Now I’m dead, too. 



14 


And then, suddenly, light broke through the darkness. 

The light shone in Ray’s face, the bright white halogen light. 

“What’s going on?” Josh asked, in a high-pitched, nervous voice. 
“Amanda—what’s happening?” 

Ray cried out and dropped back to the ground. “Turn that off! Turn it 
off!” he screeched, his voice a shrill whisper, like wind through a broken 
windowpane. 

But Josh held the bright beam of light on Ray. “What’s going on? 
What are you doing?” 

I could breathe again. As I stared into the light, I struggled to stop my 
heart from pounding so hard. 

Ray moved his arms to shield himself from the light. But I could see 
what was happening to him. The light had already done its damage. 

Ray’s skin seemed to be melting. His whole face sagged, then fell, 
dropping off his skull. 

I stared into the circle of white light, unable to look away, as Ray’s 
skin folded and drooped and melted away. As the bone underneath was 
revealed, his eyeballs rolled out of their sockets and fell silently to the 
ground. 

Josh, frozen in horror, somehow held the bright light steady, and we 
both stared at the grinning skull, its dark craters staring back at us. 

“Oh!” I shrieked as Ray took a step toward me. 

But then I realized that Ray wasn’t walking. He was falling. 

I jumped aside as he crumpled to the ground. And gasped as his skull 
hit the top of the marble gravestone, and cracked open with a sickening 
splat. 

“Come on!” Josh shouted. “Amanda—come on!” He grabbed my hand 
and tried to pull me away. 

But I couldn’t stop staring down at Ray, now a pile of bones inside a 
puddle of crumpled clothes. 

“Amanda, come on!” 

Then, before I even realized it, I was running, running beside Josh as 



fast as I could down the long row of graves toward the street. The light 
flashed against the blur of gravestones as we ran, slipping on the soft, dew- 
covered grass, gasping in the still, hot air. 

“We’ve got to tell Mom and Dad. Got to get away from here!” I cried. 

“They—they won’t believe it!” Josh said, as we reached the street. We 
kept running, our sneakers thudding hard against the pavement. “I’m not 
sure I believe it myself!” 

“They’ve got to believe us!” I told him. “If they don’t, we’ll drag them 
out of that house.” 

The white beam of light pointed the way as we ran through the dark, 
silent streets. There were no streetlights, no lights on in the windows of the 
houses we passed, no car headlights. 

Such a dark world we had entered. 

And now it was time to get out. 

We ran the rest of the way home. I kept looking back to see if we were 
being followed. But I didn’t see anyone. The neighborhood was still and 
empty. 

I had a sharp pain in my side as we reached home. But I forced myself 
to keep running, up the gravel driveway with its thick blanket of dead 
leaves, and onto the front porch. 

I pushed open the door and both Josh and I started to scream. “Mom! 
Dad! Where are you?” 

Silence. 

We ran into the living room. The lights were all off. 

“Mom? Dad? Are you here?” 

Please be here, I thought, my heart racing, the pain in my side still 
sharp. Please be here. 

We searched the house. They weren’t home. 

“The potluck party,” Josh suddenly remembered. “Can they still be at 
that party?” 

We were standing in the living room, both of us breathing hard. The 
pain in my side had let up just a bit. I had turned on all the lights, but the 
room still felt gloomy and menacing. 

I glanced at the clock on the mantel. Nearly two in the morning. 

“They should be home by now,” I said, my voice shaky and weak. 

“Where did they go? Did they leave a number?” Josh was already on 



his way to the kitchen. 

I followed him, turning on lights as we went. We went right to the 
memo pad on the counter where Mom and Dad always leave us notes. 

Nothing. The pad was blank. 

“We’ve got to find them!” Josh cried. He sounded very frightened. His 
wide eyes reflected his fear. “We have to get away from here.” 

What if something has happened to them? 

That’s what I started to say. But I caught myself just in time. I didn’t 
want to scare Josh any more than he was already. 

Besides, he’d probably thought of that, too. 

“Should we call the police?” he asked, as we walked back to the living 
room and peered out the front window into the darkness. 

“I don’t know,” I said, pressing my hot forehead against the cool glass. 
“I just don’t know what to do. I want them to be home. I want them here so 
we can all leave.” 

“What’s your hurry?” a girl’s voice said from behind me. 

Josh and I both cried out and spun around. 

Karen Somerset was standing in the center of the room, her arms 
crossed over her chest. 

“But—you’re dead!” I blurted out. 

She smiled, a sad smile, a bitter smile. 

And then two more kids stepped in from the hallway. One of them 
clicked off the lights. “Too bright in here,” he said. They moved next to 
Karen. 

And another kid, Jerry Franklin—another dead kid—appeared by the 
fireplace. And I saw the girl with short black hair, the one I had seen on the 
stairs, move beside me by the curtains. 

They were all smiling, their eyes glowing dully in the dim light, all 
moving in on Josh and me. 

“What do you wantl” I screamed in a voice I didn’t even recognize. 
“What are you going to do?” 

“We used to live in your house,” Karen said softly. 

“Huh?” I cried. 

“We used to live in your house,” George said. 

“And now, guess what?” Jerry added. “Now we’re dead in your 
house! ” 



The others started to laugh, crackling, dry laughs, as they all closed in 
on Josh and me. 



15 


“They’re going to kill us!” Josh cried. 

I watched them move forward in silence. Josh and I had backed up to 
the window. I looked around the dark room for an escape route. 

But there was nowhere to run. 

“Karen—you seemed so nice,” I said. The words just tumbled out. I 
hadn’t thought before I said them. 

Her eyes glowed a little brighter. “I was nice,” she said in a glum 
monotone, “until I moved here.” 

“We were all nice,” George Carpenter said in the same low monotone. 
“But now we’re dead.” 

“Let us go!” Josh cried, raising his hands in front of him as if to shield 
himself. “Please—let us go.” 

They laughed again, the dry, hoarse laughter. Dead laughter. 

“Don’t be scared, Amanda,” Karen said. “Soon you’ll be with us. 
That’s why they invited you to this house.” 

“Huh? I don’t understand,” I cried, my voice shaking. 

“This is the Dead House. This is where everyone lives when they first 
arrive in Dark Falls. When they’re still alive.” 

This seemed to strike the others as funny. They all snickered and 
laughed. 

“But our great-uncle—” Josh started. 

Karen shook her head, her eyes glowing with amusement. “No. Sorry, 
Josh. No great-uncle. It was just a trick to bring you here. Once every year, 
someone new has to move here. Other years, it was us. We lived in this 
house—until we died. This year, it’s your turn.” 

“We need new blood,” Jerry Franklin said, his eyes glowing red in the 
dim light. “Once a year, you see, we need new blood.” 

Moving forward in silence, they hovered over Josh and me. 

I took a deep breath. A last breath, perhaps. And shut my eyes. 

And then I heard the knock on the door. 

Aloud knock, repeated several times. 

I opened my eyes. The ghostly kids all vanished. 



The air smelled sour. 

Josh and I stared at each other, dazed, as the loud knocking started 
again. 

“It’s Mom and Dad!” Josh cried. 

We both ran to the door. Josh stumbled over the coffee table in the 
dark, so I got to the door first. 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried, pulling open the door. “Where have you been?” 

I reached out my arms to hug them both—and stopped with my arms 
in the air. My mouth dropped open and I uttered a silent cry. 

“Mr. Dawes!” Josh exclaimed, coming up beside me. “We thought—” 

“Oh, Mr. Dawes, I’m so glad to see you!” I cried happily, pushing 
open the screen door for him. 

“Kids—you’re okay?” he asked, eyeing us both, his handsome face 
tight with worry. “Oh, thank God!” he cried. “I got here in time!” 

“Mr. Dawes—” I started, feeling so relieved, I had tears in my eyes. “I 

He grabbed my arm. “There’s no time to talk,” he said, looking behind 
him to the street. I could see his car in the driveway. The engine was 
running. Only the parking lights were on. “I’ve got to get you kids out of 
here while there’s still time.” 

Josh and I started to follow him, then hesitated. 

What if Mr. Dawes was one of them? 

“Hurry,” Mr. Dawes urged, holding open the screen door, gazing 
nervously out into the darkness. “I think we’re in terrible danger.” 

“But—” I started, staring into his frightened eyes, trying to decide if 
we could trust him. 

“I was at the party with your parents,” Mr. Dawes said. “All of a 
sudden, they formed a circle. Everyone. Around your parents and me. They 
—they started to close in on us.” 

Just like when the kids started to close in on Josh and me, I thought. 

“We broke through them and ran,” Mr. Dawes said, glancing to the 
driveway behind him. “Somehow the three of us got away. Hurry. We’ve all 
got to get away from here—now!” 

“Josh, let’s go,” I urged. Then I turned to Mr. Dawes. “Where are 
Mom and Dad?” 

“Come on. I’ll show you. They’re safe for now. But I don’t know for 



how long.” 

We followed him out of the house and down the driveway to his car. 
The clouds had parted. A sliver of moon shone low in a pale, early morning 
sky. 

“There’s something wrong with this whole town,” Mr. Dawes said, 
holding the front passenger door open for me as Josh climbed into the back. 

I slumped gratefully into the seat, and he slammed the door shut. “I 
know,” I said, as he slid behind the wheel. “Josh and I. We both—” 

“We’ve got to get as far away as we can before they catch up with us,” 
Mr. Dawes said, backing down the drive quickly, the tires sliding and 
squealing as he pulled onto the street. 

“Yes,” I agreed. “Thank goodness you came. My house—it’s filled 
with kids. Dead kids and—” 

“So you’ve seen them,” Mr. Dawes said softly, his eyes wide with fear. 
He pushed down harder on the gas pedal. 

As I looked out into the purple darkness, a low, orange sun began to 
show over the green treetops. “Where are our parents?” I asked anxiously. 

“There’s a kind of outdoor theater next to the cemetery,” Mr. Dawes 
said, staring straight ahead through the windshield, his eyes narrow, his 
expression tense. “It’s built right into the ground, and it’s hidden by a big 
tree. I left them there. I told them not to move. I think they’ll be safe. I 
don’t think anyone’ll think to look there.” 

“We’ve seen it,” Josh said. A bright light suddenly flashed on in the 
backseat. 

“What’s that?” Mr. Dawes asked, looking into the rearview mirror. 

“My flashlight,” Josh answered, clicking it off. “I brought it just in 
case. But the sun will be up soon. I probably won’t need it.” 

Mr. Dawes hit the brake and pulled the car to the side of the road. We 
were at the edge of the cemetery. I climbed quickly out of the car, eager to 
see my parents. 

The sky was still dark, streaked with violet now. The sun was a dark 
orange balloon just barely poking over the trees. Across the street, beyond 
the jagged rows of gravestones, I could see the dark outline of the leaning 
tree that hid the mysterious amphitheater. 

“Hurry,” Mr. Dawes urged, closing his car door quietly. “I’m sure your 
parents are desperate to see you.” 



We headed across the street, half-walking, half-jogging, Josh swinging 
the flashlight in one hand. 

Suddenly, at the edge of the cemetery grass, Josh stopped. “Petey!” he 
cried. 

I followed his gaze, and saw our white terrier walking slowly along a 
slope of gravestones. 

“Petey!” Josh yelled again, and began running to the dog. 

My heart sank. I hadn’t had a chance to tell Josh what Ray had 
revealed to me about Petey. “No—Josh!” I called. 

Mr. Dawes looked very alarmed. “We don’t have time. We have to 
hurry,” he said to me. Then he began shouting for Josh to come back. 

“I’ll go get him,” I said, and took off, running as fast as I could along 
the rows of graves, calling to my brother. “Josh! Josh, wait up! Don’t! 
Don’t go after him! Josh—Petey is dead!” 

Josh had been gaining on the dog, which was ambling along, sniffing 
the ground, not looking up, not paying any attention to Josh. Then suddenly, 
Josh tripped over a low grave marker. 

He cried out as he fell, and the flashlight flew out of his hand and 
clattered against a gravestone. 

I quickly caught up with him. “Josh—are you okay?” 

He was lying on his stomach, staring straight ahead. 

“Josh—answer me. Are you okay?” 

I grabbed him by the shoulders and tried to pull him up, but he kept 
staring straight ahead, his mouth open, his eyes wide. 

“Josh?” 

“Look,” he said finally. 

I breathed a sigh of relief, knowing that Josh wasn’t knocked out or 
something. 

“Look,” he repeated, and pointed to the gravestone he had tripped 

over. 

I turned and squinted at the grave. I read the inscription, silently 
mouthing the words as I read: 

COMPTON DAWES. R.I.P. 1950-1980. 

My head began to spin. I felt dizzy. I steadied myself, holding onto 

Josh. 


COMPTON DAWES. 



It wasn’t his father or his grandfather. He had told us he was the only 
Compton in his family. 

So Mr. Dawes was dead, too. 

Dead. Dead. Dead. 

Dead as everyone else. 

He was one of them. One of the dead ones. 

Josh and I stared at each other in the purple darkness. Surrounded. 
Surrounded by the dead. 

Now what? I asked myself. 

Now what? 



16 


“Get up, Josh,” I said, my voice a choked whisper. “We’ve got to get away 
from here.” 

But we were too late. 

A hand grabbed me firmly by the shoulder. 

I spun around to see Mr. Dawes, his eyes narrowing as he read the 
inscription on his own gravestone. 

“Mr. Dawes—you, too!” I cried, so disappointed, so confused, so... 
scared. 

“Me, too,” he said, almost sadly. “All of us.” His eyes burned into 
mine. “This was a normal town once. And we were normal people. Most of 
us worked in the plastics factory on the outskirts of town. Then there was 
an accident. Something escaped from the factory. A yellow gas. It floated 
over the town. So fast we didn’t see it... didn’t realize. And then, it was too 
late, and Dark Falls wasn’t a normal town anymore. We were all dead, 
Amanda. Dead and buried. But we couldn’t rest. We couldn’t sleep. Dark 
Falls was a town of living dead.” 

“What—what are you going to do to us?” I managed to ask. My knees 
were trembling so hard, I could barely stand. A dead man was squeezing 
my shoulder. A dead man was staring hard into my eyes. 

Standing this close, I could smell his sour breath. I turned my head, but 
the smell already choked my nostrils. 

“Where are Mom and Dad?” Josh asked, climbing to his feet and 
standing rigidly across from us, glaring accusingly at Mr. Dawes. 

“Safe and sound,” Mr. Dawes said with a faint smile. “Come with me. 
It’s time for you to join them.” 

I tried to pull away from him, but his hand was locked on my shoulder. 
“Let go!” I shouted. 

His smile grew wider. “Amanda, it doesn’t hurt to die,” he said softly, 
almost soothingly. “Come with me.” 

“No!” Josh shouted. And with sudden quickness, he dived to the 
ground and picked up his flashlight. 

“Yes!” I cried. “Shine it on him, Josh!” The light could save us. The 



light could defeat Mr. Dawes, as it had Ray. The light could destroy him. 
“Quick—shine it on him!” I pleaded. 

Josh fumbled with the flashlight, then pointed it toward Mr. Dawes’ 
startled face, and clicked it on. 

Nothing. 

No light. 

“It—it’s broken,” Josh said. “I guess when it hit the gravestone....” 

My heart pounding, I looked back at Mr. Dawes. The smile on his face 
was a smile of victory. 



17 


“Nice try,” Mr. Dawes said to Josh. The smile faded quickly from his face. 

Close up, he didn’t look so young and handsome. His skin, I could see, 
was dry and peeling and hung loosely beneath his eyes. 

“Let’s go, kids,” he said, giving me a shove. He glanced up at the 
brightening sky. The sun was raising itself over the treetops. 

Josh hesitated. 

“I said let’s go,” Mr. Dawes snapped impatiently. He loosened his grip 
on my shoulder and took a menacing step toward Josh. 

Josh glanced down at the worthless flashlight. Then he pulled his arm 
back and heaved the flashlight at Mr. Dawes’ head. 

The flashlight hit its target with a sickening crack. It hit Mr. Dawes in 
the center of his forehead, splitting a large hole in the skin. 

Mr. Dawes uttered a low cry. His eyes widened in surprise. Dazed, he 
reached a hand up to the hole where a few inches of gray skull poked 
through. 

“Run, Josh!” I cried. 

But there was no need to tell him that. He was already zigzagging 
through the rows of graves, his head ducked low. I followed him, running as 
fast as I could. 

Glancing back, I saw Mr. Dawes stagger after us, still holding his 
ripped forehead. He took several steps, then abruptly stopped, staring up at 
the sky. 

It’s too bright for him, I realized. He has to stay in the shade. 

Josh had ducked down behind a tall marble monument, old and 
slightly tilted, cracked down the middle. I slid down beside him, gasping 
for breath. 

Leaning on the cool marble, we both peered around the sides of the 
monument. Mr. Dawes, a scowl on his face, was heading back toward the 
amphitheater, keeping in the shadows of the trees. 

“He—he’s not chasing us,” Josh whispered, his chest heaving as he 
struggled to catch his breath and stifle his fear. “He’s going back.” 

“The sun is too bright for him,” I said, holding onto the side of the 



monument. “He must be going to get Mom and Dad.” 

“That stupid flashlight,” Josh cried. 

“Never mind that,” I said, watching Mr. Dawes until he disappeared 
behind the big leaning tree. “What are we going to do now? I don’t know 

“Shhh. Look!” Josh poked me hard on the shoulder, and pointed. 
“Who’s that?” 

I followed his stare and saw several dark figures hurrying through the 
rows of tombstones. They seemed to have appeared from out of nowhere. 

Did they rise out of the graves? 

Walking quickly, seeming to float over the green, sloping ground, they 
headed into the shadows. All were walking in silence, their eyes straight 
ahead. They didn’t stop to greet one another. They strode purposefully 
toward the hidden amphitheater, as if they were being drawn there, as if 
they were puppets being pulled by hidden strings. 

“Whoa. Look at them all!” Josh whispered, ducking his head back 
behind the marble monument. 

The dark, moving forms made all the shadows ripple. It looked as if 
the trees, the gravestones, the entire cemetery had come to life, had started 
toward the hidden seats of the amphitheater. 

“There goes Karen,” I whispered, pointing. “And George. And all the 
rest of them.” 

The kids from our house were moving quickly in twos and threes, 
following the other shadows, as silent and businesslike as everyone else. 

Everyone was here except Ray, I thought. 

Because we killed Ray. 

We killed someone who was already dead. 

“Do you think Mom and Dad are really down in that weird theater?” 
Josh asked, interrupting my morbid thoughts, his eyes on the moving 
shadows. 

“Come on,” I said, taking Josh’s hand and pulling him away from the 
monument. “We’ve got to find out.” 

We watched the last of the dark figures float past the enormous leaning 
tree. The shadows stopped moving. The cemetery was still and silent. A 
solitary crow floated, high above in the clear blue, cloudless sky. 

Slowly, Josh and I edged our way toward the amphitheater, ducking 



behind gravestones, keeping low to the ground. 

It was a struggle to move. I felt as if I weighed five hundred pounds. 
The weight of my fear, I guess. 

I was desperate to see if Mom and Dad were there. 

But at the same time, I didn’t want to see. 

I didn’t want to see them being held prisoner by Mr. Dawes and the 
others. 

I didn’t want to see them... killed. 

The thought made me stop. I reached out an arm and halted Josh. 

We were standing behind the leaning tree, hidden by its enormous 
clump of upraised roots. Beyond the tree, down in the theater below, I could 
hear the low murmur of voices. 

“Are Mom and Dad there?” Josh whispered. He started to poke his 
head around the side of the bent tree trunk, but I cautiously pulled him 
back. 

“Be careful,” I whispered. “Don’t let them see you. They’re practically 
right beneath us.” 

“But I’ve got to know if Mom and Dad are really here,” he whispered, 
his eyes frightened, pleading. 

“Me, too,” I agreed. 

We both leaned over the massive trunk. The bark felt smooth under my 
hands as I gazed into the deep shadows cast by the tree. 

And then I saw them. 

Mom and Dad. They were tied up, back-to-back, standing in the center 
of the floor at the bottom of the amphitheater in front of everyone. 

They looked so uncomfortable, so terrified. Their arms were tied 
tightly down at their sides. Dad’s face was bright red. Mom’s hair was all 
messed up, hanging wildly down over her forehead, her head bowed. 

Squinting into the darkness cast by the tree, I saw Mr. Dawes standing 
beside them along with another, older man. And I saw that the rows of long 
benches built into the ground were filled with people. Not a single empty 
space. 

Everyone in town must be here, I realized. 

Everyone except Josh and me. 

“They’re going to kill Mom and Dad,” Josh whispered, grabbing my 
arm, squeezing it in fear. “They’re going to make Mom and Dad just like 



them.” 

“Then they’ll come after us,” I said, thinking out loud, staring through 
the shadows at my poor parents. Both of them had their heads bowed now 
as they stood before the silent crowd. Both of them were awaiting their 
fates. 

“What are we going to do?” Josh whispered. 

“Huh?” I was staring so hard at Mom and Dad, I guess I momentarily 
blanked out. 

“What are we going to do?” Josh repeated urgently, still holding 
desperately to my arm. “We can’t just stand here and—” 

I suddenly knew what we were going to do. 

It just came to me. I didn’t even have to think hard. 

“Maybe we can save them,” I whispered, backing away from the tree. 
“Maybe we can do something.” 

Josh let go of my arm. He stared at me eagerly. 

“We’re going to push this tree over,” I whispered with so much 
confidence that I surprised myself. “We’re going to push the tree over so 
the sunlight will fill the amphitheater.” 

“Yes!” Josh cried immediately. “Look at this tree. It’s practically down 
already. We can do it!” 

I knew we could do it. I don’t know where my confidence came from. 
But I knew we could do it. 

And I knew we had to do it fast. 

Peering over the top of the trunk again, struggling to see through the 
shadows, I could see that everyone in the theater had stood up. They were 
all starting to move forward, down toward Mom and Dad. 

“Come on, Josh,” I whispered. “We’ll take a running jump, and push 
the tree over. Come on!” 

Without another word, we both took several steps back. 

We just had to give the trunk a good, hard push, and the tree would 
topple right over. The roots were already almost entirely up out of the 
ground, after all. 

One hard push. That’s all it would take. And the sunlight would pour 
into the theater. Beautiful, golden sunlight. Bright, bright sunlight. 

The dead people would all crumble. 

And Mom and Dad would be saved. 



All four of us would be saved. 

“Come on, Josh,” I whispered. “Ready?” 

He nodded, his face solemn, his eyes frightened. 

“Okay. Let’s go!” I cried. 

We both ran forward, digging our sneakers into the ground, moving as 
fast as we could, our arms outstretched and ready. 

In a second, we hit the tree trunk and pushed with all of our strength, 
shoving it with our hands and then moving our shoulders into it, pushing... 
pushing... pushing... 

It didn’t budge. 



18 


“Push!” I cried. “Push it again!” 

Josh let out an exasperated, defeated sigh. “I can’t, Amanda. I can’t 
move it.” 

“Josh—” I glared at him. 

He backed up to try again. 

Below, I could hear startled voices, angry voices. 

“Quick!” I yelled. “Push!” 

We hurtled into the tree trunk with our shoulders, both of us grunting 
from the effort, our muscles straining, our faces bright red. 

“Push! Keep pushing!” 

The veins at my temples felt about to pop. 

Was the tree moving? 

No. 

It gave a little, but bounced right back. 

The voices from below were getting louder. 

“We can’t do it!” I cried, so disappointed, so frustrated, so terrified. 
“We can’t move it!” 

Defeated, I slumped over onto the tree trunk, and started to bury my 
face in my hands. 

I pulled back with a gasp when I heard the soft cracking sound. The 
cracking sound grew louder until it was a rumble, then a roar. It sounded as 
if the ground were ripping apart. 

The old tree fell quickly. It didn’t have far to fall. But it hit with a 
thundering crash that seemed to shake the ground. 

I grabbed Josh and we both stood in amazement and disbelief as bright 
sunlight poured into the amphitheater. 

The cries went up instantly. Horrified cries. Angry cries. Frantic cries. 

The cries became howls. Howls of pain, of agony. 

The people in the amphitheater, the living dead caught in the golden 
light, began scrambling over one another, screeching, pulling, climbing, 
pushing, trying to claw their way to shade. 



But it was too late. 

Their skin began to drop off their bones and, as I stared open-mouthed, 
they crumbled to powder and dissolved to the ground, their clothes 
disintegrating along with them. 

The painful cries continued to ring out as the bodies fell apart, the skin 
melted away, the dry bones collapsed. I saw Karen Somerset staggering 
across the floor. I saw her hair fall to the ground in a heap, revealing the 
dark skull underneath. She cast a glance up at me, a longing look, a look of 
regret. And then her eyeballs rolled out of their sockets, and she opened her 
toothless mouth, and she cried, “Thank you, Amanda! Thank you!” and 
collapsed. 

Josh and I covered our ears to shut out the ghastly cries. We both 
looked away, unable to keep watching the entire town fall in agony and 
crumble to powder, destroyed by the sun, the clear, warm sun. 

When we looked back, they had all disappeared. 

Mom and Dad were standing right where they had been, tied back-to- 
back, their expressions a mixture of horror and disbelief. 

“Mom! Dad!” I cried. 

I’ll never forget their smiles as Josh and I ran forward to free them. 

It didn’t take our parents long to get us packed up and to arrange for the 
movers to take us back to our old neighborhood and our old house. “I guess 
it’s lucky after all that we couldn’t sell the old place,” Dad said, as we 
eagerly piled into the car to leave. 

Dad backed down the driveway and started to roar away. 

“Stop!” I cried suddenly. I’m not sure why, but I had a sudden, 
powerful urge to take one last look at the old house. 

As both of my parents called out to me in confusion, I pushed open the 
door and jogged back to the driveway. Standing in the middle of the yard, I 
stared up at the house, silent, empty, still covered in thick layers of blue- 
gray shadows. 

I found myself gazing up at the old house as if I were hypnotized. I 
don’t know how long I stood there. 

The crunch of tires on the gravel driveway snapped me out of my 
spell. Startled, I turned to see a red station wagon parked in the driveway. 

Two boys about Josh’s age jumped out of the back. Their parents 



followed. Staring up at the house, they didn’t seem to notice me. 

“Here we are, kids,” the mother said, smiling at them. “Our new 
house.” 

“It doesn’t look new. It looks old,” one of the boys said. 

And then his brother’s eyes widened as he noticed me. “Who are you?” 
he demanded. 

The other members of his family turned to stare at me. 

“Oh. I... uh...” His question caught me by surprise. I could hear my 
dad honking his horn impatiently down on the street. “I... uh... used to live 
in your house,” I found myself answering. 

And then I turned and ran full speed down to the street. 

Wasn’t that Mr. Dawes standing at the porch, clipboard in hand? I 
wondered, catching a glimpse of a dark figure as I ran to the car. 

No, it couldn’t be Mr. Dawes up there waiting for them, I decided. 

It just couldn’t be. 

I didn’t look back. I slammed the car door behind me, and we sped 
away. 




STAY OUT OF 
THE BASEMENT 

Goosebumps - 02 
R.L. Stine 




1 


“Hey, Dad—catch!” 

Casey tossed the Frisbee across the smooth, green lawn. Casey’s dad made 
a face, squinting into the sun. The Frisbee hit the ground and skipped a few 
times before landing under the hedge at the back of the house. 

“Not today. I’m busy,” Dr. Brewer said, and abruptly turned and loped into 
the house. The screen door slammed behind him. 

Casey brushed his straight blond hair back off his forehead. “What’s his 
problem?” he called to Margaret, his sister, who had watched the whole scene 
from the side of the redwood garage. 

“You know,” Margaret said quietly. She wiped her hands on the legs of her 
jeans and held them both up, inviting a toss. “I’ll play Frisbee with you for a 
little while,” she said. 

“Okay,” Casey said without enthusiasm. He walked slowly over to retrieve 
the Frisbee from under the hedge. 

Margaret moved closer. She felt sorry for Casey. He and their dad were 
really close, always playing ball or Frisbee or Nintendo together. But Dr. Brewer 
didn’t seem to have time for that anymore. 

Jumping up to catch the Frisbee, Margaret realized she felt sorry for herself, 
too. Dad hadn’t been the same to her, either. In fact, he spent so much time down 
in the basement, he barely said a word to her. 

He doesn’t even call me Princess anymore, Margaret thought. It was a 
nickname she hated. But at least it was a nickname, a sign of closeness. 

She tossed the red Frisbee back. A bad toss. Casey chased after it, but it 
sailed away from him. Margaret looked up to the golden hills beyond their 
backyard. 

California, she thought. 

It’s so weird out here. Here it is, the middle of winter, and there isn’t a 
cloud in the sky, and Casey and I are out in jeans and T-shirts as if it were the 
middle of summer. 

She made a diving catch for a wild toss, rolling over on the manicured lawn 
and raising the Frisbee above her head triumphantly. 

“Show off,” Casey muttered, unimpressed. 



“You’re the hot dog in the family,” Margaret called. 

“Well, you’re a dork.” 

“Hey, Casey—you want me to play with you or not?” 

He shrugged. 

Everyone was so edgy these days, Margaret realized. 

It was easy to figure out why. 

She made a high toss. The Frisbee sailed over Casey’s head. “You chase it!” 
he cried angrily, putting his hands on his hips. 

“No, you!” she cried. 

“You!” 

“Casey—you’re eleven years old. Don’t act like a two-year-old,” she 
snapped. 

“Well, you act like a one- year-old,” was his reply as he grudgingly went 
after the Frisbee. 

It was all Dad’s fault, Margaret realized. Things had been so tense ever 
since he started working at home. Down in the basement with his plants and 
weird machines. He hardly ever came up for air. 

And when he did, he wouldn’t even catch a Frisbee. 

Or spend two minutes with either of them. 

Mom had noticed it, too, Margaret thought, running full-out and making 
another grandstand catch just before colliding with the side of the garage. 

Having Dad home has made Mom really tense, too. She pretends 
everything is fine. But I can tell she’s worried about him. 

“Fucky catch, Fatso!” Casey called. 

Margaret hated the name Fatso even more than she hated Princess. People 
in her family jokingly called her Fatso because she was so thin, like her father. 
She also was tall like him, but she had her mother’s straight brown hair, brown 
eyes, and dark coloring. 

“Don’t call me that.” She heaved the red disc at him. He caught it at his 
knees and flipped it back to her. 

They tossed it back and forth without saying much for another ten or fifteen 
minutes. “I’m getting hot,” Margaret said, shielding her eyes from the afternoon 
sun with her hand. “Fet’s go in.” 

Casey tossed the Frisbee against the garage wall. It dropped onto the grass. 
He came trotting over to her. “Dad always plays longer,” he said peevishly. “And 
he throws better. You throw like a girl.” 



“Give me a break,” Margaret groaned, giving him a playful shove as she 
jogged to the back door. “You throw like a chimpanzee.” 

“How come Dad got fired?” he asked. 

She blinked. And stopped running. The question had caught her by surprise. 
“Huh?” 

His pale, freckled face turned serious. “You know. I mean, why?” he asked, 
obviously uncomfortable. 

She and Casey had never discussed this in the four weeks since Dad had 
been home. Which was unusual since they were pretty close, being only a year 
apart. 

“I mean, we came all the way out here so he could work at PolyTech, 
right?” Casey asked. 

“Yeah. Well... he got fired,” Margaret said, half-whispering in case her dad 
might be able to hear. 

“But why? Did he blow up the lab or something?” Casey grinned. The idea 
of his dad blowing up a huge campus science lab appealed to him. 

“No, he didn’t blow anything up,” Margaret said, tugging at a strand of dark 
hair. “Botanists work with plants, you know. They don’t get much of a chance to 
blow things up.” 

They both laughed. 

Casey followed her into the narrow strip of shade cast by the low ranch- 
style house. 

“I’m not sure exactly what happened,” Margaret continued, still half- 
whispering. “But I overheard Dad on the phone. I think he was talking to Mr. 
Martinez. His department head. Remember? The quiet little man who came to 
dinner that night the barbecue grill caught fire?” 

Casey nodded. “Martinez fired Dad?” 

“Probably,” Margaret whispered. “From what I overheard, it had something 
to do with the plants Dad was growing, some experiments that had gone wrong 
or something.” 

“But Dad’s real smart,” Casey insisted, as if Margaret were arguing with 
him. “If his experiments went wrong, he’d know how to fix them.” 

Margaret shrugged. “That’s all I know,” she said. “Come on, Casey. Let’s 
go inside. I’m dying of thirst!” She stuck her tongue out and moaned, 
demonstrating her dire need of liquid. 

“You’re gross,” Casey said. He pulled open the screen door, then dodged in 



front of her so he could get inside first. 

“Who’s gross?” Mrs. Brewer asked from the sink. She turned to greet the 
two of them. “Don’t answer that.” 

Mom looks very tired today, Margaret thought, noticing the crisscross of 
fine lines at the corners of her mother’s eyes and the first strands of gray in her 
mother’s shoulder-length brown hair. “I hate this job,” Mrs. Brewer said, turning 
back to the sink. 

“What are you doing?” Casey asked, pulling open the refrigerator and 
removing a box of juice. 

“I’m deveining shrimp.” 

“Yuck!” Margaret exclaimed. 

“Thanks for the support,” Mrs. Brewer said dryly. The phone rang. Wiping 
her shrimpy hands with a dish towel, she hurried across the room to pick up the 
phone. 

Margaret got a box of juice from the fridge, popped the straw into the top, 
and followed Casey into the front hallway. The basement door, usually shut tight 
when Dr. Brewer was working down there, was slightly ajar. 

Casey started to close it, then stopped. “Let’s go down and see what Dad is 
doing,” he suggested. 

Margaret sucked the last drops of juice through the straw and squeezed the 
empty box flat in her hand. “Okay.” 

She knew they probably shouldn’t disturb their father, but her curiosity got 
the better of her. He had been working down there for four weeks now. All kinds 
of interesting equipment, lights, and plants had been delivered. Most days he 
spent at least eight or nine hours down there, doing whatever it was he was 
doing. And he hadn’t shown it to them once. 

“Yeah. Let’s go,” Margaret said. It was their house, too, after all. 

Besides, maybe their dad was just waiting for them to show some interest. 
Maybe he was hurt that they hadn’t bothered to come downstairs in all this time. 

She pulled the door open the rest of the way, and they stepped onto the 
narrow stairway. “Hey, Dad—” Casey called excitedly. “Dad—can we see?” 

They were halfway down when their father appeared at the foot of the 
stairs. He glared up at them angrily, his skin strangely green under the 
fluorescent light fixture. He was holding his right hand, drops of red blood 
falling onto his white lab coat. 

“Stay out of the basement!” he bellowed, in a voice they’d never heard 



before. 

Both kids shrank back, surprised to hear their father scream like that. He 
was usually so mild and soft-spoken. 

“Stay out of the basement, ” he repeated, holding his bleeding hand. “Don’t 
ever come down here—I’m warning you.” 



2 


“Okay. All packed,” Mrs. Brewer said, dropping her suitcases with a thud in the 
front hallway. She poked her head into the living room where the TV was 
blaring. “Do you think you could stop the movie for one minute to say good-bye 
to your mother?” 

Casey pushed a button on the remote control, and the screen went blank. He 
and Margaret obediently walked to the hallway to give their mother hugs. 

Margaret’s friend, Diane Manning, who lived just around the corner, 
followed them into the hallway. “How long are you going to be gone, Mrs. 
Brewer?” she asked, her eyes on the two bulging suitcases. 

“I don’t know,” Mrs. Brewer replied fretfully. “My sister went into the 
hospital in Tucson this morning. I guess I’ll have to stay until she’s able to go 
home.” 

“Well, I’ll be glad to baby-sit for Casey and Margaret while you’re away,” 
Diane joked. 

“Give me a break,” Margaret said, rolling her eyes. “I’m older than you are, 
Diane.” 

“And I’m smarter than both of you,” Casey added with typical modesty. 

“I’m not worried about you kids,” Mrs. Brewer said, glancing nervously at 
her watch. “I’m worried about your father.” 

“Don’t worry,” Margaret told her seriously. “We’ll take good care of him.” 

“Just make sure that he eats something once in a while,” Mrs. Brewer said. 
“He’s so obsessed with his work, he doesn’t remember to eat unless you tell 
him.” 

It’s going to be really lonely around here without Mom, Margaret thought. 
Dad hardly ever comes up from the basement. 

It had been two weeks since he yelled at Casey and her to stay out of the 
basement. They had been tiptoeing around ever since, afraid to get him angry 
again. But in the past two weeks, he had barely spoken to them, except for the 
occasional “good morning” and “good night.” 

“Don’t worry about anything, Mom,” she said, forcing a smile. “Just take 
good care of Aunt Eleanor.” 

“I’ll call as soon as I get to Tucson,” Mrs. Brewer said, nervously lowering 



her eyes to her watch again. She took three long strides to the basement door, 
then shouted down, “Michael—time to take me to the airport!” 

After a long wait, Dr. Brewer called up a reply. Then Mrs. Brewer turned 
back to the kids. “Think heTl even notice I’m gone?” she asked in a loud 
whisper. She meant it to be a light remark, but her eyes revealed some sadness. 

A few seconds later, they heard footsteps on the basement stairs, and their 
dad appeared. He pulled off his stained lab coat, revealing tan slacks and a bright 
yellow T-shirt, and tossed the lab coat onto the banister. Even though it was two 
weeks later, his right hand, the hand that had been bleeding, was still heavily 
bandaged. 

“Ready?” he asked his wife. 

Mrs. Brewer sighed. “I guess.” She gave Margaret and Casey a helpless 
look, then moved quickly to give them each one last hug. 

“Let’s go, then,” Dr. Brewer said impatiently. He picked up the two bags 
and groaned. “Wow. How long are you planning to stay? A year?” Then he 
headed out the front door with them, not waiting for an answer. 

“Bye, Mrs. Brewer,” Diane said, waving. “Have a good trip.” 

“How can she have a good trip?” Casey asked sharply. “Her sister’s in the 
hospital.” 

“You know what I mean,” Diane replied, tossing back her long red hair and 
rolling her eyes. 

They watched the station wagon roll down the driveway, then returned to 
the living room. Casey picked up the remote control and started the movie. 

Diane sprawled on the couch and picked up the bag of potato chips she’d 
been eating. 

“Who picked this movie?” Diane asked, crinkling the foil bag noisily. 

“I did,” Casey said. “It’s neat.” He had pulled a couch cushion down to the 
living room carpet and was lying on it. 

Margaret was sitting cross-legged on the floor, her back against the base of 
an armchair, still thinking about her mother and her aunt Eleanor. “It’s neat if 
you like to see a lot of people blown up and their guts flying all over,” she said, 
making a face for Diane’s benefit. 

“Yeah. It’s neat,” Casey said, not taking his eyes off the glowing TV screen. 

“I’ve got so much homework. I don’t know why I’m sitting here,” Diane 
said, reaching her hand into the potato chip bag. 

“Me, too,” Margaret sighed. “I guess I’ll do it after dinner. Do you have the 



math assignment? I think I left my math book at school.” 

“Sshhh!” Casey hissed, kicking a sneakered foot in Margaret’s direction. 
“This is a good part.” 

“You’ve seen this tape before?” Diane shrieked. 

“Twice,” Casey admitted. He ducked, and the sofa pillow Diane threw 
sailed over his head. 

“It’s a pretty afternoon,” Margaret said, stretching her arms above her head. 
“Maybe we should go outside. You know. Ride bikes or something.” 

“You think you’re still back in Michigan? It’s always a pretty afternoon 
here,” Diane said, chewing loudly. “I don’t even notice it anymore.” 

“Maybe we should do the math assignment together,” Margaret suggested 
hopefully. Diane was much better in math than she was. 

Diane shrugged. “Yeah. Maybe.” She crinkled up the bag and set it on the 
floor. “Your dad looked kind of nervous, you know?” 

“Huh? What do you mean?” 

“Just nervous,” Diane said. “How’s he doing?” 

“Sshhh,” Casey insisted, picking up the potato chip bag and tossing it at 
Diane. 

“You know. Being laid off and all.” 

“I guess he’s okay,” Margaret said wistfully. “I don’t know, really. He 
spends all his time down in the basement with his experiments.” 

“Experiments? Hey—let’s go take a look.” Tossing her hair back behind her 
shoulders, Diane jumped up from the chrome and white leather couch. 

Diane was a science freak. Math and science. The two subjects Margaret 
hated. 

She should have been in the Brewer family, Margaret thought with a trace 
of bitterness. Maybe Dad would pay some attention to her since she’s into the 
same things he is. 

“Come on—” Diane urged, bending over to pull Margaret up from the floor. 
“He’s a botanist, right? What’s he doing down there?” 

“It’s complicated,” Margaret said, shouting over the explosions and gunfire 
on the TV. “He tried to explain it to me once. But—” Margaret allowed Diane to 
pull her to her feet. 

“Shut up!” Casey yelled, staring at the movie, the colors from the TV 
screen reflecting over his clothes. 

“Is he building a Frankenstein monster or something?” Diane demanded. 



“Or some kind of RoboCop? Wouldn’t that be cool?” 

“Shut up!” Casey repeated shrilly as Arnold Schwarzenegger bounded 
across the screen. 

“He’s got all these machines and plants down there,” Margaret said 
uncomfortably. “But he doesn’t want us to go down there.” 

“Huh? It’s like top secret?” Diane’s emerald green eyes lit up with 
excitement. “Come on. We’ll just take a peek.” 

“No, I don’t think so,” Margaret told her. She couldn’t forget the angry look 
on her father’s face two weeks before when she and Casey had tried to pay a 
visit. Or the way he had screamed at them never to come down to the basement. 

“Come on. I dare you,” Diane challenged. “Are you chicken?” 

“I’m not afraid,” Margaret insisted shrilly. Diane was always daring her to 
do things she didn’t want to do. Why is it so important for Diane to think she’s 
so much braver than everyone else? Margaret wondered. 

“Chicken,” Diane repeated. Tossing her mane of red hair behind her 
shoulder, she strode quickly toward the basement door. 

“Diane—stop!” Margaret cried, following after her. 

“Hey, wait!” Casey cried, clicking off the movie. “Are we going 
downstairs? Wait for me!” He climbed quickly to his feet and enthusiastically 
hurried to join them at the basement door. 

“We can’t—” Margaret started, but Diane clamped a hand over her mouth. 

“We’ll take a quick peek,” Diane insisted. “We’ll just look. We won’t touch 
anything. And then we’ll come right back upstairs.” 

“Okay. I’ll go first,” Casey said, grabbing for the doorknob. 

“Why do you want to do this?” Margaret asked her friend. “Why are you so 
eager to go down there?” 

Diane shrugged. “It beats doing our math,” she replied, grinning. 

Margaret sighed, defeated. “Okay, let’s go. But remember—just looking, no 
touching.” 

Casey pulled open the door and led the way onto the stairway. Stepping 
onto the landing, they were immediately engulfed in hot, steamy air. They could 
hear the buzz and hum of electronic machinery. And off to the right, they could 
see the glare of the bright white lights from Dr. Brewer’s workroom. 

This is kind of fun, Margaret thought as the three of them made their way 
down the linoleum-covered stairway. 

It’s an adventure. 



There’s no harm in taking a peek. 

So why was her heart pounding? Why did she have this sudden tingle of 

fear? 



3 


“Yuck! It’s so hot in here!” 

As they stepped away from the stairs, the air became unbearably hot and 
thick. 

Margaret gasped. The sudden change in temperature was suffocating. 

“It’s so moist,” Diane said. “Good for your hair and skin.” 

“We studied the rain forest in school,” Casey said. “Maybe Dad’s building a 
rain forest.” 

“Maybe,” Margaret said uncertainly. 

Why did she feel so strange? Was it just because they were invading their 
father’s domain? Doing something he had told them not to do? 

She held back, gazing in both directions. The basement was divided into 
two large, rectangular rooms. To the left, an unfinished rec room stood in 
darkness. She could barely make out the outlines of the Ping-Pong table in the 
center of the room. 

The workroom to the right was brightly lit, so bright they had to blink and 
wait for their eyes to adjust. Beams of white light poured down from large 
halogen lamps on tracks in the ceiling. 

“Wow! Look!” Casey cried, his eyes wide as he stepped excitedly toward 
the light. 

Reaching up toward the lights were shiny, tall plants, dozens of them, thick- 
stalked and broad-leafed, planted close together in an enormous, low trough of 
dark soil. 

“It’s like a jungle!” Margaret exclaimed, following Casey into the white 
glare. 

The plants, in fact, resembled jungle plants—leafy vines and tall, treelike 
plants with long, slender tendrils, fragile-looking ferns, plants with gnarled, 
cream-colored roots poking up like bony knees from the soil. 

“It’s like a swamp or something,” Diane said. “Did your father really grow 
these things in just five or six weeks?” 

“Yeah. I’m pretty sure,” Margaret replied, staring at the enormous red 
tomatoes on a slender, yellow stalk. 

“Ooh. Feel this one,” Diane said. 



Margaret glanced over to find her friend rubbing her hand over a large, flat 
leaf the shape of a teardrop. “Diane—we shouldn’t touch—” 

“I know, I know,” Diane said, not letting go of the leaf. “But just rub your 
hand on it.” 

Margaret reluctantly obeyed. “It doesn’t feel like a leaf,” she said as Diane 
moved over to examine a large fern. “It’s so smooth. Like glass.” 

The three of them stood under the bright, white lights, examining the plants 
for several minutes, touching the thick stalks, running their hands over the 
smooth, warm leaves, surprised by the enormous size of the fruits some of the 
plants had produced. 

“It’s too hot down here,” Casey complained. He pulled his T-shirt off over 
his head and dropped it onto the floor. 

“What a bod!” Diane teased him. 

He stuck out his tongue at her. Then his pale blue eyes grew wide and he 
seemed to freeze in surprise. “Hey!” 

“Casey—what’s the matter?” Margaret asked, hurrying over to him. 

“This one—” He pointed to a tall, treelike plant. “It’s breathing !” 

Diane laughed. 

But Margaret heard it, too. She grabbed Casey’s bare shoulder and listened. 
Yes. She could hear breathing sounds, and they seemed to be coming from the 
tall, leafy tree. 

“What’s your problem?” Diane asked, seeing the amazed expressions on 
Casey’s and Margaret’s faces. 

“Casey’s right,” Margaret said softly, listening to the steady, rhythmic 
sound. “You can hear it breathing.” 

Diane rolled her eyes. “Maybe it has a cold. Maybe its vine is stuffed up.” 
She laughed at her own joke, but her two companions didn’t join in. “I don’t 
hear it.” She moved closer. 

All three of them listened. 

Silence. 

“It—stopped,” Margaret said. 

“Stop it, you two,” Diane scolded. “You’re not going to scare me.” 

“No. Really,” Margaret protested. 

“Hey—look at this!” Casey had already moved on to something else. He 
was standing in front of a tall glass case that stood on the other side of the plants. 
It looked a little like a phone booth, with a shelf inside about shoulder-high, and 



dozens of wires attached to the back and sides. 

Margaret’s eyes followed the wires to a similar glass booth a few feet away. 
Some kind of electrical generator stood between the two booths and appeared to 
be connected to both of them. 

“What could that be?” Diane asked, hurrying over to Casey. 

“Don’t touch it,” Margaret warned, giving the breathing plant one final 
glance, then joining the others. 

But Casey reached out to the glass door on the front of the booth. “I just 
want to see if this opens,” he said. 

He grabbed the glass—and his eyes went wide with shock. 

His entire body began to shake and vibrate. His head jerked wildly from 
side to side. His eyes rolled up in his head. 

“Oh, help!” he managed to cry, his body vibrating and shaking harder and 
faster. “Help me! I—can’t stop!” 



4 


“Help me!” 

Casey’s whole body shook as if an electrical current were charging through 
him. His head jerked on his shoulders, and his eyes looked wild and dazed. 

“Please!” 

Margaret and Diane stared in open-mouthed horror. Margaret was the first 
to move. She lunged at Casey, and reached out to try to pull him away from the 
glass. 

“Margaret—don’t!” Diane screamed. “Don’t touch him!” 

“But we have to do something!” Margaret cried. 

It took both girls a while to realize that Casey had stopped shaking. And 
was laughing. 

“Casey?” Margaret asked, staring at him, her terrified expression fading to 
astonishment. 

He was leaning against the glass, his body still now, his mouth wrapped in a 
broad, mischievous grin. 

“Gotcha!” he declared. And then began to laugh even harder, pointing at 
them and repeating the phrase through his triumphant laughter. “Gotcha! 
Gotcha!” 

“That wasn’t funny!” Margaret screamed. 

“You were faking it?! I don’t believe it!” Diane cried, her face as pale as the 
white lights above them, her lower lip trembling. 

Both girls leapt onto Casey and pushed him to the floor. Margaret sat on top 
of him while Diane held his shoulders down. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha!” he continued, stopping only when Margaret tickled his 
stomach so hard he couldn’t talk. 

“You rat!” Diane cried. “You little rat!” 

The free-for-all was brought to a sudden halt by a low moan from across the 
room. All three kids raised their heads and stared in the direction of the sound. 

The large basement was silent now except for their heavy breathing. 

“What was that?” Diane whispered. 

They listened. 

Another low moan, a mournful sound, muffled, like air through a 



saxophone. 

The tendrils of a treelike plant suddenly drooped, like snakes lowering 
themselves to the ground. 

Another low, sad moan. 

“It’s—the plants!” Casey said, his expression frightened now. He pushed 
his sister off him and climbed to his feet, brushing back his disheveled blond hair 
as he stood up. 

“Plants don’t cry and moan,” Diane said, her eyes on the vast trough of 
plants that filled the room. 

“These do,” Margaret said. 

Tendrils moved, like human arms shifting their position. They could hear 
breathing again, slow, steady breathing. Then a sigh, like air escaping. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Casey said, edging toward the stairs. 

“It’s definitely creepy down here,” Diane said, following him, her eyes 
remaining on the shifting, moaning plants. 

“I’m sure Dad could explain it,” Margaret said. Her words were calm, but 
her voice trembled, and she was backing out of the room, following Diane and 
Casey. 

“Your dad is weird,” Diane said, reaching the doorway. 

“No, he isn’t,” Casey quickly insisted. “He’s doing important work here.” 

A tall treelike plant sighed and appeared to bend toward them, raising its 
tendrils as if beckoning to them, calling them back. 

“Let’s just get out of here!” Margaret exclaimed. 

All three of them were out of breath by the time they ran up the stairs. 
Casey closed the door tightly, making sure it clicked shut. 

“Weird,” Diane repeated, playing nervously with a strand of her long red 
hair. “Definitely weird.” It was her word of the day. But Margaret had to admit it 
was appropriate. 

“Well, Dad warned us not to go down there,” Margaret said, struggling to 
catch her breath. “I guess he knew it would look scary to us, and we wouldn’t 
understand.” 

“I’m getting out of here,” Diane said, only half-kidding. She stepped out of 
the screen door and turned back toward them. “Want to go over the math later?” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Margaret said, still thinking about the moaning, shifting 
plants. Some of them had seemed to be reaching out to them, crying out to them. 
But of course that was impossible. 



“Later,” Diane said, and headed at a trot down the drive. 

Just as she disappeared, their father’s dark blue station wagon turned the 
corner and started up the drive. “Back from the airport,” Margaret said. She 
turned from the door back to Casey a few yards behind her in the hallway. “Is the 
basement door closed?” 

“Yeah,” Casey replied, looking again to make sure. “No way Dad will know 
we—” 

He stopped. His mouth dropped open, but no sound came out. 

His face went pale. 

“My T-shirt!” Casey exclaimed, slapping his bare chest. “I left it in the 
basement!” 



5 


“I’ve got to get it,” Casey said. “Otherwise Dad’ll know—” 

“It’s too late,” Margaret interrupted, her eyes on the driveway. “He’s 
already pulled up the drive.” 

“It’ll only take a second,” Casey insisted, his hand on the basement 
doorknob. “I’ll run down and run right up.” 

“No!” Margaret stood tensely in the center of the narrow hallway, halfway 
between the front door and the basement door, her eyes toward the front. “He’s 
parked. He’s getting out of the car.” 

“But he’ll know! He’ll know!” Casey cried, his voice high and whiny. 

“So?” 

“Remember how mad he got last time?” Casey asked. 

“Of course I remember,” Margaret replied. “But he’s not going to kill us, 
Casey, just because we took a peek at his plants. He’s—” 

Margaret stopped. She moved closer to the screen door. “Hey, wait.” 

“What’s going on?” Casey asked. 

“Hurry!” Margaret turned and gestured with both hands. “Go! Get 
downstairs—fast! Mr. Henry from next door. He stopped Dad. They’re talking 
about something in the drive.” 

With a loud cry, Casey flung open the basement door and disappeared. 
Margaret heard him clumping rapidly down the stairs. Then she heard his 
footsteps fade as he hurried into their father’s workroom. 

Hurry, Casey, she thought, standing guard at the front door, watching her 
father shielding his eyes from the sun with one hand as he talked with Mr. 
Henry. 

Hurry. 

You know Dad never talks for long with the neighbors. 

Mr. Henry seemed to be doing all the talking. Probably asking Dad some 
kind of favor, Margaret thought. Mr. Henry wasn’t handy at all, not like Dr. 
Brewer. And so he was always asking Margaret’s dad to come over and help 
repair or install things. 

Her father was nodding now, a tight smile on his face. 

Hurry, Casey. 



Get back up here. Where are you? 

Still shielding his eyes, Dr. Brewer gave Mr. Henry a quick wave. Then 
both men spun around and began walking quickly toward their houses. 

Hurry, Casey. 

Casey—he’s coming! Hurry! Margaret urged silently. 

It doesn’t take this long to pick your T-shirt up from the floor and run up the 
stairs. 

It shouldn ’t take this long. 

Her dad was on the front walk now. He spotted her in the doorway and 
waved. 

Margaret returned the wave and looked back through the hallway to the 
basement door. “Casey—where are you?” she called aloud. 

No reply. 

No sound from the basement. 

No sound at all. 

Dr. Brewer had paused outside to inspect the rosebushes at the head of the 
front walk. 

“Casey?” Margaret called. 

Still no reply. 

“Casey—hurry!” 

Silence. 

Her father was crouching down, doing something to the soil beneath the 
rosebushes. 

With a feeling of dread weighing down her entire body, Margaret realized 
she had no choice. 

She had to go downstairs and see what was keeping Casey. 



6 


Casey ran down the steps, leaning on the metal banister so that he could jump 
down two steps at a time. He landed hard on the cement basement floor and 
darted into the bright white light of the plant room. 

Stopping at the entrance way, he waited for his eyes to adjust to the 
brighter-than-day light. He took a deep breath, inhaling the steamy air, and held 
it. It was so hot down here, so sticky. His back began to itch. The back of his 
neck tingled. 

The jungle of plants stood as if at attention under the bright white lights. 

He saw his T-shirt, lying crumpled on the floor a few feet from a tall, leafy 
tree. The tree seemed to lean toward the T-shirt, its long tendrils hanging down, 
loosely coiled on the soil around its trunk. 

Casey took a timid step into the room. 

Why am I so afraid? he wondered. 

It’s just a room filled with strange plants. 

Why do I have the feeling that they’re watching me? Waiting for me? 

He scolded himself for being so afraid and took a few more steps toward 
the crumpled T-shirt on the floor. 

Hey—wait. 

The breathing. 

There it was again. 

Steady breathing. Not too loud. Not too soft, either. 

Who could be breathing? What could be breathing? 

Was the big tree breathing? 

Casey stared at the shirt on the floor. So near. What was keeping him from 
grabbing it and running back upstairs? What was holding him back? 

He took a step forward. Then another. 

Was the breathing growing louder? 

He jumped, startled by a sudden, low moan from the big supply closet 
against the wall. 

It sounded so human, as if someone were in there, moaning in pain. 

“Casey—where are you?” 



Margaret’s voice sounded so far away, even though she was just at the head 
of the stairs. 

“Okay so far,” he called back to her. But his voice came out in a whisper. 
She probably couldn’t hear him. 

He took another step. Another. 

The shirt was about three yards away. 

A quick dash. A quick dive, and he’d have it. 

Another low moan from the supply closet. A plant seemed to sigh. A tall 
fern suddenly dipped low, shifting its leaves. 

“Casey?” He could hear his sister from upstairs, sounding very worried. 
“Casey—hurry!” 

I’m trying, he thought. I’m trying to hurry. 

What was holding him back? 

Another low moan, this time from the other side of the room. 

He took two more steps, then crouched low, his arms straight out in front of 

him. 

The shirt was almost within reach. 

He heard a groaning sound, then more breathing. 

He raised his eyes to the tall tree. The long, ropy tendrils had tensed. 
Stiffened. Or had he imagined it? 

No. 

They had been drooping loosely. Now they were taut. Ready. 

Ready to grab him? 

“Casey—hurry!” Margaret called, sounding even farther away. 

He didn’t answer. He was concentrating on the shirt. Just a few feet away. 
Just a few feet. Just a foot. 

The plant groaned again. 

“Casey? Casey?” 

The leaves quivered all the way up the trunk. 

Just a foot away. Almost in reach. 

“Casey? Are you okay? Answer me!” 

He grabbed the shirt. 

Two snakelike tendrils swung out at him. 

“Huh?” he cried out, paralyzed with fear. “What’s happening?” 

The tendrils wrapped themselves around his waist. 



“Let go!” he cried, holding the T-shirt tightly in one hand, grabbing at the 
tendrils with the other. 

The tendrils hung on, and gently tightened around him. 

Margaret? Casey tried calling, but no sound came out of his mouth. 
Margaret? 

He jerked violently, then pulled straight ahead. 

The tendrils held on. 

They didn’t squeeze him. They weren’t trying to strangle him. Or pull him 
back. 

But they didn’t let go. 

They felt warm and wet against his bare skin. Like animal arms. Not like a 
plant. 

Help! He again tried to shout. He pulled once more, leaning forward, using 
all his strength. 

No good. 

He ducked low, hit the floor, tried to roll away. 

The tendrils hung on. 

The plant uttered a loud sigh. 

“Let go!” Casey cried, finally finding his voice. 

And then suddenly Margaret was standing beside him. He hadn’t heard her 
come down the stairs. He hadn’t seen her enter the room. 

“Casey!” she cried. “What’s—” 

Her mouth dropped open and her eyes grew wide. 

“It—won’t let go!” he told her. 

“No!” she screamed. And grabbed one of the tendrils with both hands. And 
tugged with all her strength. 

The tendril resisted for only a moment, then went slack. 

Casey uttered a joyful cry and spun away from the remaining tendril. 
Margaret dropped the tendril and grabbed Casey’s hand and began running 
toward the stairs. 

“Oh!” 

They both stopped short at the bottom of the stairway. 

Standing at the top was their father, glaring down at them, his hands balled 
into tight fists at his sides, his face rigid with anger. 



7 


“Dad—the plants! ” Margaret cried. 

He stared down at them, his eyes cold and angry, unblinking. He was silent. 

“It grabbed Casey!” Margaret told him. 

“I just went down to get my shirt,” Casey said, his voice trembling. 

They stared up at him expectantly, waiting for him to move, to unball his 
fists, to relax his hard expression, to speak. But he glared down at them for the 
longest time. 

Finally, he said, “You’re okay?” 

“Yeah,” they said in unison, both of them nodding. 

Margaret realized she was still holding Casey’s hand. She let go of it and 
reached for the banister. 

“I’m very disappointed in you both,” Dr. Brewer said in a low, flat voice, 
cool but not angry. 

“Sorry,” Margaret said. “We knew we shouldn’t—” 

“We didn’t touch anything. Really!” Casey exclaimed. 

“Very disappointed,” their father repeated. 

“Sorry, Dad.” 

Dr. Brewer motioned for them to come upstairs, then he stepped into the 
hallway. 

“I thought he was going to yell at us,” Casey whispered to Margaret as he 
followed her up the steps. 

“That’s not Dad’s style,” Margaret whispered back. 

“He sure yelled at us the last time we started into the basement,” Casey 
replied. 

They followed their father into the kitchen. He motioned for them to sit 
down at the white Formica table, then dropped into a chair across from them. 

His eyes went from one to the other, as if studying them, as if seeing them 
for the first time. His expression was totally flat, almost robotlike, revealing no 
emotion at all. 

“Dad, what’s with those plants?” Casey asked. 

“What do you mean?” Dr. Brewer asked. 



“They’re—so weird,” Casey said. 

“I’ll explain them to you some day,” he said flatly, still staring at the two of 
them. 

“It looks very interesting,” Margaret said, struggling to say the right thing. 

Was their dad trying to make them feel uncomfortable? she wondered. If so, 
he was doing a good job of it. 

This wasn’t like him. Not at all. He was always a very direct person, 
Margaret thought. If he was angry, he said he was angry. If he was upset, he’d 
tell them he was upset. 

So why was he acting so strange, so silent, so... cold? 

“I asked you not to go in the basement,” he said quietly, crossing his legs 
and leaning back so that the kitchen chair tilted back on two legs. “I thought I 
made it clear.” 

Margaret and Casey glanced at each other. Finally, Margaret said, “We 
won’t do it again.” 

“But can’t you take us down there and tell us what you’re doing?” Casey 
asked. He still hadn’t put the T-shirt on. He was holding it in a ball between his 
hands on the kitchen table. 

“Yeah. We’d really like to understand it,” Margaret added enthusiastically. 

“Some day,” their father said. He returned the chair to all four legs and then 
stood up. “We’ll do it soon, okay?” He raised his arms above his head and 
stretched. “I’ve got to get back to work.” He disappeared into the front hallway. 

Casey raised his eyes to Margaret and shrugged. Their father reappeared 
carrying the lab coat he had tossed over the front banister. 

“Mom got off okay?” Margaret asked. 

He nodded. “I guess.” He pulled on the lab coat over his head. 

“I hope Aunt Eleanor is okay,” Margaret said. 

Dr. Brewer’s reply was muffled as he adjusted the lab coat and straightened 
the collar. “Later,” he said. He disappeared into the hallway. They heard him 
shut the basement door behind him. 

“I guess he’s not going to ground us or anything for going down there,” 
Margaret said, leaning against the table and resting her chin in her hands. 

“I guess,” Casey said. “He sure is acting... weird.” 

“Maybe he’s upset because Mom is gone,” Margaret said. She sat up and 
gave Casey a push. “Come on. Get up. I’ve got work to do.” 

“I can’t believe that plant grabbed me,” Casey said thoughtfully, not 



budging. 

“You don’t have to push,” Casey griped, but he climbed to his feet and 
stepped out of Margaret’s way. “I’m going to have bad dreams tonight,” he said 
glumly. 

“Just don’t think about the basement,” Margaret advised. That’s really lame 
advice, she told herself. But what else could she say? 

She went up to her room, thinking about how she missed her mother 
already. Then the scene in the basement with Casey trying to pull himself free of 
the enormous, twining plant tendrils played once again through her mind. 

With a shudder, she grabbed her textbook and threw herself onto her 
stomach on the bed, prepared to read. 

But the words on the page blurred as the moaning, breathing plants kept 
creeping back into her thoughts. 

At least we’re not being punished for going down there, she thought. 

At least Dad didn’t yell and frighten us this time. 

And at least Dad has promised to take us downstairs with him soon and 
explain to us what he’s working on down there. 

That thought made Margaret feel a lot better. 

She felt better until the next morning when she awoke early and went 
downstairs to make some breakfast. To her surprise, her father was already at 
work, the basement door was shut tight, and a lock had been installed on the 
door. 

The next Saturday afternoon, Margaret was up in her room, lying on top of the 
bed, talking to her mom on the phone. “I’m really sorry about Aunt Eleanor,” 
she said, twisting the white phone cord around her wrist. 

“The surgery didn’t go as well as expected,” her mother said, sounding very 
tired. “The doctors say she may have to have more surgery. But they have to 
build up her strength first.” 

“I guess this means you won’t be coming home real soon,” Margaret said 
sadly. 

Mrs. Brewer laughed. “Don’t tell me you actually miss me!” 

“Well... yes,” Margaret admitted. She raised her eyes to the bedroom 
window. Two sparrows had landed outside on the window ledge and were 
chattering excitedly, distracting Margaret, making it hard to hear her mother over 
the crackling line from Tucson. 



“How’s your father doing?” Mrs. Brewer asked. “I spoke to him last night, 
but he only grunted.” 

“He doesn’t even grunt to us!” Margaret complained. She held her hand 
over her ear to drown out the chattering birds. “He hardly says a word.” 

“He’s working really hard,” Mrs. Brewer replied. In the background, 
Margaret could hear some kind of loudspeaker announcement. Her mother was 
calling from a pay phone at the hospital. 

“He never comes out of the basement,” Margaret complained, a little more 
bitterly than she had intended. 

“Your father’s experiments are very important to him,” her mother said. 

“More important than we are?” Margaret cried. She hated the whiny tone in 
her voice. She wished she hadn’t started complaining about her dad over the 
phone. Her mother had enough to worry about at the hospital. Margaret knew 
she shouldn’t make her feel even worse. 

“Your dad has a lot to prove,” Mrs. Brewer said. “To himself, and to others. 
I think he’s working so hard because he wants to prove to Mr. Martinez and the 
others at the university that they were wrong to fire him. He wants to show them 
that they made a big mistake.” 

“But we used to see him more before he was home all the time! ” Margaret 
complained. 

She could hear her mother sigh impatiently. “Margaret, I’m trying to 
explain to you. You’re old enough to understand.” 

“I’m sorry,” Margaret said quickly. She decided to change the subject. 
“He’s wearing a baseball cap all of a sudden.” 

“Who? Casey?” 

“No, Mom,” Margaret replied. “Dad. He’s wearing a Dodgers cap. He never 
takes it off.” 

“Really?” Mrs. Brewer sounded very surprised. 

Margaret laughed. “We told him he looks really dorky in it, but he refuses 
to take it off.” 

Mrs. Brewer laughed, too. “Uh-oh. I’m being called,” she said. “Got to mn. 
Take care, dear. I’ll try to call back later.” 

A click, and she was gone. 

Margaret stared up at the ceiling, watching shadows from trees in the front 
yard move back and forth. The sparrows had flown away, leaving silence behind. 

Poor Mom, Margaret thought. 



She’s so worried about her sister, and I had to go and complain about Dad. 

Why did I do that? 

She sat up, listening to the silence. Casey was over at a friend’s. Her dad 
was no doubt working in the basement, the door carefully locked behind him. 

Maybe I’ll give Diane a call, Margaret thought. She reached for the phone, 
then realized she was hungry. Lunch first, she decided. Then Diane. 

She brushed her dark hair quickly, shaking her head at the mirror over her 
dressing table, then hurried downstairs. 

To her surprise, her dad was in the kitchen. He was huddled over the sink, 
his back to her. 

She started to call out to him, but stopped. What was he doing? 

Curious, she pressed against the wall, gazing at him through the doorway to 
the kitchen. 

Dr. Brewer appeared to be eating something. With one hand, he was 
holding a bag on the counter beside the sink. As Margaret watched in surprise, 
he dipped his hand into the bag, pulled out a big handful of something, and 
shoved it into his mouth. 

Margaret watched him chew hungrily, noisily, then pull out another handful 
from the bag and eat it greedily. 

What on earth is he eating? she wondered. He never eats with Casey and 
me. He always says he isn’t hungry. But he sure is hungry now! He acts as if he’s 
starving! 

She watched from the doorway as Dr. Brewer continued to grab handful 
after handful from the bag, gulping down his solitary meal. After a while, he 
crinkled up the bag and tossed it into the trash can under the sink. Then he wiped 
his hands off on the sides of his white lab coat. 

Margaret quickly backed away from the door, tiptoed through the hall and 
ducked into the living room. She held her breath as her father came into the hall, 
clearing his throat loudly. 

The basement door closed behind him. She heard him carefully lock it. 

When she was sure that he had gone downstairs, Margaret walked eagerly 
into the kitchen. She had to know what her father had been eating so greedily, so 
hungrily. 

She pulled open the sink cabinet, reached into the trash, and pulled out the 
crinkled-up bag. 

Then she gasped aloud as her eyes ran over the label. 



Her father, she saw, had been devouring plant food. 



8 


Margaret swallowed hard. Her mouth felt dry as cotton. She suddenly realized 
she was squeezing the side of the counter so tightly, her hand ached. 

Forcing herself to loosen her grip, she stared down at the half-empty plant 
food bag, which she had dropped onto the floor. 

She felt sick. She couldn’t get the disgusting picture out of her mind. How 
could her dad eat mud ? 

He didn’t just eat it, she realized. He shoveled it into his mouth and gulped 
it down. 

As if he liked it. 

As if he needed it. 

Eating the plant food had to be part of his experiments, Margaret told 
herself. But what kind of experiments? What was he trying to prove with those 
strange plants he was growing? 

The stuff inside the bag smelled sour, like fertilizer. Margaret took a deep 
breath and held it. She suddenly felt sick to her stomach. Staring at the bag, she 
couldn’t help but imagine what the disgusting muck inside must taste like. 

Ohh. 

She nearly gagged. 

How could her own father shove this horrid stuff into his mouth? 

Still holding her breath, she grabbed the nearly empty bag, wadded it up, 
and tossed it back into the trash. She started to turn away from the counter when 
a hand grabbed her shoulder. 

Margaret uttered a silent cry and spun around. “Casey!” 

“I’m home,” he said, grinning at her. “What’s for lunch?” 

Later, after making him a peanut butter sandwich, she told Casey what she had 
seen. 

Casey laughed. 

“It isn’t funny,” she said crossly. “Our own dad was eating dirt.” 

Casey laughed again. For some reason, it struck him funny. 

Margaret punched him hard on the shoulder, so hard that he dropped his 
sandwich. “Sorry,” she said quickly, “but I don’t see what you’re laughing at. It’s 



sick! There’s something wrong with Dad. Something really wrong.” 

“Maybe he just had a craving for plant food,” Casey cracked, still not 
taking her seriously. “You know. Like you get a craving for those honey-roasted 
peanuts.” 

“That’s different,” Margaret snapped. “Eating dirt is disgusting. Why won’t 
you admit it?” 

But before Casey could reply, Margaret continued, letting all of her 
unhappiness out at once. “Don’t you see? Dad has changed. A lot. Even since 
Mom has been gone. He spends even more time in the basement—” 

“That’s because Mom isn’t around,” Casey interrupted. 

“And he’s so quiet all the time and so cold to us,” Margaret continued, 
ignoring him. “He hardly says a word to us. He used to kid around all the time 
and ask us about our homework. He never says a human word. He never calls 
me Princess or Fatso the way he used to. He never—” 

“You hate those names, Fatso,” Casey said, giggling with a mouthful of 
peanut butter. 

“I know,” Margaret said impatiently. “That’s just an example.” 

“So what are you trying to say?” Casey asked. “That Dad is out of his tree? 
That he’s gone totally bananas?” 

“I—I don’t know,” Margaret answered in frustration. “Watching him gulp 
down that disgusting plant food, I—I had this horrible thought that he’s turning 
into a plant!” 

Casey jumped up, causing his chair to scrape back across the floor. He 
began staggering around the kitchen, zombielike, his eyes closed, his arms 
stretched out stiffly in front of him. “I am The Incredible Plant Man!” he 
declared, trying to make his voice sound bold and deep. 

“Not funny,” Margaret insisted, crossing her arms over her chest, refusing 
to be amused. 

“Plant Man versus Weed Woman!” Casey declared, staggering toward 
Margaret. 

“Not funny,” she repeated. 

He bumped into the counter, banging his knee. “Ow!” 

“Serves you right,” Margaret said. 

“Plant Man kills!” he cried, and rushed at her. He ran right into her, using 
his head as a battering ram against her shoulder. 

“Casey—will you stop it!” she screamed. “Give me a break!” 



“Okay, okay.” He backed off. “If you’ll do me one favor.” 

“What favor?” Margaret asked, rolling her eyes. 

“Make me another sandwich.” 

Monday afternoon after school, Margaret, Casey, and Diane were tossing a 
Frisbee back and forth in Diane’s backyard. It was a warm, breezy day, the sky 
dotted with small, puffy white clouds. 

Diane tossed the disc high. It sailed over Casey’s head into the row of 
fragrant lemon trees that stretched from behind the clapboard garage. Casey 
went running after it and tripped over an in-ground sprinkler that poked up just 
an inch above the lawn. 

Both girls laughed. 

Casey, on the run, flung the Frisbee toward Margaret. She reached for it, but 
the breeze sent it sailing from her hand. 

“What’s it like to have a mad scientist for a dad?” Diane asked suddenly. 

“What?” Margaret wasn’t sure she heard right. 

“Don’t just stand there. Throw it!” Casey urged from beside the garage. 

Margaret tossed the Frisbee high in the air in her brother’s general 
direction. He liked to run and make diving catches. 

“Just because he’s doing strange experiments doesn’t mean he’s a mad 
scientist,” Margaret said sharply. 

“Strange is right,” Diane said, her expression turning serious. “I had a 
nightmare last night about those gross plants in your basement. They were 
crying and reaching for me.” 

“Sorry,” Margaret said sincerely. “I’ve had nightmares, too.” 

“Look out!” Casey cried. He tossed a low one that Diane caught around her 
ankles. 

Mad scientist, Margaret thought. Mad scientist. Mad scientist. 

The words kept repeating in her mind. 

Mad scientists were only in the movies—right? 

“My dad was talking about your dad the other night,” Diane said, flipping 
the disc to Casey. 

“You didn’t tell him about—going down in the basement? Did you?” 
Margaret asked anxiously. 

“No,” Diane replied, shaking her head. 

“Hey, are these lemons ripe?” Casey asked, pointing at one of the low trees. 



“Why don’t you suck one to find out?” Margaret snapped, annoyed that he 
kept interrupting. 

“Why don’t you?” he predictably shot back. 

“My dad said that your dad was fired from PolyTech because his 
experiments got out of control, and he wouldn’t stop them,” Diane confided. She 
ran along the smooth, closely cropped grass, chasing down the Frisbee. 

“What do you mean?” Margaret asked. 

“The university told him he had to stop whatever it was he was doing, and 
he refused. He said he couldn’t stop. At least that’s what my dad heard from a 
guy who came into the salesroom.” 

Margaret hadn’t heard this story. It made her feel bad, but she thought it 
was probably true. 

“Something really bad happened in your dad’s lab,” Diane continued. 
“Someone got really hurt or killed or something.” 

“That’s not true,” Margaret insisted. “We would’ve heard if that happened.” 

“Yeah. Probably,” Diane admitted. “But my dad said your dad was fired 
because he refused to stop his experiments.” 

“Well, that doesn’t make him a mad scientist,” Margaret said defensively. 
She suddenly felt she had to stick up for her father. She wasn’t sure why. 

“I’m just telling you what I heard,” Diane said, brusquely tossing back her 
red hair. “You don’t have to bite my head off.” 

They played for a few more minutes. Diane changed the subject and talked 
about some kids they knew who were eleven but were going steady. Then they 
talked about school for a while. 

“Time to go,” Margaret called to Casey. He picked the Frisbee up from the 
lawn and came running over. “Call you later,” Margaret told Diane, giving her a 
little wave. Then she and Casey began to jog home, cutting through familiar 
backyards. 

“We need a lemon tree,” Casey said as they slowed to a walk. “They’re 
cool.” 

“Oh, yeah,” Margaret replied sarcastically. “That’s just what we need at our 
house. Another plant!” 

As they stepped through the hedges into their backyard, they were both 
surprised to see their dad. He was standing at the rose trellis examining clusters 
of pink roses. 

“Hey, Dad!” Casey called. “Catch!” He tossed the Frisbee to his father. 



Dr. Brewer turned around a little too slowly. The Frisbee glanced off his 
head, knocking the Dodgers cap off. His mouth opened wide in surprise. He 
raised his hands to cover his head. 

But it was too late. 

Margaret and Casey both shrieked in surprise as they saw his head. 

At first, Margaret thought her father’s hair had turned green. 

But then she clearly saw that it wasn’t hair on his scalp. 

His hair was gone. It had all fallen out. 

In place of hair, Dr. Brewer had bright green leaves sprouting from his 
head. 



9 


“Kids—it’s okay!” Dr. Brewer called. He bent down quickly, picked up the 
baseball cap, and replaced it on his head. 

A crow flew low overhead, cawing loudly. Margaret raised her eyes to 
follow the bird, but the sight of the hideous leaves sprouting from her father’s 
head wouldn’t go away. 

Her whole head began to itch as she imagined what it must feel like to have 
leaves uncurling from your scalp. 

“It’s okay. Really,” Dr. Brewer repeated, hurrying over to them. 

“But, Dad—your head,” Casey stammered. He suddenly looked very pale. 

Margaret felt sick. She kept swallowing hard, trying to ride out the waves of 
nausea. 

“Come here, you two,” their father said softly, putting an arm around each 
of their shoulders. “Let’s sit down in the shade over there and have a talk. I 
spoke to your mom on the phone this morning. She told me you’re upset about 
my work.” 

“Your head—it’s all green!” Casey repeated. 

“I know,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling. “That’s why I put on the cap. I didn’t 
want you two to worry.” 

He led them to the shade of the tall hedges that ran along the garage, and 
they sat down on the grass. “I guess you two think your dad has gotten pretty 
weird, huh?” 

He stared into Margaret’s eyes. Feeling uncomfortable, she looked away. 

Cawing frantically, the crow flew over again, heading in the other direction. 

“Margaret, you haven’t said a word,” her father said, squeezing her hand 
tenderly between his. “What’s wrong? What do you want to say to me?” 

Margaret sighed and still avoided her father’s glance. “Come on. Tell us. 
Why do you have leaves growing out of your head?” she asked bluntly. 

“It’s a side effect,” he told her, continuing to hold her hand. “It’s only 
temporary. It’ll go away soon and my hair will grow back.” 

“But how did it happen?” Casey asked, staring at his father’s Dodgers cap. 
A few green leaves poked out from under the brim. 

“Maybe you two would feel better if I explained what I’m trying to do 



down in the basement,” Dr. Brewer said, shifting his weight and leaning back on 
his hands. “I’ve been so wrapped up in my experiments, I haven’t had much time 
to talk to you.” 

“You haven’t had any time,” Margaret corrected him. 

“I’m sorry,” he said, lowering his eyes. “I really am. But this work I’m 
doing is so exciting and so difficult.” 

“Did you discover a new kind of plant?” Casey asked, crossing his legs 
beneath him. 

“No, I’m trying to build a new kind of plant,” Dr. Brewer explained. 

“Huh?” Casey exclaimed. 

“Have you ever talked about DNA in school?” their father asked. They 
shook their heads. “Well, it’s pretty complicated,” he continued. Dr. Brewer 
thought for a moment. “Let me try and put it in simple terms,” he said, fiddling 
with the bandage around his hand. “Let’s say we took a person who had a very 
high IQ. You know. Real brain power.” 

“Like me,” Casey interrupted. 

“Casey, shut up,” Margaret said edgily. 

“A real brain. Like Casey,” Dr. Brewer said agreeably. “And let’s say we 
were able to isolate the molecule or gene or tiny part of a gene that enabled the 
person to have such high intelligence. And then let’s say we were able to 
transmit it into other brains. And then this brain power could be passed along 
from generation to generation. And lots of people would have a high IQ. Do you 
understand?” He looked first at Casey, then at Margaret. 

“Yeah. Kind of,” Margaret said. “You take a good quality from one person 
and put it into other people. And then they have the good quality, too, and they 
pass it on to their children, and on and on.” 

“Very good,” Dr. Brewer said, smiling for the first time in weeks. “That’s 
what a lot of botanists do with plants. They try to take the fruit-bearing building 
block from one plant and put it into another. Create a new plant that will bear 
five times as much fruit, or five times as much grain, or vegetables.” 

“And that’s what you’re doing?” Casey asked. 

“Not exactly,” their father said, lowering his voice. “I’m doing something a 
little more unusual. I really don’t want to go into detail now. But I’ll tell you that 
what I’m trying to do is build a kind of plant that has never existed and could 
never exist. I’m trying to build a plant that’s part animal .” 

Casey and Margaret stared at their father in surprise. Margaret was the first 



to speak. “You mean you’re taking cells from an animal and putting them into a 
plant?” 

He nodded. “I really don’t want to say more. You two understand why this 
must be kept secret.” He turned his eyes on Margaret, then Casey, studying their 
reactions. 

“How do you do it?” Margaret asked, thinking hard about everything he had 
just told them. “How do you get these cells from the animals to the plant?” 

“I’m trying to do it by breaking them down electronically,” he answered. “I 
have two glass booths connected by a powerful electron generator. You may 
have seen them when you were snooping around down there.” He made a sour 
face. 

“Yeah. They look like phone booths,” Casey said. 

“One booth is a sender, and one is a receiver,” he explained. “I’m trying to 
send the right DNA, the right building blocks, from one booth to the other. It’s 
very delicate work.” 

“And have you done it?” Margaret asked. 

“I’ve come very close,” Dr. Brewer said, a pleased smile crossing his face. 
The smile lasted only a few seconds. Then, his expression thoughtful, he 
abruptly climbed to his feet. “Got to get back to work,” he said quietly. “See you 
two later.” He started walking across the lawn, taking long strides. 

“But, Dad,” Margaret called after him. She and Casey climbed to their feet, 
too. “Your head. The leaves. You didn’t explain it,” she said as she and her 
brother hurried to catch up to him. 

Dr. Brewer shrugged. “Nothing to explain,” he said curtly. “Just a side 
effect.” He adjusted his Dodgers cap. “Don’t worry about it. It’s only temporary. 
Just a side effect.” 

Then he hurried into the house. 

Casey seemed really pleased by their dad’s explanation of what was going on in 
the basement. “Dad’s doing really important work,” he said, with unusual 
seriousness. 

But, as Margaret made her way into the house, she found herself troubled 
by what her dad had said. And even more troubled by what he hadn’t said. 

Margaret closed the door to her room and lay down on the bed to think 
about things. Her father hadn’t really explained the leaves growing on his head. 
“Just a side effect” didn’t explain much at all. 



A side effect from what? What actually caused it? What made his hair fall 
out? When will his hair grow back? 

It was obvious that he hadn’t wanted to discuss it with them. He had 
certainly hurried back to his basement after telling them it was just a side effect. 

A side effect. 

It made Margaret feel sick every time she thought about it. 

What must it feel like? Green leaves pushing up from your pores, uncurling 
against your head. 

Yuck. Thinking about it made her itch all over. She knew she’d have 
hideous dreams tonight. 

She grabbed her pillow and hugged it over her stomach, wrapping her arms 
tightly around it. 

There were lots of other questions Casey and I should have asked, she 
decided. Like, why were the plants moaning down there? Why did some of them 
sound like they were breathing? Why did that plant grab Casey? What animal 
was Dad using? 

Lots of questions. 

Not to mention the one Margaret wanted to ask most of all: Why were you 
gulping down that disgusting plant food? 

But she couldn’t ask that one. She couldn’t let her dad know she’d been 
spying on him. 

She and Casey hadn’t really asked any of the questions they’d wanted 
answered. They were just so pleased that their father had decided to sit down and 
talk with them, even for a few minutes. 

His explanation was really interesting, as far as it went, Margaret decided. 
And it was good to know that he was close to doing something truly amazing, 
something that would make him really famous. 

But what about the rest of it? 

A frightening thought entered her mind: Could he have been lying to them? 

No, she quickly decided. No. Dad wouldn’t lie to us. 

There are just some questions he hasn’t answered yet. 

She was still thinking about all of these questions late that night—after 
dinner, after talking to Diane on the phone for an hour, after homework, after 
watching a little TV, after going to bed. And she was still puzzling over them. 

When she heard her father’s soft footsteps coming up the carpeted stairs, 
she sat up in bed. A soft breeze fluttered the curtains across the room. She 



listened to her father’s footsteps pass her room, heard him go into the bathroom, 
heard the water begin to run into the sink. 

I’ve got to ask him, she decided. 

Glancing at the clock, she saw that it was two-thirty in the morning. 

But she realized she was wide awake. 

I’ve got to ask him about the plant food. 

Otherwise, it will drive me crazy. I’ll think about it and think about it and 
think about it. Every time I see him, I’ll picture him standing over the sink, 
shoving handful after handful into his mouth. 

There’s got to be a simple explanation, she told herself, climbing out of bed. 
There’s got to be a logical explanation. 

And I have to know it. 

She padded softly down the hall, a sliver of light escaping through the 
bathroom door, which was slightly ajar. Water still ran into the sink. 

She heard him cough, then heard him adjust the water. 

I have to know the answer, she thought. 

I’ll just ask him point-blank. 

She stepped into the narrow triangle of light and peered into the bathroom. 

He was standing at the sink, leaning over it, his chest bare, his shirt tossed 
behind him on the floor. He had put the baseball cap on the closed toilet lid, and 
the leaves covering his head shone brightly under the bathroom light. 

Margaret held her breath. 

The leaves were so geeen, so thick. 

He didn’t notice her. He was concentrating on the bandage on his hand. 
Using a small scissors, he cut the bandage, then pulled it off. 

The hand was still bleeding, Margaret saw. 

Or was it? 

What was that dripping from the cut on her father’s hand? 

Still holding her breath, she watched him wash it off carefully under the hot 
water. Then he examined it, his eyes narrowed in concentration. 

After washing, the cut continued to bleed. 

Margaret stared hard, trying to better focus her eyes. 

It couldn’t be blood—could it? 

It couldn’t be blood dripping into the sink. 

It was bright green! 

She gasped and started to run back to her room. The floor creaked under her 



footsteps. 

“Who’s there?” Dr. Brewer cried. “Margaret? Casey?” 

He poked his head into the hallway as Margaret disappeared back into her 
room. 

He saw me, she realized, leaping into bed. 

He saw me—and now he’s coming after me. 



10 


Margaret pulled the covers up to her chin. She realized she was trembling, her 
whole body shaking and chilled. 

She held her breath and listened. 

She could still hear water splashing into the bathroom sink. 

But no footsteps. 

He isn’t coming after me, she told herself, letting out a long, silent sigh. 

How could I have thought that? How could I have been so terrified—of my 
own father? 

Terrified. 

It was the first time the word had crossed her mind. 

But sitting there in bed, trembling so violently, holding onto the covers so 
hard, listening for his approaching footsteps, Margaret realized that she was 
terrified. 

Of her own father. 

If only Mom were home, she thought. 

Without thinking, she reached for the phone. She had the idea in her head to 
call her mother, wake her up, tell her to come home as fast as she could. Tell her 
something terrible was happening to Dad. That he was changing. That he was 
acting so weird.... 

She glanced at the clock. Two-forty-three. 

No. She couldn’t do that. Her poor mother was having such a terrible time 
in Tucson trying to care for her sister. Margaret couldn’t frighten her like that. 

Besides, what could she say? How could she explain to her mother how she 
had become terrified of her own father? 

Mrs. Brewer would just tell her to calm down. That her father still loved 
her. That he would never harm her. That he was just caught up in his work. 

Caught up.... 

He had leaves growing out of his head, he was eating dirt, and his blood 
was green. 

Caught up.... 

She heard the water in the sink shut off. She heard the bathroom light being 
clicked off. Then she heard her father pad slowly to his room at the end of the 



hall. 


Margaret relaxed a little, slid down in the bed, loosened her grip on the 
blankets. She closed her eyes and tried to clear her mind. 

She tried counting sheep. 

That never worked. She tried counting to one thousand. At 375, she sat up. 
Her head throbbed. Her mouth was as dry as cotton. 

She decided to go downstairs and get a drink of cold water from the 
refrigerator. 

I’m going to be a wreck tomorrow, she thought, making her way silently 
through the hall and down the stairs. 

It is tomorrow. 

What am I going to do? I’ve got to get to sleep. 

The kitchen floor creaked beneath her bare feet. The refrigerator motor 
clicked on noisily, startling her. 

Be cool, she told herself. You’ve got to be cool. 

She had opened the refrigerator and was reaching for the water bottle when 
a hand grabbed her shoulder. 

“Aii!” She cried out and dropped the open bottle onto the floor. Ice-cold 
water puddled around her feet. She leapt back, but her feet were soaked. 

“Casey—you scared me!” she exclaimed. “What are you doing up?” 

“What are you doing up?” he replied, half asleep, his blond hair matted 
against his forehead. 

“I couldn’t sleep. Help me mop up this water.” 

“I didn’t spill it,” he said, backing away. “You mop it up.” 

“You made me spill it!” Margaret declared shrilly. She grabbed a roll of 
paper towels off the counter and handed him a wad of them. “Come on. Hurry.” 

They both got down on their knees and, by the light from the refrigerator, 
began mopping up the cold water. 

“I just keep thinking about things,” Casey said, tossing a soaking wad of 
paper towel onto the counter. “That’s why I can’t sleep.” 

“Me, too,” Margaret said, frowning. 

She started to say something else, but a sound from the hallway stopped 
her. It was a plaintive cry, a moan filled with sadness. 

Margaret gasped and stopped dabbing at the water. “What was that?” 

Casey’s eyes filled with fear. 

They heard it again, such a sad sound, like a plea, a mournful plea. 



“It—it’s coming from the basement,” Margaret said. 

“Do you think it’s a plant?” Casey asked very quietly. “Do you think it’s 
one of Dad’s plants?” 

Margaret didn’t answer. She crouched on her knees, not moving, just 
listening. 

Another moan, softer this time but just as mournful. 

“I don’t think Dad told us the truth,” she told Casey, staring into his eyes. 
He looked pale and frightened in the dim refrigerator light. “I don’t think a 
tomato plant would make a sound like that.” 

Margaret climbed to her feet, collected the wet clumps of paper towel, and 
deposited them in the trash can under the sink. Then she closed the refrigerator 
door, covering the room in darkness. 

Her hand on Casey’s shoulder, she guided him out of the kitchen and 
through the hall. They stopped at the basement door, and listened. 

Silence now. 

Casey tried the door. It was locked. 

Another low moan, sounding very nearby now. 

“It’s so human,” Casey whispered. 

Margaret shuddered. What was going on down in the basement? What was 
really going on? 

She led the way up the stairs and waited at her doorway until Casey was 
safely in his room. He gave her a wave, yawning silently, and closed the door 
behind him. 

A few seconds later, Margaret was back in her bed, the covers pulled up to 
her chin despite the warmth of the night. Her mouth was still achingly dry, she 
realized. She had never managed to get a drink. 

Somehow she drifted into a restless sleep. 

Her alarm went off at seven-thirty. She sat up and thought about school. 
Then she remembered there was no school for the next two days because of 
some kind of teachers’ conference. 

She turned off the clock radio, slumped back onto her pillow, and tried to 
go back to sleep. But she was awake now, thoughts of the night before pouring 
back into her mind, flooding her with the fear she had felt just a few hours 
earlier. 

She stood up and stretched, and decided to go talk to her father, to confront 
him first thing, to ask all the questions she wanted to ask. 



If I don’t, he’ll disappear down to the basement, and I’ll sit around thinking 
these frightening thoughts all day, she told herself. 

I don’t want to be terrified of my own father. 

I don’t. 

She pulled a light cotton robe over her pajamas, found her slippers in the 
cluttered closet, and stepped out into the hallway. It was hot and stuffy in the 
hall, almost suffocating. Pale, morning light filtered down from the skylight 
overhead. 

She stopped in front of Casey’s room, wondering if she should wake him so 
that he could ask their father questions, too. 

No, she decided. The poor guy was up half the night. I’ll let him sleep. 

Taking a deep breath, she walked the rest of the hall and stopped at her 
parents’ bedroom. The door was open. 

“Dad?” 

No reply. 

“Dad? Are you up?” 

She stepped into the room. “Dad?” 

He didn’t seem to be there. 

The air in here was heavy and smelled strangely sour. The curtains were 
drawn. The bedclothes were rumpled and tossed down at the foot of the bed. 
Margaret took a few more steps toward the bed. 

“Dad?” 

No. She had missed him. He was probably already locked in his basement 
workroom, she realized unhappily. 

He must have gotten up very early and— 

What was that in the bed? 

Margaret clicked on a dresser lamp and stepped up beside the bed. 

“Oh, no!” she cried, raising her hands to her face in horror. 

The bedsheet was covered with a thick layer of dirt. Clumps of dirt. 

Margaret stared down at it, not breathing, not moving. 

The dirt was black and appeared to be moist. 

And the dirt was moving. 

Moving? 

It can’t be, Margaret thought. That’s impossible. 

She leaned down to take a closer look at the layer of dirt. 

No. The dirt wasn’t moving. 



The dirt was filled with dozens of moving insects. And long, brown 
earthworms. All crawling through the wet, black clumps that lined her father’s 


bed. 



11 


Casey didn’t come downstairs until ten-thirty. Before his arrival, Margaret had 
made herself breakfast, managed to pull on jeans and a T-shirt, had talked to 
Diane on the phone for half an hour, and had spent the rest of the time pacing 
back and forth in the living room, trying to decide what to do. 

Desperate to talk to her dad, she had banged a few times on the basement 
door, timidly at first and then loudly. But he either couldn’t hear her or chose not 
to. He didn’t respond. 

When Casey finally emerged, she poured him a tall glass of orange juice 
and led him out to the backyard to talk. It was a hazy day, the sky mostly yellow, 
the air already stifling hot even though the sun was still hovering low over the 
hills. 

Walking toward the block of green shade cast by the hedges, she told her 
brother about their dad’s green blood and about the insect-filled dirt in his bed. 

Casey stood open-mouthed, holding the glass of orange juice in front of 
him, untouched. He stared at Margaret, and didn’t say anything for a very long 
time. 

Finally, he set the orange juice down on the lawn and said, “What should 
we do?” in a voice just above a whisper. 

Margaret shrugged. “I wish Mom would call.” 

“Would you tell her everything?” Casey asked, shoving his hands deep into 
the pockets of his baggy shorts. 

“I guess,” Margaret said. “I don’t know if she’d believe it, but—” 

“It’s so scary,” Casey said. “I mean, he’s our dad. We’ve known him our 
whole lives. I mean—” 

“I know,” Margaret said. “But he’s not the same. He’s—” 

“Maybe he can explain it all,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Maybe there’s a 
good reason for everything. You know. Like the leaves on his head.” 

“We asked him about that,” Margaret reminded her brother. “He just said it 
was a side effect. Not much of an explanation.” 

Casey nodded, but didn’t reply. 

“I told some of it to Diane,” Margaret admitted. 

Casey looked up at her in surprise. 



“Well, I had to tell somebody,” she snapped edgily. “Diane thought I should 
call the police.” 

“Huh?” Casey shook his head. “Dad hasn’t done anything wrong—has he? 
What would the police do?” 

“I know,” Margaret replied. “That’s what I told Diane. But she said there’s 
got to be some kind of law against being a mad scientist.” 

“Dad isn’t a mad scientist,” Casey said angrily. “That’s stupid. He’s just— 
He’s just—” 

Just what? Margaret thought. What is he? 

A few hours later, they were still in the backyard, trying to figure out what 
to do, when the kitchen door opened and their father called them to come in. 

Margaret looked at Casey in surprise. “I don’t believe it. He came upstairs.” 

“Maybe we can talk to him,” Casey said. 

They both raced into the kitchen. Dr. Brewer, his Dodgers cap in place, 
flashed them a smile as he set two soup bowls down on the table. “Hi,” he said 
brightly. “Lunchtime.” 

“Huh? You made lunch?” Casey exclaimed, unable to conceal his 
astonishment. 

“Dad, we’ve got to talk,” Margaret said seriously. 

“Afraid I don’t have much time,” he said, avoiding her stare. “Sit down. Try 
this new dish. I want to see if you like it.” 

Margaret and Casey obediently took their places at the table. “What is this 
stuff?” Casey cried. 

The two bowls were filled with a green, pulpy substance. “It looks like 
green mashed potatoes,” Casey said, making a face. 

“It’s something different,” Dr. Brewer said mysteriously, standing over 
them at the head of the table. “Go ahead. Taste it. I’ll bet you’ll be surprised.” 

“Dad—you’ve never made lunch for us before,” Margaret said, trying to 
keep the suspicion out of her voice. 

“I just wanted you to try this,” he said, his smile fading. “You’re my guinea 
pigs.” 

“We have some things we want to ask you,” Margaret said, lifting her 
spoon, but not eating the green mess. 

“Your mother called this morning,” their father said. 

“When?” Margaret asked eagerly. 

“Just a short while ago. I guess you were outside and didn’t hear the phone 



ring.” 

“What did she say?” Casey asked, staring down at the bowl in front of him. 

“Aunt Eleanor’s doing better. She’s been moved out of intensive care. Your 
mom may be able to come home soon.” 

“Great!” Margaret and Casey cried in unison. 

“Eat,” Dr. Brewer instructed, pointing to the bowls. 

“Uh... aren’t you going to have some?” Casey asked, rolling his spoon 
around in his fingers. 

“No,” their father replied quickly. “I already ate.” He leaned with both 
hands against the tabletop. Margaret saw that his cut hand was freshly bandaged. 

“Dad, last night—” she started. 

But he cut her off. “Eat, will you? Try it.” 

“But what is it?” Casey demanded, whining. “It doesn’t smell too good.” 

“I think you’ll like the taste,” Dr. Brewer insisted impatiently. “It should 
taste very sweet.” 

He stared at them, urging them to eat the green stuff. 

Staring into the bowl at the mysterious substance, Margaret was suddenly 
frozen with fear. He’s too eager for us to eat this, she thought, glancing up at her 
brother. 

He’s too desperate. 

He’s never made lunch before. Why did he make this? 

And why won’t he tell us what it is? 

What’s going on here? she wondered. And Casey’s expression revealed that 
he was wondering the same thing. 

Is Dad trying to do something to us? Is this green stuff going to change us, 
or hurt us... or make us grow leaves, too? 

What crazy thoughts, Margaret realized. 

But she also realized that she was terrified of whatever this stuff was he was 
trying to feed them. 

“What’s the matter with you two?” their father cried impatiently. He raised 
his hand in an eating gesture. “Pick up your spoons. Come on. What are you 
waiting for?” 

Margaret and Casey raised their spoons and dropped them into the soft, 
green substance. But they didn’t raise the spoons to their mouths. 

They couldn’t. 

“Eat! Eat!” Dr. Brewer screamed, pounding the table with his good hand. 



“What are you waiting for? Eat your lunch. Go ahead. Eat it!” 

He’s giving us no choice, Margaret thought. 

Her hand was trembling as she reluctantly raised the spoon to her mouth. 



12 


“Go ahead. You’ll like it,” Dr. Brewer insisted, leaning over the table. 

Casey watched as Margaret raised the spoon to her lips. 

The doorbell rang. 

“Who could that be?” Dr. Brewer asked, very annoyed at the interruption. 
“I’ll be right back, kids.” He lumbered out to the front hall. 

“Saved by the bell,” Margaret said, dropping the spoon back into the bowl 
with a sickening plop. 

“This stuff is disgusting,” Casey whispered. “It’s some kind of plant food or 
something. Yuck!” 

“Quick—” Margaret said, jumping up and grabbing the two bowls. “Help 

me.” 

They rushed to the sink, pulled out the waste-basket, and scooped the 
contents of both bowls into the garbage. Then they carried both bowls back to 
the table and set them down beside the spoons. 

“Let’s go see who’s at the door,” Casey said. 

They crept into the hall in time to see a man carrying a black briefcase step 
into the front entranceway and greet their father with a short handshake. The 
man had a tanned bald head and was wearing large, blue-lensed sunglasses. He 
had a brown mustache and was wearing a navy blue suit with a red-and-white 
striped tie. 

“Mr. Martinez!” their father exclaimed. “What a... surprise.” 

“That’s Dad’s old boss from PolyTech,” Margaret whispered to Casey. 

“I know,” Casey replied peevishly. 

“I said weeks ago I’d come check up on how your work is coming along,” 
Martinez said, sniffing the air for some reason. “Wellington gave me a lift. My 
car is in the garage—for a change.” 

“Well, I’m not really ready,” Dr. Brewer stammered, looking very 
uncomfortable even from Margaret’s vantage point behind him. “I wasn’t 
expecting anyone. I mean... I don’t think this is a good time.” 

“No problem. I’ll just have a quick look,” Martinez said, putting a hand on 
Dr. Brewer’s shoulder as if to calm him. “I’ve always been so interested in your 
work. You know that. And you know that it wasn’t my idea to let you go. The 



board forced me. They gave me no choice. But I’m not giving up on you. I 
promise you that. Come on. Let’s see what kind of progress you’re making.” 

“Well...” Dr. Brewer couldn’t hide his displeasure at Mr. Martinez’s 
surprise appearance. He scowled and tried to block the path to the basement 
steps. 

At least, it seemed that way to Margaret, who watched silently beside her 
brother. 

Mr. Martinez stepped past Dr. Brewer and pulled open the basement door. 
“Hi, guys.” Mr. Martinez gave the two kids a wave, hoisting his briefcase as if it 
weighed two tons. 

Their father looked surprised to see them there. “Did you kids finish your 
lunch?” 

“Yeah, it was pretty good,” Casey lied. 

The answer seemed to please Dr. Brewer. Adjusting the brim of his Dodgers 
cap, he followed Mr. Martinez into the basement, carefully closing and locking 
the door behind him. 

“Maybe he’ll give Dad his job back,” Casey said, walking back into the 
kitchen. He pulled open the refrigerator to look for something for lunch. 

“Don’t be stupid,” Margaret said, reaching over him to pull out a container 
of egg salad. “If Dad really is growing plants that are part animal, he’ll be 
famous. He won’t need a job.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” Casey said thoughtfully. “Is that all there is? Just egg 
salad?” 

“I’ll make you a sandwich,” Margaret offered. 

“I’m not really hungry,” Casey replied. “That green stuff made me sick. 
Why do you think he wanted us to eat it?” 

“I don’t know,” Margaret said. She put a hand on Casey’s slender shoulder. 
“I’m really scared, Casey. I wish Mom were home.” 

“Me, too,” he said quietly. 

Margaret put the egg salad back into the refrigerator. She closed the door, 
then leaned her hot forehead against it. “Casey—” 

“What?” 

“Do you think Dad is telling us the truth?” 

“About what?” 

“About anything?” 

“I don’t know,” Casey said, shaking his head. Then his expression suddenly 



changed. “There’s one way to find out,” he said, his eyes lighting up. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Margaret pushed herself away from the 
refrigerator. 

“The first chance we get, the first time Dad is away,” Casey whispered, 
“let’s go back down in the basement and see for ourselves what Dad is doing.” 



13 


They got their chance the next afternoon when their father emerged from the 
basement, red metal toolchest in hand. “I promised Mr. Henry next door I’d help 
him install a new sink in his bathroom,” he explained, adjusting his Dodgers cap 
with his free hand. 

“When are you coming back?” Casey asked, glancing at Margaret. 

Not very subtle, Casey, Margaret thought, rolling her eyes. 

“It shouldn’t take more than a couple of hours,” Dr. Brewer said. He 
disappeared out the kitchen door. 

They watched him cut through the hedges in the backyard and head to Mr. 
Henry’s back door. “It’s now or never,” Margaret said, glancing doubtfully at 
Casey. “Think we can do this?” She tried the door. Locked, as usual. 

“No problem,” Casey said, a mischievous grin spreading across his face. 
“Go get a paper clip. I’ll show you what my friend Kevin taught me last week.” 

Margaret obediently found a paper clip on her desk and brought it to him. 
Casey straightened the clip out, then poked it into the lock. In a few seconds, he 
hummed a triumphant fanfare and pulled the door open. 

“Now you’re an expert lock picker, huh? Your friend Kevin is a good guy to 
know,” Margaret said, shaking her head. 

Casey grinned and motioned for Margaret to go first. 

“Okay. Let’s not think about it. Let’s just do it,” Margaret said, summoning 
her courage and stepping onto the landing. 

A few seconds later, they were in the basement. 

Knowing a little of what to expect down here didn’t make it any less 
frightening. They were hit immediately by a blast of steamy, hot air. The air, 
Margaret realized, was so wet, so thick, that droplets immediately clung to her 
skin. 

Squinting against the sudden bright light, they stopped in the doorway to 
the plant room. The plants seemed taller, thicker, more plentiful than the first 
time they had ventured down here. 

Long, sinewy tendrils drooped from thick yellow stalks. Broad green and 
yellow leaves bobbed and trembled, shimmering under the white light. Leaves 
slapped against each other, making a soft, wet sound. A fat tomato plopped to the 



ground. 

Everything seemed to shimmer. The plants all seemed to quiver expectantly. 
They weren’t standing still. They seemed to be reaching up, reaching out, 
quaking with energy as they grew. 

Long brown tendrils snaked along the dirt, wrapping themselves around 
other plants, around each other. A bushy fern had grown to the ceiling, curved, 
and started its way back down again. 

“Wow!” Casey cried, impressed with this trembling, glistening jungle. “Are 
all these plants really brand-new?” 

“I guess so,” Margaret said softly. “They look prehistoric!” 

They heard breathing sounds, loud sighing, a low moan coming from the 
direction of the supply closet against the wall. 

A tendril suddenly swung out from a long stalk. Margaret pulled Casey 
back. “Look out. Don’t get too close,” she warned. 

“I know,” he said sharply, moving away from her. “Don’t grab me like that. 
You scared me.” 

The tendril slid harmlessly to the dirt. 

“Sorry,” she said, squeezing his shoulder affectionately. “It’s just... well, 
you remember last time.” 

“I’ll be careful,” he said. 

Margaret shuddered. 

She heard breathing. Steady, quiet breathing. 

These plants are definitely not normal, she thought. She took a step back, 
letting her eyes roam over the amazing jungle of slithering, sighing plants. 

She was still staring at them when she heard Casey’s terrified scream. 

“Help! It’s got me! It’s got me!” 



14 


Margaret uttered a shriek of terror and spun away from the plants to find her 
brother. 

“Help!” Casey cried. 

Gripped with fear, Margaret took a few steps toward Casey, then saw the 
small, gray creature scampering across the floor. 

She started to laugh. 

“Casey, it’s a squirrel!” 

“What?” His voice was several octaves higher than normal. “It—it grabbed 
my ankle and—” 

“Look,” Margaret said, pointing. “It’s a squirrel. Look how scared it is. It 
must have run right into you.” 

“Oh.” Casey sighed. The color began to return to his ash-gray face. “I 
thought it was a... plant.” 

“Right. A furry gray plant,” Margaret said, shaking her head. Her heart was 
still thudding in her chest. “You sure gave me a scare, Casey.” 

The squirrel stopped several yards away, turned, stood up on its hind legs, 
and stared back at them, quivering all over. 

“How did a squirrel get down here?” Casey demanded, his voice still shaky. 

Margaret shrugged. “Squirrels are always getting in,” she said. “And 
remember that chipmunk we couldn’t get rid of?” Then she glanced over to the 
small ground-level window at the top of the opposite wall. “That window—it’s 
open,” she told Casey. “The squirrel must have climbed in over there.” 

“Shoo!” Casey yelled at the squirrel. He started to chase it. The squirrel’s 
tail shot right up in the air, and then it took off, running through the tangled 
plants. “Get out! Get out!” Casey screamed. 

The terrified squirrel, with Casey in close pursuit, circled the plants twice. 
Then it headed to the far wall, leapt onto a carton, then onto a higher carton, then 
bounded out the open window. 

Casey stopped running and stared up at the window. 

“Good work,” Margaret said. “Now, let’s get out of here. We don’t know 
what anything is. We have no idea what to look for. So we can’t tell if Dad is 
telling the truth or not.” 



She started toward the stairs, but stopped when she heard the bumping 
sound. “Casey—did you hear that?” She searched for her brother, but he was 
hidden by the thick leaves of the plants. “Casey?” 

“Yeah. I heard it,” he answered, still out of her view. “It’s coming from the 
supply closet.” 

The loud thumping made Margaret shudder. It sounded to her exactly like 
someone banging on the closet wall. 

“Casey, let’s check it out,” she said. 

No reply. 

The banging got louder. 

“Casey?” 

Why wasn’t he answering her? 

“Casey—where are you? You’re frightening me,” Margaret called, moving 
closer to the shimmering plants. Another tomato plopped to the ground, so near 
her foot, it made her jump. 

Despite the intense heat, she suddenly felt cold all over. 

“Casey?” 

“Margaret—come here. I’ve found something,” he finally said. He sounded 
uncertain, worried. 

She hurried around the plants and saw him standing in front of the 
worktable beside the supply closet. The banging from the closet had stopped. 

“Casey, what’s the matter? You scared me,” Margaret scolded. She stopped 
and leaned against the wooden worktable. 

“Look,” her brother said, holding up a dark, folded-up bundle. “I found this. 
On the floor. Shoved under this worktable.” 

“Huh? What is it?” Margaret asked. 

Casey unfolded it. It was a suit jacket. A blue suit jacket. A red-striped 
necktie was folded inside it. 

“It’s Mr. Martinez’s,” Casey said, squeezing the collar of the wrinkled 
jacket between his hands. “It’s his jacket and tie.” 

Margaret’s mouth dropped open into a wide O of surprise. “You mean he 
left it here?” 

“If he left it, why was it bundled up and shoved back under the table?” 
Casey asked. 

Margaret stared at the jacket. She ran her hand over the silky striped tie. 

“Did you see Mr. Martinez leave the house yesterday afternoon?” Casey 



asked. 

“No,” Margaret answered. “But he must have left. I mean, his car was 
gone.” 

“He didn’t drive, remember? He told Dad he got a lift.” 

Margaret raised her eyes from the wrinkled jacket to her brother’s worried 
face. “Casey—what are you saying? That Mr. Martinez didn’t leave? That he 
was eaten by a plant or something? That’s ridiculous!” 

“Then why were his coat and tie hidden like that?” Casey demanded. 

Margaret didn’t have a chance to respond. 

They both gasped as they heard loud footsteps on the stairs. 

Someone was hurrying down to the basement. 

“Hide!” Margaret whispered. 

“Where?” Casey asked, his eyes wide with panic. 



15 


Margaret leapt up onto the carton, then pulled herself through the small, open 
window. A tight squeeze, but she struggled out onto the grass. Then she turned 
around to help Casey. 

That squirrel turned out to be a friend, she thought, tugging her brother’s 
arms as he scrambled out of the basement. It showed us the only escape route. 

The afternoon air felt quite cool compared to the steamy basement. 
Breathing hard, they both squatted down to peer into the window. “Who is it?” 
Casey whispered. 

Margaret didn’t have to answer. They both saw their father step into the 
white light, his eyes searching the plant room. 

“Why did Dad come back?” Casey asked. 

“Sshhh!” Margaret held a finger to her lips. Then she climbed to her feet 
and pulled Casey toward the back door. “Come on. Hurry.” 

The back door was unlocked. They stepped into the kitchen just as their 
father emerged from the basement, a concerned expression on his face. “Hey 
—there you are! ” he exclaimed. 

“Hi, Dad,” Margaret said, trying to sound casual. “Why’d you come back?” 

“Had to get more tools,” he answered, studying their faces. He eyed them 
suspiciously. “Where were you two?” 

“Out in the backyard,” Margaret said quickly. “We came in when we heard 
the back door slam.” 

Dr. Brewer scowled and shook his head. “You never used to lie to me 
before,” he said. “I know you went down into the basement again. You left the 
door wide open.” 

“We just wanted to look,” Casey said quickly, glancing at Margaret, his 
expression fearful. 

“We found Mr. Martinez’s jacket and tie,” Margaret said. “What happened 
to him, Dad?” 

“Huh?” The question seemed to catch Dr. Brewer by surprise. 

“Why did he leave his jacket and tie down there?” Margaret asked. 

“I’m raising two snoops,” her father griped. “Martinez got hot, okay? I have 
to keep the basement at a very high, tropical temperature with lots of humidity. 



Martinez became uncomfortable. He removed his jacket and tie and put them 
down on the worktable. Then he forgot them when he left.” 

Dr. Brewer chuckled. “I think he was in a state of shock from everything I 
showed him down there. It’s no wonder he forgot his things. But I called 
Martinez this morning. I’m going to drive over and return his stuff when I finish 
at Mr. Henry’s.” 

Margaret saw a smile break out on Casey’s face. She felt relieved, too. It 
was good to know that Mr. Martinez was okay. 

How awful to suspect my own father of doing something terrible to 
someone, she thought. 

But she couldn’t help herself. The fear returned every time she saw him. 

“I’d better get going,” Dr. Brewer said. Carrying the tools he had picked up, 
he started toward the back door. But he stopped at the end of the hall and turned 
around. “Don’t go back in the basement, okay? It really could be dangerous. You 
could be very sorry.” 

Margaret listened to the screen door slam behind him. 

Was that a warning—or a threat? she wondered. 



16 


Margaret spent Saturday morning biking up in the golden hills with Diane. The 
sun burned through the morning smog, and the skies turned blue. A strong 
breeze kept them from getting too hot. The narrow road was lined with red and 
yellow wildflowers, and Margaret felt as if she were traveling somewhere far, far 
away. 

They had lunch at Diane’s house—tomato soup and avocado salad—then 
wandered back to Margaret’s house, trying to figure out how to spend the rest of 
a beautiful afternoon. 

Dr. Brewer was just backing the station wagon down the drive as Margaret 
and Diane rode up on their bikes. He rolled down the window, a broad smile on 
his face. “Good news!” he shouted. “Your mom is on her way home. I’m going 
to the airport to get her!” 

“Oh, that’s great!” Margaret exclaimed, so happy she could almost cry. 
Margaret and Diane waved and pedaled up the driveway. 

I’m so happy, Margaret thought. It’ll be so good to have her back. Someone 
I can talk to. Someone who can explain... about Dad. 

They looked through some old copies of Sassy and People in Margaret’s 
room, listening to some tapes that Margaret had recently bought. At a little past 
three, Diane suddenly remembered that she had a make-up piano lesson that she 
was late for. She rushed out of the house in a panic, jumped on her bike, yelled, 
“Say hi to your mom for me!” and disappeared down the drive. 

Margaret stood behind the house looking out at the rolling hills, wondering 
what to do next to make the time pass before her mother got home. The strong, 
swirling breeze felt cool against her face. She decided to get a book and go sit 
down with it under the shady sassafras tree in the middle of the yard. 

She turned and pulled open the kitchen door, and Casey came running up. 
“Where are our kites?” he asked, out of breath. 

“Kites? I don’t know. Why?” Margaret asked. “Hey—” She grabbed his 
shoulder to get his attention. “Mom’s coming home. She should be here in an 
hour or so.” 

“Great!” he cried. “Just enough time to fly some kites. It’s so windy. Come 
on. Want to fly ’em with me?” 



“Sure,” Margaret said. It would help pass the time. She thought hard, trying 
to remember where they put the kites. “Are they in the garage?” 

“No,” Casey told her. “I know. They’re in the basement. On those shelves. 
The string, too.” He pushed past her into the house. “I’ll jimmy the lock and go 
down and get them.” 

“Hey, Casey—be careful down there,” she called after him. He disappeared 
into the hallway. Margaret had second thoughts. She didn’t want Casey down 
there by himself in the plant room. “Wait up,” she called. “I’ll come with you.” 

They made their way down the stairs quickly, into the hot, steamy air, into 
the bright lights. 

The plants seemed to bend toward them, to reach out to them as they 
walked by. Margaret tried to ignore them. Walking right behind Casey, she kept 
her eyes on the tall metal shelves straight ahead. 

The shelves were deep and filled with old, unwanted toys, games, and 
sports equipment, a plastic tent, some old sleeping bags. Casey got there first and 
started rummaging around on the lower shelves. “I know they’re here 
somewhere,” he said. 

“Yeah. I remember storing them here,” Margaret said, running her eyes over 
the top shelves. 

Casey, down on his knees, started pulling boxes off the bottom shelf. 
Suddenly, he stopped. “Whoa—Margaret.” 

“Huh?” She took a step back. “What is it?” 

“Look at this,” Casey said softly. He pulled something out from behind the 
shelves, then stood up with it bundled in his hands. 

Margaret saw that he was holding a pair of black shoes. And a pair of blue 
trousers. 

Blue suit trousers? 

His face suddenly pale, his features drawn, Casey let the shoes drop to the 
floor. He unfurled the trousers and held them up in front of him. 

“Hey—look in the back pocket,” Margaret said, pointing. 

Casey reached into the back pocket and pulled out a black leather wallet. 

“I don’t believe this,” Margaret said. 

Casey’s hands trembled as he opened the wallet and searched inside. He 
pulled out a green American Express card and read the name on it. 

“It belongs to Mr. Martinez,” he said, swallowing hard. He raised his eyes 
to Margaret’s. “This is Mr. Martinez’s stuff.” 



17 


“Dad lied,” Casey said, staring in horror at the wallet in his hands. “Mr. Martinez 
might leave without his jacket. But he wouldn’t leave without his pants and 
shoes.” 

“But—what happened to him?” Margaret asked, feeling sick. 

Casey slammed the wallet shut. He shook his head sadly, but didn’t reply. 

In the center of the room, a plant seemed to groan, the sound startling the 
two kids. 

“Dad lied,” Casey repeated, staring down at the pants and shoes on the 
floor. “Dad lied to us.” 

“What are we going to do?” Margaret cried, panic and desperation in her 
voice. “We’ve got to tell someone what’s happening here. But who?” 

The plant groaned again. Tendrils snaked along the dirt. Leaves clapped 
against each other softly, wetly. 

And then the banging began again in the supply closet next to the shelves. 

Margaret stared at Casey. “That thumping. What is it?” 

They both listened to the insistent banging sounds. A low moan issued from 
the closet, followed by a higher-pitched one, both mournful, both very human¬ 
sounding. 

“I think someone’s in there!” Margaret exclaimed. 

“Maybe it’s Mr. Martinez,” Casey suggested, still gripping the wallet tightly 
in his hand. 

Thud thud thud. 

“Do you think we should open the closet?” Casey asked timidly. 

A plant groaned as if answering. 

“Yes. I think we should,” Margaret replied, suddenly cold all over. “If it’s 
Mr. Martinez in there, we’ve got to let him out.” 

Casey set the wallet down on the shelf. Then they moved quickly to the 
supply closet. 

Across from them, the plants seemed to shift and move as the two kids did. 
They heard breathing sounds, another groan, scurrying noises. Leaves bristled on 
their stalks. Tendrils drooped and slid. 

“Hey—look!” Casey cried. 



“I see,” Margaret said. The closet door wasn’t just locked. A two-by-four 
had been nailed over it. 

Thud thud. Thud thud thud. 

“There’s someone in there—I know it!” Margaret cried. 

“I’ll get the hammer,” Casey said. Keeping close to the wall and as far away 
from the plants as he could, he edged his way toward the worktable. 

A few seconds later, he returned with a claw hammer. 

Thud thud. 

Working together, they pried the two-by-four off the door. It clattered 
noisily to the floor. 

The banging from inside the supply closet grew louder, more insistent. 

“Now what do we do about the lock?” Margaret asked, staring at it. 

Casey scratched his head. They both had perspiration dripping down their 
faces. The steamy, hot air made it hard to catch their breaths. 

“I don’t know how to unlock it,” Casey said, stumped. 

“What if we tried to pry the door off the way we pulled off the two-by- 
four?” Margaret asked. 

Thud thud thud. 

Casey shrugged. “I don’t know. Let’s try.” 

Working the claw of the hammer into the narrow crack, they tried prying 
the door on the side of the lock. When it wouldn’t budge, they moved to the 
hinged side of the door and tried there. 

“It’s not moving,” Casey said, mopping his forehead with his arm. 

“Keep trying,” Margaret said. “Here. Let’s both push it.” 

Digging the claw in just above the lower hinge, they both pushed the handle 
of the hammer with all their strength. 

“It—it moved a little,” Margaret said, breathing hard. 

They kept at it. The wet wood began to crack. They both pushed against the 
hammer, wedging the claw into the crack. 

Finally, with a loud ripping sound, they managed to pull the door off. 

“Huh?” Casey dropped the hammer. 

They both squinted into the dark closet. 

And screamed in horror when they saw what was inside. 



18 


“Look!” Margaret cried, her heart thudding. She suddenly felt dizzy. She gripped 
the side of the closet to steady herself. 

“I—don’t believe this,” Casey said quietly, his voice trembling as he stared 
into the long, narrow supply closet. 

They both gaped at the weird plants that filled the closet. 

Were they plants? 

Under the dim ceiling bulb, they bent and writhed, groaning, breathing, 
sighing. Branches shook, leaves shimmered and moved, tall plants leaned 
forward as if reaching out to Margaret and Casey. 

“Look at that one!” Casey cried, taking a step back, stumbling into 
Margaret. “It has an arm!” 

“Ohh.” Margaret followed Casey’s stare. Casey was right. The tall, leafy 
plant appeared to have a green, human arm descending from its stalk. 

Margaret’s eyes darted around the closet. To her horror, she realized that 
several plants seemed to have human features—green arms, a yellow hand with 
three fingers poking from it, two stumpy legs where the stem should be. 

She and her brother both cried out when they saw the plant with the face. 
Inside a cluster of broad leaves there appeared to grow a round, green tomato. 
But the tomato had a human-shaped nose and an open mouth, from which it 
repeatedly uttered the most mournful sighs and groans. 

Another plant, a short plant with clusters of broad, oval leaves, had two 
green, nearly human faces partly hidden by the leaves, both wailing through 
open mouths. 

“Let’s get out of here!” Casey cried, grabbing Margaret’s hand in fear and 
tugging her away from the closet. “This is—gross!” 

The plants moaned and sighed. Green, fingerless hands reached out to 
Margaret and Casey. A yellow, sick-looking plant near the wall made choking 
sounds. A tall flowering plant staggered toward them, thin, tendril-like arms 
outstretched. 

“Wait!” Margaret cried, pulling her hand out of Casey’s. She spotted 
something on the closet floor behind the moaning, shifting plants. “Casey— 
what’s that?” she asked, pointing. 



She struggled to focus her eyes in the dim light of the closet. On the floor 
behind the plants, near the shelves on the back wall, were two human feet. 

Margaret stepped cautiously into the closet. The feet, she saw, were 
attached to legs. 

“Margaret—let’s go!” Casey pleaded. 

“No. Look. There’s someone back there,” Margaret said, staring hard. 

“Huh?” 

“A person. Not a plant,” Margaret said. She took another step. A soft green 
arm brushed against her side. 

“Margaret, what are you doing?” Casey asked, his voice high and 
frightened. 

“I have to see who it is,” Margaret said. 

She took a deep breath and held it. Then, ignoring the moans, the sighs, the 
green arms reaching out to her, the hideous green-tomato faces, she plunged 
through the plants to the back of the closet. 

“Dad!” she cried. 

Her father was lying on the floor, his hands and feet tied tightly with plant 
tendrils, his mouth gagged by a wide strip of elastic tape. 

“Margaret—” Casey was beside her. He lowered his eyes to the floor. “Oh, 

no!” 

Their father stared up at them, pleading with his eyes. “Mmmmm!” he 
cried, struggling to talk through the gag. 

Margaret dived to the floor and started to untie him. 

“No—stop!” Casey cried, and pulled her back by the shoulders. 

“Casey, let go of me. What’s wrong with you?” Margaret cried angrily. “It’s 
Dad. He—” 

“It can’t be Dad!” Casey said, still holding her by the shoulders. “Dad is at 
the airport—remember?” 

Behind them, the plants seemed to be moaning in unison, a terrifying 
chorus. A tall plant fell over and rolled toward the open closet door. 

“Mmmmmmm!” their father continued to plead, struggling at the tendrils 
that imprisoned him. 

“I’ve got to untie him,” Margaret told her brother. “Let go of me.” 

“No,” Casey insisted. “Margaret—look at his head.” 

Margaret turned her eyes to her father’s head. He was bareheaded. No 
Dodgers cap. He had tufts of green leaves growing where his hair should be. 



“We’ve already seen that,” Margaret snapped. “It’s a side effect, 
remember?” She reached down to pull at her father’s ropes. 

“No—don’t!” Casey insisted. 

“Okay, okay,” Margaret said. “I’ll just pull the tape off his mouth. I won’t 
untie him.” 

She reached down and tugged at the elastic tape until she managed to get it 
off. 

“Kids—I’m so glad to see you,” Dr. Brewer said. “Quick! Untie me.” 

“How did you get in here?” Casey demanded, standing above him, hands on 
his hips, staring down at him suspiciously. “We saw you leave for the airport.” 

“That wasn’t me,” Dr. Brewer said. “I’ve been locked in here for days.” 

“Huh?” Casey cried. 

“But we saw you—” Margaret started. 

“It wasn’t me. It’s a plant,” Dr. Brewer said. “It’s a plant copy of me.” 

“Dad—” Casey said. 

“Please. There’s no time to explain,” their father said urgently, raising his 
leaf-covered head to look toward the closet doorway. “Just untie me. Quick!” 

“The father we’ve been living with? He’s a plant?” Margaret cried, 
swallowing hard. 

“Yes. Please—untie me!” 

Margaret reached for the tendrils. 

“No!” Casey insisted. “How do we know you’re telling the truth?” 

“I’ll explain everything. I promise,” he pleaded. “Hurry. Our lives are at 
stake. Mr. Martinez is in here, too.” 

Startled, Margaret turned her eyes to the far wall. Sure enough, Mr. 
Martinez also lay on the floor, bound and gagged. 

“Let me out—please!” her father cried. 

Behind them, plants moaned and cried. 

Margaret couldn’t stand it anymore. “I’m untying him,” she told Casey, and 
bent down to start grappling with the tendrils. 

Her father sighed gratefully. Casey bent down and reluctantly began 
working at the tendrils, too. 

Finally, they had loosened them enough so their father could slip out. He 
climbed to his feet slowly, stretching his arms, moving his legs, bending his 
knees. “Man, that feels good,” he said, giving Margaret and Casey a grim smile. 

“Dad—should we untie Mr. Martinez?” Margaret asked. 



But, without warning, Dr. Brewer pushed past the two kids and made his 
way out of the closet. 

“Dad—whoa! Where are you going?” Margaret called. 

“You said you’d explain everything!” Casey insisted. He and his sister ran 
through the moaning plants, following their father. 

“I will. I will.” Breathing hard, Dr. Brewer strode quickly to the woodpile 
against the far wall. 

Margaret and Casey both gasped as he picked up an axe. 

He spun around to face them, holding the thick axe handle with both hands. 
His face frozen with determination, he started toward them. 

“Dad—what are you doing?” Margaret cried. 



19 


Swinging the axe onto his shoulder, Dr. Brewer advanced on Margaret and 
Casey. He groaned from the effort of raising the heavy tool, his face reddening, 
his eyes wide, excited. 

“Dad, please!” Margaret cried, gripping Casey’s shoulder, backing up 
toward the jungle of plants in the center of the room. 

“What are you doing?” she repeated. 

“He’s not our real father!” Casey cried. “I told you we shouldn’t untie 
him!” 

“He is our real father!” Margaret insisted. “I know he is!” She turned her 
eyes to her father, looking for an answer. 

But he stared back at them, his face filled with confusion—and menace, the 
axe in his hands gleaming under the bright ceiling lights. 

“Dad—answer us!” Margaret demanded. “Answer us!” 

Before Dr. Brewer could reply, they heard loud, rapid footsteps clumping 
down the basement steps. 

All four of them turned to the doorway of the plant room—to see an 
alarmed-looking Dr. Brewer enter. He grabbed the bill of his Dodgers cap as he 
strode angrily toward the two kids. 

“What are you two doing down here?” he cried. “You promised me. Here’s 
your mother. Don’t you want to—?” 

Mrs. Brewer appeared at his side. She started to call out a greeting, but 
stopped, freezing in horror when she saw the confusing scene. 

“No!” she screamed, seeing the other Dr. Brewer, the capless Dr. Brewer, 
holding an axe in front of him with both hands. “No!” Her face filled with 
horror. She turned to the Dr. Brewer that had just brought her home. 

He glared accusingly at Margaret and Casey. “What have you done? You let 
him escape?” 

“He’s our dad,” Margaret said, in a tiny little voice she barely recognized. 

“I’m your dad!” the Dr. Brewer at the doorway bellowed. “Not him! He’s 
not your dad. He’s not even human! He’s a plant!” 

Margaret and Casey both gasped and drew back in terror. 

“You’re the plant!” the bareheaded Dr. Brewer accused, raising the axe. 



“He’s dangerous!” the other Dr. Brewer exclaimed. “How could you have 
let him out?” 

Caught in the middle, Margaret and Casey stared from one father to the 
other. 

Who was their real father? 



20 


“That’s not your father!” Dr. Brewer with the Dodgers cap cried again, moving 
into the room. “He’s a copy. A plant copy. One of my experiments that went 
wrong. I locked him in the supply closet because he’s dangerous.” 

“You’re the copy!” the other Dr. Brewer accused, and raised the axe again. 

Margaret and Casey stood motionless, exchanging terrified glances. 

“Kids—what have you done?” Mrs. Brewer cried, her hands pressed against 
her cheeks, her eyes wide with disbelief. 

“What have we done?” Margaret asked her brother in a low voice. 

Staring wide-eyed from one man to the other, Casey seemed too frightened 
to reply. 

“I—I don’t know what to do,” Casey managed to whisper. 

What can we do? Margaret wondered silently, realizing that her entire body 
was trembling. 

“He has to be destroyed!” the axe-wielding Dr. Brewer shouted, staring at 
his look-alike across the room. 

Beside them, plants quivered and shook, sighing loudly. Tendrils slithered 
across the dirt. Leaves shimmered and whispered. 

“Put down the axe. You’re not fooling anyone,” the other Dr. Brewer said. 

“You have to be destroyed!” Dr. Brewer with no cap repeated, his eyes 
wild, his face scarlet, moving closer, the axe gleaming as if electrified under the 
white light. 

Dad would never act like this, Margaret realized. Casey and I were idiots. 
We let him out of the closet. And now he’s going to kill our real dad. And mom. 

And then... us! 

What can I do? she wondered, trying to think clearly even though her mind 
was whirring wildly out of control. 

What can I do? 

Uttering a desperate cry of protest, Margaret leapt forward and grabbed the 
axe from the imposter’s hands. 

He gaped in surprise as she steadied her grip on the handle. It was heavier 
than she’d imagined. “Get back!” she screamed. “Get back—now!” 

“Margaret—wait!” her mother cried, still too frightened to move from the 



doorway. 

The capless Dr. Brewer reached for the axe. “Give it back to me! You don’t 
know what you’re doing!” he pleaded, and made a wild grab for it. 

Margaret pulled back and swung the axe. “Stay back. Everyone, stay back.” 

“Thank goodness!” Dr. Brewer with the Dodgers cap exclaimed. “We’ve 
got to get him back in the closet. He’s very dangerous.” He stepped up to 
Margaret. “Give me the axe.” 

Margaret hesitated. 

“Give me the axe,” he insisted. 

Margaret turned to her mother. “What should I do?” 

Mrs. Brewer shrugged helplessly. “I—I don’t know.” 

“Princess—don’t do it,” the capless Dr. Brewer said softly, staring into 
Margaret’s eyes. 

He called me Princess, Margaret realized. 

The other one never had. 

Does this mean that the Dad in the closet is my real dad? 

“Margaret—give me the axe.” The one in the cap made a grab for it. 

Margaret backed away and swung the axe again. 

“Get back! Both of you—stay back!” she warned. 

“I’m warning you,” Dr. Brewer in the cap said. “He’s dangerous. Listen to 
me, Margaret.” 

“Get back!” she repeated, desperately trying to decide what to do. 

Which one is my real dad? 

Which one? Which one? Which one? 

Her eyes darting back and forth from one to the other, she saw that each of 
them had a bandage around his right hand. And it gave her an idea. 

“Casey, there’s a knife on the wall over there,” she said, still holding the axe 
poised. “Get it for me—fast!” 

Casey obediently hurried to the wall. It took him a short while to find the 
knife among all the tools hanging there. He reached up on tiptoes to pull it down, 
then hurried back to Margaret with it. 

Margaret lowered the axe and took the long-bladed knife from him. 

“Margaret—give me the axe,” the man in the Dodgers cap insisted 
impatiently. 

“Margaret, what are you doing?” the man from the supply closet asked, 
suddenly looking frightened. 



“I—I have an idea,” Margaret said hesitantly. 

She took a deep breath. 

Then she stepped over to the man from the supply closet and pushed the 
knife blade into his arm. 



21 


“Ow!” he cried out as the blade cut through the skin. 

Margaret pulled the knife back, having made a tiny puncture hole. 

Red blood trickled from the hole. 

“He’s our real dad,” she told Casey, sighing with relief. “Here, Dad.” She 
handed him the axe. 

“Margaret—you’re wrong!” the man in the baseball cap cried in alarm. 
“He’s tricked you! He’s tricked you!” 

The capless Dr. Brewer moved quickly. He picked up the axe, took three 
steps forward, pulled the axe back, and swung with all his might. 

The Dr. Brewer in the cap opened his mouth wide and uttered a hushed cry 
of alarm. The cry was choked off as the axe cut easily through his body, slicing 
him in two. 

A thick green liquid oozed from the wound. And as the man fell, his mouth 
locking open in disbelief and horror, Margaret could see that his body was 
actually a stem. He had no bones, no human organs. 

The body thudded to the floor. Green liquid puddled around it. 

“Princess—we’re okay!” Dr. Brewer cried, flinging the axe aside. “You 
guessed right!” 

“It wasn’t a guess,” Margaret said, sinking into his arms. “I remembered the 
green blood. I saw it. Late at night. One of you was in the bathroom, bleeding 
green blood. I knew my real dad would have red blood.” 

“We’re okay!” Mrs. Brewer cried, rushing into her husband’s arms. “We’re 
okay. We’re all okay!” 

All four of them rushed together in an emotional family hug. 

“One more thing we have to do,” their father said, his arms around the two 
kids. “Let’s get Mr. Martinez out of the closet.” 

By dinnertime, things had almost returned to normal. 

They had finally managed to welcome their mother home, and tried to 
explain to her all that had happened in her absence. 

Mr. Martinez had been rescued from the supply closet, not too much the 
worse for wear. He and Dr. Brewer had had a long discussion about what had 



happened and about Dr. Brewer’s work. 

He expressed total bewilderment as to what Dr. Brewer had accomplished, 
but he knew enough to realize that it was historic. “Perhaps you need the 
structured environment the lab on campus offers. I’ll talk to the board members 
about getting you back on staff,” Martinez said. It was his way of inviting their 
father back to work. 

After Mr. Martinez was driven home, Dr. Brewer disappeared into the 
basement for about an hour. He returned grim-faced and exhausted. “I destroyed 
most of the plants,” he explained, sinking into an armchair. “I had to. They were 
suffering. Later, I’ll destroy the rest.” 

“Every single plant?” Mrs. Brewer asked. 

“Well... there are a few normal ones that I can plant out back in the 
garden,” he replied. He shook his head sadly. “Only a few.” 

At dinner, he finally had the strength to explain to Margaret, Casey, and 
Mrs. Brewer what had happened down in the basement. 

“I was working on a super plant,” he said, “trying to electronically make a 
new plant using DNA elements from other plants. Then I accidentally cut my 
hand on a slide. I didn’t realize it, but some of my blood got mixed in with the 
plant molecules I was using. When I turned on the machine, my molecules got 
mixed in with plant molecules—and I ended up with something that was part 
human, part plant.” 

“That’s gross!” Casey exclaimed, dropping a forkful of mashed potatoes. 

“Well, I’m a scientist,” Dr. Brewer replied, “so I didn’t think it was gross. I 
thought it was pretty exciting. I mean, here I was, inventing an entirely new kind 
of creature.” 

“Those plants with faces—” Margaret started. 

Her father nodded. “Yes. Those were things I made by inserting human 
materials into plant materials. I kept putting them in the supply closet. I got 
carried away. I didn’t know how far I could go, how human I could make the 
plants. I could see that my creations were unhappy, suffering. But I couldn’t 
stop. It was too exciting.” 

He took a long drink of water from his glass. 

“You didn’t tell me any of this,” Mrs. Brewer said, shaking her head. 

“I couldn’t,” he said. “I couldn’t tell anyone. I—I was too involved. Then 
one day, I went too far. I created a plant that was an exact copy of me in almost 
every way. He looked like me. He sounded like me. And he had my brain, my 



mind.” 

“But he still acted like a plant in some ways,” Margaret said. “He ate plant 
food and—” 

“He wasn’t perfect,” Dr. Brewer said, leaning forward over the dinner table, 
talking in a low, serious voice. “He had flaws. But he was strong enough and 
smart enough to overpower me, to lock me in the closet, to take my place—and 
to continue my experiments. And when Martinez arrived unexpectedly, he 
locked Martinez in the closet, too, so that his secret would be safe.” 

“Was the head full of leaves one of the flaws?” Casey asked. 

Dr. Brewer nodded. “Yes, he was almost a perfect clone of me, almost a 
perfect human, but not quite.” 

“But, Dad,” Margaret said, pointing, “you have leaves on your head, too.” 

He reached up and pulled one off. “I know,” he said, making a disgusted 
face. “That’s really gross, huh?” 

Everyone agreed. 

“Well, when I cut my hand, some of the plant materials mixed with my 
blood, got into my system,” he explained. “And then I turned on the machine. 
The machine created a strong chemical reaction between the plant materials and 
my blood. Then, my hair fell out overnight. And the leaves immediately started 
to sprout. Don’t worry, guys. The leaves are falling out already. I think my hair 
will grow back.” 

Margaret and Casey cheered. 

“I guess things will return to normal around here,” Mrs. Brewer said, 
smiling at her husband. 

“Better than normal,” he said, smiling back. “If Martinez convinces the 
board to give me my job back, I’ll clear out the basement and turn it into the best 
game room you ever saw!” 

Margaret and Casey cheered again. 

“We’re all alive and safe,” Dr. Brewer said, hugging both kids at once. 
“Thanks to you two.” 

It was the happiest dinner Margaret could remember. After they had cleaned 
up, they all went out for ice cream. It was nearly ten o’clock when they returned. 

Dr. Brewer headed for the basement. 

“Hey—where are you going?” his wife called suspiciously. 

“I’m just going down to deal with the rest of the plants,” Dr. Brewer 
assured her. “I want to make sure that everything is gone, that this horrible 



chapter in our lives is over.” 

By the end of the week, most of the plants had been destroyed. A giant pile of 
leaves, roots, and stalks were burned in a bonfire that lasted for hours. A few tiny 
plants had been transplanted outside. All of the equipment had been dismantled 
and trucked to the university. 

On Saturday, all four Brewers went to select a pool table for the new 
basement rec room. On Sunday, Margaret found herself standing in back by the 
garden, staring up at the golden hills. 

It’s so peaceful now, she thought happily. 

So peaceful here. And so beautiful. 

The smile faded from her face when she heard the whisper at her feet. 
“Margaret.” 

She looked down to see a small yellow flower nudging her ankle. 
“Margaret,” the flower whispered, “help me. Please—help me. I’m your 
father. Really! I’m your real father.” 




MONSTER BLOOD 
Goosebumps - 03 
R.L. Stine 

1 


“I don’t want to stay here. Please don’t leave me here.” 

Evan Ross tugged his mother’s hand, trying to pull her away from the front 
stoop of the small, gray-shingled house. Mrs. Ross turned to him, an impatient 
frown on her face. 

“Evan—you’re twelve years old. Don’t act like an infant,” she said, freeing 
her hand from his grasp. 

“I hate when you say that!” Evan exclaimed angrily, crossing his arms in 
front of his chest. 

Softening her expression, she reached out and ran her hand tenderly through 
Evan’s curly, carrot-colored hair. “And I hate when you do that!” he cried, 
backing away from her, nearly stumbling over a broken flagstone in the walk. 
“Don’t touch my hair. I hate it!” 

“Okay, so you hate me,” his mother said with a shrug. She climbed up the 
two steps and knocked on the front door. “You still have to stay here till I get 
back.” 

“Why can’t I come with you?” Evan demanded, keeping his arms crossed. 
“Just give me one good reason.” 

“Your sneaker is untied,” his mother replied. 

“So?” Evan replied unhappily. “I like ’em untied.” 

“You’ll trip,” she warned. 

“Mom,” Evan said, rolling his eyes in exasperation, “have you ever seen 
anyone trip over his sneakers because they were untied?” 

“Well, no,” his mother admitted, a smile slowly forming on her pretty face. 

“You just want to change the subject,” Evan said, not smiling back. “You’re 
going to leave me here for weeks with a horrible old woman and—” 

“Evan—that’s enough !” Mrs. Ross snapped, tossing back her straight 
blonde hair. “Kathryn is not a horrible old woman. She’s your father’s aunt. Your 
great-aunt. And she’s—” 

“She’s a total stranger,” Evan cried. He knew he was losing control, but he 
didn’t care. How could his mother do this to him? How could she leave him with 
some old lady he hadn’t seen since he was two? What was he supposed to do 
here all by himself until his mother got back? 



“Evan, we’ve discussed this a thousand times,” his mother said impatiently, 
pounding on his aunt’s front door again. “This is a family emergency. I really 
expect you to cooperate a little better.” 

Her next words were drowned out by Trigger, Evan’s cocker spaniel, who 
stuck his tan head out of the back window of the rented car and began barking 
and howling. 

“Now he’s giving me a hard time, too!” Mrs. Ross exclaimed. 

“Can I let him out?” Evan asked eagerly. 

“I guess you’d better,” his mother replied. “Trigger’s so old, we don’t want 
him to have a heart attack in there. I just hope he doesn’t terrify Kathryn.” 

“I’m coming, Trigger!” Evan called. 

He jogged to the gravel driveway and pulled open the car door. With an 
excited yip, Trigger leapt out and began running in wide circles around 
Kathryn’s small, rectangular front yard. 

“He doesn’t look like he’s twelve,” Evan said, watching the dog run, and 
smiling for the first time that day. 

“See. You’ll have Trigger for company,” Mrs. Ross said, turning back to the 
front door. “I’ll be back from Atlanta in no time. A couple of weeks at the most. 
I’m sure your dad and I can find a house in that time. And then we’ll be back 
before you even notice we’re gone.” 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan said sarcastically. 

The sun dipped behind a large cloud. A shadow fell over the small front 

yard. 

Trigger wore himself out quickly and came panting up the walk, his tongue 
hanging nearly to the ground. Evan bent down and petted the dog’s back. 

He looked up at the gray house as his mother knocked on the front door 
again. It looked dark and uninviting. There were curtains drawn over the upstairs 
windows. One of the shutters had come loose and was resting at an odd angle. 

“Mom—why are you knocking?” he asked, shoving his hands into his jeans 
pockets. “You said Aunt Kathryn was totally deaf.” 

“Oh.” His mother’s face reddened. “You got me so upset, Evan, with all 
your complaining, I completely forgot. Of course she can’t hear us.” 

How am I going to spend two weeks with a strange old lady who can’t even 
hear me? Evan wondered glumly. 

He remembered eavesdropping on his parents two weeks earlier when they 
had made the plan. They were seated across from each other at the kitchen table. 



They thought Evan was out in the backyard. But he was in the hallway, his back 
pressed against the wall, listening. 

His father, he learned, was reluctant to leave Evan with Kathryn. “She’s a 
very stubborn old woman,” Mr. Ross had said. “Look at her. Deaf for twenty 
years, and she’s refused to learn sign language or to lip-read. How’s she going to 
take care of Evan?” 

“She took good care of you when you were a boy,” Mrs. Ross had argued. 

“That was thirty years ago,” Mr. Ross protested. 

“Well, we have no choice,” Evan heard his mother say. “There’s no one else 
to leave him with. Everyone else is away on vacation. You know, August is just 
the worst month for you to be transferred to Atlanta.” 

“Well, excuuuuse me!” Mr. Ross said sarcastically. “Okay, okay. Discussion 
closed. You’re absolutely right, dear. We have no choice. Kathryn it is. You’ll 
drive Evan there and then fly down to Atlanta.” 

“It’ll be a good experience for him,” Evan heard his mother say. “He needs 
to learn how to get along under difficult circumstances. You know, moving to 
Atlanta, leaving all his friends behind—that isn’t going to be easy on Evan 
either.” 

“Okay. I said okay,” Mr. Ross said impatiently. “It’s settled. Evan will be 
fine. Kathryn is a bit weird, but she’s perfectly harmless.” 

Evan heard the kitchen chairs scraping across the linoleum, indicating that 
his parents were getting up, their discussion ended. 

His fate was sealed. Silently, he had made his way out the front door and 
around to the backyard to think about what he had just overheard. 

He leaned against the trunk of the big maple tree, which hid him from the 
house. It was his favorite place to think. 

Why didn’t his parents ever include him in their discussions? he wondered. 
If they were going to discuss leaving him with some old aunt he’d never seen 
before, shouldn’t he at least have a say? He learned all the big family news by 
eavesdropping from the hallway. It just wasn’t right. 

Evan pulled a small twig off the ground and tapped it against the broad tree 
trunk. 

Aunt Kathryn was weird. That’s what his dad had said. She was so weird, 
his father didn’t want to leave Evan with her. 

But they had no choice. No choice. 

Maybe they’ll change their minds and take me to Atlanta with them, Evan 



thought. Maybe they’ll realize they can’t do this to me. 

But now, two weeks later, he was standing in front of Aunt Kathryn’s gray 
house, feeling very nervous, staring at the brown suitcase filled with his 
belongings, which stood beside his mother on the stoop. 

There’s nothing to be scared of, he assured himself. 

It’s only for two weeks. Maybe less. 

But then the words popped out before he’d even had a chance to think about 
them: “Mom—what if Aunt Kathryn is mean?” 

“Huh?” The question caught his mother by surprise. “Mean? Why would 
she be mean, Evan?” 

And as she said this, facing Evan with her back to the house, the front door 
was pulled open, and Aunt Kathryn, a large woman with startling black hair, 
filled the doorway. 

Staring past his mother, Evan saw the knife in Kathryn’s hand. And he saw 
that the blade of the knife was dripping with blood. 



2 


Trigger raised his head and began to bark, hopping backward on his hind legs 
with each bark. 

Startled, Evan’s mother spun around, nearly stumbling off the small stoop. 

Evan gaped in silent horror at the knife. 

A smile formed on Kathryn’s face, and she pushed open the screen door 
with her free hand. 

She wasn’t anything like Evan had pictured. He had pictured a small, frail¬ 
looking, white-haired old lady. But Kathryn was a large woman, very robust, 
broad-shouldered, and tall. 

She wore a peach-colored housedress and had straight black hair, pulled 
back and tied behind her head in a long ponytail that flowed down the back of 
the dress. She wore no makeup, and her pale face seemed to disappear under the 
striking black hair, except for her eyes, which were large and round, and steely 
blue. 

“I was slicing beef,” she said in a surprisingly deep voice, waving the 
blood-stained kitchen knife. She stared at Evan. “You like beef?” 

“Uh... yeah,” he managed to reply, his chest still fluttery from the shock of 
seeing her appear with the raised knife. 

Kathryn held open the screen door, but neither Evan nor his mother made 
any move to go inside. “He’s big,” Kathryn said to Mrs. Ross. “A big boy. Not 
like his father. I used to call his father Chicken. Because he was no bigger than a 
chicken.” She laughed as if she had cracked a funny joke. 

Mrs. Ross, picking up Evan’s suitcase, glanced uncomfortably back at him. 
“Yeah... he’s big,” she said. 

Actually, Evan was one of the shortest kids in his class. And no matter how 
much he ate, he remained “as skinny as a spaghetti noodle,” as his dad liked to 
say. 

“You don’t have to answer me,” Kathryn said, stepping aside so that Mrs. 
Ross could get inside the house with the suitcase. “I can’t hear you.” Her voice 
was deep, as deep as a man’s, and she spoke clearly, without the indistinct 
pronunciation that some deaf people have. 

Evan followed his mother into the front hallway, Trigger yapping at his 



heels. “Can’t you get that dog quiet?” his mother snapped. 

“It doesn’t matter. She can’t hear it,” Evan replied, gesturing toward his 
aunt, who was heading to the kitchen to put down the knife. 

Kathryn returned a few seconds later, her blue eyes locked on Evan, her lips 
pursed, as if she were studying him. “So, you like beef?” she repeated. 

He nodded. 

“Good,” she said, her expression still serious. “I always fixed beef for your 
father. But he only wanted pie.” 

“What kind of pie?” Evan asked, and then blushed when he remembered 
Kathryn couldn’t hear him. 

“So he’s a good boy? Not a troublemaker?” Kathryn asked Evan’s mother. 

Mrs. Ross nodded, looking at Evan. “Where shall we put his suitcase?” she 
asked. 

“I can tell by looking he’s a good boy,” Kathryn said. She reached out and 
grabbed Evan’s face, her big hand holding him under the chin, her eyes 
examining him closely. “Good-looking boy,” she said, giving his chin a hard 
squeeze. “He likes the girls?” 

Still holding his chin, she lowered her face to his. “You’ve got a 
girlfriend?” she asked, her pale face right above his, so close he could smell her 
breath, which was sour. 

Evan took a step back, an embarrassed grin crossing his face. “No. Not 
really.” 

“Yes?” Kathryn cried, bellowing in his ear. “Yes? I knew it!” She laughed 
heartily, turning her gaze to Evan’s mother. 

“The suitcase?” Mrs. Ross asked, picking up the bag. 

“He likes the girls, huh?” Kathryn repeated, still chuckling. “I could tell. 
Just like his father. His father always liked the girls.” 

Evan turned desperately to his mother. “Mom, I can’t stay here,” he said, 
whispering even though he knew Kathryn couldn’t hear. “Please—don’t make 
me.” 

“Hush,” his mother replied, also whispering. “She’ll leave you alone. I 
promise. She’s just trying to be friendly.” 

“He likes the girls,” Kathryn repeated, leering at him with her cold blue 
eyes, again lowering her face close to Evan’s. 

“Mom—her breath smells like Trigger’s!” Evan exclaimed miserably. 

“Evan!” Mrs. Ross shouted angrily. “Stop it! I expect you to cooperate.” 



“I’m going to bake you a pie,” Kathryn said, tugging at her black ponytail 
with one of her huge hands. “Would you like to roll out the dough? I’ll bet you 
would. What did your father tell you about me, Evan?” She winked at Mrs. Ross. 
“Did he tell you I was a scary old witch?” 

“No,” Evan protested, looking at his mother. 

“Well, I am!” Kathryn declared, and once again burst into her deep-throated 
laugh. 

Trigger took this moment to begin barking ferociously and jumping on 
Evan’s great-aunt. She glared down at the dog, her eyes narrowing, her 
expression becoming stern. “Look out or we’ll put you in the pie, doggie!” she 
exclaimed. 

Trigger barked even harder, darting boldly toward the tall, hovering woman, 
then quickly retreating, his stub of a tail whipping back and forth in a frenzy. 

“We’ll put him in the pie, won’t we, Evan?” Kathryn repeated, putting a big 
hand on Evan’s shoulder and squeezing it till Evan flinched in pain. 

“Mom—” he pleaded when his aunt finally let go and, smiling, made her 
way to the kitchen. “Mom—please.” 

“It’s just her sense of humor, Evan,” Mrs. Ross said uncertainly. “She 
means well. Really. She’s going to bake you a pie.” 

“But I don’t want pie!” Evan wailed. “I don’t like it here, Mom! She hurt 
me. She squeezed my shoulder so hard—” 

“Evan, I’m sure she didn’t mean to. She’s just trying to joke with you. She 
wants you to like her. Give her a chance—okay?” 

Evan started to protest, but thought better of it. 

“I’m counting on you,” his mother continued, turning her eyes to the 
kitchen. They could both see Kathryn at the counter, her broad back to them, 
hacking away at something with the big kitchen knife. 

“But she’s... weird!” Evan protested. 

“Listen, Evan, I understand how you’re feeling,” his mother said. “But you 
won’t have to spend all your time with her. There are a lot of kids in this 
neighborhood. Take Trigger for a walk. I’ll bet you’ll make some friends your 
age. She’s an old woman, Evan. She won’t want you hanging around all the 
time.” 

“I guess,” Evan muttered. 

His mother bent down suddenly and gave him a hug, pressing her cheek 
against his. The hug, he knew, was supposed to cheer him up. But it only made 



him feel worse. 

“I’m counting on you,” his mother repeated in his ear. 

Evan decided to try and be braver about this. “I’ll help you carry the 
suitcase up to my room,” he said. 

They carried it up the narrow staircase. His room was actually a study. The 
walls were lined with bookshelves filled with old hardcover books. A large 
mahogany desk stood in the center of the room. A narrow cot had been made up 
under the single, curtained window. 

The window faced out onto the backyard, a long green rectangle with the 
gray-shingled garage to the left, a tall picket fence to the right. A small, fenced- 
in area stretched across the back of the yard. It looked like some sort of dog run. 

The room smelled musty. The sharp aroma of mothballs invaded Evan’s 

nose. 

Trigger sneezed. He rolled onto his back, his legs racing in the air. 

Trigger can’t stand this place either, Evan thought. But he kept his thought 
to himself, smiling bravely at his mother, who quickly unpacked his suitcase, 
nervously checking her watch. 

“I’m late. Don’t want to miss my plane,” she said. She gave him another 
hug, longer this time. Then she took a ten-dollar bill from her pocket-book and 
stuffed it into his shirt pocket. “Buy yourself a treat. Be good. I’ll hurry back as 
fast as I can.” 

“Okay. Bye,” he said, his chest feeling fluttery, his throat as dry as cotton. 
The smell of her perfume momentarily drowned out the mothballs. 

He didn’t want her to leave. He had such a bad feeling. 

You’re just scared, he scolded himself. 

“I’ll call you from Atlanta,” she shouted as she disappeared down the stairs 
to say good-bye to Kathryn. 

Her perfume disappeared. 

The mothballs returned. 

Trigger uttered a low, sad howl, as if he knew what was happening, as if he 
knew they were being abandoned here in this strange house with the strange old 
woman. 

Evan picked Trigger up and nose-kissed his cold, black nose. Putting the 
dog back down on the worn carpet, he made his way to the window. 

He stood there for a long while, one hand holding the curtains aside, staring 
down at the small, green yard, trying to calm the fluttering in his chest. After a 



few minutes, he heard his mother’s car back down the gravel drive. Then he 
heard it roll away. 

When he could no longer hear it, he sighed and plopped down on the cot. 
“It’s just you and me now, Trigger,” he said glumly. 

Trigger was busily sniffing behind the door. 

Evan stared up at the walls of old books. 

What am I going to do here all day? he asked himself, propping his head in 
his hands. No Nintendo. No computer. He hadn’t even seen a TV in his great- 
aunt’s small living room. What am I going to do? 

Sighing again, he picked himself up and walked along the bookshelves, his 
eyes scanning the titles. There were lots of science books and textbooks, he saw. 
Books on biology and astronomy, ancient Egypt, chemistry texts, and medical 
books. Several shelves were filled with dusty, yellowed books. Maybe Kathryn’s 
husband, Evan’s great-uncle, had been some sort of scientist. 

Nothing here for me to read, he thought glumly. 

He pulled open the closet door. 

“Oh!” 

He cried out as something leapt out at him. 

“Help! Please—help!” 

Everything went black. 

“Help! I can’t see!” Evan screamed. 



3 


Evan staggered back in fear as the warm blackness crept over him. 

It took him a few seconds to realize what it was. His heart still thudding in 
his chest, he reached up and pulled the screeching black cat off his face. 

The cat dropped silently to the ground and padded to the doorway. Evan 
turned and saw Kathryn standing there, an amused grin on her face. 

How long had she been standing there? he wondered. 

“Sarabeth, how did you get in there?” she asked in a playfully scolding 
tone, bending down to speak to the cat. “You must have given the boy a fright.” 

The cat mewed and rubbed against Kathryn’s bare leg. 

“Did Sarabeth scare you?” Kathryn asked Evan, still smiling. “That cat has 
a strange sense of humor. She’s evil. Pure evil.” She chuckled as if she’d said 
something funny. 

“I’m okay,” Evan said uncertainly. 

“Watch out for Sarabeth. She’s evil,” Kathryn repeated, bending down and 
picking the cat up by the scruff of the neck, holding her up in the air in front of 
her. “Evil, evil, evil.” 

Seeing the cat suspended in the air, Trigger uttered an unhappy howl. His 
stubby tail went into motion, and he leapt up at the cat, barking and yipping, 
missed, and leapt again, snapping at Sarabeth’s tail. 

“Down, Trigger! Get down!” Evan cried. 

Struggling to get out of Kathryn’s arms, the cat swiped a clawed black paw 
at her, screeching in anger and fear. Trigger barked and howled as Evan 
struggled to pull the excited cocker spaniel away. 

Evan grabbed hold of Trigger as the cat swung to the floor and disappeared 
out the door. “Bad dog. Bad dog,” Evan whispered. But he didn’t really mean it. 
He was glad Trigger had scared the cat away. 

He looked up to see Kathryn still filling the doorway, staring down at him 
sternly. “Bring the dog,” she said in a low voice, her eyes narrowed, her pale lips 
pursed tightly. 

“Huh?” Evan gripped Trigger in a tight hug. 

“Bring the dog,” Kathryn repeated coldly. “We can’t have animals fighting 
in this house.” 



“But Aunt Kathryn—” Evan started to plead, then remembered she couldn’t 
hear him. 

“Sarabeth is a bad one,” Kathryn said, not softening her expression. “We 
can’t get her riled, can we?” She turned and started down the stairs. “Bring the 
dog, Evan.” 

Holding Trigger tightly by the shoulders with both hands, Evan hesitated. 

“I have to take care of the dog,” Kathryn said sternly. “Come.” 

Evan was suddenly filled with dread. What did she mean, take care of the 

dog? 

A picture flashed into his mind of Kathryn standing at the doorway with the 
bloody kitchen knife in her hand. 

“Bring the dog,” Kathryn insisted. 

Evan gasped. What was she going to do to Trigger? 



4 


“I will take care of you, doggie,” Kathryn repeated, frowning at Trigger. The dog 
whimpered in reply. 

“Come, Evan. Follow me,” she said impatiently. 

Seeing that he had no choice, Evan obediently carried Trigger down the 
stairs and followed his aunt to the backyard. “I’m prepared,” she said, turning to 
make sure he was following. 

Despite her age—she was at least eighty—she walked with long, steady 
strides. “I knew you were bringing a dog, so I made sure I was prepared.” 

Trigger licked Evan’s hand as they walked across the yard to the long, 
fenced-in area at the back. “It’s a special place for your dog,” Kathryn said, 
reaching up to grab one end of the rope that stretched across the run. “Attach this 
to the collar, Evan. Your dog will have fun here.” She frowned disapprovingly at 
Trigger. “And there will be no problems with Sarabeth.” 

Evan felt very relieved that this was all Kathryn wanted to do to Trigger. 
But he didn’t want to leave Trigger tied up in this prison in the back of the yard. 
Trigger was a house dog. He wouldn’t be happy by himself out here. 

But Evan knew he had no way of arguing with his aunt. Kathryn is smart in 
a way, he thought bitterly as he hooked Trigger’s collar to the rope. Since she 
won’t learn sign language and won’t lip-read, it means she gets to do whatever 
she wants, and no one can tell her no. 

He bent down and gave Trigger’s warm head a pat and looked up at the old 
woman. She had her arms crossed in front of her chest, her blue eyes glowing 
brightly in the sunlight, a cold smile of triumph on her face. 

“That’s a good boy,” she said, waiting for Evan to get up before starting 
back to the house. “I knew when I looked at you. Come to the house, Evan. I 
have cookies and milk. You’ll enjoy them.” Her words were kind, but her voice 
was hard and cold. 

Trigger sent up an unhappy howl as Evan followed Kathryn to the house. 
Evan turned, intending to go back and comfort the dog. But Kathryn grabbed his 
hand in an iron grip, and, staring straight ahead, led him to the kitchen door. 

The kitchen was small and cluttered and very warm. Kathryn motioned for 
him to sit at a small table against the wall. The table was covered with a plastic, 



checkered tablecloth. She frowned, her eyes studying him, as she brought over 
his snack. 

He downed the oatmeal raisin cookies and milk, listening to Trigger howl in 
the backyard. Oatmeal raisin wasn’t his favorite, but he was surprised to find that 
he was hungry. As he gobbled them down, Kathryn stood at the doorway, staring 
intently at him, a stern expression on her face. 

“I’m going to take Trigger for a walk,” he announced, wiping the milk 
mustache off his upper lip with the paper napkin she had given him. 

Kathryn shrugged and wrinkled up her face. 

Oh. Right. She can’t hear me, Evan thought. Standing at the kitchen 
window, he pointed to Trigger, then made a walking motion with two fingers. 
Kathryn nodded. 

Whew, he thought. This is going to be hard. 

He waved good-bye and hurried to free Trigger from his backyard prison. 

A few minutes later, Trigger was tugging at the leash, sniffing the flowers 
along the curb as Evan made his way up the block. The other houses on the 
street were about the same size as Kathryn’s, he saw. And they all had small, 
neatly trimmed, square front yards. 

He saw some little kids chasing each other around a birch tree. And he saw 
a middle-aged man in bright orange bathing trunks washing his car with a garden 
hose in his driveway. But he didn’t see any kids his age. 

Trigger barked at a squirrel and tugged the leash out of Evan’s hand. “Hey 
—come back!” Evan called. Trigger, disobedient as always, took off after the 
squirrel. 

The squirrel wisely climbed a tree. But Trigger, his eyesight not what it 
once was, continued the chase. 

Running at full speed, calling the dog’s name, Evan followed him around a 
corner and halfway down the block before Trigger finally realized he had lost the 
race. 

Breathing hard, Evan grabbed the leash handle. “Gotcha,” he said. He gave 
the leash a tug, trying to lead the panting dog back to Kathryn’s street. 

Trigger, sniffing around a dark tree trunk, pulled the other way. Evan was 
about to pick up the stubborn dog when he was startled by a hand grabbing his 
shoulder. 

“Hey—who are you?” a voice demanded. 



5 


Evan spun around to find a girl standing behind him, staring at him with dark 
brown eyes. “Why’d you grab my shoulder like that?” he asked, his heart still 
pounding. 

“To scare you,” she said simply. 

“Yeah. Well...” Evan shrugged. Trigger gave a hard tug at the leash and 
nearly pulled him over. 

The girl laughed. 

She was pretty, he thought. She had short, wavy brown hair, almost black, 
and flashing brown eyes, and a playful, teasing smile. She was wearing an 
oversized yellow T-shirt over black spandex leggings, and bright yellow Nikes. 

“So who are you?” she demanded again. 

She wasn’t the shy type, he decided. “I’m me,” he said, letting Trigger lead 
him around the tree. 

“Did you move into the Winterhalter house?” she asked, following him. 

He shook his head. “No. I’m just visiting.” 

She frowned in disappointment. 

“For a couple of weeks,” Evan added. “I’m staying with my aunt. Actually, 
she’s my great-aunt.” 

“What’s so great about her?” the girl cracked. 

“Nothing,” Evan replied without laughing. “For sure.” 

Trigger sniffed at a bug on a fat brown leaf. 

“Is that your bike?” Evan asked, pointing to the red BMX bike lying on the 
grass behind her. 

“Yeah,” she replied. 

“It’s cool,” he said. “I have one like it.” 

“I like your dog,” she said, eyeing Trigger. “He looks real stupid. I like 
stupid dogs.” 

“Me, too. I guess.” Evan laughed. 

“What’s his name? Does he have a stupid name?” She bent down and tried 
to pet Trigger’s back, but he moved away. 

“His name’s Trigger,” Evan said, and waited for her reaction. 



“Yeah. That’s pretty stupid,” she said thoughtfully. “Especially for a cocker 
spaniel.” 

“Thanks,” Evan said uncertainly. 

Trigger turned to sniff the girl’s hands, his tail wagging furiously, his 
tongue hanging down to the ground. 

“I have a stupid name, too,” the girl admitted. She waited for Evan to ask. 
“What is it?” he said finally. 

“Andrea,” she said. 

“That’s not a stupid name.” 

“I hate it,” she said, pulling a blade of grass off her leggings. “Annndreeea.” 
She stretched the name out in a deep, cultured voice. “It sounds so stuck up, like 
I should be wearing a corduroy jumper with a prim, white blouse, walking a toy 
poodle. So I make everyone call me Andy.” 

“Hi, Andy,” Evan said, petting Trigger. “My name is—” 

“Don’t tell me!” she interrupted, clamping a hot hand over his mouth. 

She certainly isn’t shy, he thought. 

“Let me guess,” she said. “Is it a stupid name, too?” 

“Yeah,” he nodded. “It’s Evan. Evan Stupid.” 

She laughed. “That’s really a stupid name.” 

He felt glad that he made her laugh. She was cheering him up, he realized. 
A lot of the girls back home didn’t appreciate his sense of humor. They thought 
he was silly. 

“What are you doing?” she asked. 

“Walking Trigger. You know. Exploring the neighborhood.” 

“It’s pretty boring,” she said. “Just a lot of houses. Want to go into town? 
It’s only a few blocks away.” She pointed down the street. 

Evan hesitated. He hadn’t told his aunt he was going into town. But, what 
the heck, he thought. She wouldn’t care. 

Besides, what could possibly happen? 



6 


“Okay,” Evan said. “Let’s check out the town.” 

“I have to go to a toy store and look for a present for my cousin,” Andy 
said, hoisting her bike up by the handlebars. 

“How old are you?” Evan asked, tugging Trigger toward the street. 

“Twelve.” 

“Me, too,” he said. “Can I try your bike?” 

She shook her head as she climbed onto the narrow seat. “No, but I’ll let 
you mn alongside.” She laughed. 

“You’re a riot,” he said sarcastically, hurrying to keep up as she began to 
pedal. 

“And you’re stupid,” she called back playfully. 

“Hey, Annnndreeeea —wait up!” he called, stretching the name out to annoy 
her. 

A few blocks later, the houses ended and they entered town, a three-block 
stretch of low two-story shops and offices. Evan saw a small brick post office, a 
barbershop with an old-fashioned barber pole out front, a grocery, a drive- 
through bank, and a hardware store with a large sign in the window proclaiming 
a sale on birdseed. 

“The toy store is in the next block,” Andy said, walking her bike along the 
sidewalk. Evan tugged Trigger’s leash, encouraging him to keep up the pace. 
“Actually there are two toy stores, an old one and a new one. I like the old one 
best.” 

“Let’s check it out,” Evan said, examining the cluttered window display of 
the video store on the corner. 

I wonder if Aunt Kathryn has a VCR, he thought. He quickly dismissed the 
idea. No way.... 

The toy store was in an old clapboard building that hadn’t been painted in 
many years. A small, hand-painted sign in the dust-smeared window proclaimed: 
Wagner’s Novelties & Sundries. There were no toys on display. 

Andy leaned her bike against the front of the building. “Sometimes the 
owner can be a little mean. I don’t know if he’ll let you bring your dog in.” 

“Well, let’s give it a try,” Evan said, pulling open the door. Tugging hard on 



his leash, Trigger led the way into the store. 

Evan found himself in a dark, low-ceilinged, narrow room. It took awhile 
for his eyes to adjust to the dim light. 

Wagner’s looked more like a warehouse than a store. There were floor-to- 
ceiling shelves against both walls, jammed with boxes of toys, and a long 
display counter that ran through the center of the store, leaving narrow aisles that 
even someone as skinny as Evan had to squeeze through. 

At the front of the store, slumped on a tall stool behind an old-fashioned 
wooden cash register, sat a grumpy-looking man with a single tuft of white hair 
in the center of a red, bald head. He had a drooping white mustache that seemed 
to frown at Evan and Andy as they entered. 

“Hi,” Andy said timidly, giving the man a wave. 

He grunted in reply and turned back to the newspaper he was reading. 

Trigger sniffed the low shelves excitedly. Evan looked around at the stacks 
of toys. It appeared from the thick layer of dust that they’d been sitting there for 
a hundred years. Everything seemed tossed together, dolls next to building sets, 
art supplies mixed in with old action figures Evan didn’t even recognize, a toy 
drum set underneath a pile of footballs. 

He and Andy were the only customers in the store. 

“Do they have Nintendo games?” Evan asked her, whispering, afraid to 
break the still silence. 

“I don’t think so,” Andy whispered back. “I’ll ask.” She shouted up to the 
front, “Do you have Nintendo games?” 

It took awhile for the man to answer. He scratched his ear. “Don’t carry 
them,” he grunted finally, sounding annoyed by the interruption. 

Andy and Evan wandered toward the back of the store. “Why do you like 
this place?” Evan whispered, picking up an old cap pistol with a cowboy holster. 

“I just think it’s neat,” Andy replied. “You can find some real treasures 
here. It’s not like other toy stores.” 

“That’s for sure,” Evan said sarcastically. “Hey—look!” He picked up a 
lunchbox with a cowboy dressed in black emblazoned on its side. “Hopalong 
Cassidy,” he read. “Who’s Hopalong Cassidy?” 

“A cowboy with a stupid name,” Andy said, taking the old lunchbox from 
him and examining it. “Look—it’s made of metal, not plastic. Wonder if my 
cousin would like it. He likes stupid names, too.” 

“It’s a pretty weird present,” Evan said. 



“He’s a pretty weird cousin,” Andy cracked. “Hey, look at this.” She set 
down the old lunchbox and picked up an enormous box. “It’s a magic set. 
‘Astound your friends. Perform one hundred amazing tricks,”’ she read. 

“That’s a lot of amazing tricks,” Evan said. 

He wandered farther back into the dimly lit store, Trigger leading the way, 
sniffing furiously. “Hey—” To Evan’s surprise, a narrow doorway led into a 
small back room. 

This room, Evan saw, was even darker and dustier. Stepping inside, he saw 
worn-looking stuffed animals tossed into cartons, games in faded, yellowed 
boxes, baseball gloves with the leather worn thin and cracked. 

Who would want this junk? he thought. 

He was about to leave when something caught his eye. It was a blue can, 
about the size of a can of soup. He picked it up, surprised by how heavy it was. 

Bringing it close to his face to examine it in the dim light, he read the faded 
label: Monster Blood. Below that, in smaller type, it read: Surprising Miracle 
Substance. 

Hey, this looks cool, he thought, turning the can around in his hand. 

He suddenly remembered the ten dollars his mother had stuffed into his 
shirt pocket. 

He turned to see the store owner standing in the doorway, his dark eyes 
wide with anger. “What are you doing back here?” he bellowed. 



7 


Trigger yipped loudly, startled by the man’s booming voice. 

Evan gripped the leash, pulled Trigger close. “Uh... how much is this?” he 
asked, holding up the can of Monster Blood. 

“Not for sale,” the owner said, lowering his voice, his mustache seeming to 
frown unpleasantly with the rest of his face. 

“Huh? It was on the shelf here,” Evan said, pointing. 

“It’s too old,” the man insisted. “Probably no good anymore.” 

“Well, I’ll take it, anyway,” Evan said. “Can I have it for less since it’s so 
old?” 

“What is it?” Andy asked, appearing in the doorway. 

“I don’t know,” Evan told her. “It looks cool. It’s called Monster Blood.” 

“It’s not for sale,” the man insisted. 

Andy pushed past him and took the can from Evan’s hand. “Ooh, I want 
one, too,” she said, turning the can around in her hand. 

“There’s only one,” Evan told her. 

“You sure?” She began searching the shelves. 

“It’s no good, I’m telling you,” the owner insisted, sounding exasperated. 

“I need one, too,” Andy said to Evan. 

“Sorry,” Evan replied, taking the can back. “I saw it first.” 

“I’ll buy it from you,” Andy said. 

“Why don’t you two share it?” the owner suggested. 

“You mean you’ll sell it to us?” Evan asked eagerly. 

The man shrugged and scratched his ear. 

“How much?” Evan asked. 

“You sure you don’t have another one?” Andy demanded, going back to the 
shelf, pushing a pile of stuffed pandas out of her way. “Or maybe two? I could 
keep one and give one to my cousin.” 

“Two dollars, I guess,” the man told Evan. “But I’m telling you, it’s no 
good. It’s too old.” 

“I don’t care,” Evan said, reaching into his shirt pocket for the ten-dollar 


bill. 



“Well, don’t bring it back to me complaining,” the man said grumpily, and 
headed toward the cash register at the front of the store. 

A few minutes later, Evan walked out into the bright daylight carrying the 
blue can. Trigger panted excitedly, wagging his stubby tail, pleased to be out of 
the dark, dusty store. Andy followed them out, an unhappy expression on her 
face. 

“You didn’t buy the lunchbox?” Evan asked. 

“Don’t change the subject,” she snapped. “I’ll pay you five dollars for it.” 
She reached for the can of Monster Blood. 

“No way,” Evan replied. He laughed. “You really like to get your way, don’t 
you!” 

“I’m an only child,” she said. “What can I tell you? I’m spoiled.” 

“Me, too,” Evan said. 

“I have an idea,” Andy said, pulling her bike off the storefront wall. “Let’s 
share it.” 

“Share it?” Evan said, shaking his head. “For sure. I’ll share it the way you 
shared your bike.” 

“You want to ride the bike home? Here.” She shoved it at him. 

“No way,” he said, pushing it back toward her. “I wouldn’t ride your stupid 
bike now. It’s a girl’s bike, anyway.” 

“It is not,” she insisted. “How is it a girl’s bike?” 

Evan ignored the question and, pulling at Trigger’s leash to keep the old 
dog moving, started walking back toward his aunt’s. 

“How is it a girl’s bike?” Andy repeated, walking the bike beside him. 

“Tell you what,” Evan said. “Let’s go back to my aunt’s house and open up 
the can. I’ll let you mess with it for a while.” 

“Gee, swell,” Andy said sarcastically. “You’re a great guy, Evan.” 

“I know,” he said, grinning. 

Kathryn was seated in the big armchair in the living room when Evan and 
Andy arrived. Who is she talking to? he wondered, hearing her voice. She 
seemed to be arguing excitedly with someone. 

Leading Andy into the room, Evan saw that it was just Sarabeth, the black 
cat. As Evan entered, the cat turned and haughtily walked out of the room. 

Kathryn stared at Evan and Andy, a look of surprise on her face. “This is 
Andy,” Evan said, gesturing to his new friend. 

“What have you got there?” Kathryn asked, ignoring Andy and reaching a 



large hand out for the blue can of Monster Blood. 

Evan reluctantly handed it to her. Frowning, she rolled it around in her 
hand, stopping to read the label, moving her lips as she read. She held the can for 
the longest time, seeming to study it carefully, then finally handed it back to 
Evan. 

As Evan took it back and started to his room with Andy, he heard Kathryn 
say something to him in a low whisper. He couldn’t quite hear what she had said. 
It sounded like, “Be careful.” But he wasn’t sure. 

He turned to see Sarabeth staring at him from the doorway, her yellow eyes 
glowing in the dim light. 

“My aunt is completely deaf,” Evan explained to Andy as they climbed the 
stairs. 

“Does that mean you can play your stereo as loud as you want?” Andy 
asked. 

“I don’t think Aunt Kathryn has a stereo,” Evan said. 

“That’s too bad,” Andy said, walking around Evan’s room, pulling back the 
window curtains and looking down on Trigger, huddled unhappily in his pen. 

“Is she really your great-aunt?” Andy asked. “She doesn’t look very old.” 

“It’s the black hair,” Evan replied, setting the can of Monster Blood on the 
desk in the center of the room. “It makes her look young.” 

“Hey—look at all these old books on magic stuff!” Andy exclaimed. “I 
wonder why your aunt has all these.” 

She pulled one of the heavy, old volumes from the shelf and blew away a 
layer of dust from the top. “Maybe your aunt plans to come up here and cast a 
spell on you while you’re sleeping, and turn you into a newt.” 

“Maybe,” Evan replied, grinning. “What is a newt, anyway?” 

Andy shrugged. “Some kind of lizard, I think.” She flipped through the 
yellowed pages of the old book. “I thought you said there was nothing to do 
here,” she told Evan. “You could read all these cool books.” 

“Thrills and chills,” Evan said sarcastically. 

Replacing the book on the shelf, Andy came over to the desk and stood next 
to Evan, her eyes on the can of Monster Blood. “Open it up. It’s so old. It’s 
probably all disgusting and rotten.” 

“I hope so,” Evan said. He picked up the can and studied it. “No 
instructions.” 

“Just pull the top off,” she said impatiently. 



He tugged at it. It wouldn’t budge. 

“Maybe you need a can opener or something,” she said. 

“Very helpful,” he muttered, studying the label again. “Look at this. No 
instructions. No ingredients. Nothing.” 

“Of course not. It’s Monster Blood!” she exclaimed, imitating Count 
Dracula. She grabbed Evan’s neck and pretended to strangle him. 

He laughed. “Stop! You’re not helping.” 

He slammed the can down on the desktop—and the lid popped off. 

“Hey—look!” he cried. 

She let go of his neck, and they both peered inside the can. 



8 


The substance inside the can was bright green. It shimmered like Jell-0 in the 
light from the ceiling fixture. 

“Touch it,” Andy said. 

But before Evan had a chance, she reached a finger in and poked it. “It’s 
cold,” she said. “Touch it. It’s really cold.” 

Evan poked it with his finger. It was cold, thicker than Jell-O, heavier. 

He pushed his finger beneath the surface. When he pulled his finger out, it 
made a loud sucking noise. 

“Gross,” Andy said. 

Evan shrugged. “I’ve seen worse.” 

“I’ll bet it glows in the dark,” Andy said, hurrying over to the light switch 
by the door. “It looks like the green that glows in the dark.” 

She turned off the ceiling light, but late afternoon sunlight still poured in 
through the window curtains. “Try the closet,” she instructed excitedly. 

Evan carried the can into the closet. Andy followed and closed the door. 
“Yuck. Mothballs,” she cried. “I can’t breathe.” 

The Monster Blood definitely glowed in the dark. A circular ray of green 
light seemed to shine from the can. 

“Wow. That’s way cool,” Andy said, holding her nose to keep out the 
pungent aroma of the mothballs. 

“I’ve had other stuff that did this,” Evan said, more than a little 
disappointed. “It was called Alien Stuff or Yucky Glop, something like that.” 

“Well, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it,” Andy replied. 

“I didn’t say I didn’t want it,” Evan said quickly. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Andy begged. 

Evan pushed open the door and they rushed out of the closet, slamming the 
door shut behind them. Both of them sucked in fresh air for a few seconds. 

“Whew, I hate that smell!” Evan declared. He looked around to see that 
Andy had taken a handful of Monster Blood from the can. 

She squeezed it in her palm. “It feels even colder outside the can,” she said, 
grinning at him. “Look. When you squeeze it flat, it pops right back.” 

“Yeah. It probably bounces, too,” Evan said, unimpressed. “Try bouncing it 



against the floor. All those things bounce like rubber.” 

Andy rolled the glob of Monster Blood into a ball and dropped it to the 
floor. It bounced back up into her hand. She bounced it a little harder. This time 
it rebounded against the wall and went flying out the bedroom door. 

“It bounces really well,” she said, chasing it out into the hall. “Let’s see if it 
stretches.” She grabbed it with both hands and pulled, stretching it into a long 
string. “Yep. It stretches, too.” 

“Big deal,” Evan said. “The stuff I had before bounced and stretched really 
well, too. I thought this stuff was going to be different.” 

“It stays cold, even after it’s been in your hand,” Andy said, returning to the 
room. 

Evan glanced at the wall and noticed a dark, round stain by the floorboard. 
“Uh-oh. Look, Andy. That stuff stains.” 

“Let’s take it outside and toss it around,” she suggested. 

“Okay,” he agreed. “We’ll go out back. That way, Trigger won’t be so 
lonely.” 

Evan held out the can, and Andy replaced the ball of Monster Blood. Then 
they headed downstairs and out to the backyard, where they were greeted by 
Trigger, who acted as if they’d been away for at least twenty years. 

The dog finally calmed down, and sat down in the shade of a tree, panting 
noisily. “Good boy,” Evan said softly. “Take it easy. Take it easy, old fella.” 

Andy reached into the can and pulled out a green glob. Then Evan did the 
same. They rolled the stuff in their hands until they had two ball-shaped globs. 
Then they began to play catch with them. 

“It’s amazing how they don’t lose their shape,” Andy said, tossing a green 
ball high in the air. 

Evan shielded his eyes from the late afternoon sun and caught the ball with 
one hand. “All this stuff is the same,” he said. “It isn’t so special.” 

“Well, I think it’s cool,” Andy said defensively. 

Evan’s next toss was too high. The green ball of gunk sailed over Andy’s 
outstretched hands. 

“Whoa!” Andy cried. 

“Sorry,” Evan called. 

They both stared as the ball bounced once, twice, then landed right in front 
of Trigger. 

Startled, the dog jumped to his feet and lowered his nose to sniff it. 



“No, boy!” Evan called. “Leave it alone. Leave it alone, boy!” 

As disobedient as ever, Trigger lowered his head and licked the glowing 
green ball. 

“No, boy! Drop! Drop!” Evan called, alarmed. 

He and Andy both lunged toward the dog. 

But they were too slow. 

Trigger picked up the ball of Monster Blood in his teeth and began chewing 
it. 

“No, Trigger!” Evan shouted. “Don’t swallow it. Don’t swallow!” 

Trigger swallowed it. 

“Oh, no!” Andy cried, balling her hands into fists at her sides. “Now there 
isn’t enough left for us to share!” 

But that wasn’t what was troubling Evan. He bent down and pried apart the 
dog’s jaws. The green blob was gone. Swallowed. 

“Stupid dog,” Evan said softly, releasing the dog’s mouth. 

He shook his head as troubling thoughts poured into his mind. 

What if the stuff makes Trigger sick? Evan wondered. 

What if the stuff is poison? 



9 


“Are we going to bake that pie today?” Evan asked his aunt, writing the question 
on a pad of lined yellow paper he had found on the desk in his room. 

Kathryn read the question while adjusting her black ponytail. Her face was 
as white as cake flour in the morning sunlight filtering through the kitchen 
window. 

“Pie? What pie?” she replied coldly. 

Evan’s mouth dropped open. He decided not to remind her. 

“Go play with your friends,” Kathryn said, still coldly, petting Sarabeth’s 
head as the black cat walked by the breakfast table. “Why do you want to stay 
inside with an old witch?” 

It was three days later. Evan had tried to be friendly with his aunt. But the 
more he tried, the colder she had become. 

She’s mean. She’s really mean, he thought, as he ate the last spoonful of 
cereal from his bowl of shredded wheat. That was the only cereal she had. Evan 
struggled to choke it down every morning. Even with milk, the cereal was so dry 
and she wouldn’t even let him put sugar on it. 

“Looks like it might rain,” Kathryn said, and took a long sip of the strong 
tea she had brewed. Her teeth clicked noisily as she drank. 

Evan turned his eyes to the bright sunlight outside the window. What made 
her think it was going to rain? 

He glanced back at her, seated across from him at the small kitchen table. 
For the first time, he noticed the pendant around her neck. It was cream-colored 
and sort of bone-shaped. 

It is a bone, Evan decided. 

He stared hard at it, trying to decide if it was a real bone, from some animal 
maybe, or a bone carved out of ivory. Catching his stare, Kathryn reached up 
with a large hand and tucked the pendant inside her blouse. 

“Go see your girlfriend. She’s a pretty one,” Kathryn said. She took another 
long sip of tea, again clicking her teeth as she swallowed. 

Yes. I’ve got to get out of here, Evan thought. He pushed his chair back, 
stood up, and carried his bowl to the sink. 

I can’t take much more of this, Evan thought miserably. She hates me. She 



really does. 

He hurried up the stairs to his room, where he brushed his curly red hair. 
Staring into the mirror, he thought of the call he had received from his mother 
the night before. 

She had called right after dinner, and he could tell immediately from her 
voice that things weren’t going well down in Atlanta. 

“How’s it going, Mom?” he had asked, so happy to hear her voice, even 
though she was nearly a thousand miles away. 

“Slowly,” his mother had replied hesitantly. 

“What do you mean? How’s Dad? Did you find a house?” The questions 
seemed to pour out of him like air escaping a balloon. 

“Whoa. Slow down,” Mrs. Ross had replied. She sounded tired. “We’re 
both fine, but it’s taking a little longer to find a house than we thought. We just 
haven’t found anything we like.” 

“Does that mean—” Evan started. 

“We found one really nice house, very big, very pretty,” his mother 
interrupted. “But the school you’d go to wasn’t very good.” 

“Oh, that’s okay. I don’t have to go to school,” Evan joked. 

He could hear his father saying something in the background. His mother 
covered the receiver to reply. 

“When are you coming to pick me up?” Evan asked eagerly. 

It took his mother awhile to answer. “Well... that’s the problem,” she said 
finally. “We may need a few more days down here than we thought. How’s it 
going up there, Evan? Are you okay?” 

Hearing the bad news that he’d have to stay even longer with Kathryn had 
made Evan feel like screaming and kicking the wall. But he didn’t want to upset 
his mother. He told her he was fine and that he’d made a new friend. 

His father had taken the phone and offered a few encouraging words. “Hang 
in there,” he had said just before ending the conversation. 

I’m hanging in, Evan had thought glumly. 

But hearing his parents’ voices had made him even more homesick. 

Now it was the next morning. Putting down his hairbrush, he examined 
himself quickly in his dresser mirror. He was wearing denim cutoffs and a red 
Gap T-shirt. 

Downstairs, he hurried through the kitchen, where Kathryn appeared to be 
arguing with Sarabeth, ran out the back door, then jogged to the backyard to get 



Trigger. “Hey, Trigger!” 

But the dog was asleep, lying on his side in the center of his run, gently 
snoring. 

“Don’t you want to go to Andy’s house?” Evan asked quietly. 

Trigger stirred, but didn’t open his eyes. 

“Okay. See you later,” Evan said. He made sure Trigger’s water bowl was 
filled, then headed to the front of the house. 

He was halfway down the next block, walking slowly, thinking about his 
parents so far away in Atlanta, when a boy’s voice called, “Hey—you!” And two 
boys stepped onto the sidewalk in front of him, blocking his way. 

Startled, Evan stared from one boy to the other. They were twins. Identical 
twins. Both were big, beefy guys, with short, white-blond hair and round, red 
faces. They were both wearing dark T-shirts with the names of heavy-metal 
bands on the front, baggy shorts, and high-top sneakers, untied, without socks. 
Evan guessed they were about fourteen or fifteen. 

“Who are you?” one of them asked menacingly, narrowing his pale gray 
eyes, trying to act tough. Both twins moved closer, forcing Evan to take a big 
step back. 

These guys are twice my size, Evan realized, feeling a wave of fear sweep 
over him. 

Are they just acting tough? Or do they really mean to give me trouble? 

“I—I’m staying with my aunt,” he stammered, shoving his hands into his 
pockets and taking another step back. 

The twins flashed each other quick grins. “You can’t walk on this block,” 
one of them said, hovering over Evan. 

“Yeah. You’re not a resident,” the other added. 

“That’s a big word,” Evan cracked, then immediately wished he hadn’t said 
it. 

Why can’t I ever keep my big mouth shut? he asked himself. His eyes 
surveyed the neighborhood, searching for someone who might come to his aid in 
case the twins decided to get rough. 

But there was no one in sight. Front doors were closed. Yards were empty. 
Way down the block, he could see a mailman, heading the other way, too far 
away to shout to. 

No one around. No one to help him. 

And the two boys, their faces set, their eyes still menacing, began to move 



in on him. 



10 


“Where do you think you’re going?” one of the twins asked. His hands were 
balled into fists at his sides. He stepped closer until he was just an inch or two 
from Evan, forcing Evan to take a few steps back. 

“To see a friend,” Evan replied uncertainly. Maybe these guys were just 
bluffing. 

“Not allowed,” the twin said quickly, grinning at his brother. 

They both snickered and moved toward Evan, forcing him to back off the 
curb onto the street. 

“You’re not a resident,” the other one repeated. He narrowed his eyes, 
trying to look tough. 

“Hey, give me a break, guys,” Evan said. He tried moving to the side, 
walking on the street, to get around them. But they both moved quickly to keep 
him from getting away. 

“Maybe you could pay a toll,” one of them said. 

“Yeah,” the other one quickly chimed in. “You could pay the nonresident 
toll. You know, to get temporary permission for walking on this block.” 

“I don’t have any money,” Evan said, feeling his fear grow. 

He suddenly remembered he had eight dollars in his pocket. Were they 
going to rob him? Would they beat him up and then rob him? 

“You have to pay the toll,” one of them said, leering at him. “Let’s just see 
what you’ve got.” 

They both moved quickly forward, making a grab for him. 

He backed away. His legs suddenly felt heavy from fear. 

Suddenly a voice cried out from down the sidewalk. “Hey—what’s going 

on?” 

Evan raised his eyes past the two hulking boys to see Andy speeding 
toward them on her bike along the curb. “Evan—hi!” she called. 

The twins turned away from Evan to greet the new arrival. “Hi, Andy,” one 
of them said in a mocking tone. 

“How’s it going, Andy?” the other one asked, imitating his brother. 

Andy braked her bike and dropped both feet to the ground. She was 
wearing bright pink shorts and a yellow sleeveless undershirt top. Her face was 



red, her forehead beaded with perspiration from pedaling so hard. 

“You two,” she said, and made an unpleasant face. “Rick and Tony.” She 
turned to Evan. “Were they getting on your case?” 

“Well...” Evan started hesitantly. 

“We were welcoming him to the neighborhood,” the one named Rick said, 
grinning at his brother. 

Tony started to add something, but Andy interrupted. “Well, leave him 
alone.” 

“Are you his mother ?” Tony asked, snickering. He turned to Evan and made 
goo-goo baby noises. 

“We’ll leave him alone,” Rick said, stepping toward Andy. “We’ll borrow 
your bike and leave him alone.” 

“No way,” Andy said heatedly. 

But before Andy could move, Rick grabbed the handlebars. “Let go!” Andy 
cried, trying to pull the bike from his grasp. 

Rick held tight. Tony shoved Andy hard. 

She lost her balance and fell, and the bike toppled over on top of her. 

“Ohhh.” 

Andy uttered a low cry as she hit her head on the concrete curb. She lay 
sprawled on the curb, her hands flailing, the bike on top of her. 

Before she could get up, Tony reached down and grabbed the bike away. He 
swung his legs over the seat and began to pedal furiously. “Wait up!” his brother 
called, laughing as he ran alongside. 

In seconds, the twins had disappeared around the corner with Andy’s bike. 

“Andy—are you okay?” Evan cried, hurrying to the curb. “Are you okay?” 

He grabbed Andy’s hand and pulled her to her feet. She stood up groggily, 
mbbing the back of her head. “I hate those creeps,” she said. She brushed the dirt 
and grass off her shorts and legs. “Ow. That hurt.” 

“Who are they?” Evan asked. 

“The Beymer twins,” she answered, making a disgusted face. “Real heavy- 
duty dudes,” she added sarcastically. She checked her leg to see if it was cut. It 
was just scraped. “They think they’re so cool, but they’re total creeps.” 

“What about your bike? Should we call the police or something?” Evan 
asked. 

“No need,” she said quietly, brushing back her dark hair. “I’ll get it back. 
They’ve done this before. They’ll leave it somewhere when they’re finished.” 



“But shouldn’t we—” Evan started. 

“They just run wild,” Andy interrupted. “There’s no one home to check up 
on them. They live with their grandmother, but she’s never around. Did they give 
you a hard time?” 

Evan nodded. “I was afraid I was going to have to pound them,” he joked. 

Andy didn’t laugh. “I’d like to pound them,” she said angrily. “Just once. 
I’d like to pay them back. They pick on all the kids in the neighborhood. They 
think they can do whatever they want because they’re so big, and because there 
are two of them.” 

“Your knee is cut,” Evan said, pointing. 

“I’d better go home and clean it up,” she replied, rolling her eyes 
disgustedly. “See you later, okay? I have to go somewhere this afternoon, but 
maybe we can do something tomorrow.” 

She headed back to her house, rubbing the back of her head. 

Evan returned to Kathryn’s, walking slowly, thinking about the Beymer 
twins, daydreaming about fighting them, imagining himself beating them to a 
pulp in a fight as Andy watched, cheering him on. 

Kathryn was dusting the front room as Evan entered. She didn’t look up. He 
headed quickly up the stairs to his room. 

Now what am I going to do? he wondered, pacing back and forth. The blue 
container of Monster Blood caught his eye. He walked over to the bookshelf and 
picked up the can from the middle shelf. 

He pulled off the lid. The can was nearly full. 

I guess Trigger didn’t eat that much, he thought, feeling a little relieved. 

Trigger! 

He’d forgotten all about him. The poor dog must be hungry. 

Putting down the Monster Blood, Evan bombed down the stairs, leaning 
against the banister and taking the stairs three at a time. Then, running full-out, 
he practically flew to the dog run at the back of the yard. 

“Trigger! Hey—Trigger!” he called. 

Halfway across the backyard, Evan could see that something was wrong. 

Trigger’s eyes were bulging. His mouth was wide open, his tongue flailing 
rapidly from side to side, white spittle running down his chin hair onto the 
ground. 

“Trigger!” 

The dog was gasping hoarsely, each breath a desperate, difficult struggle. 



He’s choking! Evan realized. 

As Evan reached the dog run, Trigger’s eyes rolled back, and the dog’s legs 
collapsed under him, his stomach still heaving, the air filled with his loud, 
hideous gasps. 



11 


“Trigger—no!” 

Evan dived to his knees beside the dog and began to tug at Trigger’s collar. 
The collar, Evan saw, had become way too tight. 

The dog’s chest heaved. Thick white spittle flowed from his open mouth. 

“Hold on, boy. Hold on!” Evan cried. 

The dog’s eyes rolled wildly in his head. He didn’t seem to see or hear 
Evan. 

“Hold on, fella! Just hold on!” 

The collar wouldn’t budge. It was buried tightly under the dog’s fur. 

His hands shaking, Evan struggled to pull the collar over Trigger’s head. 

Come loose, come loose, come loose, he begged. 

Yes! 

Trigger uttered a pained whimper as Evan finally managed to pull the collar 
away. 

“Trigger—it’s off! Are you okay?” 

Still panting hard, the dog jumped immediately to his feet. He licked Evan’s 
face appreciatively, covering Evan’s cheek with his thick saliva, whimpering as 
if he understood that Evan had just saved his life. 

“Easy, boy! Easy, fella!” Evan repeated, but the dog continued to lick him 
gratefully. 

Evan hugged the excited dog. This had been a close call, he knew. If he 
hadn’t come along just then... 

Well, he didn’t want to think about it. 

When Trigger finally calmed down, Evan examined the collar. “What made 
this collar shrink like that, boy?” he asked Trigger. 

The dog had walked over to the fence and was frantically slurping water 
from his bowl. 

This is plain weird, Evan thought. The collar couldn’t have shrunk. It’s 
made of leather. There was no reason for it to shrink. 

Then why did it suddenly start choking Trigger? 

Evan turned to Trigger, studying him as the dog lapped greedily at the 



water, breathing hard. He turned and glanced back at Evan for a second, then 
returned to his frantic water slurping. 

He’s bigger, Evan decided. 

He’s definitely bigger. 

But Trigger was twelve years old, eighty-four in human years. Older than 
Aunt Kathryn. 

Trigger was too old for a late growth spurt. 

It must be my eyes, Evan decided, tossing the collar to the ground. This 
place must be making me see things. 

Kathryn was at the kitchen door, calling Evan to lunch. He poured out a 
bowl of dry food, shouted good-bye to Trigger, who didn’t look up from the 
water dish, and hurried to the house. 

The next morning, an overcast morning with an autumn chill in the air, Evan 
made his way to Andy’s house. He found her huddled under a big maple tree in 
the neighbor’s front yard. “What’s going on?” he called. 

Then he saw that she was leaning over something, her hands working 
quickly. “Come help me!” she cried, not looking up. 

Evan came jogging over. “Whoa!” he cried out when he saw that Andy was 
struggling to free a calico cat that had been tied to the tree trunk. 

The cat screeched and swiped its paw at Andy. Andy dodged the claws and 
continued to pull at the big knots in the rope. 

“The Beymer twins did this. I know it,” she said loudly, over the shrilly 
protesting cat. “This poor cat was probably tied up here all night.” 

The cat, in a panic, shrieked with amazingly human-sounding cries. 

“Stand still, cat,” Evan said as the terrified cat swiped its claws at Andy 
again. “Can I help?” 

“No. I’ve almost got it,” she replied, tugging at the knot. “I’d like to tie 
Rick and Tony to this tree.” 

“Poor, frightened cat,” Evan said quietly. 

“There,” Andy said triumphantly, pulling the rope loose. 

The cat gave one last cry of protest, its tail standing straight up. Then it 
darted away, running at full speed, and disappeared under a tall hedge without 
looking back. 

“Not very polite,” Evan muttered. 

Andy stood up and sighed. She was wearing faded denim jeans and a pale 



green, oversized T-shirt that came down nearly to her knees. She lifted the 
bottom of the shirt to examine a hole the cat had managed to snag in it. 

“I can’t believe those two creeps,” she said, shaking her head. 

“Maybe we should call the police or the ASPCA or something,” Evan 
suggested. 

“The twins would just deny it,” Andy said glumly, shaking her head. Then 
she added, “And the cat’s not a very good witness.” 

They both laughed. 

Evan led the way back to his aunt’s house. All the way back, they talked 
about how they’d like to teach the Beymer twins a lesson. But neither of them 
had any good ideas. 

They found Kathryn concentrating on a jigsaw puzzle at the dining room 
table. 

She looked up when they entered, squinting at them. “You like jigsaw 
puzzles? I like to keep my mind active, you know. That’s why I like puzzles. 
Your mind can get flabby when you get to be my age. A hundred and twelve.” 

She slapped the table gleefully at her own wit. Evan and Andy both flashed 
her agreeable smiles. Then she returned to her puzzle without waiting for a reply. 

“She’s going to drive me bananas!” Evan exclaimed. 

“Evan—she’ll hear you!” Andy protested, cupping a hand over his mouth. 

“I told you, she’s completely deaf. She can’t hear me. She doesn’t want to 
hear anyone. She hates everyone.” 

“I think she’s sweet,” Andy said. “Why does she wear a bone around her 
neck?” 

“Probably thinks it’s cool,” Evan cracked. 

“Let’s go upstairs,” Andy urged, pushing him toward the stairs. “I still feel 
weird talking about your aunt right in front of her.” 

“You’re a crazy old coot,” Evan called to Kathryn, a big smile on his face. 

Kathryn looked up from her puzzle pieces to cast a cold stare his way. 

“She heard you!” Andy cried, horrified. 

“Don’t be dumb,” Evan said, and started up the stairs, nearly tripping over 
Sarabeth. 

Up in Evan’s room, Andy paced uncomfortably. “What do you want to do?” 

“Well... we could read some of these great books,” Evan said sarcastically, 
pointing to the dusty old books that lined the walls. “Maybe find a spell to cast 
on the Beymer twins. You know. Turn them into newts.” 



“Forget about newts,” Andy said dryly. “Hey—where’s the Monster 
Blood?” Before Evan could answer, she spotted it on one of the shelves. 

They raced across the room for it. Andy got there first and grabbed the can. 
“Evan—look,” she said, her eyes growing wide with surprise. “What’s going 
on?” 

She held up the can. The green gunk had pushed up the lid and was flowing 
up out of the can. 



12 


“Huh? Did the top break or something?” Evan asked. 

He took the can from her and examined it. Sure enough, the lid had popped 
off. The gooey green substance was pushing up out of the can. 

Evan pulled out a handful of the green gunk. “Weird,” he exclaimed. “It’s 
expanding,” he said, squeezing it in his hand. “It’s definitely growing.” 

“I guess so!” Andy exclaimed. “It grew right out of the can!” 

“Hey—it’s not cold anymore,” Evan said. He balled it up and tossed it to 
Andy. 

“It’s really warm,” she agreed. “Weird!” 

She tried to toss it back to him, but it stuck to her palm. “It’s getting sticky,” 
she reported. “Are you sure this is the same stuff?” 

“Of course,” Evan replied. 

“But it wasn’t sticky before, remember?” she said. 

He pulled another warm hunk of it from the can. “I guess it just changes 
after the can has been opened.” 

He squeezed the stuff into a ball shape and tossed it to the floor. “Look—it 
stuck to the floor. It didn’t bounce.” 

“Weird!” Andy repeated. 

“Maybe I should throw it in the trash,” Evan said, prying the sticky glob 
from the floor. “I mean, what good is it if it doesn’t bounce?” 

“Hey—no way,” Andy said. “We’ve got to see what it does next.” 

A soft mewing sound made them both turn toward the door. 

Evan was surprised to see Sarabeth standing there, her head cocked, her 
yellow eyes staring at him. 

Or was she staring at the glob of Monster Blood in his hand? 

“That cat looks so intelligent,” Andy said. 

“It’s as stupid as every other cat,” Evan muttered. “Look. She wants to play 
ball with the Monster Blood.” 

“Sorry, cat,” Andy said. “It doesn’t bounce.” 

As if she understood, Sarabeth mewed unhappily, turned, and padded 
silently from the room. 



“Now where am I going to keep this stuff?” Evan asked. “It’s too big for its 

can.” 

“Here. How about this?” Andy asked. She reached down to a low shelf and 
came up with an empty coffee can. 

“Yeah. Okay.” Evan tossed his hunk into the coffee can. 

Andy squeezed hers into a flat pancake. “Look. It isn’t glowing the way it 
used to, either,” she said, holding the pancake up for Evan to see. “But it sure is 
warm. Almost hot.” 

“It’s alivel” Evan screamed playfully. “Run for your life! It’s a/zve!” 

Andy laughed and began to chase Evan, menacing him with the flat, green 
pancake. “Come get your Monster Blood! Come and get it!” 

He dodged away, then grabbed it from her hand. He squeezed it together, 
balling it up in one hand, then tossed it into the coffee can. 

They both peered into the can. The green substance filled it up a little more 
than halfway. 

“Go ahead. Taste it,” Andy urged, poking the can in his face. “I dare you.” 

“Huh? No way. I double-dare you,” Evan said, pushing the coffee can back 
to her. 

“Double-darers have to go first,” Andy insisted, grinning. “Go ahead. Taste 
it.” 

Evan made a disgusted face and shook his head. Then he grabbed a big 
hunk of it and heaved it at Andy. Laughing, she picked it up off the carpet and 
tossed it at his face. She threw high, and the green glob stuck to the wall. 

Evan reached for another hunk. 

They had a messy, hilarious Monster Blood battle till dinnertime. Then, as 
they tried to clean up, they both heard Trigger through the open window. He was 
barking loudly out in his pen. 

Evan reached the window first. The sky was still gray and overcast. Trigger 
was leaning on the wooden fence, standing on his hind legs, barking his head off. 

“Whoa, Trigger,” Evan called, “chill out!” 

“Hey—what’s with Trigger?” Andy asked. “Is your dog still growing? He 
looks so big!” 

Evan’s mouth dropped open and he uttered a silent gasp, realizing that 
Andy was right. 

Trigger had nearly doubled in size. 



13 


“Trigger—come back! Come backl” 

The big dog continued to run, its giant paws thundering against the 
concrete. 

“Come back!” Evan screamed, running with long, desperate strides, his 
heart thudding, his legs aching with each step as he tried to catch up with the 
galloping dog. 

The night was dark and starless. The street glistened as if it had recently 
rained. 

Trigger’s paws hit the pavement, each step a loud thunderclap that seemed 
to echo forever. His giant ears flapped like wings, twin pennants caught on the 
wind. His big head bobbed up and down, but he didn’t look back. 

“Trigger! Trigger!” 

Evan’s voice seemed muffled by the gusting wind, pushed back in his face. 
He tried shouting louder, but no sound came out at all. 

He knew he had to stop the dog from running away. He had to catch the dog 
and then get help. 

Trigger was growing so fast, completely out of control. He was already the 
size of a pony, and getting larger by the minute. 

“Trigger! Trigger! Stop, boy!” 

Trigger didn’t seem to hear him. Evan’s voice didn’t seem to carry beyond 
the gusting, swirling wind. 

And still Evan ran, his chest pounding, every muscle aching. And as he ran, 
he suddenly realized there were others running, too. 

Two large figures in front of the stampeding dog. 

Two large figures Evan recognized as they fled at full speed, trying to get 
away from the onrushing animal. 

The Beymer twins. Rick and Tony. 

Trigger was chasing them, Evan suddenly realized. 

The boys turned a corner, onto an even darker street. Trigger followed, 
bounding after them. Evan continued to run, bringing up the rear of this dark, 
mysterious parade. 

All was silent now, except for the steady, rhythmic thunder of Trigger’s 



enormous padded paws. 

Except for the clapclapclap of the Beymer twins’ sneakers as they darted 
along the glistening pavement. 

Except for the gasp of Evan’s breathing as he struggled to keep up. 

Suddenly, as Evan watched in horror, the dog raised up on his hind legs. He 
tilted his head to the sky and let out an ear-piercing howl. Not the howl of a dog. 
A creature howl. 

And then Trigger’s features began to transform. His forehead burst forward 
and enlarged. His eyes grew wide and round before sinking under the protruding 
forehead. Fangs slid from his gaping mouth, and he uttered another howl to the 
sky, louder and more chilling than the first. 

“He’s a monster! A monster!” Evan cried. 

And woke up. 

Woke up from his frightening dream. 

And realized he was in bed, in the study upstairs in Kathryn’s house. 

It had all been a dream, a frightening, wild chase of a dream. 

A harmless dream. Except that something still wasn’t right. 

The bed. It felt so uncomfortable. So cramped. 

Evan sat up, alert, wide awake now. 

And stared down at his giant feet. His giant hands. And realized how tiny 
the bed seemed beneath him. 

Because he was a giant now. 

Because he had grown so huge, so monstrously huge. 

And when he saw how big he had become, he opened his mouth wide and 
began to scream. 



14 


His screams woke him up. 

This time he really woke up. 

And realized that, the first time, he had only dreamed that he was awake. 
Had only dreamed that he had become a giant. 

Dreams upon dreams. 

Was he really awake now? 

He sat up, blinked, rubbed his eyes, struggled to focus. 

Dripping with sweat. 

His blankets tossed to the floor. 

His pajamas damp, clinging to his prickly skin. 

Nothing seemed familiar. It took awhile to shake off the dream, to 
remember where he was. That he was in his room at Kathryn’s. Awake now. His 
normal size. 

Tossed by the wind, the curtains brushed over him, then were noisily 
sucked out the window. 

Evan sat up and, still feeling shaky, peered out the window. 

Wisps of gray clouds floated over a pale half-moon. Trees tossed and 
whispered in the cool night wind. 

Only a dream. 

A frightening dream. A dream on top of a dream. 

He could see Trigger sound asleep, curled up on himself, pressed against 
the fence wall. 

Trigger wasn’t a monster. But he was definitely bigger, Evan saw. 

Maybe there’s something wrong with him. The troubling thought pushed its 
way into Evan’s mind as he stared down at the sleeping dog. 

Maybe it’s glands or something. 

Maybe he’s eating too much. Or maybe... 

Evan yawned. He realized he was too sleepy to think clearly. Maybe the 
next morning he’d see if there was a vet in town. 

Yawning again, he started to settle back into bed. But something caught his 


eye. 



The coffee can on the bookshelf. The can where he had stored the Monster 
Blood. 

“Hey—” he cried aloud. 

The green gunk was bubbling, quivering up over the top of the coffee can. 



15 


“Your dog seems to be quite healthy for his age.” Dr. Forrest scratched Trigger 
gently under the chin. “Look at all the white hairs,” he said, bringing his face 
down close to the dog’s. “You’re a good old dog, aren’t you?” 

Trigger licked the doctor’s hand appreciatively. 

Dr. Forrest grinned, pushing his black eyeglasses up on his narrow nose, the 
ceiling light reflecting off his shiny forehead. He wiped his hand on the front of 
his white lab coat. 

Evan and Andy stood across from Trigger in the small, brightly lit office. 
They had both been tense during the long examination the vet had given the dog. 
But now, hearing the doctor’s verdict, they had relaxed expressions on their 
faces. 

“So you think it’s just a late growth spurt?” Evan repeated. 

Dr. Forrest nodded, returning to his desk in the corner. “Highly unusual,” he 
said softly, leaning over the desk to write a note on a pad. “Highly unusual. 
We’ll get a lab report in three or four days. It may tell us more. But the dog 
seems very healthy to me. I really wouldn’t be alarmed.” 

“But do cocker spaniels usually get this big?” Evan asked, leaning down to 
scratch Trigger under the chin, the leash looped loosely in his hand. 

Trigger wanted to leave. He pulled toward the door. Evan stood up and 
tugged hard at the leash to keep the dog in place. It took ah of his strength. 
Trigger was not only bigger; he was much stronger than he had been a few days 
before. 

“No. Not usually,” the vet replied. “That’s why I took the hormone tests and 
the blood and glandular samples. Maybe the lab will have an answer for us.” 

He finished writing and tore the sheet off the pad. “Here,” he said, handing 
the paper to Evan. “I wrote down the name of a good dog food. Put Trigger on 
this, and see that he cuts down on his between-meal snacks.” He chuckled at his 
own joke. 

Evan thanked the doctor and allowed Trigger to pull him out of the office. 
Andy jogged after them. In the waiting room outside, a tiny Chihuahua cowered 
behind the couch, whimpering at the sight of the big cocker spaniel. 

“I’m glad to be out of there,” Evan exclaimed as they stepped out to the 



sidewalk. 

“Trigger got a very good report,” Andy said reassuringly, petting Trigger’s 
head. “Hey, look—his head is wider than my hand!” 

“He’s nearly as big as a sheepdog!” Evan said miserably. “And Dr. Forrest 
says he’s perfectly okay.” 

“Don’t exaggerate,” Andy scolded. She glanced at her watch. “Oh, no! I 
don’t believe it. Late for my piano lesson. Again! Mom’ll kill me!” 

She waved good-bye, turned, and ran full speed down the sidewalk, nearly 
colliding with an elderly couple coming slowly out of the small grocery store on 
the corner. 

“Let’s go, boy,” Evan said, thinking about what Dr. Forrest had said. 
Tugging the leash, he headed out of the small, three-block town. Despite the 
vet’s assurances, Evan was still plenty worried about Trigger. 

He stopped outside the grocery. “Maybe an ice cream pop will help cheer 
me up.” He tied Trigger’s leash to the red fire hydrant across from the grocery’s 
door. “Stay,” he instructed. 

Trigger, ignoring Evan, struggled to pull free. 

“I’ll only be a second,” Evan said, and hurried into the store. 

There were three or four people in the store, and it took a bit longer than 
Evan had expected. When he returned to the sidewalk ten minutes later, he 
discovered the Beymer twins busily untying Trigger. 

“Hey—let go!” he cried angrily. 

They both turned toward him, identical grins on their beefy faces. “Look 
what we found,” one of them teased. The other one successfully untied the leash 
from the hydrant. 

“Hand me that,” Evan insisted, holding his chocolate ice cream bar in one 
hand, reaching for the leash handle with the other. 

The Beymer twin held the leash handle out to Evan—then quickly snapped 
it back out of his reach. “Gotcha!” 

The brothers laughed gleefully and slapped each other a high five. 

“Stop fooling around,” Evan insisted. “Hand me the leash.” 

“Finders, keepers,” one of them said. “Isn’t that right, Tony?” 

“Yeah,” Tony replied, grinning. “It’s an ugly dog. But it’s our ugly dog 
now.” 

“Get your own dog, wimp,” Rick said nastily. He stepped forward and 
punched the ice cream bar out of Evan’s hand. It landed on the sidewalk with a 



plop. 

The brothers started to laugh, but their laughter was cut short as Trigger 
suddenly uttered a low, warning growl. Pulling back his lips, he bared his teeth, 
and his growl became a snarl. 

“Hey—” Rick cried, dropping the leash. 

With a loud, angry roar, Trigger reared up and pounced on Rick, forcing 
him to stagger backward to the curb. 

Tony had already started to run, his sneakers pounding the pavement noisily 
as he headed at full speed past the vet’s office, past the post office, and kept 
going. 

“Wait up! Hey, Tony—wait up!” Rick stumbled, stood up, and took off after 
his brother. 

Evan grabbed for Trigger’s leash—and missed. 

“Trigger—whoa! Stop!” 

The dog took off after the fleeing twins, barking angrily, his enormous paws 
thudding loudly on the pavement, picking up speed as he closed in on them. 

No, Evan thought, finding himself frozen there on the corner in front of the 
grocery. 

No. No. No. 

This can’t be happening! 

It’s my dream. 

Is it coming true? 

Evan shuddered, remembering the rest of his dream, remembering how he, 
too, grew until he was twice his size. 

Would that part of the dream also come true? 



16 


That afternoon, about an hour before dinnertime, Evan called Andy. “Can I come 
over?” he asked. “I have a small problem.” 

“Sounds like a big problem,” Andy said. 

“Yeah. Okay. A big problem,” Evan snapped impatiently. “I’m not in the 
mood to kid around, okay?” 

“Okay. Sorry,” Andy replied quickly. “Any sign of Rick and Tony? They’re 
not your problem, are they?” 

“Not at the moment,” he told her. “I told you, they were gone by the time I 
caught up with Trigger. Disappeared. Vanished. Trigger was still barking his 
head off. Somehow I dragged him home and got him in his pen.” 

“So what’s your problem?” she asked. 

“I can’t tell you. I have to show you,” he said. “I’ll be right there. Bye.” 

He hung up the phone and hurried down the stairs, carrying the bucket. 
Kathryn was in the kitchen, her back to him, chopping away at something with 
her big butcher knife. Evan hurried past and darted out the door. 

Andy’s house was a modern, redwood ranch style, with a low hedge of 
evergreens running along the front. Her dad, she said, was a fanatic about the 
lawn. It was clipped a perfect inch and a half above the ground, smooth as a 
carpet. A flower garden stretched along the front of the house, tall orange and 
yellow tiger lilies bobbing in the gentle breeze. 

The front door was open. Evan knocked on the screen door. 

“What’s with the bucket?” was Andy’s greeting as she let him in. 

“Look,” he said, out of breath from running all the way to her house. He 
held up the aluminum bucket he had taken from Kathryn’s garage. 

“Oh, wow,” Andy exclaimed, raising her hands to her face as she stared into 
it wide-eyed. 

“Yeah. Wow,” he repeated sarcastically. “The Monster Blood. It’s grown 
again. Look. It’s almost filled this big bucket. What are we going to do?” 

“What do you mean we?” Andy teased, leading him into the den. 

“Not funny,” he muttered. 

“You didn’t want to share it,” she insisted. 



“I’ll share it now,” he said eagerly. “In fact... do you want it? I’ll give it to 
you for a bargain price—free.” He held the bucket toward her. 

“Huh-uh.” Andy shook her head, crossing her arms in front of her chest. 
“Put it down, will you?” She pointed to the corner behind the red leather couch. 
“Put it over there. It’s giving me the creeps.” 

“Giving you the creeps!?” Evan cried. “What am I going to do? Every time 
I turn around, it grows some more. It’s growing faster than Trigger!” 

“Hey!” they both cried at once. 

Both had the same thought, the same frightening memory. Both suddenly 
remembered that Trigger had eaten a ball of the green gunk. 

“Do you think...” Evan started. 

“Maybe...” Andy replied, not waiting for him to finish his thought. “Maybe 
Trigger’s growing because he ate the Monster Blood.” 

“What am I going to do?” Evan wailed, pacing the room nervously, his 
hands shoved into his jeans pockets. “The stuff is getting bigger and bigger, and 
so is poor Trigger. I’m all alone here. There’s no one who can help me. No one.” 

“What about your aunt?” Andy suggested, staring at the bucket on the floor 
in the corner. “Maybe Kathryn can think of something—” 

“Are you kidding? She can’t hear me. She doesn’t want to hear me. She 
hates me. She just sits at her jigsaw puzzle and argues with that horrible black 
cat all day.” 

“Okay. Forget the aunt,” Andy said, making a dispirited face. 

“Perhaps if you told Dr. Forrest—” 

“Oh, yeah. For sure,” Evan snapped. “He’d really believe that Trigger is 
turning into a giant because I let him eat Monster Blood.” 

He threw himself down on the couch. “I’m all alone here, Andy. There’s no 
one to help me. No one I can even talk to about this.” 

“Except me?” 

“Yeah,” he said, locking his eyes on hers. “Except you.” 

She plopped down on the other end of the couch. “Well, what can I do?” 
she asked hesitantly. 

He jumped up and carried the bucket over. “Take some of this. Let’s split it 

up.” 

“Huh? Why don’t we just toss it in the trash?” she asked, staring down at it. 
The green gunk was pushing up near the top of the bucket. 

“Toss it? We can’t,” he said. 



“Sure, we can. Come on. I’ll show you.” She reached for the bucket handle, 
but he shoved it out of her reach. 

“What if it outgrows the trash can?” he asked. “What if it just keeps 
growing?” 

Andy shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

“Also, I have to save it,” Evan continued excitedly. “If it’s really the thing 
that’s causing Trigger to grow, I’ll need it as proof. You know. To show the 
doctors or whatever. So they can cure Trigger.” 

“Maybe we should call the police,” Andy said thoughtfully, tugging at a 
strand of hair. 

“Oh. Sure,” Evan replied, rolling his eyes. “They’ll really believe us. For 
sure. 'We bought this stuff in a toy store, officer, and now it’s growing bigger 
and bigger and it’s turning my dog into a giant monster.’” 

“Okay, okay. You’re right,” Andy said. “We can’t call the police.” 

“So, are you going to help me?” Evan demanded. “Will you take some of 
this stuff?” 

“I guess,” she said reluctantly. “But just a little.” She climbed to her feet, 
carefully stepping around the bucket. “I’ll be right back.” 

She left the room, then quickly returned, carrying an empty coffee can. “Fill 
’er up,” she said, smiling. 

Evan stared at the coffee can. “That’s all you’re going to take?” he 
complained. Then he immediately softened his tone. “Okay. Okay. It’s a help.” 

Andy crouched down and dipped the coffee can into the middle of the 
bucket. “Hey!” she cried out. Her hands flew up and she tumbled back onto the 
floor. 

“What’s wrong?” Evan hurried over to her. 

“It was pulling the coffee can in,” she said, her features tight with fear and 
surprise. “Sucking it. Look.” 

Evan peered into the bucket. The coffee can had disappeared under the 
surface. “Huh?” 

“I could feel it pulling,” Andy said shakily. She regained her perch over the 
bucket. 

“Let’s see,” Evan said, and plunged both hands into the middle of the 
Monster Blood. 

“Yuck,” Andy said. “This is really gross.” 

“It’s pulling. You’re right,” Evan agreed. “It feels like it’s pulling my hands 



down. Wow. It’s so warm. As if it’s alive.” 

“Don X say that! ” Andy cried with a shudder. “Just get the can out, okay?” 

Evan had to tug hard, but he managed to pull up the coffee can, filled to the 
top with the quivering green substance. “Yuck.” 

“You sure I have to take this?” Andy asked, not reaching for it even though 
he was holding it out to her. 

“Just for a little while,” he said. “Till we think of a better plan.” 

“Maybe we could feed it to the Beymer twins,” Andy suggested, finally 
taking the can. 

“Then we’d have giant Beymer twins,” Evan joked. “No, thank you.” 

“Seriously, you’d better watch out for them,” Andy warned. “If Trigger 
scared them away this morning, they’ll be looking to get back at you. They 
really think they’re tough dudes, Evan. They can be vicious. They could really 
hurt you.” 

“Thanks for trying to cheer me up,” Evan said glumly. He was still pulling 
tiny, clinging clumps of the Monster Blood off his hands and tossing them into 
the bucket. 

“I was watching a video before you came over. The first Indiana Jones 
movie. Want to watch it?” 

Evan shook his head. “No. I’d better go. Aunt Kathryn was busy making 
dinner when I left. Chopping up some kind of meat. Another great dinner, sitting 
there in silence, being stared at by Aunt Kathryn and her cat.” 

“Poor Evan,” Andy said, half teasing, half sympathetic. 

He picked up the bucket, now only two-thirds full, and let her walk him to 
the front door. “Call me later, okay?” she asked. 

He nodded and stepped outside. She closed the door behind him. 

He was halfway to the sidewalk when the Beymer twins slipped out from 
behind the evergreen hedge, their hands balled into red, beefy fists. 



17 


The brothers stepped out of the shadows of the hedge. Their short blond hair 
caught the late afternoon sunlight. They were both grinning gleefully. 

Evan stood frozen in place, staring from one to the other. 

No one said a word. 

One of the Beymers grabbed the bucket from Evan’s hand and tossed it to 
the ground. The bucket hit with a heavy thud, and its thick, green contents oozed 
onto the grass, making disgusting sucking sounds. 

“Hey—” Evan cried, breaking the tense silence. 

He didn’t have a chance to say more. 

The other twin punched him hard in the stomach. 

Evan felt the pain radiate through his body. The punch took his breath away. 
He gasped for air. 

He didn’t see the next punch. It landed on his cheek just below his right 

eye. 

He howled in pain, and his hands flailed the air helplessly. 

Both brothers were hitting him now. And then one of them gave Evan’s 
shoulders a hard shove, and he went sprawling onto the cool, damp grass. 

The pain swept over him, blanketing him, followed by a wave of nausea. 
He closed his eyes, gasping noisily, waiting for the sharp ache in his stomach to 
fade. 

The ground seemed to tilt. He reached out and grabbed it, and held on 
tightly so he wouldn’t fall off. 

When he finally managed to raise his head, Andy was standing over him, 
her eyes wide with alarm. “Evan—” 

He groaned and, pushing with both hands, tried to sit up. The dizziness, the 
spinning, tilting grass, forced him to lie back down. 

“Are they gone?” he asked, closing his eyes, willing the dizziness away. 
“Rick and Tony? I saw them run away,” Andy said, kneeling beside him. 
“Are you okay? Should I call my mom?” 

He opened his eyes. “Yeah. No. I don’t know.” 

“What happened ?” she demanded. 

He raised a hand to his cheek. “Ow!” It was already swollen, too painful to 



touch. 

“They beat you up?” 

“Either that or I was hit by a truck,” he groaned. 

A few minutes later—it seemed like hours—he was back on his feet, 
breathing normally, rubbing his swollen cheek. “I’ve never been in a fight 
before,” he told Andy, shaking his head. “Never.” 

“It doesn’t look like it was much of a fight,” she said, her expression still 
tight with concern. 

He started to laugh, but it made his stomach hurt. 

“We’ll pay them back,” Andy said bitterly. “We’ll find a way to pay them 
back. The creeps.” 

“Oh. Look. The Monster Blood.” Evan hurried over to it. 

The bucket lay on its side. The green gunk had oozed onto the grass, 
forming a wide, thick puddle. 

“I’ll help you get it back in the bucket,” Andy said, leaning over to stand 
the bucket up. “Hope it doesn’t kill the grass. My dad’ll have a cow if his 
precious lawn is hurt!” 

“It’s so heavy,” Evan said, groaning as he tried to push the glob into the 
bucket. “It doesn’t want to move.” 

“Let’s try picking up handfuls,” Andy suggested. 

“Whoa. It doesn’t want to come apart,” Evan said in surprise. “Look. It 
sticks together.” 

“It’s like taffy,” Andy said. “Ever see them make taffy in those taffy 
machines? The stuff just sticks together in one big glob.” 

“This isn’t taffy,” Evan muttered. “It’s disgusting.” 

Working together, they managed to lift the entire green ball and drop it into 
the bucket. The stuff made a sickening sucking sound as it filled the bucket, and 
both Evan and Andy had trouble pulling their hands out of it. 

“It’s so sticky,” Andy said, making a disgusted face. 

“And warm,” Evan added. He finally managed to free his hands from it. 
“It’s like it’s trying to swallow my hands,” he said, wiping his hands on his T- 
shirt. “Sucking them in.” 

“Take it home,” Andy said. She looked up to the house to see her mother 
motioning to her from the front window. “Uh-oh. Dinnertime. I’ve got to go.” 
Her eyes stopped at his swollen cheek. “Wait till your aunt sees you.” 

“She probably won’t even notice,” Evan said glumly. He picked up the 



bucket by the handle. “What are we going to do with this stuff?” 

“We’ll take it back to the toy store tomorrow,” Andy replied, taking long 
strides across the lawn to the house. 

“Huh?” 

“That’s what we’ll do. We’ll simply take it back.” 

Evan didn’t think it was such a hot idea. But he didn’t have the strength to 
argue about it now. He watched Andy disappear into the house. Then he headed 
slowly back to Kathryn’s, his head throbbing, his stomach aching. 

Creeping along the wall of the house, he slipped into the garage through the 
side door to hide the bucket of Monster Blood. Sliding it behind an overturned 
wheelbarrow, he realized that the bucket was full to the top. 

But I gave Andy a big hunk of it, he thought. The bucket had been only 
two-thirds full. 

I’ll have to find a bigger place to put it, he decided. Tonight. Maybe there’s 
a box or something in the basement. 

He crept into the house, determined to clean himself up before seeing 
Kathryn. She was still busy in the kitchen, he saw, leaning over the stove, putting 
the last touches on dinner. He tiptoed up the stairs and washed up. Unable to do 
much about his swollen, red cheek, he changed into a clean pair of baggy shorts 
and a fresh T-shirt, and carefully brushed his hair. 

As they sat down at the dining room table, Kathryn’s eyes fell on Evan’s 
swollen cheek. “You been in a fight?” she asked, squinting suspiciously at him. 
“You’re a little roughneck, aren’t you? Just like your father. Chicken was always 
getting into scrapes, always picking on boys twice his size.” 

“I wasn’t exactly picking on them,” Evan muttered, spearing a chunk of 
beef from his stew with his fork. 

All through dinner, Kathryn stared at his swollen cheek. But she didn’t say 
another word. 

She doesn’t care if I’m hurt or not, Evan thought miserably. 

She really doesn’t care. 

She didn’t even ask if it hurts. 

In a way, he was grateful. He didn’t need her getting all upset, making a 
fuss because he was in a fight, maybe calling his parents in Atlanta and telling 
them. 

Well... she couldn’t call his parents. She couldn’t use the phone, since she 
couldn’t hear. 



Evan downed his big plate of beef stew. It was pretty good, except for the 
vegetables. 

The silence seemed so loud. He began thinking about his problem—the 
Monster Blood. 

Should he tell Kathryn about it? 

He could write down the whole problem on the yellow pad and hand it to 
her to read. It would feel so good to tell someone, to have an adult take over the 
problem and handle it. 

But not his Aunt Kathryn, he decided. 

She was too weird. 

She wouldn’t understand. 

She wouldn’t know what to do. 

And she wouldn’t care. 

Andy was right. They had to carry the stuff back to the toy store. Give it 
back. Just get rid of it. 

But in the meantime, he had to find something to keep it in. 

Evan waited in his room until he heard Kathryn go to bed, a little after ten 
o’clock. Then he crept down the stairs and headed out to the garage. 



18 


It was a cool, clear night. Crickets sent up a relentless curtain of noise. The black 
sky glittered with tiny specks of stars. 

The round beam of light from the flashlight in his hand darted across the 
driveway, leading Evan to the dark garage. As he entered, something scuttled 
across the floor near the back wall. 

Maybe it was just a dead leaf, blown by the wind when I opened the door, 
he thought hopefully. 

He moved the flashlight unsteadily, beaming it onto the overturned 
wheelbarrow. Then the light darted across the garage ceiling as he bent down, 
reached behind the wheelbarrow, and pulled out the bucket of Monster Blood. 

He moved the light to the center of the bucket, and gasped. 

The green substance was quivering up over the top. 

It’s growing much faster than before, he thought. 

I’ve got to find something bigger to hide it in—just for tonight. 

The bucket was too heavy to carry with one hand. Tucking the flashlight 
into his armpit, he gripped the bucket handle with both hands and hoisted the 
bucket off the floor. 

Struggling to keep from spilling it, he made his way into the dark house. He 
paused at the door to the basement steps, silently setting the heavy bucket down 
on the linoleum floor. 

He clicked the light switch on the wall. Somewhere downstairs a dim light 
flickered on, casting a wash of pale yellow light over the concrete floor. 

There’s got to be something to put this stuff in down there, Evan thought. 
Hoisting up the bucket, he made his way slowly, carefully down the steep, dark 
stairway, leaning his shoulder against the wall to steady himself. 

Waiting for his eyes to adjust to the pale light, he saw that the basement was 
one large room, low-ceilinged and damp. It was cluttered with cartons, stacks of 
old newspapers and magazines, and old furniture and appliances covered in 
stained, yellowed bed sheets. 

Something brushed his face as he stepped away from the stairs. 

He uttered a silent cry and, dropping the bucket, raised his hands to swipe at 
the thick cobwebs that seemed to reach out for him. They clung to his skin, dry 



and scratchy, as he frantically pulled at them. 

He suddenly realized it wasn’t the web that was moving against his cheek. 

It was a spider. 

With a sharp intake of breath, he brushed it away. But even after he saw the 
insect scuttle across the floor, he could still feel its prickly feet moving on his 
face. 

Moving quickly away from the wall, his heart pounding now, his eyes 
searching the open wooden shelves hidden in shadow against the far wall, he 
stumbled over something on the floor. 

“Oh!” He fell headfirst over it, throwing his hands forward to break his fall. 

A human body! 

Someone lying there under him! 

No. 

Calm down, Evan. Calm down, he instructed himself. 

He pulled himself shakily to his feet. 

It was a dressmaker’s dummy he had stumbled over. Probably a model of 
Kathryn when she was younger. 

He rolled it out of the way as his eyes searched the shadowy room for a 
container to store the Monster Blood. What was that long, low object in front of 
the worktable? 

Moving closer, he saw that it was an old bathtub, the insides stained and 
peeling. It’s big enough, he realized, and quickly decided to store the green gunk 
inside it. 

With a loud groan, he hoisted the bucket onto the side of the old tub. His 
stomach muscles were still sore from the punch he had taken, and the pain shot 
through his body. 

He waited for the aching to fade, then tilted the bucket. The thick green 
substance rolled out of the bucket and hit the tub bottom with a sickening soft 
plop. 

Evan set the bucket aside and stared down at the Monster Blood, watching 
it ooze, spreading thickly over the bottom of the bathtub. To his surprise, the tub 
appeared nearly half full. 

How fast was this stuff growing?! 

He was leaning over the tub, about to make his way back upstairs, when he 
heard the cat screech. 

Startled, he let go of the side of the tub just as Sarabeth leapt onto his back. 



Evan didn’t have time to cry out as he toppled forward, over the edge of the tub 
and into the thick, green gunk. 



19 


Evan landed hard on his elbows, but the thick Monster Blood softened the fall. 
He heard the cat screech again and pad away. 

He sank into the ooze, his arms and legs flailing, trying to lift himself away. 
But the sticky substance was sucking him down, pulling him with surprising 
force. 

His whole body seemed to be held by it, stuck as if in cement, and now it 
was quivering up, bubbling silently, rising up to his face. I’m going to suffocate, 
he realized. 

It’s trying to choke me. 

The warmth of it spread across his body, invaded his chest, his legs, his 
throat. 

I can’t move. 

I’m stuck. 

It’s trying to choke me. 

No! 

He pulled his head up just as the green gunk began to cover his face. 

Then he struggled to twist his body, to twist himself around in it. With great 
effort, panting loudly, hoarse cries escaping his open lips, he pulled himself up 
into a sitting position. 

The green substance rose up even higher, as if it were reaching up to him, 
reaching to drag him back down into it. 

Evan gripped the side of the tub with both hands, held on to it tightly, and 
began to force himself up. Up, up from the clinging, pulling ooze. Up from the 
strange force that seemed to be drawing him back with renewed power. 

Up. Up. 

“No!” he managed to scream as the warm, green ooze slid over his 
shoulders. 

“No!” 

It was gripping his shoulders now, sliding around his neck, sucking him 
down, pulling him back into its sticky depths. 

Down. Down. 

It’s got me, he realized. 



It’s got me now. 



20 


“No!” Evan screamed aloud as the green gunk bubbled up to his neck. 

Pulling him. Pulling him down. 

“No!” 

Try again. Up. 

Try again. 

Up. Up. 

Yes! 

Gripping the sides of the tub, he was moving upward, pulling himself, 
hoisting himself, straining with all of his strength. 

Yes! Yes! He was beating it. 

He was stronger than it was. One more tug and he would be free. 

With a relieved sigh, he dropped over the side of the tub onto the cool 
basement floor. 

And lay there, pressed against the damp concrete, waiting to catch his 
breath. 

When he looked up, Sarabeth stood a few feet away, her head cocked to one 
side, her yellow eyes peering into his, an expression of supreme satisfaction on 
her dark feline face. 

The next morning, after a fitful, restless sleep, Evan brought the pad of yellow 
lined paper and a marker to the breakfast table. 

“Well, well,” Kathryn greeted him, placing a bowl of shredded wheat in 
front of him, “you certainly look like something the cat dragged in!” She 
laughed, shaking her head. 

“Don’t mention cat to me,” Evan muttered. He shoved the bowl of cereal 
aside and pointed to the pad in his hand. 

“Don’t let your cereal get soggy,” Kathryn scolded, reaching to push the 
bowl back to him. “You get more of the vitamins that way. And it’s good 
roughage.” 

“I don’t care about your stupid roughage,” Evan said moodily, knowing she 
couldn’t hear him. He pointed to the pad again, and then began to write, 
scribbling quickly in big, black letters. 



His writing caught her interest. She moved around the table and stood 
behind him, her eyes on the pad as he wrote his desperate message. 

I HAVE A PROBLEM, he wrote. I NEED YOUR HELP. THE BATHTUB 
DOWNSTAIRS IS OVERFLOWING WITH GREEN MONSTER BLOOD 
AND I CANT STOP IT. 

He put down the marker and held the pad up close to her face. 

Looking up at her from the chair, seeing her pale face in the morning 
sunlight as she leaned over him in her gray flannel bathrobe, Kathryn suddenly 
looked very old to him. Only her eyes, those vibrant, blue eyes running quickly 
over his words, seemed youthful and alive. 

Her lips were pursed tightly in concentration as she read what he had 
written. Then, as Evan stared eagerly up at her, her mouth spread into a wide 
smile. She tossed back her head and laughed. 

Completely bewildered by her reaction, Evan slid his chair back and 
jumped up. She rested a hand on his shoulder and gave him a playful shove. 

“Don’t kid an old woman!” she exclaimed, shaking her head. She turned 
and headed back to her side of the table. “I thought you were serious. I guess 
you’re not like your father at all. He never played any dumb jokes or tricks. 
Chicken was always such a serious boy.” 

“I don’t care about Chicken!” Evan shouted, losing control, and tossed the 
pad angrily onto the breakfast table. 

His aunt burst out laughing. She didn’t seem to notice that Evan was glaring 
at her in frustration, his hands tightened into fists at his sides. 

“Monster Blood! What an imagination!” She wiped tears of laughter from 
her eyes with her fingers. Then suddenly, her expression turned serious. She 
grabbed his earlobe and squeezed it. 

“I warned you,” she whispered. “I warned you to be careful.” 

“Ow!” 

When he cried out in pain, she let go of his ear, her eyes glowing like blue 
jewels. 

I’ve got to get out of here, Evan thought, rubbing his tender earlobe. He 
turned and strode quickly from the kitchen and up to his room. 

I knew she wouldn’t be any help, he thought bitterly. 

She’s just a crazy old lady. 

I should pull her down to the basement and show her the disgusting stuff, he 
thought, angrily tossing the clothes he had worn yesterday onto the floor. 



But what’s the point? She’d probably laugh at that, too. 

She isn’t going to help me. 

He had only one person he could rely on, he knew. 

Andy. 

He called her, punching in her number with trembling fingers. 

“Hi. You’re right,” he said, not giving her a chance to say anything. “We 
have to take the stuff back to the store.” 

“If we can carry it,” Andy replied, sounding worried. “That hunk of 
Monster Blood you gave me—it outgrew the coffee can. I put it in my parents’ 
ice bucket, but it’s outgrowing that.” 

“How about a plastic garbage bag?” Evan suggested. “You know. One of 
the really big lawn bags? We can probably carry it in a couple of those.” 

“It’s worth a try,” Andy said. “This stuff is so disgusting. It’s making all 
these sick noises, and it’s really sticky.” 

“Tell me about it,” Evan replied gloomily, remembering the night before. “I 
took a swim in it.” 

“Huh? You can explain later,” she said impatiently. “The toy store opens at 
ten, I think. I can meet you on the corner in twenty minutes.” 

“Good deal.” Evan hung up the phone and headed to the garage to get a 
plastic lawn bag. 

Andy showed up with her plastic bag wrapped around the handlebars of her 
BMX bike. Once again, Evan had to go along beside her on foot. His plastic bag 
was bulging, and so heavy he had to drag it over the sidewalk. He couldn’t lift it. 

“The tub was nearly full to the top,” he told Andy, groaning as he struggled 
to pull the bag over the curb. “I’m afraid it’s going to burst out of this bag.” 

“Only two blocks to go,” she said, trying to sound reassuring. A car rolled 
by slowly. The driver, a teenager with long black hair, stuck his head out the 
window, grinning. “What’s in the bag? A dead body?” 

“Just garbage,” Evan told him. 

“That’s for sure,” Andy muttered as the car rolled away. 

Several people stopped to stare at them as they entered town. “Hi, Mrs. 
Winslow,” Andy called to a friend of her mother’s. 

Mrs. Winslow waved, then gave Andy a curious stare, and headed into the 
grocery. 

Andy climbed off her bike and walked it. Evan continued to drag his 



bulging bag behind him. 

They made their way to the next block, then started to cross the street to the 
toy store. 

But they both stopped short in the middle of the street. 

And gaped in shock. 

The door and window of the store were boarded up. A small, hand-printed 
sign tacked to the top of the door read: OUT OF BUSINESS. 



21 


Desperate to get rid of the disgusting contents of the garbage bags, Evan 
pounded on the door anyway. 

“Come on—somebody! Somebody, open up!” 

No reply. 

He pounded with both fists. 

Silence. 

Finally, Andy had to pull him away. 

“The store is closed,” a young woman called from across the street. “It 
closed a few days ago. See? It’s all boarded up and everything.” 

“Very helpful,” Evan muttered under his breath. He slammed his hand 
angrily against the door. 

“Evan—stop. You’ll hurt yourself,” Andy warned. 

“Now what?” Evan demanded. “Got any more fantastic ideas, Andy?” 

She shrugged. “It’s your turn to come up with something brilliant.” 

Evan sighed miserably. “Maybe I could give it to Kathryn and tell her it’s 
beef. Then she’d chop it up with that knife she’s always carrying around.” 

“I don’t think you’re thinking too clearly right now,” Andy said, putting a 
sympathetic hand on his shoulder. 

They both stared down at the garbage bags. They appeared to be moving— 
expanding and contracting, as if the green globs inside were breathing ! 

“Let’s go back to Kathryn’s,” Evan said, his voice trembling. “Maybe we’ll 
think of something on the way.” 

Somehow they managed to drag the Monster Blood back to Kathryn’s 
house. The sun had gotten high in the sky. As they headed to the backyard, Evan 
was drenched with sweat. His arms ached. His head throbbed. 

“Now what?” he asked weakly, letting go of the bulging lawn bag. 

Andy leaned her bike against the side of the garage. She pointed to the big 
aluminum trash can next to the garage door. “How about that? It looks pretty 
sturdy.” She walked over to it to investigate. “And look—the lid clamps down.” 

“Okay,” Evan agreed, wiping his forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

Andy pulled off the lid of the big can. Then she dumped in the contents of 
her bag. It hit the bottom with a sick, squishy sound. Then she hurried to help 



Evan. 

“It’s so heavy,” Evan groaned, struggling to pull the bag up. 

“We can do it,” Andy insisted. 

Working together, they managed to slide the Monster Blood from the plastic 
bag. It rolled out like a tidal wave, sloshing noisily against the sides of the can, 
raising up as if trying to escape. 

With a loud sigh of relief, Evan slammed the metal lid down on top of it 
and clamped the handles down. 

“Whoa!” Andy cried. 

They both stared at the can for a long moment, as if expecting it to explode 
or burst apart. “Now what?” Evan asked, his features tight with fear. 

Before Andy could reply, they saw Kathryn step out of the kitchen door. 
Her eyes searched the backyard until she spotted them. “Evan—good news!” she 
called. 

Glancing back at the trash can, Evan and Andy came hurrying over. 
Kathryn was holding a yellow piece of paper in her hand. A telegram. 

“Your mother is coming to pick you up this afternoon,” Kathryn said, a 
wide smile on her face. 

I think Kathryn is glad to get rid of me, was Evan’s first thought. 

And then, dismissing that thought, he leapt up and whooped for joy. It was 
the best news he’d ever received. 

“I’m outta here!” he exclaimed after his aunt had returned to the house. 
“I’m outta here! I can’t wait!” 

Andy didn’t appear to share his joy. “You’re leaving your aunt a nice little 
surprise over there,” she said, pointing to the trash can. 

“I don’t care! I’m outta here!” Evan repeated, raising his hand for Andy to 
slap him a high five. 

She didn’t cooperate. “Don’t you think we have to tell someone about the 
Monster Blood? Or do something about it—before you leave?” 

But Evan was too excited to think about that now. “Hey, Trigger!” he 
called, running to the dog’s pen at the back of the yard. “Trigger—we’re going 
home, boy!” 

Evan pulled open the gate—and gasped. 



22 


“Trigger!” 

The dog that came bounding toward him looked like Trigger. But the cocker 
spaniel was the size of a pony! He had doubled in size since the day before! 

“No!” Evan had to hit the dirt as Trigger excitedly tried to jump on him. 
“Hey—wait!” 

Before Evan could get up, Trigger began barking ferociously. The huge dog 
was already past the gate and thundering across the backyard toward the street. 

“I don’t believe it!” Andy cried, raising her hands to her face, staring in 
shock as the enormous creature bounded around the side of the house and out of 
sight. “He’s so—big!” 

“We’ve got to stop him! He might hurt someone!” Evan cried. 

“Trigger! Trigger—come back!” Still off balance, Evan started to run, 
calling frantically. But he stumbled over Andy’s bike and fell onto the trash can. 

“No!” Andy shrieked, looking on helplessly as the metal can toppled over, 
with Evan sprawled on top of it. The can hit the driveway with a loud clang. 

The lid popped off and rolled away. 

The green gunk poured out. 

It oozed away from the can, then stopped and appeared to stand up. 
Quivering, making loud sucking sounds, it righted itself, pulling itself up tall. 

As the two kids stared in silent horror, the quivering green mass appeared to 
come to life, like a newly born creature pulling itself up, stretching, looking 
around. 

Then, with a loud sucking sound, it arched toward Evan, who was still 
sprawled on the toppled can. 

“Get up, Evan!” Andy cried. “Get up! It’s going to roll right over you!” 



23 


“Noooooo!” 

Evan uttered an animal cry, a sound he had never made before—and rolled 
away as the quivering green ball bounced toward him. 

“Run, Evan!” Andy screamed. She grabbed his hand and pulled him to his 
feet. “It’s alive!” she cried. “Run!” 

The Monster Blood heaved itself against the garage wall. It seemed to stick 
there for a brief second. Then it peeled off, and came bouncing toward them with 
surprising speed. 

“Help! Help!” 

“Somebody—please— help ! ” 

Screaming at the top of their lungs, Evan and Andy took off. Scrambling as 
fast as he could, his legs weak and rubbery from fear, Evan followed Andy down 
the driveway toward the front yard. 

“Help! Oh, please! Help us!” 

Evan’s voice was hoarse from screaming. His heart thudded in his chest. 
His temples throbbed. 

He turned and saw that the Monster Blood was right behind them, picking 
up speed as it bounced across the yard, making disgusting squishing noises with 
each bounce. 

Plop. Plop. Plop. 

A robin, pulling at a worm in the grass, didn’t look up in time. The 
trembling green mass rolled over it. 

“Oh!” Evan moaned, turning back to see the bird sucked into the green ball. 
Its wings flapping frantically, the bird uttered a final cry, then disappeared inside. 

Plop. Plop. Plop. 

The Monster Blood changed direction, still bouncing and quivering, and 
leaving white stains on the grass like enormous, round footsteps. 

“It’s alive!” Andy screamed, her hands pressed against her cheeks. “Oh, my 
God—it’s a/z've!” 

“What can we do? What can we do?” Evan didn’t recognize his own 
terrified voice. 

“It’s catching up!” Andy screamed, pulling him by the hand. “Run!” 



Gasping loudly, they made their way to the front of the house. 

“Hey—what’s happening?” a voice called. 

“Huh?” 

Startled by the voice, Evan stopped short. He looked to the sidewalk to see 
the Beymer twins, matching grins on their beefy faces. 

“My favorite punching bag,” one of them said to Evan. He raised his fist 
menacingly. 

They took a few steps toward Evan and Andy. Then their grins faded and 
their mouths dropped open in horror as the gigantic green mass appeared, 
heading down the drive, rolling as fast as a bicycle. 

“Look out!” Evan screamed. 

“Run!” Andy cried. 

But the two brothers were too startled to move. 

Their eyes bulging with fear, they threw their hands up as if trying to shield 
themselves. 

Plop. Plop. Plop. 

The enormous ball of Monster Blood picked up speed as it bounced 
forward. Evan shut his eyes as it hit the twins with a deafening smack. 

“Ow!” 

“No!” 

Both brothers cried out, flailing their arms, struggling to pull themselves 

free. 

“Help us! Please—help us!” 

Their bodies twisted and writhed as they struggled. 

But they were stuck tight. The green gunk oozed over them, covering them 
completely. 

Then it pulled them inside with a loud sucking pop. 

Andy shielded her eyes. “Sick,” she muttered. “Oooh. Sick.” 

Evan gasped in helpless horror as the Beymer brothers finally stopped 
struggling. 

Their arms went limp. Their faces disappeared into the quivering gunk. 

The sucking sounds grew louder as the two boys were pulled deeper and 
deeper inside. Then the Monster Blood bounced high, turned, and started back 
up the drive. 

Andy and Evan froze, unsure of which way to head. 

“Split up!” Evan cried. “It can’t go after us both!” 



Andy returned his frightened stare. She opened her mouth, but no sound 
came out. 

“Split up! Split up!” Evan repeated shrilly. 

“But—” Andy started. 

Before she could say anything, the front door of the house burst open, and 
Kathryn stepped out onto the stoop. 

“Hey—what are you kids doing? What’s that?” she cried, gripping the 
screen door, her eyes filling with horror. 

Picking up speed, the giant ball bounded toward the stoop. 

Kathryn tossed up her hands in fright. She stood frozen for a long moment, 
as if trying to make sense of what she was seeing. Then, leaving the front door 
wide open, she spun around and fled into the house. 

Plop. Plop. 

The Monster Blood hesitated at the front stoop. 

It bounced in place once, twice, three times, as if considering what to do 

next. 

Evan and Andy gaped in horror from across the lawn, trying to catch their 
breath. 

A wave of nausea swept over Evan as he saw the Beymer twins, still visible 
deep within the quivering glob, faceless prisoners bouncing inside it. 

Then suddenly, the Monster Blood bounced high and hurtled up the stairs of 
the stoop. 

“No!” Evan screamed as it squeezed through the open doorway and 
disappeared into the house. 

From the middle of the yard, Andy and Evan heard Kathryn’s bloodcurdling 
scream. 

“It’s got Aunt Kathryn,” Evan said weakly. 



24 


Evan reached the house first. He had run so fast, his lungs felt as if they were 
about to burst. 

“What are you going to do?” Andy called, following close behind. 

“I don’t know,” Evan replied. He grabbed on to the screen door and 
propelled himself into the house. 

“Aunt Kathryn!” Evan screamed, bursting into the living room. 

The enormous glob filled the center of the small room. The Beymer twins 
were outlined in its side as it bounced and quivered, oozing over the carpet, 
leaving its sticky footprints in its path. 

It took Evan a few seconds to see his aunt. The bouncing hunk of Monster 
Blood had backed her against the fireplace. 

“Aunt Kathryn—run!” Evan cried. 

But even he could see that she had nowhere to mn. 

“Get out of here, kids!” Kathryn cried, her voice shrill and trembling, 
suddenly sounding very old. 

“But, Aunt Kathryn—” 

“Get out of here—now!” the old woman insisted, her black hair wild about 
her head, her eyes, those blue, penetrating eyes, staring hard at the green glob as 
if willing it away. 

Evan turned to Andy, uncertain of what to do. 

Andy’s hands tugged at the sides of her hair, her eyes wide with growing 
fear as the seething green glob made its way steadily closer to Evan’s aunt. 

“Get out!” Kathryn repeated shrilly. “Save your lives! I made this thing! 
Now I must die for it!” 

Evan gasped. 

Had he heard correctly? 

What had his aunt just said? 

The words repeated in his mind, clear now, so clear—and so frightening. 

“I made this thing. Now I must die for it. ” 



25 


“No!” 

Gaping in horror, as the sickening glob of Monster Blood pushed toward his 
aunt, Evan felt the room tilt and begin to spin. He gripped the back of Kathryn’s 
armchair as pictures flooded his mind. 

He saw the strange bone pendant Kathryn always wore around her neck. 

The mysterious books that lined the walls of his bedroom. 

Sarabeth, the black cat with the glowing yellow eyes. 

The black shawl Kathryn always wrapped around her shoulders in the 
evening. 

“I made this thing. Now I must die for it. ” 

Evan saw it all now, and it began to come clear to him. 

Evan pictured the day he and Andy brought home the can of Monster Blood 
from the toy store. Kathryn had insisted on seeing it. 

On studying it. 

On touching it. 

He remembered the way she rolled the can around in her hands, examining 
it so carefully. Moving her lips silently as she read the label. 

What had she been doing? What had she been saying? 

A thought flashed into Evan’s mind. 

Had she been casting a spell on the can? 

A spell to make the Monster Blood grow? A spell to terrify Evan? 

But why? She didn’t even know Evan. 

Why did she want to frighten him? To... kill him? 

“Be careful,” she had called to him after handing the blue can back. “Be 
careful.” 

It was a real warning. 

A warning against her spell. 

“You did this!” Evan shouted in a voice he didn’t recognize. The words 
burst out of him. He had no control over them. 

“You did this! You cast a spell!” he repeated, pointing an accusing finger at 
his aunt. 



He saw her blue eyes shimmer as they read his lips. Then her eyes filled 
with tears, tears that overflowed onto her pale cheeks. 

“No!” she cried. “No!” 

“You did something to the can! You did this, Aunt Kathryn!” 

“No!” she cried, shouting over the sickening grunts and plops of the 
mountainous ball that nearly hid her from view. 

“No!” Kathryn cried, her back pressed tightly against the mantelpiece. “I 
didn’t do it! She did!” 

And she pointed an accusing finger at Andy. 



26 


Andy? 

Was Aunt Kathryn accusing Andy? 

Evan spun around to confront Andy. 

But Andy turned, too. 

And Evan realized immediately that his aunt wasn’t pointing at Andy. She 
was pointing past Andy to Sarabeth. 

Standing in the doorway to the living room, the black cat hissed and arched 
her back, her yellow eyes flaring at Kathryn. 

“She did it! She’s the one!” Kathryn declared, pointing frantically. 

The enormous glob of green Monster Blood bounced back, retreated a step, 
as if stung by Kathryn’s words. Shadows shifted inside the glob as it quivered, 
catching the light filtering in through the living room window. 

Evan stared at the cat, then turned his eyes to Andy. She shrugged, her face 
frozen in horror and bewilderment. 

Aunt Kathryn is crazy, Evan thought sadly. 

She’s totally lost it. 

She isn’t making any sense. 

None of this makes sense. 

“She’s the one!” Kathryn repeated. 

The cat hissed in response. 

The glob bounced in place, carrying the unmoving Beymer brothers inside. 

“Oh—look!” Evan cried to Andy as the black cat suddenly raised up on its 
hind legs. 

Andy gasped and squeezed Evan’s arm. Her hand was as cold as ice. 

Still hissing, the cat grew like a shadow against the wall. It raised its claws, 
swiping the air. Its eyes closed, and it became consumed in darkness. 

No one moved. 

The only sounds Evan could hear were the bubbling of the green glob and 
the pounding of his own heart. 

All eyes were on the cat as it rose up, stretched, and grew. And as it grew, it 
changed its shape. 



Became human. 

With shadowy arms and legs in the eerie darkness. 

And then the shadow stepped away from the darkness. 

And Sarabeth was now a young woman with fiery red hair and pale skin 
and yellow eyes, the same yellow cat eyes that had haunted Evan since he’d 
arrived. The young woman was dressed in a swirling black gown down to her 
ankles. 

She stood blocking the doorway, staring accusingly at Kathryn. 

“You see? She’s the one,” Kathryn said, quietly now. And the next words 
were intended only for Sarabeth: “Your spell over me is broken. I will do no 
more work for you.” 

Sarabeth tossed her red hair behind a black-cloaked shoulder and laughed. 
“I’ll decide what you will do, Kathryn.” 

“No,” Kathryn insisted. “For twenty years, you have used me, Sarabeth. For 
twenty years you have imprisoned me here, held me in your spell. But now I will 
use this Monster Blood to escape.” 

Sarabeth laughed again. “There is no escape, fool. All of you must die now. 
All of you.” 



27 


“All of you must die,” Sarabeth repeated. Her smile revealed that she enjoyed 
saying those words. 

Kathryn turned to Evan, her eyes reflecting her fear. “Twenty years ago, I 
thought she was my friend. I was all alone here. I thought I could trust her. But 
she cast a spell on me. And then another. Her dark magic made me deaf. She 
refused to let me lip-read or learn to sign. That was one way she kept me her 
prisoner.” 

“But, Aunt Kathryn—” Evan started. 

She raised a finger to her lips to silence him. 

“Sarabeth forced me to cast the spell on the can of Monster Blood. She had 
warned me that I was allowed no guests, you see. I was her slave. Her personal 
servant for all these years. She wanted me all to herself, to do her evil bidding. 

“When you arrived,” Kathryn continued, her back still pressed against the 
fireplace mantel, “she first decided to scare you away. But that was impossible. 
You had nowhere to go. Then she became desperate to get you out of the way. 
She was terrified that you would learn her secret, that you would somehow free 
me of her spell. So Sarabeth decided that you had to die.” 

Kathryn’s eyes fell. She sighed. “I’m so sorry, Evan. I had no choice, no 
will of my own.” She turned her eyes to Sarabeth. “But no more. No more. No 
more. As I plunge myself into this ghastly creation, Sarabeth, I will end your 
spell. I will end your hold over me.” 

“The children will still die,” Sarabeth said quietly, coldly. 

“What?” Kathryn’s eyes filled with fury. “I will be gone, Sarabeth. You can 
let the children go. You have no reason to do them harm.” 

“They know too much,” Sarabeth replied softly, crossing her slender arms 
in front of her, her yellow eyes aglow. 

“We’ve got to get out of here,” Evan whispered to Andy, staring at the 
seething green glob. 

“But how?” Andy whispered back. “Sarabeth is blocking the doorway.” 

Evan’s eyes darted around the small room, searching for an escape route. 

Nothing. 

Sarabeth raised one hand and drew it toward her slowly, as if summoning 



the green glob. 

It quivered once, twice, then moved obediently in the direction of her hand. 

“No! Sarabeth—stop!” Kathryn pleaded. 

Ignoring Kathryn, Sarabeth gestured with her hand again. 

The green gunk bubbled and rolled forward. 

“Kill the children,” Sarabeth commanded. 

The enormous glob picked up speed as it rolled across the carpet toward 
Evan and Andy. 

“Let’s rush the door,” Evan suggested to Andy, as they backed up away 
from the rolling Monster Blood. 

“SheTl never let us past,” Andy cried. 

“Kill the children!” Sarabeth repeated, raising both hands high above her 
head. 

“Maybe one of us can get by her!” Evan cried. 

“It’s too late!” Andy shrieked. 

The bouncing, pulsating, green glob was just a few feet away. 

“We—we’re going to be sucked in!” Evan screamed. 

“Kill the children!” Sarabeth screamed triumphantly. 



28 


The glob rolled forward. 

Evan sighed, feeling all hope sink. Frozen in place, he felt as if he weighed 
a thousand pounds. 

Andy grabbed his hand. 

They both closed their eyes and held their breath, and waited for the impact. 

To their surprise, the Monster Blood emitted a deafening roar. 

“Huh?” 

Evan opened his eyes. Andy, he saw, was staring at the doorway, beyond 
Sarabeth. 

The Monster Blood hadn’t roared. 

“Trigger!” Evan cried. 

The huge dog bounded into the doorway, its deafening bark echoing off the 
low ceiling. 

Sarabeth tried to get out of the dog’s way. But she was too late. 

Thrilled to see Evan, Trigger enthusiastically leapt at Sarabeth—and pushed 
her from behind. 

Under the weight of the gigantic paws, Sarabeth staggered forward... 
forward... forward—raising her hands as she collided with the Monster Blood. 

There was a wet smack as Sarabeth hit the surface of the green glob. 

Then loud, disgusting sucking noises. 

Her hands hit first. They disappeared quickly. And then Sarabeth was in up 
to her elbows. 

And then the glob seemed to give a hard tug, and her body hit the surface. 
Then her face was pulled in, covered over. 

Sarabeth never uttered a sound as she was pulled inside. 

Whimpering with joy, completely unaware of what he had done, the dog 
loped into the room and headed for Evan. 

“Down, boy! Down!” Evan cried, as Trigger happily leapt at him. 

And as the dog jumped, he began to shrink. 

“Trigger!” Evan called in astonishment, reaching out to hold the dog. 

Trigger didn’t seem to notice that he was changing. He licked Evan’s face 



as Evan held on tightly. 

In seconds, Trigger was back to normal cocker spaniel size. 

“Look—the glob is shrinking, too!” Andy cried, squeezing Evan’s shoulder. 

Evan turned to see that the green glob was rapidly growing smaller. 

As it shrunk, the Beymer brothers fell to the floor. 

They didn’t move. They lay facedown in a crumpled heap. Their open eyes 
stared lifelessly. They didn’t appear to be breathing. 

Then one blinked. The other blinked. 

Their mouths opened and closed. 

“Ohhh.” One of them uttered a long, low groan. 

Then, pulling themselves up slowly, they both looked around the room, 
dazed. 

The trapped robin had also fallen to the floor. Chirping furiously, it flapped 
its wings wildly and fluttered about the room in a panic—until it found the open 
living room window and sailed out. 

Andy held on to Evan as they stared at the Monster Blood, expecting 
Sarabeth to reappear, too. 

But Sarabeth was gone. 

Vanished. 

The Monster Blood, shrunk to its original size, lay lifeless, inert, a dull 
green spot on the carpet, no bigger than a tennis ball. 

The Beymer brothers stood up uncertainly, their eyes still reflecting terror 
and confusion. They stretched as if testing their arms and legs, seeing if their 
muscles still worked. Then they scrambled out of the house, slamming the screen 
door behind them. 

“It’s over,” Kathryn said softly, moving forward to put an arm around Evan 
and Andy. 

“Sarabeth is gone,” Evan said, holding Trigger tightly in his arms, still 
staring at the tiny wedge of Monster Blood on the floor. 

“And I can hear!” Kathryn said jubilantly, hugging them both. “Sarabeth 
and her spells are gone for good.” 

But as she said this, the screen door swung open and a shadowy figure 
stepped into the living room doorway. 



29 


“Mom!” Evan cried. 

He set down Trigger and hurried to greet her, throwing his arms around her 
in a tight hug. 

“What on earth is going on here?” Mrs. Ross asked. “Why did those two 
boys come bursting out like that? They looked scared to death'.” 

“It—it’s a little hard to explain,” Evan told her. “I’m so glad to see you!” 

Trigger was glad, too. When he finally had finished jumping up and down 
and whimpering, Kathryn led Evan’s mom to the kitchen. “I’ll make some tea,” 
she said. “I have a rather long story to tell you.” 

“I hope it isn’t too long,” Mrs. Ross said, glancing back questioningly at 
Evan. “We have a four o’clock plane to catch.” 

“Mom, I think you’ll find this story interesting,” Evan said, flashing Andy 
an amused look. 

The two women disappeared into the kitchen. 

Andy and Evan dropped down wearily onto the couch. 

“I guess you’re going forever,” Andy said. “I mean, to Atlanta and 
everything—” 

“I’d like to... uh... write to you,” Evan said, suddenly feeling awkward. 

“Yeah. Good,” Andy replied, brightening. “And my dad has a phone credit 
card. Maybe I could get the number and... you know... call you.” 

“Yeah. Great,” Evan said. 

“Could I ask one small favor?” Andy asked. 

“Yeah. Sure,” Evan replied, curious. 

“Well, it’s going to sound strange,” Andy said reluctantly. “But can I... 
uh... can I have the little bit of Monster Blood that’s left? You know. Sort of as a 
memento or something?” 

“Sure. Okay with me,” Evan said. 

They both turned their eyes to where it had come to rest on the carpet. 

“Hey—” Andy cried in surprise. 

It was gone. 





SAY CHEESE 
AND DIE! 
Goosebumps - 04 
R.L. Stine 


1 


“There’s nothing to do in Pitts Landing,” Michael Warner said, his hands shoved 
into the pockets of his faded denim cutoffs. 

“Yeah. Pitts Landing is the pits,” Greg Banks said. 

Doug Arthur and Shari Walker muttered their agreement. 

Pitts Landing Is The Pits. That was the town slogan, according to Greg and 
his three friends. Actually, Pitts Landing wasn’t much different from a lot of 
small towns with quiet streets of shady lawns and comfortable old houses. 

But here it was, a balmy fall afternoon, and the four friends were hanging 
around Greg’s driveway, kicking at the gravel, wondering what to do for fun and 
excitement. 

“Let’s go to Grover’s and see if the new comic books have come in,” Doug 
suggested. 

“We don’t have any money, Bird,” Greg told him. 

Everyone called Doug “Bird”, because he looked a lot like a bird. A better 
nickname might have been “Stork”. He had long, skinny legs and took long, 
storklike steps. Under his thick tuft of brown hair, which he seldom brushed, he 
had small, birdlike brown eyes and a long nose that curved like a beak. Doug 
didn’t really like being called Bird, but he was used to it. 

“We can still look at the comics,” Bird insisted. 

“Until Grover starts yelling at you,” Shari said. She puffed out her cheeks 
and did a pretty good imitation of the gruff store owner: “Are you paying or 
staying?” 

“He thinks he’s cool,” Greg said, laughing at her imitation. “He’s such a 
jerk.” 

“I think the new X-Force is coming in this week,” Bird said. 

“You should join the X-Force,” Greg said, giving his pal a playful shove. 
“You could be Bird Man. You’d be great!” 

“We should all join the X-Force,” Michael said. “If we were superheroes, 
maybe we’d have something to do.” 

“No, we wouldn’t,” Shari quickly replied. “There’s no crime to fight in Pitts 
Landing.” 

“We could fight crabgrass,” Bird suggested. He was the joker in the group. 



The others laughed. The four of them had been friends for a long time. Greg 
and Shari lived next door to each other, and their parents were best friends. Bird 
and Michael lived on the next block. 

“How about a baseball game?” Michael suggested. “We could go down to 
the playground.” 

“No way,” Shari said. “You can’t play with only four people.” She pushed 
back a strand of her crimped black hair that had fallen over her face. She was 
wearing an oversized yellow sweatshirt over bright green leggings. 

“Maybe we’ll find some other kids there,” Michael said, picking up a 
handful of gravel from the drive and letting it sift through his chubby fingers. 
Michael had short red hair, blue eyes, and a face full of freckles. He wasn’t 
exactly fat, but no one would ever call him skinny. 

“Come on, let’s play baseball,” Bird urged. “I need the practice. My Little 
League starts in a couple of days.” 

“Little League? In the fall?” Shari asked. 

“It’s a new fall league. The first game is Tuesday after school,” Bird 
explained. 

“Hey—we’ll come watch you,” Greg said. 

“We’ll come watch you strike out,” Shari added. Her hobby was teasing 

Bird. 

“What position are you playing?” Greg asked. 

“Backstop,” Michael cracked. 

No one laughed. Michael’s jokes always fell flat. 

Bird shrugged. “Probably the outfield. How come you’re not playing, 
Greg?” 

With his big shoulders and muscular arms and legs, Greg was the natural 
athlete of the group. He was blond and good-looking, with flashing gray-green 
eyes and a wide, friendly smile. 

“My brother, Terry, was supposed to go sign me up, but he forgot,” Greg 
said, making a disgusted face. 

“Where is Terry?” Shari asked. She had a tiny crush on Greg’s older 
brother. 

“He got a job Saturdays and after school. At the Dairy Freeze,” Greg told 
her. 

“Let’s go to the Dairy Freeze!” Michael exclaimed enthusiastically. 

“We don’t have any money—remember?” Bird said glumly. 



“Terry’ll give us free cones,” Michael said, turning a hopeful gaze on Greg. 

“Yeah. Free cones. But no ice cream in them,” Greg told him. “You know 
what a straight arrow my brother is.” 

“This is boring,” Shari complained, watching a robin hop across the 
sidewalk. “It’s boring standing around talking about how bored we are.” 

“We could sit down and talk about how bored we are,” Bird suggested, 
twisting his mouth into the goofy half smile he always wore when he was 
making a dumb joke. 

“Let’s take a walk or a jog or something,” Shari insisted. She made her way 
across the lawn and began walking, balancing her white high-tops on the edge of 
the curb, waving her arms like a high-wire performer. 

The boys followed, imitating her in an impromptu game of follow the 
leader, all of them balancing on the curb edge as they walked. 

A curious cocker spaniel came bursting out of the neighbors’ hedge, 
yapping excitedly. Shari stopped to pet him. The dog, its stub of a tail wagging 
furiously, licked her hand a few times. Then the dog lost interest and disappeared 
back into the hedge. 

The four friends continued down the block, playfully trying to knock each 
other off the curb as they walked. They crossed the street and continued on past 
the school. A couple of guys were shooting baskets, and some little kids played 
kick ball on the practice baseball diamond, but no one they knew. 

The road curved away from the school. They followed it past familiar 
houses. Then, just beyond a small wooded area, they stopped and looked up a 
sloping lawn, the grass uncut for weeks, tall weeds poking out everywhere, the 
shrubs ragged and overgrown. 

At the top of the lawn, nearly hidden in the shadows of enormous old oak 
trees, sprawled a large ramshackle house. The house, anyone could see, had once 
been grand. It was gray shingled, three stories tall, with a wraparound screened 
porch, a sloping red roof, and tall chimneys on either end. But the broken 
windows on the second floor, the cracked, weather-stained shingles, the bare 
spots on the roof, and the shutters hanging loosely beside the dust-smeared 
windows were evidence of the house’s neglect. 

Everyone in Pitts Landing knew it as the Coffman house. Coffman was the 
name painted on the mailbox that tilted on its broken pole over the front walk. 

But the house had been deserted for years—ever since Greg and his friends 
could remember. 



And people liked to tell weird stories about the house: ghost stories and 
wild tales about murders and ghastly things that happened there. Most likely, 
none of them were true. 

“Hey—I know what we can do for excitement,” Michael said, staring up at 
the house bathed in shadows. 

“Huh? What are you talking about?” Greg asked warily. 

“Let’s go into the Coffman house,” Michael said, starting to make his way 
across the weed-choked lawn. 

“Whoa. Are you crazy?” Greg called, hurrying to catch up to him. 

“Let’s go in,” Michael said, his blue eyes catching the light of the late 
afternoon sun filtering down through the tall oak trees. “We wanted an 
adventure. Something a little exciting, right? Come on—let’s check it out.” 

Greg hesitated and stared up at the house. A cold chill ran down his back. 

Before he could reply, a dark form leaped up from the shadows of the tall 
weeds and attacked him! 



2 


Greg toppled backward onto the ground. “Aah!” he screamed. Then he realized 
the others were laughing. 

“It’s that dumb cocker spaniel!” Shari cried. “He followed us!” 

“Go home, dog. Go home!” Bird shooed the dog away. 

The dog trotted to the curb, turned around, and stared back at them, its 
stubby tail wagging furiously. 

Feeling embarrassed that he’d become so frightened, Greg slowly pulled 
himself to his feet, expecting his friends to give him grief. But they were staring 
up at the Coffman house thoughtfully. 

“Yeah, Michael’s right,” Bird said, slapping Michael hard on the back, so 
hard Michael winced and turned to slug Bird. “Let’s see what it’s like in there.” 

“No way,” Greg said, hanging back. “I mean, the place is kind of creepy, 
don’t you think?” 

“So?” Shari challenged him, joining Michael and Bird, who repeated her 
question: “So?” 

“So... I don’t know,” Greg replied. He didn’t like being the sensible one of 
the group. Everyone always made fun of the sensible one. He’d rather be the 
wild and crazy one. But somehow he always ended up sensible. 

“I don’t think we should go in there,” he said, staring up at the neglected 
old house. 

“Are you chicken?” Bird asked. 

“Chicken!” Michael joined in. 

Bird began to cluck loudly, tucking his hands into his armpits and flapping 
his arms. With his beady eyes and beaky nose, he looked just like a chicken. 

Greg didn’t want to laugh, but he couldn’t help it. 

Bird always made him laugh. 

The clucking and flapping seemed to end the discussion. They were 
standing at the foot of the broken concrete steps that led up to the screened 
porch. 

“Look. The window next to the front door is broken,” Shari said. “We can 
just reach in and open the door.” 

“This is cool,” Michael said enthusiastically. 



“Are we really doing this?” Greg, being the sensible one, had to ask. “I 
mean—what about Spidey?” 

Spidey was a weird-looking man of fifty or sixty they’d all seen lurking 
about town. He dressed entirely in black and crept along on long, slender legs. 
He looked just like a black spider, so the kids all called him Spidey. 

Most likely he was homeless or a drifter. No one really knew anything 
about him—where he’d come from, where he lived. But a lot of kids had seen 
him hanging around the Coffman house. 

“Maybe Spidey doesn’t like visitors,” Greg warned. 

But Shari was already reaching in through the broken windowpane to 
unlock the front door. And after little effort, she turned the brass knob and the 
heavy wooden door swung open. 

One by one, they stepped into the front entryway, Greg reluctantly bringing 
up the rear. It was dark inside the house. Only narrow beams of sunlight 
managed to trickle down through the heavy trees in front, creating pale circles of 
light on the worn brown carpet at their feet. 

The floorboards squeaked as Greg and his friends made their way past the 
living room, which was bare except for a couple of overturned grocery store 
cartons against one wall. 

Spidey’s furniture? Greg wondered. 

The living room carpet, as threadbare as the one in the entryway, had a dark 
oval stain in the center of it. Greg and Bird, stopping in the doorway, both 
noticed it at the same time. 

“Think it’s blood?” Bird asked, his tiny eyes lighting up with excitement. 

Greg felt a chill on the back of his neck. “Probably ketchup,” he replied. 
Bird laughed and slapped him hard on the back. 

Shari and Michael were exploring the kitchen. They were staring at the 
dust-covered counter as Greg and Bird stepped up behind them. They saw 
immediately what had captured their attention. Two fat gray mice were standing 
on the counter, staring back at Shari and Michael. 

“They’re cute,” Shari said. “They look just like cartoon mice.” 

The sound of her voice made the two rodents scamper along the counter, 
around the sink, and out of sight. 

“They’re gross,” Michael said, making a disgusted face. “I think they were 
rats—not mice.” 

“Rats have long tails. Mice don’t,” Greg told him. 



“They were definitely rats,” Bird muttered, pushing past them and into the 
hallway. He disappeared toward the front of the house. 

Shari reached up and pulled open a cabinet over the counter. Empty. “I 
guess Spidey never uses the kitchen,” she said. 

“Well, I didn’t think he was a gourmet chef,” Greg joked. 

He followed her into the long, narrow dining room, as bare and dusty as the 
other rooms. A low chandelier still hung from the ceiling, so brown with caked 
dust it was impossible to tell that it was glass. 

“Looks like a haunted house,” Greg said softly. 

“Boo, ” Shari replied. 

“There’s not much to see in here,” Greg complained, following her back to 
the dark hallway. “Unless you get a thrill from dustballs.” 

Suddenly, a loud crack made him jump. 

Shari laughed and squeezed his shoulder. 

“What was that?” he cried, unable to stifle his fear. 

“Old houses do things like that,” she said. “They make noises for no reason 
at all.” 

“I think we should leave,” Greg insisted, embarrassed again that he’d acted 
so frightened. “I mean, it’s boring in here.” 

“It’s kind of exciting being somewhere we’re not supposed to be,” Shari 
said, peeking into a dark, empty room—probably a den or study at one time. 

“I guess,” Greg replied uncertainly. 

They bumped into Michael. “Where’s Bird?” Greg asked. 

“I think he went down to the basement,” Michael replied. 

“Huh? The basement?” 

Michael pointed to an open door at the right of the hallway. “The stairs are 
there.” 

The three of them made their way to the top of the stairs. They peered down 
into the darkness. “Bird?” 

From somewhere deep in the basement, his voice floated up to them in a 
horrified scream: “Help! It’s got me! Somebody—please help! It’s got me!” 



3 


“It’s got me! It’s got me!” 

At the sound of Bird’s terrified cries, Greg pushed past Shari and Michael, 
who stood frozen in openmouthed horror. Practically flying down the steep 
stairway, Greg called out to his friend. “I’m coming, Bird! What is it?” 

His heart pounding, Greg stopped at the bottom of the stairs, every muscle 
tight with fear. His eyes searched frantically through the smoky light pouring in 
from the basement windows up near the ceiling. 

“Bird?” 

There he was, sitting comfortably, calmly, on an overturned metal trash can, 
his legs crossed, a broad smile on his birdlike face. “Gotcha,” he said softly, and 
burst out laughing. 

“What is it? What happened ?” came the frightened voices of Shari and 
Michael. They clamored down the stairs, coming to a stop beside Greg. 

It took them only a few seconds to scope out the situation. 

“Another dumb joke?” Michael asked, his voice still trembling with fear. 

“Bird—were you goofing on us again?” Shari asked, shaking her head. 

Enjoying his moment, Bird nodded, with his peculiar half grin. “You guys 
are too easy,” he scoffed. 

“But, Doug—” Shari started. She only called him Doug when she was upset 
with him. “Haven’t you ever heard of the boy who cried wolf? What if 
something bad happens sometime, and you really need help, and we think you’re 
just goofing?” 

“What could happen?” Bird replied smugly. He stood up and gestured 
around the basement. “Look—it’s brighter down here than upstairs.” 

He was right. Sunlight from the backyard cascaded down through four long 
windows at ground level, near the ceiling of the basement. 

“I still think we should get out of here,” Greg insisted, his eyes moving 
quickly around the large, cluttered room. 

Behind Bird’s overturned trash can stood an improvised table made out of a 
sheet of plywood resting on four paint cans. A nearly flat mattress, dirty and 
stained, rested against the wall, a faded wool blanket folded at the foot. 

“Spidey must live down here!” Michael exclaimed. 



Bird kicked his way through a pile of empty food boxes that had been 
tossed all over the floor—TV dinners, mostly. “Hey, a Hungry Man dinner!” he 
exclaimed. “Where does Spidey heat these up?” 

“Maybe he eats them frozen,” Shari suggested. “You know. Like 
Popsicles.” 

She made her way toward a towering oak wardrobe and pulled open the 
doors. “Wow! This is excellent !” she declared. “Look!” She pulled out a ratty- 
looking fur coat and wrapped it around her shoulders. “Excellent!” she repeated, 
twirling in the old coat. 

From across the room, Greg could see that the wardrobe was stuffed with 
old clothing. Michael and Bird hurried to join Shari and began pulling out 
strange-looking pairs of bell-bottom pants, yellowed dress shirts with pleats 
down the front, tie-dyed neckties that were about a foot wide, and bright-colored 
scarves and bandannas. 

“Hey, guys—” Greg warned. “Don’t you think maybe those belong to 
somebody?” 

Bird spun around, a fuzzy red boa wrapped around his neck and shoulders. 
“Yeah. These are Spidey’s dress-up clothes,” he cracked. 

“Check out this baad hat,” Shari said, turning around to show off the bright 
purple wide-brimmed hat she had pulled on. 

“Neat,” Michael said, examining a long blue cape. “This stuff must be at 
least twenty-five years old. It’s awesome. How could someone just leave it 
here?” 

“Maybe they’re coming back for it,” Greg suggested. 

As his friends explored the contents of the wardrobe, Greg wandered to the 
other end of the large basement. A furnace occupied the far wall, its ducts 
covered in thick cobwebs. Partially hidden by the furnace ducts, Greg could see 
stairs, probably leading to an outside exit. 

Wooden shelves lined the adjoining wall, cluttered with old paint cans, rags, 
newspapers, and rusty tools. 

Whoever lived here must have been a real handyman, Greg thought, 
examining a wooden worktable in front of the shelves. A metal vise was clamped 
to the edge of the worktable. Greg turned the handle, expecting the jaws of the 
vise to open. 

But to his surprise, as he turned the vise handle, a door just above the 
worktable popped open. Greg pulled the door all the way open, revealing a 



hidden cabinet shelf. 

Resting on the shelf was a camera. 



4 


For a long moment, Greg just stared at the camera. 

Something told him the camera was hidden away for a reason. 

Something told him he shouldn’t touch it. He should close the secret door 
and walk away. 

But he couldn’t resist it. 

He reached onto the hidden shelf and took the camera in his hands. 

It pulled out easily. Then, to Greg’s surprise, the door instantly snapped 
shut with a loud bang. 

Weird, he thought, turning the camera in his hands. 

What a strange place to leave a camera. Why would someone put it here? If 
it were valuable enough to hide in a secret cabinet, why didn’t he take it with 
him? 

Greg eagerly examined the camera. It was large and surprisingly heavy, 
with a long lens. Perhaps it’s a telephoto lens, he thought. 

Greg was very interested in cameras. He had an inexpensive automatic 
camera, which took okay snapshots. But he was saving his allowance in hopes of 
buying a really good camera with a lot of lenses. 

He loved looking at camera magazines, studying the different models, 
picking out the ones he wanted to buy. 

Sometimes he daydreamed about traveling around the world, going to 
amazing places, mountaintops and hidden jungle rivers. He’d take photos of 
everything he saw and become a famous photographer. 

His camera at home was just too crummy. That’s why all his pictures came 
out too dark or too light, and everyone in them had glowing red dots in their 
eyes. 

Greg wondered if this camera was any good. 

Raising the viewfinder to his eye, he sighted around the room. He came to a 
stop on Michael, who was wearing two bright yellow feather boas and a white 
Stetson hat and had climbed to the top of the steps to pose. 

“Wait! Hold it!” Greg cried, moving closer, raising the camera to his eye. 
“Let me take your picture, Michael.” 

“Where’d you find that?” Bird asked. 



“Does that thing have film in it?” Michael demanded. 

“I don’t know,” Greg said. “Let’s see.” 

Leaning against the railing, Michael struck what he considered a 
sophisticated pose. 

Greg pointed the camera up and focused carefully. It took a short while for 
his finger to locate the shutter button. “Okay, ready? Say cheese.” 

“Cheddar,” Michael said, grinning down at Greg as he held his pose against 
the railing. 

“Very funny. Michael’s a riot,” Bird said sarcastically. 

Greg centered Michael in the viewfinder frame, then pressed the shutter 
button. 

The camera clicked and flashed. 

Then it made an electronic whirring sound. A slot pulled open on the 
bottom, and a cardboard square slid out. 

“Hey—it’s one of those automatic-developing cameras,” Greg exclaimed. 
He pulled the square of cardboard out and examined it. “Look—the picture is 
starting to develop.” 

“Let me see,” Michael called down, leaning on the railing. 

But before he could start down the stairs, everyone heard a loud crunching 
sound. 

They all looked up to the source of the sound—and saw the railing break 
away and Michael go sailing over the edge. 

“Noooooo!” Michael screamed as he toppled to the floor, arms outstretched, 
the feather boas flying behind him like animal tails. 

He turned in the air, then hit the concrete hard on his back, his eyes frozen 
wide in astonishment and fright. 

He bounced once. 

Then cried out again: “My ankle! Owwww/ My ankle!” He grabbed at the 
injured ankle, then quickly let go with a loud gasp. It hurt too much to touch it. 

“Ohhh —my ankle! ” 

Still holding the camera and the photo, Greg rushed to Michael. Shari and 
Bird did the same. 

“We’ll go get help,” Shari told Michael, who was still on his back, groaning 
in pain. 

But then they heard the ceiling creak. 

Footsteps. Above them. 



Someone was in the house. 

Someone was approaching the basement stairs. 
They were going to be caught. 



5 


The footsteps overhead grew louder. 

The four friends exchanged frightened glances. “We’ve got to get out of 
here,” Shari whispered. 

The ceiling creaked. 

“You can’t leave me here!” Michael protested. He pulled himself to a sitting 
position. 

“Quick—stand up,” Bird instructed. 

Michael struggled to his feet. “I can’t stand on this foot.” His face revealed 
his panic. 

“We’ll help you,” Shari said, turning her eyes to Bird. “I’ll take one arm. 
You take the other.” 

Bird obediently moved forward and pulled Michael’s arm around his 
shoulder. 

“Okay, let’s move!” Shari whispered, supporting Michael from the other 

side. 

“But how do we get out?” Bird asked breathlessly. 

The footsteps grew louder. The ceiling creaked under their weight. 

“We can’t go up the stairs,” Michael whispered, leaning on Shari and Bird. 
“There’s another stairway behind the furnace,” Greg told them, pointing. 

“It leads out?” Michael asked, wincing from his ankle pain. 

“Probably.” 

Greg led the way. “Just pray the door isn’t padlocked or something.” 

“We’re praying. We’re praying!” Bird declared. 

“We’re outta here!” Shari said, groaning under the weight of Michael’s arm. 
Leaning heavily against Shari and Bird, Michael hobbled after Greg, and 
they made their way to the stairs behind the furnace. The stairs, they saw, led to 
wooden double doors up on ground level. 

“I don’t see a padlock,” Greg said warily. “Please, doors—be open!” 

“Hey —who’s down there?” an angry man’s voice called from behind them. 
“It’s—it’s Spidey!” Michael stammered. 

“Hurry!” Shari urged, giving Greg a frightened push. “Come on!” 



Greg set the camera down on the top step. Then he reached up and grabbed 
the handles of the double doors. 

“Who’s down there?” 

Spidey sounded closer, angrier. 

“The doors could be locked from the outside,” Greg whispered, hesitating. 
“Just push them, man!” Bird pleaded. 

Greg took a deep breath and pushed with all his strength. 

The doors didn’t budge. 

“We’re trapped,” he told them. 



6 


“Now what?” Michael whined. 

“Try again,” Bird urged Greg. “Maybe they’re just stuck.” He slid out from 
under Michael’s arm. “Here. I’ll help you.” 

Greg moved over to give Bird room to step up beside him. “Ready?” he 
asked. “One, two, three— push !” 

Both boys pushed against the heavy wooden doors with all their might. 

And the doors swung open. 

“Okay! Now we’re outta here!” Shari declared happily. 

Picking up the camera, Greg led the way out. The backyard, he saw, was as 
weed-choked and overgrown as the front. An enormous limb had fallen off an 
old oak tree, probably during a storm, and was lying half in the tree, half on the 
ground. 

Somehow, Bird and Shari managed to drag Michael up the steps and onto 
the grass. “Can you walk? Try it,” Bird said. 

Still leaning against the two of them, Michael reluctantly pushed his foot 
down on the ground. He lifted it. Then pushed it again. “Hey, it feels a little 
better,” he said, surprised. 

“Then let’s go,” Bird said. 

They ran to the overgrown hedge that edged along the side of the yard, 
Michael on his own now, stepping gingerly on the bad ankle, doing his best to 
keep up. Then, staying in the shadow of the hedge, they made their way around 
the house to the front. 

“All right!” Bird cried happily as they reached the street. “We made it!” 

Gasping for breath, Greg stopped at the curb and turned back toward the 
house. “Look!” he cried, pointing up to the living room window. 

A dark figure stood in the window, hands pressed against the glass. 

“It’s Spidey,” Shari said. 

“He’s just—staring at us,” Michael cried. 

“Weird,” Greg said. “Let’s go.” 

They didn’t stop till they got to Michael’s house, a sprawling redwood ranch- 
style house behind a shady front lawn. 



“How’s the ankle?” Greg asked. 

“It’s loosened up a lot. It doesn’t even hurt that much,” Michael said. 

“Man, you could’ve been killed !” Bird declared, wiping sweat off his 
forehead with the sleeve of his T-shirt. 

“Thanks for reminding me,” Michael said drily. 

“Lucky thing you’ve got all that extra padding,” Bird teased. 

“Shut up,” Michael muttered. 

“Well, you guys wanted adventure,” Shari said, leaning back against the 
trunk of a tree. 

“That guy Spidey is definitely weird,” Bird said, shaking his head. 

“You see the way he was staring at us?” Michael asked. “All dressed in 
black and everything? He looked like some kind of zombie or something.” 

“He saw us,” Greg said softly, suddenly feeling a chill of dread. “He saw us 
very clearly. We’d better stay away from there.” 

“What for?” Michael demanded. “It isn’t his house. He’s just sleeping there. 
We could call the police on him.” 

“But if he’s really crazy or something, there’s no telling what he might do,” 
Greg replied thoughtfully. 

“Aw, he’s not going to do anything,” Shari said quietly. “Spidey doesn’t 
want trouble. He just wants to be left alone.” 

“Yeah,” Michael agreed quickly. “He didn’t want us messing with his stuff. 
That’s why he yelled like that and came after us.” 

Michael was leaning over, rubbing his ankle. “Hey, where’s my picture?” he 
demanded, straightening up and turning to Greg. 

“Huh?” 

“You know. The picture you snapped. With the camera.” 

“Oh. Right.” Greg suddenly realized he still had the camera gripped tightly 
in his hand. He set it down carefully on the grass and reached into his back 
pocket. “I put it in here when we started to run,” he explained. 

“Well? Did it come out?” Michael demanded. 

The three of them huddled around Greg to get a view of the snapshot. 

“Whoa—hold on a minute!” Greg cried, staring hard at the small, square 
photo. “Something’s wrong. What’s going on here?” 



7 


The four friends gaped at the photograph in Greg’s hand, their mouths dropping 
open in surprise. 

The camera had caught Michael in midair as he fell through the broken 
railing to the floor. 

“That’s impossible!” Shari cried. 

“You snapped the picture before I fell!” Michael declared, grabbing the 
photo out of Greg’s hand so that he could study it close up. “I remember it.” 

“You remembered wrong,” Bird said, moving to get another look at it over 
Michael’s shoulder. “You were falling, man. What a great action shot.” He 
picked up the camera. “This is a good camera you stole, Greg.” 

“I didn’t steal it—” Greg started. “I mean, I didn’t realize—” 

“I wasn’t falling!” Michael insisted, tilting the picture in his hand, studying 
it from every angle. “I was posing, remember? I had a big, goofy smile on my 
face, and I was posing.” 

“I remember the goofy smile,” Bird said, handing the camera back to Greg. 
“Do you have any other expression?” 

“You’re not funny, Bird,” Michael muttered. He pocketed the picture. 

“Weird,” Greg said. He glanced at his watch. “Hey—I’ve got to get going.” 

He said good-bye to the others and headed for home. The afternoon sun was 
lowering behind a cluster of palm trees, casting long, shifting shadows over the 
sidewalk. 

He had promised his mother he’d straighten up his room and help with the 
vacuuming before dinner. And now he was late. 

What is that strange car in the driveway? he wondered, jogging across the 
neighbor’s lawn toward his house. 

It was a navy-blue Taurus station wagon. Brand-new. 

Dad picked up our new car! he realized. 

Wow! Greg stopped to admire it. It still had the sticker glued to the door 
window. He pulled open the driver’s door, leaned in, and smelled the vinyl 
upholstery. 

Mmmmmm. That new-car smell. 

He inhaled deeply again. It smelled so good. So fresh and new. 



He closed the door hard, appreciating the solid clunk it made as it closed. 

What a great new car, he thought excitedly. 

He raised the camera to his eye and took a few steps back off the driveway. 

I’ve got to take a picture of this, he thought. To remember what the car was 
like when it was totally new. 

He backed up until he had framed the entire profile of the station wagon in 
the viewfinder. Then he pressed the shutter button. 

As before, the camera clicked loudly, the flash flashed, and with an 
electronic whirr, a square undeveloped photo of gray and yellow slid out of the 
bottom. 

Carrying the camera and the snapshot, Greg ran into the house through the 
front door. “I’m home!” he called. “Down in a minute!” And hurried up the 
carpeted stairs to his room. 

“Greg? Is that you? Your father is home,” his mother called from 
downstairs. 

“I know. Be right down. Sorry I’m late!” Greg shouted back. 

I’d better hide the camera, he decided. If Mom or Dad see it, they’ll want to 
know whose it is and where I got it. And I won’t be able to answer those 
questions. 

“Greg—did you see the new car? Are you coming down?” his mother 
called impatiently from the foot of the stairs. 

“I’m coming!” he yelled. 

His eyes searched frantically for a good hiding place. 

Under his bed? 

No. His mom might vacuum under there and discover it. 

Then Greg remembered the secret compartment in his headboard. He had 
discovered the compartment years ago when his parents had bought him a new 
bedroom set. Quickly, he shoved the camera in. 

Peering into the mirror above his dresser, he gave his blond hair a quick 
brush, rubbed a black soot smudge off his cheek with one hand, then started for 
the door. 

He stopped at the doorway. 

The snapshot of the car. Where had he put it? 

It took a few seconds to remember that he had tossed it onto his bed. 
Curious about how it came out, he turned back to retrieve it. 

“Oh, no!” 



He uttered a low cry as he gazed at the snapshot. 



8 


What’s going on here? Greg wondered. 

He brought the photo up close to his face. 

This isn’t right, he thought. How can this be? 

The blue Taurus station wagon in the photo was a mess. It looked as if it 
had been in a terrible accident. The windshield was shattered. Metal was twisted 
and bent. The door on the driver’s side was caved in. 

The car appeared totaled! 

“This is impossible!” Greg uttered aloud. 

“Greg, where are you?” his mother called. “We’re all hungry, and you’re 
keeping us waiting.” 

“Sorry,” he answered, unable to take his eyes off the snapshot. “Coming.” 

He shoved the photo into his top dresser drawer and made his way 
downstairs. The image of the totaled car burned in his mind. 

Just to make sure, he crossed the living room and peeked out of the front 
window to the driveway. 

There stood the station wagon, sparkling in the glow of the setting sun. 
Shiny and perfect. 

He turned and walked into the dining room, where his brother and his 
parents were already seated. “The new wagon is awesome, Dad,” Greg said, 
trying to shake the snapshot’s image from his thoughts. 

But he kept seeing the twisted metal, the caved-in driver’s door, the 
shattered windshield. 

“After dinner,” Greg’s dad announced happily, “I’m taking you all for a 
drive in the new car!” 



9 


“Mmmm. This is great chicken, Mom,” Greg’s brother, Terry, said, chewing as he 
talked. 

“Thanks for the compliment,” Mrs. Banks said drily, “but it’s veal—not 
chicken.” 

Greg and his dad burst out laughing. Terry’s face grew bright red. “Well,” 
he said, still chewing, “it’s such excellent veal, it tastes as good as chicken!” 

“I don’t know why I bother to cook,” Mrs. Banks sighed. 

Mr. Banks changed the subject. “How are things at the Dairy Freeze?” he 
asked. 

“We ran out of vanilla this afternoon,” Terry said, forking a small potato 
and shoving it whole into his mouth. He chewed it briefly, then gulped it down. 
“People were annoyed about that.” 

“I don’t think I can go for the ride,” Greg said, staring down at his dinner, 
which he’d hardly touched. “I mean—” 

“Why not?” his father asked. 

“Well...” Greg searched his mind for a good reason. He needed to make 
one up, but his mind was a blank. 

He couldn’t tell them the truth. 

That he had taken a snapshot of Michael, and it showed Michael falling. 
Then a few seconds later, Michael had fallen. 

And now he had taken a picture of the new car. And the car was wrecked in 
the photo. 

Greg didn’t really know what it meant. But he was suddenly filled with this 
powerful feeling of dread, of fear, of... he didn’t know what. 

A kind of troubled feeling he’d never had before. 

But he couldn’t tell them any of that. It was too weird. Too crazy. 

“I... made plans to go over to Michael’s,” he lied, staring down at his plate. 

“Well, call him and tell him you’ll see him tomorrow,” Mr. Banks said, 
slicing his veal. “That’s no problem.” 

“Well, I’m kind of not feeling very well, either,” Greg said. 

“What’s wrong?” Mrs. Banks asked with instant concern. “Do you have a 
temperature? I thought you looked a little flushed when you came in.” 



“No,” Greg replied uncomfortably. “No temperature. I just feel kind of 
tired, not very hungry.” 

“Can I have your chicken—I mean, veal?” 

Terry asked eagerly. He reached his fork across the table and nabbed the 
cutlet off Greg’s plate. 

“Well, a nice ride might make you feel better,” Greg’s dad said, eyeing 
Greg suspiciously. “You know, some fresh air. You can stretch out in the back if 
you want.” 

“But, Dad—” Greg stopped. He had used up all the excuses he could think 
of. They would never believe him if he said he needed to stay home and do 
homework on a Saturday night! 

“You’re coming with us, and that’s final,” Mr. Banks said, still studying 
Greg closely. “You’ve been dying for this new wagon to arrive. I really don’t 
understand your problem.” 

Neither do I, Greg admitted to himself. 

I don’t understand it at all. Why am I so afraid of riding in the new car? 
Just because there’s something wrong with that stupid camera? 

I’m being silly, Greg thought, trying to shake away the feeling of dread that 
had taken away his appetite. 

“Okay, Dad. Great,” he said, forcing a smile. “I’ll come.” 

“Are there any more potatoes?” Terry asked. 



10 


“It’s so easy to drive,” Mr. Banks said, accelerating onto the entry ramp to the 
freeway. “It handles like a small car, not like a station wagon.” 

“Plenty of room back here, Dad,” Terry said, scooting low in the backseat 
beside Greg, raising his knees to the back of the front seat. 

“Hey, look—there’s a drink holder that pulls out from the dash!” Greg’s 
mother exclaimed. “That’s neat.” 

“Awesome, Mom,” Terry said sarcastically. 

“Well, we never had a drink holder before,” Mrs. Banks replied. She turned 
back to the two boys. “Are your seat belts buckled? Do they work properly?” 

“Yeah. They’re okay,” Terry replied. 

“They checked them at the showroom before I took the car,” Mr. Banks 
said, signaling to move into the left lane. 

A truck roared by, spitting a cloud of exhaust behind it. Greg stared out the 
front window. His door window was still covered by the new-car sticker. 

Mr. Banks pulled off the freeway onto a nearly empty four-lane highway 
that curved toward the west. The setting sun was a red ball low on the horizon in 
a charcoal-gray sky. 

“Put the pedal to the metal, Dad,” Terry urged, sitting up and leaning 
forward. “Let’s see what this car can do.” 

Mr. Banks obediently pressed his foot on the accelerator. “The cruising 
speed seems to be about sixty,” he said. 

“Slow down,” Mrs. Banks scolded. “You know the speed limit is fifty-five.” 

“I’m just testing it,” Greg’s dad said defensively. “You know. Making sure 
the transmission doesn’t slip or anything.” 

Greg stared at the glowing speedometer. They were doing seventy now. 

“Slow down. I mean it,” Mrs. Banks insisted. “You’re acting like a crazy 
teenager.” 

“That’s me!” Mr. Banks replied, laughing. “This is awesome !” he said, 
imitating Terry, ignoring his wife’s pleas to slow down. 

They roared past a couple of small cars in the right lane. Headlights of cars 
moving toward them were a bright white blur in the darkening evening. 

“Hey, Greg, you’ve been awfully quiet,” his mother said. “You feeling 



okay?” 

“Yeah. I’m okay,” Greg said softly. 

He wished his dad would slow down. He was doing seventy-five now. 

“What do you think, Greg?” Mr. Banks asked, steering with his left hand as 
his right hand searched the dashboard. “Where’s the light switch? I should turn 
on my headlights.” 

“The car’s great,” Greg replied, trying to sound enthusiastic. But he 
couldn’t shake away the fear, couldn’t get the photo of the mangled car out of his 
mind. 

“Where’s that stupid light switch? It’s got to be here somewhere,” Mr. 
Banks said. 

As he glanced down at the unfamiliar dashboard, the station wagon swerved 
to the left. 

“Dad—look out for that truck! ” Greg screamed. 



11 


Horns blared. 

A powerful blast of air swept over the station wagon, like a giant ocean 
wave pushing it to the side. 

Mr. Banks swerved the station wagon to the right. 

The truck rumbled past. 

“Sorry,” Greg’s dad said, eyes straight ahead, slowing the car to sixty, fifty- 
five, fifty... 

“I told you to slow down,” Mrs. Banks scolded, shaking her head. “We 
could’ve been killed!” 

“I was trying to find the lights,” he explained. “Oh. Here they are. On the 
steering wheel.” He clicked on the headlights. 

“You boys okay?” Mrs. Banks asked, turning to check them out. 

“Yeah. Fine,” Terry said, sounding a little shaken. The truck would have hit 
his side of the car. 

“I’m okay,” Greg said. “Can we go back now?” 

“Don’t you want to keep going?” Mr. Banks asked, unable to hide his 
disappointment. “I thought we’d keep going to Santa Clara. Stop and get some 
ice cream or something.” 

“Greg’s right,” Mrs. Banks said softly to her husband. “Enough for tonight, 
dear. Let’s turn around.” 

“The truck didn’t come that close,” Mr. Banks argued. But he obediently 
turned off the highway and they headed for home. 

Later, safe and sound up in his room, Greg took the photograph out of his 
dresser and examined it. There was the new station wagon, the driver’s side 
caved in, the windshield shattered. 

“Weird,” he said aloud, and placed the photo in the secret compartment in 
his headboard, where he had stashed the camera. “Definitely weird.” 

He pulled the camera out of its hiding place and turned it around in his 
hands. 

I’ll try it one more time, he decided. 

He walked to his dresser and aimed at the mirror above it. 

I’ll take a picture of myself in the mirror, he thought. 



He raised the camera, then changed his mind. That won’t work, he realized. 
The flash will reflect back and spoil the photo. 

Gripping the camera in one hand, he made his way across the hall to Terry’s 
room. His brother was at his desk, typing away on his computer keyboard, his 
face bathed in the blue light of the monitor screen. 

“Terry, can I take your picture?” Greg asked meekly, holding up the camera. 

Terry typed some more, then looked up from the screen. “Hey—where’d 
you get the camera?” 

“Uh... Shari loaned it to me,” Greg told him, thinking quickly. Greg didn’t 
like to lie. But he didn’t feel like explaining to Terry how he and his friends had 
sneaked into the Coffman house and how he had made off with the camera. 

“So can I take your picture?” Greg asked. 

“I’ll probably break your camera,” Terry joked. 

“I think it’s already broken,” Greg told him. “That’s why I want to test it on 
you.” 

“Go ahead,” Terry said. He stuck out his tongue and crossed his eyes. 

Greg snapped the shutter. An undeveloped photo slid out of the slot in front. 

“Thanks. See you.” Greg headed to the door. 

“Hey—don’t I get to see it?” Terry called after him. 

“If it comes out,” Greg said, and hurried across the hall to his room. 

He sat down on the edge of the bed. Holding the photo in his lap, he stared 
at it intently as it developed. The yellows filled in first. Then the reds appeared, 
followed by shades of blue. 

“Whoa,” Greg muttered, as his brother’s face came into view. “There’s 
something definitely wrong here.” 

In the photo, Terry’s eyes weren’t crossed, and his tongue wasn’t sticking 
out. His expression was grim, frightened. He looked very upset. 

As the background came into focus, Greg had another surprise. Terry 
wasn’t in his room. He was outdoors. There were trees in the background. And a 
house. 

Greg stared at the house. It looked so familiar. 

Was that the house across the street from the playground? 

He took one more look at Terry’s frightened expression. Then he tucked the 
photo and the camera into his secret headboard compartment and carefully 
closed it. 

The camera must be broken, he decided, getting changed for bed. 



It was the best explanation he could come up with. 

Lying in bed, staring up at the shifting shadows on the ceiling, he decided 
not to think about it anymore. 

A broken camera wasn’t worth worrying about. 


* * * 


Tuesday afternoon after school, Greg hurried to meet Shari at the playground to 
watch Bird’s Little League game. 

It was a warm fall afternoon, the sun high in a cloudless sky. The outfield 
grass had been freshly mowed and filled the air with its sharp, sweet smell. 

Greg crossed the grass and squinted into the bright sunlight, searching for 
Shari. Both teams were warming up on the sides of the diamond, yelling and 
laughing, the sound of balls popping into gloves competing with their loud 
voices. 

A few parents and several kids had come to watch. Some were standing 
around, some sitting in the low bleachers along the first-base line. 

Greg spotted Shari behind the backstop and waved to her. “Did you bring 
the camera?” she asked eagerly, running over to greet him. 

He held it up. 

“Excellent,” she exclaimed, grinning. She reached for it. 

“I think it’s broken,” Greg said, holding on to the camera. “The photos just 
don’t come out right. It’s hard to explain.” 

“Maybe it’s not the photos. Maybe it’s the photographer,” Shari teased. 

“Maybe I’ll take a photo of you getting a knuckle sandwich,” Greg 
threatened. He raised the camera to his eye and pointed it at her. 

“Snap that, and I’ll take a picture of you eating the camera,” Shari 
threatened playfully. She reached up quickly and pulled the camera from his 
hand. 

“What do you want it for, anyway?” Greg asked, making a halfhearted 
attempt to grab it back. 

Shari held it away from his outstretched hand. “I want to take Bird’s picture 
when he comes up to bat. He looks just like an ostrich at the plate.” 

“I heard that.” Bird appeared beside them, pretending to be insulted. 

He looked ridiculous in his starched white uniform. The shirt was too big, 
and the pants were too short. The cap was the only thing that fit. It was blue, 



with a silver dolphin over the bill and the words PITTS LANDING DOLPHINS. 

“What kind of name is Dolphins for a baseball team?” Greg asked, 
grabbing the bill and turning the cap backward on Bird’s head. 

“All the other caps were taken,” Bird answered. “We had a choice between 
the Zephyrs and the Dolphins. None of us knew what zephyrs were, so we 
picked Dolphins.” 

Shari eyed him up and down. “Maybe you guys should play in your street 
clothes.” 

“Thanks for the encouragement,” Bird replied. He spotted the camera and 
took it from her. “Hey, you brought the camera. Does it have film?” 

“Yeah. I think so,” Greg told him. “Let me see.” He reached for the camera, 
but Bird swung it out of his grasp. 

“Hey—are you going to share this thing, Greg?” he asked. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” Greg reached again for the camera, and again 
Bird swung it away from him. 

“I mean, we all risked our lives down in that basement getting it, right?” 
Bird said. “We should all share it.” 

“Well...” Greg hadn’t thought about it. “I guess you’re right, Bird. But I’m 
the one who found it. So—” 

Shari grabbed the camera out of Bird’s hand. “I told Greg to bring it so we 
could take your picture when you’re up.” 

“As an example of good form?” Bird asked. 

“As a bad example,” Shari said. 

“You guys are just jealous,” Bird replied, frowning, “because I’m a natural 
athlete, and you can’t cross the street without falling on your face.” He turned 
the cap back around to face the front. 

“Hey, Bird—get back here!” one of the coaches called from the playing 

field. 

“I’ve got to go,” Bird said, giving them a quick wave and starting to trot 
back to his teammates. 

“No. Wait. Let me take a fast picture now,” Greg said. 

Bird stopped, turned around, and struck a pose. 

“No. I’ll take it,” Shari insisted. 

She started to raise the camera to her eye, pointing it toward Bird. And as 
she raised it, Greg grabbed for it. 

“Let me take it!” 



And the camera went off. Clicked and then flashed. 

An undeveloped photo slid out. 

“Hey, why’d you do that?” Shari asked angrily. 

“Sorry,” Greg said. “I didn’t mean to—” 

She pulled the photo out and held it in her hand. Greg and Bird came close 
to watch it develop. 

“What the heck is that?” Bird cried, staring hard at the small square as the 
colors brightened and took shape. 

“Oh, wow!” Greg cried. 

The photo showed Bird sprawled unconscious on his back on the ground, 
his mouth twisted open, his neck bent at a frightening angle, his eyes shut tight. 



12 


“Hey—what’s with this stupid camera?” Bird asked, grabbing the snapshot out 
of Shari’s hand. He tilted it from side to side, squinting at it. “It’s out of focus or 
something.” 

“Weird,” Greg said, shaking his head. 

“Hey, Bird—get over here!” the Dolphins’ coach called. 

“Coming!” Bird handed the picture back to Shari and jogged over to his 
teammates. 

Whistles blew. The two teams stopped their practicing and trotted to the 
benches along the third-base line. 

“How did this happen?” Shari asked Greg, shielding her eyes from the sun 
with one hand, holding the photo close to her face with the other. “It really looks 
like Bird is lying on the ground, knocked out or something. But he was standing 
right in front of us.” 

“I don’t get it. I really don’t,” Greg replied thoughtfully. “The camera keeps 
doing that.” 

Carrying the camera at his side, swinging it by its slender strap, he followed 
her to a shady spot beside the bleachers. 

“Look how his neck is bent,” Shari continued. “It’s so awful.” 

“There’s something definitely wrong with the camera,” Greg said. He 
started to tell her about the snapshot he took of the new station wagon, and the 
snapshot of his brother, Terry. But she interrupted him before he could get the 
words out. 

“And that picture of Michael. It showed him falling down the stairs before 
he even fell. It’s just so strange.” 

“I know,” Greg agreed. 

“Let me see that thing,” Shari said, and pulled the camera from his hand. 
“Is there any film left?” 

“I can’t tell,” Greg admitted. “I couldn’t find a film counter or anything.” 

Shari examined the camera closely, rolling it over in her hands. “It doesn’t 
say anywhere. How can you tell if it’s loaded or not?” 

Greg shrugged. 

The baseball game got under way. The Dolphins were the visiting team. 



The other team, the Cardinals, jogged out to take their positions on the field. 

A kid in the bleachers dropped his soda can. It hit the ground and spilled, 
and the kid started to cry. An old station wagon filled with teenagers cruised by, 
its radio blaring, its horn honking. 

“Where do you put the film in?” Shari asked impatiently. 

Greg stepped closer to help her examine it. “Here, I think,” he said, 
pointing. “Doesn’t the back come off?” 

Shari fiddled with it. “No, I don’t think so. Most of these automatic- 
developing cameras load in the front.” 

She pulled at the back, but the camera wouldn’t open. She tried pulling off 
the bottom. No better luck. Turning the camera, she tried pulling off the lens. It 
wouldn’t budge. 

Greg took the camera from her. “There’s no slot or opening in the front.” 

“Well, what kind of camera is it, anyway?” Shari demanded. 

“Uh... let’s see.” Greg studied the front, examined the top of the lens, then 
turned the camera over and studied the back. 

He stared up at her with a surprised look on his face. “There’s no brand 
name. Nothing.” 

“How can a camera not have a name?” Shari shouted in exasperation. She 
snatched the camera away from him and examined it closely, squinting against 
the bright afternoon sunshine. 

Finally, she handed the camera back to him, defeated. “You’re right, Greg. 
No name. No words of any kind. Nothing. What a stupid camera,” she added 
angrily. 

“Whoa. Hold on,” Greg told her. “It’s not my camera, remember? I didn’t 
buy it. I took it from the Coffman house.” 

“Well, let’s at least figure out how to open it up and look inside,” Shari said. 

The first Dolphin batter popped up to the second baseman. The second 
batter struck out on three straight swings. The dozen or so spectators shouted 
encouragement to their team. 

The little kid who had dropped his soda continued to cry. Three kids rode 
by on bikes, waving to friends on the teams but not stopping to watch. 

“I’ve tried and tried, but I can’t figure out how to open it,” Greg admitted. 

“Give it to me,” Shari said, and grabbed the camera away from him. “There 
has to be a button or something. There has to be some way of opening it. This is 
ridiculous.” 



When she couldn’t find a button or lever of any kind, she tried pulling the 
back off once again, prying it with her fingernails. Then she tried turning the 
lens, but it wouldn’t turn. 

“I’m not going to stop trying,” she said, gritting her teeth. “This camera has 
to open. It has to!” 

“Give up. You’re going to wreck it,” Greg warned, reaching for it. 

“Wreck it? How could I wreck it?” Shari demanded. “It has no moving 
parts. Nothing!” 

“This is impossible,” Greg said. 

Making a disgusted face, she handed the camera to him. “Okay, I give up. 
Check it out yourself, Greg.” 

He took the camera, started to raise it to his face, then stopped. 

Uttering a low cry of surprise, his mouth dropped open and his eyes gaped 
straight ahead. Startled, Shari turned to follow his shocked gaze. 

“Oh, no!” 

There on the ground, a few yards outside the first-base line, lay Bird. He 
was sprawled on his back, his neck bent at an odd and unnatural angle, his eyes 
shut tight. 



13 


“Bird!” Shari cried. 

Greg’s breath caught in his throat. He felt as if he were choking. “Oh!” he 
finally managed to cry out in a shrill, raspy voice. 

Bird didn’t move. 

Shari and Greg, running side by side at full speed, reached him together. 

“Bird?” Shari knelt down beside him. “Bird?” 

Bird opened one eye. “Gotcha,” he said quietly. The weird half smile 
formed on his face, and he exploded in high-pitched laughter. 

It took Shari and Greg a while to react. They both stood openmouthed, 
gaping at their laughing friend. 

Then, his heart beginning to slow to normal, Greg reached down, grabbed 
Bird with both hands, and pulled him roughly to his feet. 

“I’ll hold him while you hit him,” Greg offered, holding Bird from behind. 

“Hey, wait—” Bird protested, struggling to squirm out of Greg’s grasp. 

“Good plan,” Shari said, grinning. 

“Ow! Hey—let go! Come on! Let go!” Bird protested, trying 
unsuccessfully to wrestle free. “Come on! What’s your problem? It was a joke, 
guys.” 

“Very funny,” Shari said, giving Bird a playful punch on the shoulder. 
“You’re a riot, Bird.” 

Bird finally freed himself with a hard tug and danced away from both of 
them. “I just wanted to show you how bogus it is to get all worked up about that 
dumb camera.” 

“But, Bird—” Greg started. 

“It’s just broken, that’s all,” Bird said, brushing blades of recently cut grass 
off his uniform pants. “You think because it showed Michael falling down those 
stairs, there’s something strange with it. But that’s dumb. Real dumb.” 

“I know it,” Greg replied sharply. “But how do you explain it?” 

“I told you, man. It’s wrecked. Broken. That’s it.” 

“Bird—get over here!” a voice called, and Bird’s fielder’s glove came 
flying at his head. He caught it, waved with a grin to Shari and Greg, and jogged 
to the outfield along with the other members of the Dolphins. 



Carrying the camera tightly in one hand, Greg led the way to the bleachers. 
He and Shari sat down on the end of the bottom bench. 

Some of the spectators had lost interest in the game already and had left. A 
few kids had taken a baseball off the field and were having their own game of 
catch behind the bleachers. Across the playground, four or five kids were getting 
a game of kickball started. 

“Bird is such a dork,” Greg said, his eyes on the game. 

“He scared me to death,” Shari exclaimed. “I really thought he was hurt.” 

“What a clown,” Greg muttered. 

They watched the game in silence for a while. It wasn’t terribly interesting. 
The Dolphins were losing 12-3 going into the third inning. None of the players 
were very good. 

Greg laughed as a Cardinal batter slugged a ball that sailed out to the field 
and right over Bird’s head. 

“That’s the third ball that flew over his head!” Greg cried. 

“Guess he lost it in the sun!” Shari exclaimed, joining in the laughter. 

They both watched Bird’s long legs storking after the ball. By the time he 
managed to catch up with it and heave it toward the diamond, the Cardinal had 
already rounded the bases and scored. 

There were loud boos from the bleachers. 

The next Cardinal batter stepped to the plate. A few more kids climbed 
down from the bleachers, having seen enough. 

“It’s so hot here in the sun,” Shari said, shielding her eyes with one hand. 
“And I’ve got lots of homework. Want to leave?” 

“I just want to see the next inning,” Greg said, watching the batter swing 
and miss. “Bird is coming up next inning. I want to stay and boo him.” 

“What are friends for?” Shari said sarcastically. 

It took a long while for the Dolphins to get the third out. The Cardinals 
batted around their entire order. 

Greg’s T-shirt was drenched with sweat by the time Bird came up to the 
plate in the top of the fourth. 

Despite the loud booing from Shari and Greg, Bird managed to punch the 
ball past the shortstop for a single. 

“Lucky hit!” Greg yelled, cupping his hands into a megaphone. 

Bird pretended not to hear him. He tossed away his batter’s helmet, 
adjusted his cap, and took a short lead off first base. 



The next batter swung at the first pitch and fouled it off. 

“Let’s go,” Shari urged, pulling Greg’s arm. “It’s too hot. I’m dying of 
thirst.” 

“Let’s just see if Bird—” 

Greg didn’t finish his sentence. 

The batter hit the next ball hard. It made a loud thunk as it left the bat. 

A dozen people—players and spectators—cried out as the ball flew across 
the diamond, a sharp line drive, and slammed into the side of Bird’s head with 
another thunk. 

Greg watched in horror as the ball bounced off Bird and dribbled away onto 
the infield grass. Bird’s eyes went wide with disbelief, confusion. 

He stood frozen in place on the base path for a long moment. 

Then both of his hands shot up above his head, and he uttered a shrill cry, 
long and loud, like the high-pitched whinny of a horse. 

His eyes rolled up in his head. He sank to his knees and uttered another cry, 
softer this time. Then he collapsed, sprawling onto his back, his neck at an 
unnatural angle, his eyes closed. 

He didn’t move. 



14 


In seconds, the two coaches and both teams were running out to the fallen player, 
huddling over him, forming a tight, hushed circle around him. 

Crying “Bird! Bird!” Shari leaped off the bleachers and began running to 
the circle of horrified onlookers. 

Greg started to follow but stopped when he saw a familiar figure crossing 
the street at a full run, waving to him. 

“Terry!” Greg cried. 

Why was his brother coming to the playground? Why wasn’t he at his after¬ 
school job at the Dairy Freeze? 

“Terry? What’s happening?” Greg cried. 

Terry stopped, gasping for breath, sweat pouring down his bright red 
forehead. “I... ran... all... the... way,” he managed to utter. 

“Terry, what’s wrong?” A sick feeling crept up from Greg’s stomach. 

As Terry approached, his face held the same frightened expression as in the 
photograph Greg had snapped of him. 

The same frightened expression. With the same house behind him across 
the street. 

The snapshot had come true. Just as the snapshot of Bird lying on the 
ground had come true. 

Greg’s throat suddenly felt as dry as cotton. He realized that his knees were 
trembling. 

“Terry, what is it?” he managed to cry. 

“It’s Dad,” Terry said, putting a heavy hand on Greg’s shoulder. 

“Huh? Dad?” 

“You’ve got to come home, Greg. Dad—he’s been in a bad accident.” 

“An accident?” Greg’s head spun. Terry’s words weren’t making any sense 
to him. 

“In the new car,” Terry explained, again placing a heavy hand on Greg’s 
trembling shoulder. “The new car is totaled. Completely totaled.” 

“Oh,” Greg gasped, feeling weak. 

Terry squeezed his shoulder. “Come on. Hurry.” 



Holding the camera tightly in one hand, Greg began running after his 
brother. 

Reaching the street, he turned back to the playground to see what was 
happening with Bird. 

A large crowd was still huddled around Bird, blocking him from sight. 

But—what was that dark shadow behind the bleachers? Greg wondered. 
Someone—someone all in black—was hiding back there. 

Watching Greg? 

“Come on!” Terry urged. 

Greg stared hard at the bleachers. The dark figure pulled back out of sight. 
“Come on, Greg!” 

“I’m coming!” Greg shouted, and followed his brother toward home. 



15 


The hospital walls were pale green. The uniforms worn by the nurses scurrying 
through the brightly lit corridors were white. The floor tiles beneath Greg’s feet, 
as he hurried with his brother toward their father’s room, were dark brown with 
orange specks. 

Colors. 

All Greg could see were blurs of colors, indistinct shapes. 

His sneakers thudded noisily against the hard tile floor. He could barely 
hear them over the pounding of his heart. 

Totaled. The car had been totaled. 

Just like in the snapshot. 

Greg and Terry turned a corner. The walls in this corridor were pale yellow. 
Terry’s cheeks were red. Two doctors passed by wearing lime-green surgical 
gowns. 

Colors. Only colors. 

Greg blinked, tried to see clearly. But it was all passing by too fast, all too 
unreal. Even the sharp hospital smell, that unique aroma of rubbing alcohol, stale 
food, and disinfectant, couldn’t make it real for him. 

Then the two brothers entered their father’s room, and it all became real. 

The colors faded. The images became sharp and clear. 

Their mother jumped up from the folding chair beside the bed. “Hi, boys.” 
She clenched a wadded-up tissue in her hand. It was obvious that she had been 
crying. She forced a tight smile on her face, but her eyes were red-rimmed, her 
cheeks pale and puffy. 

Stopping just inside the doorway of the small room, Greg returned his 
mother’s greeting in a soft, choked voice. Then his eyes, focusing clearly now, 
turned to his father. 

Mr. Banks had a mummylike bandage covering his hair. One arm was in a 
cast. The other lay at his side and had a tube attached just above the wrist, 
dripping a dark liquid into the arm. The bedsheet was pulled up to his chest. 

“Hey—how’s it going, guys?” their father asked. His voice sounded fogged 
in, as if coming from far away. 

“Dad—” Terry started. 



“He’s going to be okay,” Mrs. Banks interrupted, seeing the frightened 
looks on her sons’ faces. 

“I feel great,” Mr. Banks said groggily. 

“You don’t look so great,” Greg blurted out, stepping up cautiously to the 

bed. 

“I’m okay. Really,” their father insisted. “A few broken bones. That’s it.” 
He sighed, then winced from pain. “I guess I’m lucky.” 

“You’re very lucky,” Mrs. Banks agreed quickly. 

What’s the lucky part? Greg wondered silently to himself. He couldn’t take 
his eyes off the tube stuck into his father’s arm. 

Again, he thought of the snapshot of the car. It was up in his room at home, 
tucked into the secret compartment in his headboard. 

The snapshot showing the car totaled, the driver’s side caved in. 

Should he tell them about it? 

He couldn’t decide. 

Would they believe him if he did tell them? 

“What’d you break, Dad?” Terry asked, sitting down on the radiator in front 
of the windowsill, shoving his hands into his jeans pockets. 

“Your father broke his arm and a few ribs,” Mrs. Banks answered quickly. 
“And he had a slight concussion. The doctors are watching him for internal 
injuries. But so far, so good.” 

“I was lucky,” Mr. Banks repeated. He smiled at Greg. 

“Dad, I have to tell you about this photo I took,” Greg said suddenly, 
speaking rapidly, his voice trembling with nervousness. “I took a picture of the 
new car, and—” 

“The car is completely wrecked,” Mrs. Banks interrupted. Sitting on the 
edge of the folding chair, she rubbed her fingers, working her wedding ring 
around and around, something she always did when she was nervous. “I’m glad 
you boys didn’t see it.” Her voice caught in her throat. Then she added, “It’s a 
miracle he wasn’t hurt any worse.” 

“This photo—” Greg started again. 

“Later,” his mother said brusquely. “Okay?” She gave him a meaningful 
stare. 

Greg felt his face grow hot. 

This is important, he thought. 

Then he decided they probably wouldn’t believe him, anyway. Who would 



believe such a crazy story? 

“Will we be able to get another new car?” Terry asked. 

Mr. Banks nodded carefully. “I have to call the insurance company,” he 

said. 

“ITl call them when I get home,” Mrs. Banks said. “You don’t exactly have 
a hand free.” 

Everyone laughed at that, nervous laughter. 

“I feel kind of sleepy,” Mr. Banks said. His eyes were halfway closed, his 
voice muffled. 

“It’s the painkillers the doctors gave you,” Mrs. Banks told him. She leaned 
forward and patted his hand. “Get some sleep. I’ll come back in a few hours.” 

She stood up, still fiddling with her wedding band, and motioned with her 
head toward the door. 

“Bye, Dad,” Greg and Terry said in unison. 

Their father muttered a reply. They followed their mother out the door. 

“What happened?” Terry asked, as they made their way past a nurses’ 
station, then down the long, pale yellow corridor. “I mean, the accident.” 

“Some guy ran right through a red light,” Mrs. Banks said, her red-rimmed 
eyes focused straight ahead. “He plowed right into your father’s side of the car. 
Said his brakes weren’t working.” She shook her head, tears forming in the 
corners of her eyes. “I don’t know,” she said, sighing. “I just don’t know what to 
say. Thank goodness he’s going to be okay.” 

They turned into the green corridor, walking side by side. Several people 
were waiting patiently for the elevator at the far end of the hall. 

Once again, Greg found himself thinking of the snapshots he had taken with 
the weird camera. 

First Michael. Then Terry. Then Bird. Then his father. 

All four photos had shown something terrible. Something terrible that 
hadn’t happened yet. 

And then all four photos had come true. 

Greg felt a chill as the elevator doors opened and the small crowd of people 
moved forward to squeeze inside. 

What’s the truth about the camera? he wondered. 

Does the camera show the future ? 

Or does it actually cause bad things to happen? 



16 


“Yeah. I know Bird’s okay,” Greg said into the phone receiver. “I saw him 
yesterday, remember? He was lucky. Real lucky. He didn’t have a concussion or 
anything.” 

On the other end of the line—in the house next door—Shari agreed, then 
repeated her request. 

“No, Shari. I really don’t want to,” Greg replied vehemently. 

“Bring it,” Shari demanded. “It’s my birthday.” 

“I don’t want to bring the camera. It’s not a good idea. Really,” Greg told 
her. 

It was the next weekend. Saturday afternoon. Greg had been nearly out the 
door, on his way to Shari’s birthday party, when the phone rang. 

“Hi, Greg. Why aren’t you on your way to my party?” Shari had asked 
when he’d run to pick up the receiver. 

“Because I’m on the phone with you,” Greg had replied drily. 

“Well, bring the camera, okay?” 

Greg hadn’t looked at the camera, hadn’t removed it from its hiding place 
since his father’s accident. 

“I don’t want to bring it,” he insisted, despite Shari’s high-pitched demands. 
“Don’t you understand, Shari? I don’t want anyone else to get hurt.” 

“Oh, Greg,” she said, talking to him as if he were a three-year-old. “You 
don’t really believe that, do you? You don’t really believe that camera can hurt 
people.” 

Greg was silent for a moment. “I don’t know what I believe,” he said 
finally. “I only know that first, Michael, then, Bird—” 

Greg swallowed hard. “And I had a dream, Shari. Last night.” 

“Huh? What kind of dream?” Shari asked impatiently. 

“It was about the camera. I was taking everyone’s picture. My whole family 
—Mom, Dad, and Terry. They were barbecuing. In the backyard. I held up the 
camera. I kept saying, ‘Say cheese, say cheese,’ over and over. And when I 
looked through the viewfinder, they were smiling back at me—but... they were 
skeletons. All of them. Their skin was gone, and—and...” 

Greg’s voice trailed off. 



“What a dumb dream,” Shari said, laughing. 

“But that’s why I don’t want to bring the camera,” Greg insisted. “I think 

55 

“Bring it, Greg,” she interrupted. “It’s not your camera, you know. All four 
of us were in the Coffman house. It belongs to all four of us. Bring it.” 

“But why, Shari?” Greg demanded. 

“It’ll be a goof, that’s all. It takes such weird pictures.” 

“That’s for sure,” Greg muttered. 

“We don’t have anything else to do for my party,” Shari told him. “I wanted 
to rent a video, but my mom says we have to go outdoors. She doesn’t want her 
precious house messed up. So I thought we could take everyone’s picture with 
the weird camera. You know. See what strange things come out.” 

“Shari, I really don’t—” 

“Bring it,” she ordered. And hung up. 

Greg stood for a long time staring at the phone receiver, thinking hard, 
trying to decide what to do. 

Then he replaced the receiver and headed reluctantly up to his room. 

With a loud sigh, he pulled the camera from its hiding place in his 
headboard. “It’s Shari’s birthday, after all,” he said aloud to himself. 

His hands were trembling as he picked it up. He realized he was afraid of it. 

Ishouldn’t be doing this, he thought, feeling a heavy knot of dread in the pit 
of his stomach. 

I know I shouldn’t be doing this. 



17 


“How’s it going, Bird?” Greg called, making his way across the flagstone patio 
to Shari’s backyard. 

“I’m feeling okay,” Bird said, slapping his friend a high five. “The only 
problem is, ever since that ball hit me,” Bird continued, frowning, “from time to 
time I start —pluuccck cluuuck cluuuuck !—clucking like a chicken!” He flapped 
his arms and started strutting across the backyard, clucking at the top of his 
voice. 

“Hey, Bird—go lay an egg!” someone yelled, and everyone laughed. 

“Bird’s at it again,” Michael said, shaking his head. He gave Greg a friendly 
punch on the shoulder. Michael, his red hair unbrushed as usual, was wearing 
faded jeans and a flowered Hawaiian sports shirt about three sizes too big for 
him. 

“Where’d you get that shirt?” Greg asked, holding Michael at arm’s length 
by the shoulders to admire it. 

“In a cereal box,” Bird chimed in, still flapping his arms. 

“My grandmother gave it to me,” Michael said, frowning. 

“He made it in home ec,” Bird interrupted. One joke was never enough. 

“But why did you wear it?” Greg asked. 

Michael shrugged. “Everything else was dirty.” 

Bird bent down, picked up a small clump of dirt from the lawn, and rubbed 
it on the back of Michael’s shirt. “Now this one’s dirty, too,” he declared. 

“Hey, you—” Michael reacted with playful anger, grabbing Bird and 
shoving him into the hedge. 

“Did you bring it?” 

Hearing Shari’s voice, Greg turned toward the house and saw her jogging 
across the patio in his direction. Her black hair was pulled back in a single braid, 
and she had on an oversized silky yellow top that came down over black spandex 
leggings. 

“Did you bring it?” she repeated eagerly. A charm bracelet filled with tiny 
silver charms—a birthday present—jangled at her wrist. 

“Yeah.” Greg reluctantly held up the camera. 

“Excellent,” she declared. 



“I really don’t want—” Greg started. 

“You can take my picture first since it’s my birthday,” Shari interrupted. 
“Here. How’s this?” She struck a sophisticated pose, leaning against a tree with 
her hand behind her head. 

Greg obediently raised the camera. “Are you sure you want to do this, 
Shari?” 

“Yeah. Come on. I want to take everyone’s picture.” 

“But it’ll probably come out weird,” Greg protested. 

“I know,” Shari replied impatiently, holding her pose. “That’s the fun of it.” 

“But, Shari—” 

“Michael puked on his shirt,” he heard Bird telling someone near the hedge. 

“I did not!” Michael was screaming. 

“You mean it looks like that naturally?” Bird, asked. 

Greg could hear a lot of raucous laughing, all of it at Michael’s expense. 

“Will you take the picture?” Shari cried, holding on to the slender trunk of 
the tree. 

Greg pointed the lens at her and pressed the button. The camera whirred, 
and the undeveloped white square rolled out. 

“Hey, are we the only boys invited?” Michael asked, stepping up to Shari. 

“Yeah. Just you three,” Shari said. “And nine girls.” 

“Oh, wow.” Michael made a face. 

“Take Michael’s picture next,” Shari told Greg. 

“No way!” Michael replied quickly, raising his hands as if to shield himself 
and backing away. “The last time you took my picture with that thing, I fell 
down the stairs.” 

Trying to get away, Michael backed right into Nina Blake, one of Shari’s 
friends. She reacted with a squeal of surprise, then gave him a playful shove, and 
he kept right on backing away. 

“Michael, come on. It’s my party,” Shari called. 

“What are we going to do? Is this it?” Nina demanded from halfway across 
the yard. 

“I thought we’d take everyone’s picture and then play a game or 
something,” Shari told her. 

“A game?” Bird chimed in. “You mean like Spin the Bottle?” 

A few kids laughed. 

“Truth or Dare!” Nina suggested. 



“Yeah. Truth or Dare!” a couple of other girls called in agreement. 

“Oh, no,” Greg groaned quietly to himself. Tmth or Dare meant a lot of 
kissing and awkward, embarrassing stunts. 

Nine girls and only three boys. 

It was going to be really embarrassing. 

How could Shari do this to us? he wondered. 

“Well, did it come out?” Shari asked, grabbing his arm. “Let me see.” 

Greg was so upset about having to play Truth or Dare, he had forgotten 
about the snapshot developing in his hand. He held it up, and they both 
examined it. 

“Where am I?” Shari asked in surprise. “What were you aiming at? You 
missed me!” 

“Huh?” Greg stared at the snapshot. There was the tree. But no Shari. 
“Weird! I pointed it right at you. I lined it up carefully,” he protested. 

“Well, you missed me. I’m not in the shot,” Shari replied disgustedly. 

“But, Shari—” 

“I mean, come on —I’m not invisible, Greg. I’m not a vampire or 
something. I can see my reflection in mirrors. And I do usually show up in 
photos.” 

“But, look—” Greg stared hard at the photograph. “There’s the tree you 
were leaning against. You can see the tree trunk clearly. And there’s the spot 
where you were standing.” 

“But where am I?” Shari demanded, jangling her charm bracelet noisily. 
“Never mind.” She grabbed the snapshot from him and tossed it on the grass. 
“Take another one. Quick.” 

“Well, okay. But—” Greg was still puzzling over the photo. Why hadn’t 
Shari shown up in it? He bent down, picked it up, and shoved it into his pocket. 

“Stand closer this time,” she instructed. 

Greg moved a few steps closer, carefully centered Shari in the viewfinder, 
and snapped the picture. A square of film zipped out the front. 

Shari walked over and pulled the picture from the camera. “This one better 
turn out,” she said, staring hard at it as the colors began to darken and take form. 

“If you really want pictures of everyone, we should get another camera,” 
Greg said, his eyes also locked on the snapshot. 

“Hey—I don’t believe it!” Shari cried. 

Again, she was invisible. 



The tree photographed clearly, in perfect focus. But Shari was nowhere to 
be seen. 

“You were right. The dumb camera is broken,” she said disgustedly, 
handing the photo to Greg. “Forget it.” She turned away from him and called to 
the others. “Hey, guys—Truth or Dare!” 

There were some cheers and some groans. 

Shari headed them back to the woods behind her backyard to play. “More 
privacy,” she explained. There was a circular clearing just beyond the trees, a 
perfect, private place. 

The game was just as embarrassing as Greg had imagined. Among the boys, 
only Bird seemed to be enjoying it. Bird loves dumb stuff like this, Greg thought 
with some envy. 

Luckily, after little more than half an hour, he heard Mrs. Walker, Shari’s 
mom, calling from the house, summoning them back to cut the birthday cake. 

“Aw, too bad,” Greg said sarcastically. “Just when the game was getting 
good.” 

“We have to get out of the woods, anyway,” Bird said, grinning. “Michael’s 
shirt is scaring the squirrels.” 

Laughing and talking about the game, the kids made their way back to the 
patio, where the pink-and-white birthday cake, candles all lit, was waiting on the 
round umbrella table. 

“I must be a pretty bad mom,” Mrs. Walker joked, “allowing you all to go 
off into the woods by yourselves.” 

Some of the girls laughed. 

Cake knife in her hand, Mrs. Walker looked around. “Where’s Shari?” 

Everyone turned their eyes to search the backyard. “She was with us in the 
woods,” Nina told Mrs. Walker. “Just a minute ago.” 

“Hey, Shari!” Bird called, cupping his hands to his mouth as a megaphone. 
“Earth calling Shari! It’s cake time!” 

No reply. 

No sign of her. 

“Did she go in the house?” Greg asked. 

Mrs. Walker shook her head. “No. She didn’t come by the patio. Is she still 
in the woods?” 

“I’ll go check,” Bird told her. Calling Shari’s name, he ran to the edge of 
the trees at the back of the yard. Then he disappeared into the trees, still calling. 



A few minutes later, Bird emerged, signaling to the others with a shrug. 
No sign of her. 

They searched the house. The front yard. The woods again. 

But Shari had vanished. 



18 


Greg sat in the shade with his back against the tree trunk, the camera on the 
ground at his side, and watched the blue-uniformed policemen. 

They covered the backyard and could be seen bending low as they searched 
around in the woods. He could hear their voices but couldn’t make out what they 
were saying. Their faces were intent, bewildered. 

More policemen arrived, grim-faced, businesslike. 

And then, even more blue-uniformed policemen. 

Mrs. Walker had called her husband home from a golf game. They sat 
huddled together on canvas chairs in a corner of the patio. They whispered to 
each other, their eyes darting across the yard. Holding hands, they looked pale 
and worried. 

Everyone else had left. 

On the patio, the table was still set. The birthday candles had burned all the 
way down, the blue-and-red wax melting in hard puddles on the pink-and-white 
icing, the cake untouched. 

“No sign of her,” a red-cheeked policeman with a white-blond mustache 
was telling the Walkers. He pulled off his cap and scratched his head, revealing 
short blond hair. 

“Did someone... take her away?” Mr. Walker asked, still holding his wife’s 
hand. 

“No sign of a struggle,” the policeman said. “No sign of anything, really.” 

Mrs. Walker sighed loudly and lowered her head. “I just don’t understand 
it.” 

There was a long, painful silence. 

“We’ll keep looking,” the policeman said. “I’m sure we’ll find... 
something.” 

He turned and headed toward the woods. 

“Oh. Hi.” He stopped in front of Greg, staring down at him as if seeing him 
for the first time. “You still here, son? All the other guests have gone home.” He 
pushed his hair back and replaced his cap. 

“Yeah, I know,” Greg replied solemnly, lifting the camera into his lap. 

“I’m Officer Riddick,” he said. 



“Yeah, I know,” Greg repeated softly. 

“How come you didn’t go home after we talked with you, like the others?” 
Officer Riddick asked. 

“I’m just upset, I guess,” Greg told him. “I mean, Shari’s a good friend, you 
know?” He cleared his throat, which felt dry and tight. “Besides, I live right over 
there.” He gestured with his head to his house next door. 

“Well, you might as well go home, son,” Officer Riddick said, turning his 
eyes to the woods with a frown. “This search could take a long time. We haven’t 
found a thing back there yet.” 

“I know,” Greg replied, rubbing his hand against the back of the camera. 

And I know that this camera is the reason Shari is missing, he thought, 
feeling miserable and frightened. 

“One minute she was there. The next minute she was gone,” the policeman 
said, studying Greg’s face as if looking for answers there. 

“Yeah,” Greg replied. “It’s so weird.” 

It’s weirder than anyone knows, Greg thought. 

The camera made her invisible. The camera did it. 

First, she vanished from the snapshot. 

Then she vanished in real life. 

The camera did it to her. I don’t know how. But it did. 

“Do you have something more to tell me?” Officer Riddick asked, hands 
resting on his hips, his right hand just above the worn brown holster that carried 
his pistol. “Did you see something? Something that might give us a clue, help us 
out? Something you didn’t remember to tell me before?” 

Should I tell him? Greg wondered. 

If I tell him about the camera, he’ll ask where I got it. And I’ll have to tell 
him that I got it in the Coffman house. And we’ll all get in trouble for breaking in 
there. 

But—big deal. Shari is missing. Gone. Vanished. That’s a lot more 
important. 

I should tell him, Greg decided. 

But then he hesitated. If I tell him, he won’t believe me. 

If I tell him, how will it help bring Shari back? 

“You look very troubled,” Officer Riddick said, squatting down next to 
Greg in the shade. “What’s your name again?” 

“Greg. Greg Banks.” 



“Well, you look very troubled, Greg,” the policeman repeated softly. “Why 
don’t you tell me what’s bothering you? Why don’t you tell me what’s on your 
mind? I think it’ll make you feel a lot better.” 

Greg took a deep breath and glanced up to the patio. Mrs. Walker had 
covered her face with her hands. Her husband was leaning over her, trying to 
comfort her. 

“Well...” Greg started. 

“Go ahead, son,” Officer Riddick urged softly. “Do you know where Shari 

is?” 

“It’s this camera,” Greg blurted out. He suddenly could feel the blood 
throbbing against his temples. 

He took a deep breath and then continued. “You see, this camera is weird.” 

“What do you mean?” Officer Riddick asked quietly. 

Greg took another deep breath. “I took Shari’s picture. Before. When I first 
arrived. I took two pictures. And she was invisible. In both of them. See?” 

Officer Riddick closed his eyes, then opened them. “No. I don’t 
understand.” 

“Shari was invisible in the picture. Everything else was there. But she 
wasn’t. She had vanished, see? And then later, she vanished for real. The camera 
—it predicts the future, I guess. Or it makes bad things happen.” Greg raised the 
camera, attempting to hand it to the policeman. 

Officer Riddick made no attempt to take it. He just stared hard at Greg, his 
eyes narrowing, his expression hardening. 

Greg felt a sudden stab of fear. 

Oh, no, he thought. Why is he looking at me like that? What is he going to 

do? 



19 


Greg continued to hold the camera out to the policeman. 

But Officer Riddick quickly climbed to his feet. “The camera makes bad 
things happen?” His eyes burned into Greg’s. 

“Yes,” Greg told him. “It isn’t my camera, see? And every time I take a 
picture—” 

“Son, that’s enough,” Officer Riddick said gently. He reached down and 
rested a hand on Greg’s trembling shoulder. “I think you’re very upset, Greg,” he 
said, his voice almost a whisper. “I don’t blame you. This is very upsetting for 
everyone.” 

“But it’s true —” Greg started to insist. 

“I’m going to ask that policeman over there,” Officer Riddick said, 
pointing, “to take you home now. And I’m going to have him tell your parents 
that you’ve been through a very frightening experience.” 

/knew he wouldn’t believe me, Greg thought angrily. 

How could I have been so stupid? 

Now he thinks I’m some kind of a nutcase. 

Officer Riddick called to a policeman at the side of the house near the 
hedge. 

“No, that’s okay,” Greg said, quickly pulling himself up, cradling the 
camera in his hand. “I can make it home okay.” 

Officer Riddick eyed him suspiciously. “You sure?” 

“Yeah. I can walk by myself.” 

“If you have anything to tell me later,” Officer Riddick said, lowering his 
gaze to the camera, “just call the station, okay?” 

“Okay,” Greg replied, walking slowly toward the front of the house. 

“Don’t worry, Greg. We’ll do our best,” Officer Riddick called after him. 
“We’ll find her. Put the camera away and try to get some rest, okay?” 

“Okay,” Greg muttered. 

He hurried past the Walkers, who were still huddled together under the 
umbrella on the patio. 

Why was I so stupid? he asked himself as he walked home. Why did I 
expect that policeman to believe such a weird story? 



I’m not even sure I believe it myself. 

A few minutes later, he pulled open the back screen door and entered his 
kitchen. “Anybody home?” 

No reply. 

He headed through the back hall toward the living room. “Anyone home?” 

No one. 

Terry was at work. His mother must have been visiting his dad at the 
hospital. 

Greg felt bad. He really didn’t feel like being alone now. He really wanted 
to tell them about what had happened to Shari. He really wanted to talk to them. 

Still cradling the camera, he climbed the stairs to his room. 

He stopped in the doorway, blinked twice, then uttered a cry of horror. 

His books were scattered all over the floor. The covers had been pulled off 
his bed. His desk drawers were all open, their contents strewn around the room. 
The desk lamp was on its side on the floor. All of his clothes had been pulled 
from the dresser and his closet and tossed everywhere. 

Someone had been in Greg’s room—and had turned it upside down! 



20 


Who would do this? Greg asked himself, staring in horror at his ransacked room. 

Who would tear my room apart like this? 

He realized that he knew the answer. He knew who would do it, who had 
done it. 

Someone looking for the camera. 

Someone desperate to get the camera back. 

Spidey? 

The creepy guy who dressed all in black was living in the Coffman house. 
Was he the owner of the camera? 

Yes, Greg knew, Spidey had done it. 

Spidey had been watching Greg, spying on Greg from behind the bleachers 
at the Little League game. 

He knew that Greg had his camera. And he knew where Greg lived. 

That thought was the most chilling of all. 

He knew where Greg lived. 

Greg turned away from the chaos in his room, leaned against the wall of the 
hallway, and closed his eyes. 

He pictured Spidey, the dark figure creeping along so evilly on his spindly 
legs. He pictured him inside the house, Greg’s house. Inside Greg’s room. 

He was here, thought Greg. He pawed through all my things. He wrecked 
my room. 

Greg stepped back into his room. He felt all mixed up. He felt like shouting 
angrily and crying for help all at once. 

But he was all alone. No one to hear him. No one to help him. 

What now? he wondered. What now? 

Suddenly, leaning against the doorframe, staring at his ransacked room, he 
knew what he had to do. 



21 


“Hey, Bird, it’s me.” 

Greg held the receiver in one hand and wiped the sweat off his forehead 
with the other. He’d never worked so hard—or so fast—in all his life. 

“Did they find Shari?” Bird asked eagerly. 

“I haven’t heard. I don’t think so,” Greg said, his eyes surveying his room. 
Almost back to normal. 

He had put everything back, cleaned and straightened. His parents would 
never guess. 

“Listen, Bird, I’m not calling about that,” Greg said, speaking rapidly into 
the phone. “Call Michael for me, okay? Meet me at the playground. By the 
baseball diamond.” 

“When? Now?” Bird asked, sounding confused. 

“Yeah,” Greg told him. “We have to meet. It’s important.” 

“It’s almost dinnertime,” Bird protested. “I don’t know if my parents—” 

“It’s important,” Greg repeated impatiently. “I’ve got to see you guys. 
Okay?” 

“Well... maybe I can sneak out for a few minutes,” Bird said, lowering his 
voice. And then Greg heard him shout to his mother: “It’s no one, Ma! I’m 
talking to no one!” 

Boy, that’s quick thinking! Greg thought sarcastically. He’s a worse liar than 
I am! 

And then he heard Bird call to his mom: “I know I’m on the phone. But I’m 
not talking to anyone. It’s only Greg.” 

Thanks a lot, pal, Greg thought. 

“I gotta go,” Bird said. 

“Get Michael, okay?” Greg urged. 

“Yeah. Okay. See you.” He hung up. 

Greg replaced the receiver, then listened for his mother. Silence downstairs. 
She still wasn’t home. She didn’t know about Shari, Greg realized. He knew she 
and his dad were going to be very upset. 

Very upset. 

Almost as upset as he was. 



Thinking about his missing friend, he went to his bedroom window and 
looked down on her yard next door. It was deserted now. 

The policemen had all left. Shari’s shaken parents must have gone inside. 

A squirrel sat under the wide shade of the big tree, gnawing furiously at an 
acorn, another acorn at his feet. 

In the corner of the window, Greg could see the birthday cake, still sitting 
forlornly on the deserted table, the places all set, the decorations still standing. 

A birthday party for ghosts. 

Greg shuddered. 

“Shari is alive,” he said aloud. “They’ll find her. She’s alive.” 

He knew what he had to do now. 

Forcing himself away from the window, he hurried to meet his two friends. 



22 


“No way,” Bird said heatedly, leaning against the bleacher bench. “Have you 
gone totally bananas?” 

Swinging the camera by its cord, Greg turned hopefully to Michael. But 
Michael avoided Greg’s stare. “I’m with Bird,” he said, his eyes on the camera. 

Since it was just about dinnertime, the playground was nearly deserted. A 
few little kids were on the swings at the other end. Two kids were riding their 
bikes around and around the soccer field. 

“I thought maybe you guys would come with me,” Greg said, disappointed. 
He kicked up a clump of grass with his sneaker. “I have to return this thing,” he 
continued, raising the camera. “I know it’s what I have to do. I have to put it 
back where I found it.” 

“No way,” Bird repeated, shaking his head. “I’m not going back to the 
Coffman house. Once was enough.” 

“Chicken?” Greg asked angrily. 

“Yeah,” Bird quickly admitted. 

“You don’t have to take it back,” Michael argued. He pulled himself up the 
side of the bleachers, climbed onto the third deck of seats, then lowered himself 
to the ground. 

“What do you mean?” Greg asked impatiently, kicking at the grass. 

“Just toss it, Greg,” Michael urged, making a throwing motion with one 
hand. “Heave it. Throw it in the trash somewhere.” 

“Yeah. Or leave it right here,” Bird suggested. He reached for the camera. 
“Give it to me. I’ll hide it under the seats.” 

“You don’t understand,” Greg said, swinging the camera out of Bird’s 
reach. “Throwing it away won’t do any good.” 

“Why not?” Bird asked, making another swipe for the camera. 

“Spidey’ll just come back for it,” Greg told him heatedly. “He’ll come back 
to my room looking for it. He’ll come after me. I know it.” 

“But what if we get caught taking it back?” Michael asked. 

“Yeah. What if Spidey’s there in the Coffman house, and he catches us?” 
Bird said. 

“You don’t understand,” Greg cried. “He knows where I live! He was in my 



house. He was in my room! He wants his camera back, and— 

“Here. Give it to me,” Bird said. “We don’t have to go back to that house. 
He can find it. Right here.” 

He grabbed again for the camera. 

Greg held tightly to the strap and tried to tug it away. 

But Bird grabbed the side of the camera. 

“No!” Greg cried out as it flashed. And whirred. 

A square of film slid out. 

“No!” Greg cried to Bird, horrified, staring at the white square as it started 
to develop. “You took my picture!” 

His hand trembling, he pulled the snapshot from the camera. 

What would it show? 



23 


“Sorry,” Bird said. “I didn’t mean to—” 

Before he could finish his sentence, a voice interrupted from behind the 
bleachers. “Hey—what’ve you got there?” 

Greg looked up from the developing snapshot in surprise. Two tough¬ 
looking boys stepped out of the shadows, their expressions hard, their eyes on 
the camera. 

He recognized them immediately—Joey Ferris and Mickey Ward—two 
ninth-graders who hung out together, always swaggering around, acting tough, 
picking on kids younger than them. 

Their specialty was taking kids’ bikes, riding off on them, and dumping 
them somewhere. There was a rumor around school that Mickey had once beaten 
up a kid so badly that the kid was crippled for life. But Greg believed Mickey 
made up that rumor and spread it himself. 

Both boys were big for their age. Neither of them did very well in school. 
And even though they were always stealing bikes and skateboards, and 
terrorizing little kids, and getting into fights, neither of them ever seemed to get 
into serious trouble. 

Joey had short blond hair, slicked straight up, and wore a diamondlike stud 
in one ear. Mickey had a round, red face full of pimples, stringy black hair down 
to his shoulders, and was working a toothpick between his teeth. Both boys were 
wearing heavy-metal T-shirts and jeans. 

“Hey, I’ve gotta get home,” Bird said quickly, half stepping, half dancing 
away from the bleachers. 

“Me, too,” Michael said, unable to keep the fear from showing on his face. 

Greg tucked the snapshot into his jeans pocket. 

“Hey, you found my camera,” Joey said, grabbing it out of Greg’s hand. His 
small gray eyes burned into Greg’s as if searching for a reaction. “Thanks, man.” 

“Give it back, Joey,” Greg said with a sigh. 

“Yeah. Don’t take that camera,” Mickey told his friend, a smile spreading 
over his round face. “It’s mine!” He wrestled the camera away from Joey. 

“Give it back,” Greg insisted angrily, reaching out his hand. Then he 
softened his tone. “Come on, guys. It isn’t mine.” 



“I know it isn’t yours,” Mickey said, grinning. “Because it’s minel” 

“I have to give it back to the owner,” Greg told him, trying not to whine but 
hearing his voice edge up. 

“No, you don’t. I’m the owner now,” Mickey insisted. 

“Haven’t you ever heard of finders keepers?” Joey asked, leaning over Greg 
menacingly. He was about six inches taller than Greg and a lot more muscular. 

“Hey, let him have the thing,” Michael whispered in Greg’s ear. “You 
wanted to get rid of it—right?” 

“No!” Greg protested. 

“What’s your problem, Freckle Face?” Joey asked Michael, eyeing him up 
and down. 

“No problem,” Michael said meekly. 

“Hey—say cheese!” Mickey aimed the camera at Joey. 

“Don’t do it,” Bird interrupted, waving his hands frantically. 

“Why not?” Joey demanded. 

“Because your face will break the camera,” Bird said, laughing. 

“You’re real funny,” Joey said sarcastically, narrowing his eyes 
threateningly, hardening his features. “You want that stupid smile to be 
permanent?” He raised a big fist. 

“I know this kid,” Mickey told Joey, pointing at Bird. “Thinks he’s hot 
stuff.” 

Both boys stared hard at Bird, trying to scare him. 

Bird swallowed hard. He took a step back, bumping into the bleachers. “No, 
I don’t,” he said softly. “I don’t think I’m hot stuff.” 

“He looks like something I stepped in yesterday,” Joey said. 

He and Mickey cracked up, laughing high-pitched hyena laughs and 
slapping each other high fives. 

“Listen, guys. I really need the camera back,” Greg said, reaching out a 
hand to take it. “It isn’t any good, anyway. It’s broken. And it doesn’t belong to 
me.” 

“Yeah, that’s right. It’s broken,” Michael added, nodding his head. 

“Yeah. Right,” Mickey said sarcastically. “Let’s just see.” He raised the 
camera again and pointed it at Joey. 

“Really, guys. I need it back,” Greg said desperately. 

If they took a picture with the camera, Greg realized, they might discover 
its secret. That its snapshots showed the future, showed only bad things 



happening to people. That the camera was evil. Maybe it even caused evil. 

“Say cheese,” Mickey instructed Joey. 

“Just snap the stupid thing!” Joey replied impatiently. 

No, Greg thought. I can’t let this happen. I’ve got to return the camera to 
the Coffman house, to Spidey. 

Impulsively, Greg leaped forward. With a cry, he snatched the camera away 
from Mickey’s face. 

“Hey—” Mickey reacted in surprise. 

“Let’s go !” Greg shouted to Bird and Michael. 

And without another word, the three friends turned and began running 
across the deserted playground toward their homes. 

His heart thudding in his chest, Greg gripped the camera tightly and ran as 
fast as he could, his sneakers pounding over the dry grass. 

They’re going to catch us, Greg thought, panting loudly now as he raced 
toward the street. They’re going to catch us and pound us. They’re going to take 
back the camera. We’re dead meat. Dead meat. 

Greg and his friends didn’t turn around until they were across the street. 
Breathing noisily, they looked back—and cried out in relieved surprise. 

Joey and Mickey hadn’t budged from beside the bleachers. They hadn’t 
chased after them. They were leaning against the bleachers, laughing. 

“Catch you later, guys!” Joey called after them. 

“Yeah. Later,” Mickey repeated. 

They both burst out laughing again, as if they had said something hilarious. 
“That was close,” Michael said, still breathing hard. 

“They mean it,” Bird said, looking very troubled. “They’ll catch us later. 
We’re history.” 

“Tough talk. They’re just a lot of hot air,” Greg insisted. 

“Oh, yeah?” Michael cried. “Then why did we run like that?” 

“Because we’re late for dinner,” Bird joked. “See you guys. I’m gonna 
catch it if I don’t hurry.” 

“But the camera—” Greg protested, still gripping it tightly in one hand. 

“It’s too late,” Michael said, nervously raking a hand back through his red 

hair. 

“Yeah. We’ll have to do it tomorrow or something,” Bird agreed. 

“Then you guys will come with me?” Greg asked eagerly. 

“Uh... I’ve gotta go,” Bird said without answering. 



“Me, too,” Michael said quickly, avoiding Greg’s stare. 

All three of them turned their eyes back to the playground. Joey and 
Mickey had disappeared. Probably off to terrorize some other kids. 

“Later,” Bird said, slapping Greg on the shoulder as he headed away. The 
three friends split up, running in different directions across lawns and driveways, 
heading home. 

Greg had run all the way to his front yard before he remembered the 
snapshot he had shoved into his jeans pocket. 

He stopped in the driveway and pulled it out. 

The sun was lowering behind the garage. He held the snapshot up close to 
his face to see it clearly. 

“Oh, no!” he cried. “I don’t believe it!” 



24 


“This is impossible !” Greg cried aloud, gaping at the snapshot in his trembling 
hand. 

How had Shari gotten into the photo? 

It had been taken a few minutes before, in front of the bleachers on the 
playground. 

But there was Shari, standing close beside Greg. 

His hand trembling, his mouth hanging open in disbelief, Greg goggled at 
the photo. 

It was very clear, very sharp. There they were on the playground. He could 
see the baseball diamond in the background. 

And there they were. Greg and Shari. 

Shari standing so clear, so sharp—right next to him. 

And they were both staring straight ahead, their eyes wide, their mouths 
open, their expressions frozen in horror as a large shadow covered them both. 

“Shari?” Greg cried, lowering the snapshot and darting his eyes over the 
front yard. “Are you here? Can you hear me?” 

He listened. 

Silence. 

He tried again. 

“Shari? Are you here?” 

“Greg!” a voice called. 

Uttering a startled cry, Greg spun around. “Huh?” 

“Greg!” the voice repeated. It took him a while to realize that it was his 
mother, calling to him from the front door. 

“Oh. Hi, Mom.” Feeling dazed, he slid the snapshot back into his jeans 
pocket. 

“Where 5 ve you been?” his mother asked as he made his way to the door. “I 
heard about Shari. I’ve been so upset. I didn’t know where you were.” 

“Sorry, Mom,” Greg said, kissing her on the cheek. “I—I should’ve left a 
note.” 

He stepped into the house, feeling strange and out of sorts, sad and 



confused and frightened, all at the same time. 


Two days later, on a day of high gray clouds, the air hot and smoggy, Greg paced 
back and forth in his room after school. 

The house was empty except for him. Terry had gone off a few hours before 
to his after-school job at the Dairy Freeze. Mrs. Banks had driven to the hospital 
to pick up Greg’s dad, who was finally coming home. 

Greg knew he should be happy about his dad’s return. But there were still 
too many things troubling him, tugging at his mind. 

Frightening him. 

For one thing, Shari still hadn’t been found. 

The police were completely baffled. Their new theory was that she’d been 
kidnapped. 

Her frantic, grieving parents waited home by the phone. But no kidnappers 
called to demand a ransom. 

There were no clues of any kind. 

Nothing to do but wait. And hope. 

As time passed, Greg felt more and more guilty. He was sure Shari hadn’t 
been kidnapped. He knew that somehow, the camera had made her disappear. 

But he couldn’t tell anyone else what he believed. 

No one would believe him. Anyone he tried to tell the story to would think 
he was crazy. 

Cameras can’t be evil, after all. 

Cameras can’t make people fall down stairs. Or crash their cars. 

Or vanish from sight. 

Cameras can only record what they see. 

Greg stared out of his window, pressing his forehead against the glass, 
looking down on Shari’s backyard. “Shari—where are you?” he asked aloud, 
staring at the tree where she had posed. 

The camera was still hidden in the secret compartment in his headboard. 
Neither Bird nor Michael would agree to help Greg return it to the Coffman 
house. 

Besides, Greg had decided to hold on to it a while longer, in case he needed 
it as proof. 

In case he decided to confide his fears about it to someone. 

In case... 



His other fear was that Spidey would come back, back to Greg’s room, back 
for the camera. 

So much to be frightened about. 

He pushed himself away from the window. He had spent so much time in 
the past couple of days staring down at Shari’s empty backyard. 

Thinking. Thinking. 

With a sigh, he reached into the headboard and pulled out two of the 
snapshots he had hidden in there along with the camera. 

The two snapshots were the ones taken the past Saturday at Shari’s birthday 
party. Holding one in each hand, Greg stared at them, hoping he could see 
something new, something he hadn’t noticed before. 

But the photos hadn’t changed. They still showed her tree, her backyard, 
green in the sunlight. And no Shari. No one where Shari had been standing. As if 
the lens had penetrated right through her. 

Staring at the photos, Greg let out a cry of anguish. 

If only he had never gone into the Coffman house. 

If only he had never stolen the camera. 

If only he had never taken any photos with it. 

If only... if only... if only... 

Before he realized what he was doing, he was ripping the two snapshots 
into tiny pieces. 

Panting loudly, his chest heaving, he tore up the snapshots and let the pieces 
fall to the floor. 

When he had ripped them both into tiny shards of paper, he flung himself 
facedown on his bed and closed his eyes, waiting for his heart to stop pounding, 
waiting for the heavy feeling of guilt and horror to lift. 

Two hours later, the phone by his bed rang. 

It was Shari. 



25 


“Shari—is it really you?” Greg shouted into the phone. 

“Yeah. It’s me!” She sounded as surprised as he did. 

“But how? I mean—” His mind was racing. He didn’t know what to say. 

“Your guess is as good as mine,” Shari told him. And then she said, “Hold 
on a minute.” And he heard her step away from the phone to talk to her mother. 
“Mom—stop crying already. Mom—it’s really me. I’m home.” 

A few seconds later, she came back on the line. “I’ve been home for two 
hours, and Mom’s still crying and carrying on.” 

“I feel like crying, too,” Greg admitted. “I—I just can’t believe it! Shari, 
where were you?” 

The line was silent for a long moment. “I don’t know,” she answered 
finally. 

“Huh?” 

“I really don’t. It was just so weird, Greg. One minute, there I was at my 
birthday party. The next minute, I was standing in front of my house. And it was 
two days later. But I don’t remember being away. Or being anywhere else. I 
don’t remember anything at all.” 

“You don’t remember going away? Or coming back?” Greg asked. 

“No. Nothing,” Shari said, her voice trembling. 

“Shari, those pictures I took of you—remember? With the weird camera? 
You were invisible in them—” 

“And then I disappeared,” she said, finishing his thought. 

“Shari, do you think—?” 

“I don’t know,” she replied quickly. “I—I have to get off now. The police 
are here. They want to question me. What am I going to tell them? They’re 
going to think I had amnesia or flipped out or something.” 

“I—I don’t know,” Greg said, completely bewildered. “We have to talk. 
The camera—” 

“I can’t now,” she told him. “Maybe tomorrow. Okay?” She called to her 
mother that she was coming. “Bye, Greg. See you.” And then she hung up. 

Greg replaced the receiver but sat on the edge of his bed staring at the 
phone for a long time. 



Shari was back. 

She’d been back about two hours. 

Two hours. Two hours. Two hours. 

He turned his eyes to the clock radio beside the phone. 

Just two hours before, he had ripped up the two snapshots of an invisible 
Shari. 

His mind whirred with wild ideas, insane ideas. 

Had he brought Shari back by ripping up the photos? 

Did this mean that the camera caused her to disappear? That the camera 
caused all of the terrible things that showed up in its snapshots? 

Greg stared at the phone for a long time, thinking hard. 

He knew what he had to do. He had to talk to Shari. And he had to return 
the camera. 

He met Shari on the playground the next afternoon. The sun floated high in a 
cloudless sky. Eight or nine kids were engaged in a noisy brawl of a soccer 
game, running one way, then the other across the outfield of the baseball 
diamond. 

“Hey—you look like youl” Greg exclaimed as Shari came jogging up to 
where he stood beside the bleachers. He pinched her arm. “Yeah. It’s you, okay.” 

She didn’t smile. “I feel fine,” she told him, rubbing her arm. “Just 
confused. And tired. The police asked me questions for hours. And when they 
finally went away, my parents started in.” 

“Sorry,” Greg said quietly, staring down at his sneakers. 

“I think Mom and Dad believe somehow it’s my fault that I disappeared,” 
Shari said, resting her back against the side of the bleachers, shaking her head. 

“It’s the camera’s fault,” Greg muttered. He raised his eyes to hers. “The 
camera is evil.” 

Shari shrugged. “Maybe. I don’t know what to think. I really don’t.” 

He showed her the snapshot, the one showing the two of them on the 
playground staring in horror as a shadow crept over them. 

“How weird,” Shari exclaimed, studying it hard. 

“I want to take the camera back to the Coffman house,” Greg said heatedly. 
“I can go home and get it now. Will you help me? Will you come with me?” 

Shari started to reply but stopped. 

They both saw the dark shadow move, sliding toward them quickly, silently, 



over the grass. 

And then they saw the man dressed all in black, his spindly legs pumping 
hard as he came at them. 

Spidey! 

Greg grabbed Shari’s hand, frozen in fear. 

He and Shari gaped in terror as Spidey’s slithering shadow crept over them. 



26 


Greg had a shudder of recognition. He knew the snapshot had just come true. 

As the dark figure of Spidey moved toward them like a black tarantula, 
Greg pulled Shari’s hand. “Run!” he cried in a shrill voice he didn’t recognize. 

He didn’t have to say it. They were both running now, gasping as they ran 
across the grass toward the street. Their sneakers thudded loudly on the ground 
as they reached the sidewalk and kept running. 

Greg turned to see Spidey closing the gap. “He’s catching up!” he managed 
to cry to Shari, who was a few steps ahead of him. 

Spidey, his face still hidden in the shadows of his black baseball cap, 
moved with startling speed, his long legs kicking high as he pursued them. 

“He’s going to catch us!” Greg cried, feeling as if his chest were about to 
burst. “He’s... too... fast!” 

Spidey moved even closer, his shadow scuttling over the grass. 

Closer. 

When the car horn honked, Greg screamed. 

He and Shari stopped short. 

The horn blasted out again. 

Greg turned to see a familiar young man inside a small hatchback. It was 
Jerry Norman, who lived across the street. Jerry lowered his car window. “Is this 
man chasing you?” he asked excitedly. Without waiting for an answer, he backed 
the car toward Spidey. “I’m calling the cops, mister!” 

Spidey didn’t reply. Instead, he turned and darted across the street. 

“I’m warning you—” Jerry called after him. 

But Spidey had disappeared behind a tall hedge. 

“Are you kids okay?” Greg’s neighbor demanded. 

“Yeah. Fine,” Greg managed to reply, still breathing hard, his chest heaving. 

“We’re okay. Thanks, Jerry,” Shari said. 

“I’ve seen that guy around the neighborhood,” the young man said, staring 
through the windshield at the tall hedge. “Never thought he was dangerous. You 
kids want me to call the police?” 

“No. It’s okay,” Greg replied. 



As soon as I give him back his camera, he’ll stop chasing us, Greg thought. 

“Well, be careful—okay?” Jerry said. “You need a lift home or anything?” 
He studied their faces as if trying to determine how frightened and upset they 
were. 

Greg and Shari both shook their heads. “We’ll be okay,” Greg said. 
“Thanks.” 

Jerry warned them once again to be careful, then drove off, his tires 
squealing as he turned the corner. 

“That was close,” Shari said, her eyes on the hedge. “Why was Spidey 
chasing us?” 

“He thought I had the camera. He wants it back,” Greg told her. “Meet me 
tomorrow, okay? In front of the Coffman house. Help me put it back?” 

Shari stared at him without replying, her expression thoughtful, wary. 

“We’re going to be in danger—all of us—until we put that camera back,” 
Greg insisted. 

“Okay,” Shari said quietly. “Tomorrow.” 



27 


Something scurried through the tall weeds of the unmowed front lawn. “What 
was that?” Shari cried, whispering even though no one else was in sight. “It was 
too big to be a squirrel.” 

She lingered behind Greg, who stopped to look up at the Coffman house. 
“Maybe it was a raccoon or something,” Greg told her. He gripped the camera 
tightly in both hands. 

It was a little after three o’clock the next afternoon, a hazy, overcast day. 
Mountains of dark clouds threatening rain were rolling across the sky, stretching 
behind the house, casting it in shadow. 

“It’s going to storm,” Shari said, staying close behind Greg. “Let’s get this 
over with and go home.” 

“Good idea,” he said, glancing up at the heavy sky. 

Thunder rumbled in the distance, a low roar. 

The old trees that dotted the front yard whispered and shook. 

“We can’t just run inside,” Greg told her, watching the sky darken. “First 
we have to make sure Spidey isn’t there.” 

Making their way quickly through the tall grass and weeds, they stopped at 
the living room window and peered in. Thunder rumbled, low and long, in the 
distance. Greg thought he saw another creature scuttle through the weeds around 
the corner of the house. 

“It’s too dark in there. I can’t see a thing,” Shari complained. 

“Let’s check out the basement,” Greg suggested. “That’s where Spidey 
hangs out, remember?” 

The sky darkened to an eerie gray-green as they made their way to the back 
of the house and dropped to their knees to peer down through the basement 
windows at ground level. 

Squinting through the dust-covered window-panes, they could see the 
makeshift plywood table, the wardrobe against the wall, its doors still open, the 
colorful old clothing spilling out, the empty frozen food boxes scattered on the 
floor. 

“No sign of him,” Greg whispered, cradling the camera in his arm as if it 
might try to escape from him if he didn’t hold it tightly. “Let’s get moving.” 



“Are—are you sure?” Shari stammered. She wanted to be brave. But the 
thought that she had disappeared for two days—completely vanished, most 
likely because of the camera—that frightening thought lingered in her mind. 

Michael and Bird were chicken, she thought. But maybe they were the smart 

ones. 

She wished this were over. All over. 

A few seconds later, Greg and Shari pushed open the front door. They 
stepped into the darkness of the front hall. And stopped. 

And listened. 

And then they both jumped at the sound of the loud, sudden crash directly 
behind them. 



28 


Shari was the first to regain her voice. “It’s just the door!” she cried. “The wind 

55 

A gust of wind had made the front door slam. 

“Let’s get this over with,” Greg whispered, badly shaken. 

“We never should’ve broken into this house in the first place,” Shari 
whispered as they made their way on tiptoe, step by creaking step, down the dark 
hallway toward the basement stairs. 

“It’s a little late for that,” Greg replied sharply. 

Pulling open the door to the basement steps, he stopped again. “What’s that 
banging sound upstairs?” 

Shari’s features tightened in fear as she heard it, too, a repeated, almost 
rhythmic banging. 

“Shutters?” Greg suggested. 

“Yeah,” she quickly agreed, breathing a sigh of relief. “A lot of the shutters 
are loose, remember?” 

The entire house seemed to groan. 

Thunder rumbled outside, closer now. 

They stepped onto the landing, then waited for their eyes to adjust to the 
darkness. 

“Couldn’t we just leave the camera up here and run?” Shari asked, more of 
a plea than a question. 

“No. I want to put it back,” Greg insisted. 

“But, Greg—” She tugged at his arm as he started down the stairs. 

“No!” He pulled out of her grasp. “He was in my room, Shari! He tore 
everything apart, looking for it. I want him to find it where it belongs. If he 
doesn’t find it, he’ll come back to my house. I know he will!” 

“Okay, okay. Let’s just hurry.” 

It was brighter in the basement, gray light seeping down from the four 
ground-level windows. Outside, the wind swirled and pushed against the 
windowpanes. A pale flash of lightning made shadows flicker against the 
basement wall. The old house groaned as if unhappy about the storm. 

“What was that ? Footsteps?” Shari stopped halfway across the basement 



and listened. 

“It’s just the house,” Greg insisted. But his quavering voice revealed that he 
was as frightened as his companion, and he stopped to listen, too. 

Bang. Bang. Bang. 

The shutter high above them continued its rhythmic pounding. 

“Where did you find the camera, anyway?” Shari whispered, following 
Greg to the far wall across from the enormous furnace with its cobwebbed ducts 
sprouting up like pale tree limbs. 

“Over here,” Greg told her. He stepped up to the worktable and reached for 
the vise clamped on the edge. “When I turned the vise, a door opened up. Some 
kind of hidden shelf. That’s where the camera—” 

He cranked the handle of the vise. 

Once again, the door to the secret shelf popped open. 

“Good,” he whispered excitedly. He flashed Shari a smile. 

He shoved the camera onto the shelf, tucking the carrying strap under it. 
Then he pushed the door closed. “We’re out of here.” 

He felt so much better. So relieved. So much lighter. 

The house groaned and creaked. Greg didn’t care. 

Another flash of lightning, brighter this time, like a camera flash, sent 
shadows flickering on the wall. 

“Come on,” he whispered. But Shari was already ahead of him, making her 
way carefully over the food cartons strewn everywhere, hurrying toward the 
steps. 

They were halfway up the stairs, Greg one step behind Shari, when, above 
them, Spidey stepped silently into view on the landing, blocking their escape. 



29 


Greg blinked and shook his head, as if he could shake away the image of the 
figure that stared darkly down at him. 

“No!” Shari cried out, and fell back against Greg. 

He grabbed for the railing, forgetting that it had fallen under Michael’s 
weight during their first unfortunate visit to the house. Luckily, Shari regained 
her balance before toppling them both down the stairs. 

Lightning flashed behind them, sending a flash of white light across the 
stairway. But the unmoving figure on the landing above them remained shrouded 
in darkness. 

“Let us go!” Greg finally managed to cry, finding his voice. 

“Yeah. We returned your camera!” Shari added, sounding shrill and 
frightened. 

Spidey didn’t reply. Instead, he took a step toward them, onto the first step. 
And then he descended another step. 

Nearly stumbling again, Greg and Shari backed down to the basement floor. 

The wooden stairs squeaked in protest as the dark figure stepped slowly, 
steadily, down. As he reached the basement floor, a crackling bolt of lightning 
cast a blue light over him, and Greg and Shari saw his face for the first time. 

In the brief flash of color, they saw that he was old, older than they had 
imagined. That his eyes were small and round like dark marbles. That his mouth 
was small, too, pursed in a tight, menacing grimace. 

“We returned the camera,” Shari said, staring in fear as Spidey crept closer. 
“Can’t we go now? Please?” 

“Let me see,” Spidey said. His voice was younger than his face, warmer 
than his eyes. “Come.” 

They hesitated. But he gave them no choice. 

Ushering them back across the cluttered floor to the worktable, he wrapped 
his large, spidery hand over the vise and turned the handle. The door opened. He 
pulled out the camera and held it close to his face to examine it. 

“You shouldn’t have taken it,” he told them, speaking softly, turning the 
camera in his hands. 

“We’re sorry,” Shari said quickly. 



“Can we go now?” Greg asked, edging toward the stairs. 

“It’s not an ordinary camera,” Spidey said, raising his small eyes to them. 

“We know,” Greg blurted out. “The pictures it took. They—” 

Spidey’s eyes grew wide, his expression angry. “You took pictures with it?” 

“Just a few,” Greg told him, wishing he had kept his mouth shut. “They 
didn’t come out. Really.” 

“You know about the camera, then,” Spidey said, moving quickly to the 
center of the floor. 

Was he trying to block their escape? Greg wondered. 

“It’s broken or something,” Greg said uncertainly, shoving his hands into 
his jeans pockets. 

“It’s not broken,” the tall, dark figure said softly. “It’s evil.” He motioned 
toward the low plywood table. “Sit there.” 

Shari and Greg exchanged glances. Then, reluctantly, they sat down on the 
edge of the board, sitting stiffly, nervously, their eyes darting toward the 
stairway, toward escape. 

“The camera is evil,” Spidey repeated, standing over them, holding the 
camera in both hands. “I should know. I helped to create it.” 

“You’re an inventor?” Greg asked, glancing at Shari, who was nervously 
tugging at a strand of her black hair. 

“I’m a scientist,” Spidey replied. “Or, I should say, I was a scientist. My 
name is Fredericks. Dr. Fritz Fredericks.” He transferred the camera from one 
hand to the other. “My lab partner invented this camera. It was his pride and joy. 
More than that, it would have made him a fortune. Would have, I say.” He 
paused, a thoughtful expression sinking over his face. 

“What happened to him? Did he die?” Shari asked, still fiddling with the 
strand of hair. 

Dr. Fredericks snickered. “No. Worse. I stole the invention from him. I stole 
the plans and the camera. I was evil, you see. I was young and greedy. So very 
greedy. And I wasn’t above stealing to make my fortune.” 

He paused, eyeing them both as if waiting for them to say something, to 
offer their disapproval of him, perhaps. But when Greg and Shari remained 
silent, staring up at him from the low plywood table, he continued his story. 

“When I stole the camera, it caught my partner by surprise. Unfortunately, 
from then on, all of the surprises were mine.” A strange, sad smile twisted across 
his aged face. “My partner, you see, was much more evil than I was.” 



Dr. Fredericks coughed into his hand, then began to pace in front of Greg 
and Shari as he talked, speaking softly, slowly, as if remembering the story for 
the first time in a long while. 

“My partner was a true evil one. He dabbled in the dark arts. I should 
correct myself. He didn’t just dabble. He was quite a master of it all.” 

He held up the camera, waving it above his head, then lowering it. “My 
partner put a curse on the camera. If he couldn’t profit from it, he wanted to 
make sure that I never would, either. And so he put a curse on it.” 

He turned his gaze on Greg, leaning over him. “Do you know about how 
some primitive peoples fear the camera? They fear the camera because they 
believe that if it takes their picture, it will steal their soul.” He patted the camera. 
“Well, this camera really does steal souls.” 

Staring up at the camera, Greg shuddered. 

The camera had stolen Shari away. 

Would it have stolen all of their souls? 

“People have died because of this camera,” Dr. Fredericks said, uttering a 
slow, sad sigh. “People close to me. That is how I came to learn of the curse, to 
learn of the camera’s evil. And then I learned something just as frightening—the 
camera cannot be destroyed.” 

He coughed, cleared his throat noisily, and began to pace in front of them 
again. “And so I vowed to keep the camera a secret. To keep it away from people 
so it cannot do its evil. I lost my job. My family. I lost everything because of it. 
But I am determined to keep the camera where it can do no harm.” 

He stopped pacing, with his back toward them. He stood silently, shoulders 
hunched, lost in thought. 

Greg quickly climbed to his feet and motioned for Shari to do the same. 
“Well... uh... I guess it’s good we returned it,” he said hesitantly. “Sorry we 
caused so much trouble.” 

“Yeah, we’re very sorry,” Shari repeated sincerely. “Guess it’s back in the 
right hands.” 

“Good-bye,” Greg said, starting toward the steps. “It’s getting late, and we 

“No!” Dr. Fredericks shouted, startling them both. He moved quickly to 
block the way. “I’m afraid you can’t go. You know too much.” 



30 


“I can never let you leave,” Dr. Fredericks said, his face flickering in the blue 
glow of a lightning flash. He crossed his bony arms in front of his black 
sweatshirt. 

“But we won’t tell anyone,” Greg said, his voice rising until the words 
became a plea. “Really.” 

“Your secret is good with us,” Shari insisted, her frightened eyes on Greg. 

Dr. Fredericks stared at them menacingly but didn’t reply. 

“You can trust us,” Greg said, his voice quavering. He cast a frightened 
glance at Shari. 

“Besides,” Shari said, “even if we did tell anyone, who would believe us?” 

“Enough talk,” Dr. Fredericks snapped. “It won’t do you any good. I’ve 
worked too long and too hard to keep the camera a secret.” 

A rush of wind pushed against the windows, sending up a low howl. The 
wind carried a drumroll of rain. The sky through the basement windows was as 
black as night. 

“You—can’t keep us here forever!” Shari cried, unable to keep the growing 
terror from her voice. 

The rain pounded against the windows now, a steady downpour. 

Dr. Fredericks drew himself up straight, seemed to grow taller. His tiny 
eyes burned into Shari’s. “I’m so sorry,” he said, his voice a whisper of regret. 
“So sorry. But I have no choice.” 

He took another step toward them. 

Greg and Shari exchanged frightened glances. From where they stood, in 
front of the low plywood table in the center of the basement, the steps seemed a 
hundred miles away. 

“Wh-what are you going to do?” Greg cried, shouting over a burst of 
thunder that rattled the basement windows. 

“Please!” Shari begged. “Don’t!” 

Dr. Fredericks moved forward with surprising speed. Holding the camera in 
one hand, he grabbed Greg’s shoulder with the other. 

“No!” Greg screamed. “Let go!” 

“Let go of him!” Shari screamed. 



She suddenly realized that both of Dr. Fredericks’ hands were occupied. 

This may be my only chance, she thought. 

She took a deep breath and lunged forward. 

Dr. Fredericks’ eyes bulged, and he cried out in surprise as Shari grabbed 
the camera with both hands and pulled it away from him. He made a frantic grab 
for the camera, and Greg burst free. 

Before the desperate man could take another step, Shari raised the camera 
to her eye and pointed the lens at him. 

“Please—no! Don’t push the button!” the old man cried. 

He lurched forward, his eyes wild, and grabbed the camera with both hands. 

Greg stared in horror as Shari and Dr. Fredericks grappled, both holding on 
to the camera, each trying desperately to wrestle it away from the other. 

FLASH! 

The bright burst of light startled them all. 

Shari grabbed the camera. “Run!” she screamed. 



31 


The basement became a whirring blur of grays and blacks as Greg hurtled 
himself toward the stairs. 

He and Shari ran side by side, slipping over the food cartons, jumping over 
tin cans and empty bottles. 

Rain thundered against the windows. The wind howled, pushing against the 
glass. They could hear Dr. Fredericks’ anguished screams behind them. 

“Did it take our picture or his?” Shari asked. 

“I don’t know. Just hurryl” Greg screamed. 

The old man was howling like a wounded animal, his cries competing with 
the rain and wind pushing at the windows. 

The stairs weren’t that far away. But it seemed to take forever to reach 
them. 

Forever. 

Forever, Greg thought. Dr. Fredericks wanted to keep Shari and me down 
there forever. 

Panting loudly, they both reached the dark stairway. A deafening clap of 
thunder made them stop and turn around. 

“Huh?” Greg cried aloud. 

To his shock, Dr. Fredericks hadn’t chased after them. 

And his anguished cries had stopped. 

The basement was silent. 

“What’s going on?” Shari cried breathlessly. 

Squinting back into the darkness, it took Greg a while to realize that the 
dark, rumpled form lying on the floor in front of the worktable was Dr. 
Fredericks. 

“What happened?” Shari cried, her chest heaving as she struggled to catch 
her breath. Still clinging to the camera strap, she gaped in surprise at the old 
man’s still body, sprawled on its back on the floor. 

“I don’t know,” Greg replied in a breathless whisper. 

Reluctantly, Greg started back toward Dr. Fredericks. Following close 
behind, Shari uttered a low cry of horror when she clearly saw the fallen man’s 
face. 



Eyes bulged out, the mouth open in a twisted O of terror, the face stared up 
at them. Frozen. Dead. 

Dr. Fredericks was dead. 

“What— happened ?” Shari finally managed to say, swallowing hard, 
forcing herself to turn away from the ghastly, tortured face. 

“I think he died of fright,” Greg replied, squeezing her shoulder and not 
even realizing it. 

“Huh? Fright?” 

“He knew better than anyone what the camera could do,” Greg said. “When 
you snapped his picture, I think... I think it scared him to death]” 

“I only wanted to throw him off guard,” Shari cried. “I only wanted to give 
us a chance to escape. I didn’t think—” 

“The picture,” Greg interrupted. “Fet’s see the picture.” 

Shari raised the camera. The photo was still half inside the camera. Greg 
pulled it out with a trembling hand. He held it up so they could both see it. 

“Wow,” he exclaimed quietly. “Wow.” 

The photo showed Dr. Fredericks lying on the floor, his eyes bulging, his 
mouth frozen open in horror. 

Dr. Fredericks’ fright, Greg realized—the fright that had killed him—was 
there, frozen on film, frozen on his face. 

The camera had claimed another victim. This time forever. 

“What do we do now?” Shari asked, staring down at the figure sprawled at 
their feet. 

“First, I’m putting this camera back,” Greg said, taking it from her and 
shoving it back on its shelf. He turned the vise handle, and the door to the secret 
compartment closed. 

Greg breathed a sigh of relief. Hiding the dreadful camera away made him 
feel so much better. 

“Now, let’s go home and call the police,” he said. 

Two days later, a cool, bright day with a gentle breeze rustling the trees, the four 
friends stopped at the curb, leaning on their bikes, and stared up at the Coffman 
house. Even in bright sunlight, the old trees that surrounded the house covered it 
in shade. 

“So you didn’t tell the police about the camera?” Bird asked, staring up at 
the dark, empty front window. 



“No. They wouldn’t believe it,” Greg told him. “Besides, the camera should 
stay locked up forever. Forever! I hope no one ever finds out about it.” 

“We told the police we ran into the house to get out of the rain,” Shari 
added. “And we said we started to explore while we waited for the storm to blow 
over. And we found the body in the basement.” 

“What did Spidey die of?” Michael asked, gazing up at the house. 

“The police said it was heart failure,” Greg told him. “But we know the 
truth.” 

“Wow. I can’t believe one old camera could do so much evil,” Bird said. 

“I believe it,” Greg said quietly. 

“Let’s get out of here,” Michael urged. He raised his sneakers to the pedals 
and started to roll away. “This place really creeps me out.” 

The other three followed, pedaling away in thoughtful silence. 

They had turned the corner and were heading up the next block when two 
figures emerged from the back door of the Coffman house. Joey Ferris and 
Mickey Ward stepped over the weed-choked lawn onto the driveway. 

“Those jerks aren’t too bright,” Joey told his companion. “They never even 
saw us the other day. Never saw us watching them through the basement 
window.” 

Mickey laughed. “Yeah. They’re jerks.” 

“They couldn’t hide this camera from us. No way, man,” Joey said. He 
raised the camera and examined it. 

“Take my picture,” Mickey demanded. “Come on. Let’s try it out.” 

“Yeah. Okay.” Joey raised the viewfinder to his eye. “Say cheese.” 

A click. A flash. A whirring sound. 

Joey pulled the snapshot from the camera, and both boys eagerly huddled 
around it, waiting to see what developed. 





THE CURSE OF THE 
MUMMY’S TOMB 
Goosebumps - 05 
R.L. Stine 


1 


I saw the Great Pyramid and got thirsty. 

Maybe it was all the sand. So dry and yellow, it seemed to stretch on 
forever. It even made the sky look dry. 

I poked my mom in the side. “Mom, I’m really thirsty.” 

“Not now,” she said. She had one hand up on her forehead, shielding 
her eyes from the bright sun as she stared up at the enormous pyramid. 

Not now? 

What does “not now” mean? I was thirsty. Now! 

Someone bumped me from behind and apologized in a foreign 
language. I never dreamed when I saw the Great Pyramid there’d be so 
many other tourists. I guess half the people in the world decided to spend 
their Christmas vacation in Egypt this year. 

“But, Mom—” I said. I didn’t mean to whine. It was just that my throat 
was so dry. “I’m really thirsty.” 

“We can’t get you a drink now,” she answered, staring at the pyramid. 
“Stop acting like you’re four. You’re twelve, remember?” 

“Twelve-year-olds get thirsty, too,” I muttered. “All this sand in the air, 
it’s making me gag.” 

“Look at the pyramid,” she said, sounding a little irritated. “That’s why 
we came here. We didn’t come here to get a drink.” 

“But I’m choking !” I cried, gasping and holding my throat. 

Okay, so I wasn’t choking. I exaggerated a little, just trying to get her 
attention. But she pulled the brim of her straw hat down and continued to 
stare up at the pyramid, which shimmered in the heat. 

I decided to try my dad. As usual, he was studying the handful of 
guidebooks he always carried everywhere. I don’t think he’d even looked at 
the pyramid yet. He always misses everything because he always has his 
nose buried in a guidebook. 

“Dad, I’m really thirsty,” I said, whispering as if my throat were 
strained to get my message across. 

“Wow. Do you know how wide the pyramid is?” he asked, staring at a 
picture of the pyramid in his book. 



“I’m thirsty, Dad.” 

“It’s thirteen acres wide, Gabe,” he said, really excited. “Do you know 
what it’s made of?” 

I wanted to say Silly Putty. 

He’s always testing me. Whenever we go on a trip, he always asks me 
a million questions like that. I don’t think I’ve ever answered one right. 

“Some kind of stone?” I answered. 

“That’s right.” He smiled at me, then turned back to his book. “It’s 
made of limestone. Limestone blocks. It says here that some of the blocks 
weigh up to a thousand tons.” 

“Whoa,” I said. “That’s more than you and Mom put together!” 

He turned his eyes from the book and frowned at me. “Not funny, 
Gabe.” 

“Just kidding,” I said. Dad’s a little sensitive about his weight, so I try 
to tease him about it as often as I can. 

“How do you think the ancient Egyptians moved stones that weighed a 
thousand tons?” he asked. 

Quiz time wasn’t over. 

I took a guess. “In trucks?” 

He laughed. “Trucks? They didn’t have the wheel” 

I shielded my eyes and stared up at the pyramid. It was really huge, 
much bigger than it looks in pictures. And much dryer. 

I couldn’t imagine how they pulled those big stones across the sand 
without wheels. “I don’t know,” I confessed. “I’m really thirsty.” 

“No one knows how they did it,” Dad said. 

So it was a trick question. 

“Dad, I really need a drink.” 

“Not now,” he said. He squinted at the pyramid. “Gives you a funny 
feeling, doesn’t it?” 

“It gives me a thirsty feeling,” I said, trying to get my point across. 

“No. I mean, it gives me a funny feeling to think that our ancestors— 
yours and mine, Gabe—may have walked around these pyramids, or even 
helped to build them. It gives me kind of a chill. How about you?” 

“I guess,” I told him. He was right. It was kind of exciting. 

We’re Egyptian, you see. I mean, both sets of my grandparents came 
from Egypt. They moved to the United States around 1930. My mom and 



dad were both born in Michigan. We were all very excited to see the 
country our ancestors came from. 

“I wonder if your uncle Ben is down inside that pyramid right now,” 
Dad said, shielding his eyes from the sun with one hand. 

Uncle Ben Hassad. I had nearly forgotten about my uncle, the famous 
archaeologist. Uncle Ben was another one of the reasons we had decided to 
come to Egypt over the holidays. That and the fact that my mom and dad 
had some business to do in Cairo and Alexandria and some other places. 

Mom and Dad have their own business. They sell refrigeration 
equipment. It usually isn’t very exciting. But sometimes they travel to neat 
places, like Egypt, and I get to go with them. 

I turned my eyes to the pyramids and thought about my uncle. 

Uncle Ben and his workers were digging around in the Great Pyramid, 
exploring and discovering new mummies, I guess. He had always been 
fascinated by our ancestors’ homeland. He had lived in Egypt for many 
years. Uncle Ben was an expert on pyramids and mummies. I even saw his 
picture once in National Geographic. 

“When are we going to see Uncle Ben?” I asked, tugging Dad’s arm. I 
accidentally tugged too hard, and the guidebooks fell out of his hands. 

I helped him pick them up. 

“Not today,” Dad said, making a face. He didn’t like to bend over to 
pick up things. His stomach got in the way. “Ben’s going to meet us in 
Cairo in a few days.” 

“Why don’t we go up to the pyramid and see if he’s there now?” I 
asked impatiently. 

“We’re not allowed,” Dad replied. 

“Look—camels!” Mom poked me on the shoulder and pointed. 

Sure enough, some people had arrived on camels. One of the camels 
seemed to be having a coughing fit. I guess he was thirsty, too. The people 
riding the camels were tourists and they looked very uncomfortable. They 
didn’t seem to know what to do next. 

“Do you know how to get down from a camel?” I asked my dad. 

He was squinting at the pyramid, studying the top of it. “No. How?” 

“You don’t get down from a camel,” I said. “You get down from a 
duck.” 

I know. I know. It’s a very old joke. But my dad and I never get tired 



of it. 

“Do you see the camels?” Mom asked. 

“I’m not blind,” I replied. Being thirsty always puts me in a bad mood. 
Besides, what was so exciting about camels? They were really gross¬ 
looking, and they smelled like my gym socks after a basketball game. 

“What’s your problem?” Mom asked, fiddling with her straw hat. 

“I told you,” I said, not meaning to sound so angry. “I’m thirsty.” 

“Gabe, really.” She glanced at Dad, then went back to staring at the 
pyramid. 

“Dad, do you think Uncle Ben can take us inside the pyramid?” I 
asked enthusiastically. “That would really be outstanding.” 

“No, I don’t think so,” he said. He tucked his guidebooks into his 
armpit so he could raise his binoculars to his eyes. “I really don’t think so, 
Gabe. I don’t think it’s allowed.” 

I couldn’t hide my disappointment. I had all these fantasies about 
going down into the pyramid with my uncle, discovering mummies and 
ancient treasures. Fighting off ancient Egyptians who had come back to life 
to defend their sacred tomb, and escaping after a wild chase, just like 
Indiana Jones. 

“I’m afraid you’ll just have to appreciate the pyramid from the 
outside,” Dad said, peering over the yellow sand, trying to focus the 
binoculars. 

“I’ve already appreciated it,” I told him glumly. “Can we go get a 
drink now?” 

Little did I know that in a few days, Mom and Dad would be gone, and 
I would be deep inside the pyramid we were staring at. Not just inside it, 
but trapped inside it, sealed inside it—probably forever. 



2 


We drove from al-Jizah back to Cairo in the funny little rental car Dad had 
picked up at the airport. It wasn’t a long drive, but it seemed long to me. 
The car was just a little bit bigger than some of my old remote-control cars, 
and my head hit the ceiling with every bump. 

I’d brought my Game Boy with me, but Mom made me put it away so 
that I could watch the Nile as the road followed along its bank. It was very 
wide and very brown. 

“No one else in your class is seeing the Nile this Christmas,” Mom 
said, the hot wind blowing her brown hair through the open car window. 

“Can I play with my Game Boy now?” I asked. 

I mean, when you get right down to it, a river is a river. 

An hour or so later, we were back in Cairo with its narrow, crowded 
streets. Dad made a wrong turn and drove us into some kind of market, and 
we were trapped in a little alley behind a herd of goats for nearly half an 
hour. 

I didn’t get a drink till we got back to the hotel, and by that time, my 
tongue was the size of a salami and hanging down to the floor just like 
Elvis’. He’s our cocker spaniel back home. 

I’ll say one nice thing about Egypt. The Coke tastes just as good as the 
Coke back home. It’s the Classic Coke, too, not the other kind. And they 
give you plenty of ice, which I like to crunch with my teeth. 

We had a suite at the hotel, two bedrooms and a sort of living room. If 
you looked out the window, you could see a tall, glass skyscraper across the 
street, just like you’d see in any city. 

There was a TV in the living room, but everyone spoke Arabic on it. 
The shows didn’t look too interesting, anyway. Mainly a lot of news. The 
only channel in English was CNN. But that was news, too. 

We had just started to talk about where to go for dinner when the 
phone rang. Dad went into the bedroom to answer it. A few minutes later he 
called Mom in, and I could hear the two of them discussing something. 

They were talking very quietly, so I figured it had something to do 
with me and they didn’t want me to hear it. 



As usual, I was right. 

They both came out of the bedroom a few minutes later, looking kind 
of worried. My first thought was that my grandmother had called to say that 
something bad had happened to Elvis back home. 

“What’s wrong?” I asked. “Who called?” 

“Your dad and I have to go to Alexandria. Right away,” Mom said, 
sitting down beside me on the couch. 

“Huh? Alexandria?” We weren’t supposed to go there until the end of 
the week. 

“Business,” Dad said. “An important customer wants to meet with us 
first thing tomorrow morning.” 

“We have to take a plane that leaves in an hour,” Mom said. 

“But I don’t want to,” I told them, jumping up from the couch. “I want 
to stay in Cairo and see Uncle Ben. I want to go to the pyramids with him. 
You promised!” 

We argued about it for a short while. They tried to convince me there 
were a lot of cool things to see in Alexandria, but I held my ground. 

Finally, Mom had an idea. She went into the bedroom, and I heard her 
making a phone call to someone. A few minutes later, she came back with a 
smile on her face. “I talked to Uncle Ben,” she announced. 

“Wow! Do they have phones in the pyramid?” I asked. 

“No. I talked to him at the small lodge he’s staying at in al-Jizah,” she 
replied. “He said he’d come and take care of you, if you want. While your 
dad and I are in Alexandria.” 

“Yeah?” This was starting to sound outstanding. Uncle Ben is one of 
the coolest guys I’ve ever known. Sometimes I couldn’t believe he was 
Mom’s brother. 

“It’s your choice, Gabe,” she said, glancing at my dad. “You can come 
with us, or you can stay with Ben till we get back.” 

Some choice. 

I didn’t have to think about it for more than one-eighteenth of a 
second. “I’ll stay with Uncle Ben!” I declared. 

“One other thing,” Mom said, grinning for some reason. “You might 
want to think about this.” 

“I don’t care what it is,” I insisted. “I choose Uncle Ben.” 

“Sari is also on Christmas vacation,” Mom said. “And she’s staying 



with him, too.” 

“Barf!” I cried, and I flung myself down on the couch and began 
pounding the cushions with both fists. 

Sari is Uncle Ben’s stuck-up daughter. My only cousin. She’s the same 
age as me—twelve—and she thinks she’s so great. She goes to boarding 
school in the United States while her dad works in Egypt. 

She’s really pretty, and she knows it. And she’s smart. And the last 
time I saw her, she was an inch taller than me. 

That was last Christmas, I guess. She thought she was really hot stuff 
because she could get to the last level of Super Mario Land. But it wasn’t 
fair because I don’t have Super Nintendo, only regular Nintendo. So I never 
get to practice. 

I think that’s what she liked about me best, that she could beat me at 
games and things. Sari is the most competitive person I know. She has to be 
first and best at everything. If everyone around is catching the flu, she has 
to be the first one to catch it! 

“Stop pounding the couch like that,” Mom said. She grabbed my arm 
and pulled me to my feet. 

“Does that mean you changed your mind? You’re coming with us?” 
Dad asked. 

I thought about it. “No. I’ll stay here with Uncle Ben,” I decided. 

“And you won’t fight with Sari?” Mom asked. 

“She fights with me,” I said. 

“Your mom and I have got to hurry,” Dad said. 

They disappeared into the bedroom to pack. I turned on the TV and 
watched some kind of game show in Arabic. The contestants kept laughing 
a lot. I couldn’t figure out why. I hardly know a word of Arabic. 

After a while, Mom and Dad came out again, dragging suitcases. 
“We’ll never get to the airport in time,” Dad said. 

“I talked to Ben,” Mom told me, brushing her hair with her hand. 
“He’ll be here in an hour, hour and a half. Gabe, you don’t mind staying 
alone here for just an hour, do you?” 

“Huh?” 

Not much of an answer, I’ll admit. But her question caught me by 
surprise. 

I mean, it never occurred to me that my own parents would leave me 



all alone in a big hotel in a strange city where I didn’t even know the 
language. I mean, how could they do that to me? 

“No problem,” I said. “I’ll be fine. I’ll just watch TV till he comes.” 

“Ben’s on his way already,” Mom said. “He and Sari will be here in no 
time. And I phoned down to the hotel manager. He said he’d have someone 
look in on you from time to time.” 

“Where’s the bellhop?” Dad asked, nervously pacing to the door and 
back. “I called down there ten minutes ago.” 

“Just stay here and wait for Ben, okay?” Mom said to me, walking up 
behind the couch, leaning over, and squeezing my ears. For some reason, 
she thinks I like that. “Don’t go out or anything. Just wait right here for 
him.” She bent down and kissed me on the forehead. 

“I won’t move,” I promised. “I’ll stay right here on the couch. I won’t 
go to the bathroom or anything.” 

“Can’t you ever be serious?” Mom asked, shaking her head. 

There was a loud knock on the door. The bellhop, a bent-over old man 
who didn’t look as if he could pick up a feather pillow, had arrived to take 
the bags. 

Mom and Dad, looking very worried, gave me hugs and more final 
instructions, and told me once again to stay in the room. The door closed 
behind them, and it was suddenly very quiet. 

Very quiet. 

I turned up the TV just to make it a little noisier. The game show had 
gone off, and now a man in a white suit was reading the news in Arabic. 

“I’m not scared,” I said aloud. But I had kind of a tight feeling in my 
throat. 

I walked to the window and looked out. The sun was nearly down. The 
shadow of the skyscraper slanted over the street and onto the hotel. 

I picked up my Coke glass and took a sip. It was watery and flat. My 
stomach growled. I suddenly realized that I was hungry. 

Room service, I thought. 

Then I decided I’d better not. What if I called and they only spoke 
Arabic? 

I glanced at the clock. Seven-twenty. I wished Uncle Ben would arrive. 

I wasn’t scared. I just wished he’d arrive. 

Okay. Maybe I was a little nervous. 



I paced back and forth for a bit. I tried playing Tetris on the Game Boy, 
but I couldn’t concentrate, and the light wasn’t very good. 

Sari is probably a champ at Tetris, I thought bitterly. Where were they? 
What was taking so long? 

I began to have horrible, frightening thoughts: What if they can’t find 
the hotel? What if they get mixed up and go to the wrong hotel? 

What if they’re in a terrible car crash and die? And I’m all by myself 
in Cairo for days and days? 

I know. They were dumb thoughts. But they’re the kind of thoughts 
you have when you’re alone in a strange place, waiting for someone to 
come. 

I glanced down and realized I had taken the mummy hand out of my 
jeans pocket. 

It was small, the size of a child’s hand. A little hand wrapped in papery 
brown gauze. I had bought it at a garage sale a few years ago, and I always 
carried it around as a good luck charm. 

The kid who sold it to me called it a “Summoner.” He said it was used 
to summon evil spirits, or something. I didn’t care about that. I just thought 
it was an outstanding bargain for two dollars. I mean, what a great thing to 
find at a garage sale! And maybe it was even real. 

I tossed it from hand to hand as I paced the length of the living room. 
The TV was starting to make me nervous, so I clicked it off. 

But now the quiet was making me nervous. 

I slapped the mummy hand against my palm and kept pacing. 

Where were they? They should’ve been here by now. 

I was beginning to think that I’d made the wrong choice. Maybe I 
should’ve gone to Alexandria with Mom and Dad. 

Then I heard a noise at the door. Footsteps. 

Was it them? 

I stopped in the middle of the living room and listened, staring past the 
narrow front hallway to the door. 

The light was dim in the hallway, but I saw the doorknob turn. 

That’s strange, I thought. Uncle Ben would knock first—wouldn’t he? 

The doorknob turned. The door started to creak open. 

“Hey—” I called out, but the word choked in my throat. 

Uncle Ben would knock. He wouldn’t just barge in. 



Slowly, slowly, the door squeaked open as I stared, frozen in the 
middle of the room, unable to call out. 

Standing in the doorway was a tall, shadowy figure. 

I gasped as the figure lurched into the room, and I saw it clearly. Even 
in the dim light, I could see what it was. 

A mummy. 

Glaring at me with round, dark eyes through holes in its ancient, thick 
bandages. 

A mummy. 

Pushing itself off the wall and staggering stiffly toward me into the 
living room, its arms outstretched as if to grab me. 

I opened my mouth to scream, but no sound came out. 



3 


I took a step back, and then another. Without realizing it, I’d raised my little 
mummy hand in the air, as if trying to fend off the intruder with it. 

As the mummy staggered into the light, I stared into its deep, dark 

eyes. 

And recognized them. 

“Uncle Ben!” I screamed. 

Angrily, I heaved the mummy hand at him. It hit his bandaged chest 
and bounced off. 

He collapsed backwards against the wall, laughing that booming laugh 
of his. 

And then I saw Sari poking her head in the doorway. She was 
laughing, too. 

They both thought it was hilarious. But my heart was pounding so 
hard, I thought it was going to pop out of my chest. 

“That wasn’t funny!” I shouted angrily, balling my hands into fists at 
my sides. I took a deep breath, then another, trying to get my breathing to 
return to normal. 

“I told you he’d be scared,” Sari said, walking into the room, a big, 
superior grin on her face. 

Uncle Ben was laughing so hard, he had tears running down his 
bandaged face. He was a big man, tall and broad, and his laughter shook the 
room. “You weren’t that scared—were you, Gabe?” 

“I knew it was you,” I said, my heart still pounding as if it were a 
windup toy someone had wound up too tight. “I recognized you right 
away.” 

“You sure looked scared,” Sari insisted. 

“I didn’t want to spoil the joke,” I replied, wondering if they could see 
how terrified I really was. 

“You should’ve seen the look on your face!” Uncle Ben cried, and 
started laughing all over again. 

“I told Daddy he shouldn’t do it,” Sari said, dropping down onto the 
couch. “I’m amazed the hotel people let him come up dressed like that.” 



Unde Ben bent down and picked up the mummy hand I had tossed at 
him. “You’re used to me and my practical jokes, right, Gabe?” 

“Yeah,” I said, avoiding his eyes. 

Secretly, I scolded myself for falling for his stupid costume. I was 
always falling for his dumb jokes. Always. And, now, there was Sari 
grinning at me from the couch, knowing I was so scared that I’d practically 
had a cow. 

Uncle Ben pulled some of the bandages away from his face. He 
stepped over and handed the little mummy hand back to me. “Where’d you 
get that?” he asked. 

“Garage sale,” I told him. 

I started to ask him if it was real, but he surrounded me in a big bear 
hug. The gauze felt rough against my cheek. “Good to see you, Gabe,” he 
said softly. “You’ve grown taller.” 

“Almost as tall as me,” Sari chimed in. 

Uncle Ben motioned to her. “Get up and help me pull this stuff off.” 

“I kind of like the way you look in it,” Sari said. 

“Get over here,” Uncle Ben insisted. 

Sari got up with a sigh, tossing her straight black hair behind her 
shoulders. She walked over to her dad and started unraveling the bandages. 

“I got a little carried away with this mummy thing, Gabe,” Uncle Ben 
admitted, resting his arm on my shoulder as Sari continued working. “But 
it’s just because I’m so excited about what’s going on at the pyramid.” 

“What’s going on?” I asked eagerly. 

“Daddy’s discovered a whole new burial chamber,” Sari broke in 
before her dad had a chance to tell me himself. “He’s exploring parts of the 
pyramid that have been undiscovered for thousands of years.” 

“Really?” I cried. “That’s outstanding!” 

Uncle Ben chuckled. “Wait till you see it.” 

“See it?” I wasn’t sure what he meant. “You mean you’re going to take 
me into the pyramid?” 

My voice was so high that only dogs could hear it. But I didn’t care. I 
couldn’t believe my good luck. I was actually going inside the Great 
Pyramid, into a section that hadn’t been discovered until now. 

“I have no choice,” Uncle Ben said dryly. “What else am I going to do 
with you two?” 



“Are there mummies in there?” I asked. “Will we see actual 
mummies?” 

“Do you miss your mummy?” Sari said, her lame idea of a joke. 

I ignored her. “Is there treasure down there, Uncle Ben? Egyptian 
relics? Are there wall paintings?” 

“Let’s talk about it at dinner,” he said, tugging off the last of the 
bandages. He was wearing a plaid sportshirt and baggy chinos under all the 
gauze. “Come on. I’m starving.” 

“Race you downstairs,” Sari said, and shoved me out of the way to 
give herself a good head start out of the room. 

We ate downstairs in the hotel restaurant. There were palm trees painted on 
the walls, and miniature palm trees planted in big pots all around the 
restaurant. Large wooden ceiling fans whirled slowly overhead. 

The three of us sat in a large booth, Sari and I across from Uncle Ben. 
We studied the long menus. They were printed in Arabic and English. 

“Listen to this, Gabe,” Sari said, a smug smile on her face. She began 
to read the Arabic words aloud. 

What a show-off. 

The white-suited waiter brought a basket of flat pita bread and a bowl 
of green stuff to dip the bread in. I ordered a club sandwich and Lrench 
fries. Sari ordered a hamburger. 

Later, as we ate our dinner, Uncle Ben explained a little more about 
what he had discovered at the pyramid. “As you probably know,” he 
started, tearing off a chunk of the flat bread, “the pyramid was built some 
time around 2500 B.C., during the reign of the Pharaoh Khufu.” 

“Gesundheit,” Sari said. Another lame joke. 

Her father chuckled. I made a face at her. 

“It was the biggest structure of its time,” Uncle Ben said. “Do you 
know how wide the base of the pyramid is?” 

Sari shook her head. “No. How wide?” she asked with a mouthful of 
hamburger. 

“I know,” I said, grinning. “It’s thirteen acres wide.” 

“Hey—that’s right!” Uncle Ben exclaimed, obviously impressed. 

Sari flashed me a surprised look. 

That’s one for me! I thought happily, sticking my tongue out at her. 



And one for my dad’s guidebooks. 

“The pyramid was built as a royal burial place,” Uncle Ben continued, 
his expression turning serious. “The Pharaoh made it really enormous so 
that the burial chamber could be hidden. The Egyptians worried about tomb 
robbers. They knew that people would try to break in and take all of the 
valuable jewels and treasures that were buried alongside their owners. So 
they built dozens of tunnels and chambers inside, a confusing maze to keep 
robbers from finding the real burial room.” 

“Pass the ketchup, please,” Sari interrupted. I passed her the ketchup. 

“Sari’s heard all this before,” Uncle Ben said, dipping the pita bread 
into the dark gravy on his plate. “Anyway, we archaeologists thought we’d 
uncovered all of the tunnels and rooms inside this pyramid. But a few days 
ago, my workers and I discovered a tunnel that isn’t on any of the charts. 
An unexplored, undiscovered tunnel. And we think this tunnel may lead us 
to the actual burial chamber of Khufu himself!” 

“Outstanding!” I exclaimed. “And Sari and I will be there when you 
discover it?” 

Uncle Ben chuckled. “I don’t know about that, Gabe. It may take us 
years of careful exploration. But I’ll take you down into the tunnel 
tomorrow. Then you can tell your friends you were actually inside the 
ancient pyramid of Khufu.” 

“I’ve already been in it,” Sari bragged. She turned her eyes to me. “It’s 
very dark. You might get scared.” 

“No, I won’t,” I insisted. “No way.” 

The three of us spent the night in my parents’ hotel room. It took me hours 
to get to sleep. I guess I was excited about going into the pyramid. I kept 
imagining that we found mummies and big chests of ancient jewels and 
treasure. 

Uncle Ben woke us up early the next morning, and we drove out to the 
pyramid outside al-Jizah. The air was already hot and sticky. The sun 
seemed to hang low over the desert like an orange balloon. 

“There it is!” Sari declared, pointing out the window. And I saw the 
Great Pyramid rising up from the yellow sand like some kind of mirage. 

Uncle Ben showed a special permit to the blue-uniformed guard, and 
we followed a narrow, private road that curved through the sand behind the 



pyramid. We parked beside several other cars and vans in the blue-gray 
shadow of the pyramid. 

As I stepped out of the car, my chest was thudding with excitement. I 
stared up at the enormous, worn stones of the Great Pyramid. 

It’s over four thousand years old, I thought. I’m about to go inside 
something that was built four thousand years ago! 

“Your sneaker’s untied,” Sari said, pointing. 

She sure knew how to bring a guy back down to earth. 

I bent in the sand to tie my sneaker. For some reason, the left one was 
always coming untied, even when I double-knotted it. 

“My workers are already inside,” Uncle Ben told us. “Now, stick close 
together, okay? Don’t wander off. The tunnels really are like a maze. It’s 
very easy to get lost.” 

“No problem,” I said, my trembling voice revealing how nervous and 
excited I was. 

“Don’t worry. I’ll keep an eye on Gabe, Dad,” Sari said. 

She was only two months older than me. Why did she have to act like 
she was my baby-sitter or something? 

Uncle Ben handed us both flashlights. “Clip them onto your jeans as 
we go in,” he instructed. He gazed at me. “You don’t believe in curses, do 
you? You know—the ancient Egyptian kind.” 

I didn’t know how to reply, so I shook my head. 

“Good,” Uncle Ben replied, grinning. “Because one of my workers 
claims we’ve violated an ancient decree by entering this new tunnel, and 
that we’ve activated some curse.” 

“We’re not scared,” Sari said, giving him a playful shove toward the 
entrance. “Get going, Dad.” 

And seconds later, we were stepping into the small, square opening cut 
into the stone. Stooping low, I followed them through a narrow tunnel that 
seemed to slope gradually down. 

Uncle Ben led the way, lighting the ground with a bright halogen 
flashlight. The pyramid floor was soft and sandy. The air was cool and 
damp. 

“The walls are granite,” Uncle Ben said, stopping to rub a hand along 
the low ceiling. “All of the tunnels were made of limestone.” 

The temperature dropped suddenly. The air felt even wetter. I suddenly 



realized why Uncle Ben had made us wear our sweatshirts. 

“If you’re scared, we can go back,” Sari said. 

“I’m fine,” I replied quickly. 

The tunnel ended abruptly. A pale yellow wall rose up in front of us. 
Ben’s flashlight darted over a small, dark hole in the floor. 

“Down we go,” Ben said, groaning as he dropped to his knees. He 
turned back to me. “Afraid there are no stairs down to the new tunnel. My 
workers installed a rope ladder. Just take your time on it, take it slowly, one 
mng at a time, and you’ll be fine.” 

“No problem,” I said. But my voice cracked. 

“Don’t look down,” Sari advised. “It might make you dizzy, and you’ll 

fall.” 

“Thanks for the encouragement,” I told her. I pushed my way past her. 
“I’ll go down first,” I said. I was already tired of her acting so superior. I 
decided to show her who was brave and who wasn’t. 

“No. Let me go first,” Uncle Ben said, raising a hand to stop me. 
“Then I’ll shine the light up at the ladder and help you down.” 

With another groan, he maneuvered himself into the hole. He was so 
big, he nearly didn’t fit. 

Slowly, he began to lower himself down the rope ladder. 

Sari and I leaned over the hole and peered down, watching him 
descend. The rope ladder wasn’t very steady. It swung back and forth under 
his weight as he slowly, carefully, made his way down. 

“It’s a long way down,” I said softly. 

Sari didn’t reply. In the shadowy light, I could see her worried 
expression. She was chewing on her lower lip as her dad reached the tunnel 
floor. 

She was nervous, too. 

That cheered me up a lot. 

“Okay, I’m down. You’re next, Gabe,” Uncle Ben called up to me. 

I turned and swung my feet onto the rope ladder. I grinned at Sari. 
“See ya.” 

I lowered my hands to the sides of the rope ladder—and as I slid them 
down, I cried out. 

“Ow!” 

The rope wasn’t smooth. It was coarse. It cut my hands. 



The sharp stab of pain made me lift my hands. 

And before I even realized what was happening, I started to fall. 



4 


Two hands reached down for mine. They shot through the air and grabbed 
my wrists. 

“Hold on!” Sari cried. 

She had slowed my fall just enough to allow me to grab back onto the 
sides of the rope ladder. 

“Oh, wow!” I managed to utter. That was the best I could do. I gripped 
the rope for dear life, waiting for my heart to stop pounding. I closed my 
eyes and didn’t move. I squeezed the ropes so hard, my hands ached. 

“Saved your life,” Sari called down to me, leaning into the opening, 
her face inches from mine. 

I opened my eyes and stared up at her. “Thanks,” I said gratefully. 

“No problem,” she replied and burst out laughing, laughing from 
relief, I guess. 

Why couldn’t I save her life? I asked myself angrily. Why can’t I ever 
be the big hero? 

“What happened, Gabe?” Uncle Ben called from the tunnel floor 
below. His booming voice echoed loudly through the chamber. The wide 
circle of light from his flashlight danced across the granite wall. 

“The rope cut my hands,” I explained. “I wasn’t expecting—” 

“Just take your time,” he said patiently. “One rung at a time, 
remember?” 

“Lower your hands. Don’t slide them,” Sari advised, her face poking 
through the hole above me. 

“Okay, okay,” I said, starting to breathe normally. 

I took a deep breath and held it. Then, slowly, carefully, I made my 
way down the long rope ladder. 

A short while later, all three of us were standing on the tunnel floor, 
holding our lighted flashlights, our eyes following the circles of light. “This 
way,” Uncle Ben said quietly, and he headed off to the right, walking 
slowly, stooping because of the low ceiling. 

Our sneakers crunched on the sandy floor. I saw another tunnel leading 
off to the right, then another tunnel on the left. 



“We’re breathing air that is four thousand years old,” Ben said, 
keeping his light aimed on the floor ahead of him. 

“Smells like it,” I whispered to Sari. She laughed. 

The air really did smell old. Kind of heavy and musty. Like someone’s 

attic. 

The tunnel widened a little as it curved to the right. 

“We’re going deeper into the earth,” Ben said. “Does it feel like you’re 
going downhill?” 

Sari and I both muttered that it did. 

“Dad and I explored one of the side tunnels yesterday,” Sari told me. 
“We found a mummy case inside a tiny room. A beautiful one in perfect 
condition.” 

“Was there a mummy inside it?” I asked eagerly. I was dying to see a 
mummy. The museum back home had only one. I’d stared at it and studied 
it all my life. 

“No. It was empty,” Sari replied. 

“Why didn’t the mummy have any hobbies?” Uncle Ben asked, 
stopping suddenly. 

“I don’t know,” I answered. 

“He was too wrapped up in his work!” Uncle Ben exclaimed. He 
laughed at his own joke. Sari and I could only muster weak smiles. 

“Don’t encourage him,” Sari told me, loud enough for her dad to hear. 
“He knows a million mummy jokes, and they’re all just as bad.” 

“Wait up. Just a sec,” I said. I bent down to tie my sneaker, which had 
come undone again. 

The tunnel curved, then divided into two tunnels. Uncle Ben led us 
through the one on the left, which was so narrow we had to squeeze through 
it, making our way sideways, heads bent, until it widened into a large, high- 
ceilinged chamber. 

I stood up straight and stretched. It felt so good not to be scrunched 
down. I stared around the large room. 

Several people came into view at the far wall, working with digging 
tools. Bright spotlights had been hung above them on the wall, attached to a 
portable generator. 

Uncle Ben brought us over to them and introduced us. There were four 
workers, two men and two women. 



Another man stood off to the side, a clipboard in his hand. He was an 
Egyptian, dressed all in white except for a red bandanna around his neck. 
He had straight black hair, slicked down and tied in a ponytail behind his 
head. He stared at Sari and me, but didn’t come over. He seemed to be 
studying us. 

“Ahmed, you met my daughter yesterday. This is Gabe, my nephew,” 
Uncle Ben called to him. 

Ahmed nodded, but didn’t smile or say anything. 

“Ahmed is from the university,” Uncle Ben explained to me in a low 
voice. “He requested permission to observe us, and I said okay. He’s very 
quiet. But don’t get him started on ancient curses. He’s the one who keeps 
warning me that I’m in deadly danger.” 

Ahmed nodded, but didn’t reply. He stared at me for a long while. 

Weird guy, I thought. 

I wondered if he’d tell me about the ancient curses. I loved stories 
about ancient curses. 

Uncle Ben turned to his workers. “So? Any progress today?” he asked. 

“We think we’re getting real close,” a young, red-haired man wearing 
faded jeans and a blue denim work shirt replied. And then he added, “Just a 
hunch.” 

Ben frowned. “Thanks, Quasimodo,” he said. 

The workers all laughed. I guess they liked Uncle Ben’s jokes. 

“Quasimodo was the Hunchback of Notre Dame,” Sari explained to 
me in her superior tone. 

“I know, I know,” I replied irritably. “I get it.” 

“We could be heading in the wrong direction altogether,” Uncle Ben 
told the workers, scratching the bald spot on the back of his head. “The 
tunnel might be over there.” He pointed to the wall on the right. 

“No, I think we’re getting warm, Ben,” a young woman, her face 
smudged with dust, said. “Come over here. I want to show you something.” 

She led him over to a large pile of stones and debris. He shined his 
light where she was pointing. Then he leaned closer to examine what she 
was showing him. 

“That’s very interesting, Christy,” Uncle Ben said, rubbing his chin. 
They fell into a long discussion. 

After a while, three other workers entered the chamber, carrying 



shovels and picks. One of them was carrying some kind of electronic 
equipment in a flat metal case. It looked a little like a laptop computer. 

I wanted to ask Uncle Ben what it was, but he was still in the corner, 
involved in his discussion with the worker named Christy. 

Sari and I wandered back toward the tunnel entrance. “I think he’s 
forgotten about us,” Sari said sullenly. 

I agreed, shining my flashlight up at the high, cracked ceiling. 

“Once he gets down here with the workers, he forgets everything but 
his work,” she said, sighing. 

“I can’t believe we’re actually inside a pyramid!” I exclaimed. 

Sari laughed. She kicked at the floor with one sneaker. “Look—ancient 
dirt,” she said. 

“Yeah.” I kicked up some of the sandy dirt, too. “I wonder who walked 
here last. Maybe an Egyptian priestess. Maybe a pharaoh. They might have 
stood right here on this spot.” 

“Let’s go exploring,” Sari said suddenly. 

“Huh?” 

Her dark eyes gleamed, and she had a really devilish look on her face. 
“Let’s go, Gabey—let’s check out some tunnels or something.” 

“Don’t call me Gabey,” I said. “Come on, Sari, you know I hate that.” 

“Sorry,” she apologized, giggling. “You coming?” 

“We can’t,” I insisted, watching Uncle Ben. He was having some kind 
of argument with the worker carrying the thing that looked like a laptop. 
“Your dad said we had to stick together. He said—” 

“He’ll be busy here for hours,” she interrupted, glancing back at him. 
“He won’t even notice we’re gone. Really.” 

“But, Sari—” I started. 

“Besides,” she continued, putting her hands on my shoulders and 
pushing me backwards toward the chamber door, “he doesn’t want us 
hanging around. We’ll only get in the way.” 

“Sari—” 

“I went exploring yesterday,” she said, pushing me with both hands. 
“We won’t go far. You can’t get lost. All the tunnels lead back to this big 
room. Really.” 

“I just don’t think we should,” I said, my eyes on Uncle Ben. He was 
down on his hands and knees now, digging against the wall with some kind 



of a pick. 

“Let go of me,” I told her. “Really. I—” 

And then she said what I knew she’d say. What she always says when 
she wants to get her way. 

“Are you chicken?” 

“No,” I insisted. “You know your dad said—” 

“Chicken? Chicken? Chicken?” She began clucking like a chicken. 
Really obnoxious. 

“Stop it, Sari.” I tried to sound tough and menacing. 

“Are you chicken, Gabey ?” she repeated, grinning at me as if she’d 
just won some big victory. “Huh, Gabey?” 

“Stop calling me that!” I insisted. 

She just stared at me. 

I made a disgusted face. “Okay, okay. Let’s go exploring,” I told her. 

I mean, what else could I say? 

“But not far,” I added. 

“Don’t worry,” she said, grinning. “We won’t get lost. I’ll just show 
you some of the tunnels I looked at yesterday. One of them has a strange 
animal picture carved on the wall. I think it’s some kind of a cat. I’m not 
sure.” 

“Really?” I cried, instantly excited. “I’ve seen pictures of relief 
carvings, but I’ve never—” 

“It may be a cat,” Sari said. “Or maybe a person with an animal head. 
It’s really weird.” 

“Where is it?” I asked. 

“Follow me.” 

We both gave one last glance back to Uncle Ben, who was down on his 
hands and knees, picking away at the stone wall. 

Then I followed Sari out of the chamber. 

We squeezed through the narrow tunnel, then turned and followed a 
slightly wider tunnel to the right. I hesitated, a few steps behind her. “Are 
you sure we’ll be able to get back?” I asked, keeping my voice low so she 
couldn’t accuse me of sounding frightened. 

“No problem,” she replied. “Keep your light on the floor. There’s a 
small chamber on the other end of this tunnel that’s kind of neat.” 

We followed the tunnel as it curved to the right. It branched into two 



low openings, and Sari took the one to the left. 

The air grew a little warmer. It smelled stale, as if people had been 
smoking cigarettes there. 

This tunnel was wider than the others. Sari was walking faster now, 
getting farther ahead of me. “Hey—wait up!” I cried. 

I looked down to see that my sneaker had come untied again. Uttering 
a loud, annoyed groan, I bent to retie it. 

“Hey, Sari, wait up!” 

She didn’t seem to hear me. 

I could see her light in the distance, growing fainter in the tunnel. 

Then it suddenly disappeared. 

Had her flashlight burned out? 

No. The tunnel probably curved, I decided. She’s just out of my view. 

“Hey, Sari!” I called. “Wait up! Wait up!” 

I stared ahead into the dark tunnel. 

“Sari?” 

Why didn’t she answer me? 



5 


“Sari!” 

My voice echoed through the long, curving tunnel. 

No reply. 

I called again, and listened to my voice fading as the echo repeated her 
name again and again. 

At first I was angry. 

I knew what Sari was doing. 

She was deliberately not answering, deliberately trying to frighten me. 

She had to prove that she was the brave one, and I was the ’fraidy cat. 

I suddenly remembered another time, a few years before. Sari and 
Uncle Ben had come to my house for a visit. I think Sari and I were seven 
or eight. 

We went outside to play. It was a gray day, threatening rain. Sari had a 
jump rope and was showing off, as usual, showing me how good she was at 
it. Then, of course, when she let me try it, I tripped and fell, and she 
laughed like crazy. 

I’d decided to get back at her by taking her to this deserted old house a 
couple blocks up the street. The kids in the neighborhood all believed the 
house was haunted. It was a neat place to sneak in and explore, although 
our parents were always warning us to stay away from it because it was 
falling apart and dangerous. 

So I led Sari to this house and told her it was haunted. And we sneaked 
in through the broken basement window. 

It got even darker out, and started to rain. It was perfect. I could tell 
Sari was really scared to be alone in the creepy old house. I, of course, 
wasn’t scared at all because I’d been there before. 

Well, we started exploring, with me leading the way. And somehow 
we got separated. And it started thundering and lightning outside. There 
was rain pouring in through the broken windows. 

I decided maybe we should get home. So I called to Sari. No answer. 

I called again. Still no answer. 

Then I heard a loud crash. 



Calling her name, I started running from room to room. I was scared to 
death. I was sure something terrible had happened. 

I ran through every room in the house, getting more and more scared. I 
couldn’t find her. I shouted and shouted, but she didn’t answer me. 

I was so scared, I started to cry. Then I totally panicked, and I ran out 
of the house and into the pouring rain. 

I ran through the thunder and lightning, crying all the way home. By 
the time I got home, I was soaked through and through. 

I ran into the kitchen, sobbing and crying that I’d lost Sari in the 
haunted house. 

And there she was. Sitting at the kitchen table. Comfortable and dry. 
Eating a big slice of chocolate cake. A smug smile on her face. 

And now, peering into the darkness of the pyramid, I knew Sari was 
doing the same thing to me. 

Trying to scare me. 

Trying to make me look bad. 

Or was she? 

As I made my way through the low, narrow tunnel, keeping the light 
aimed straight ahead, I couldn’t help it. My anger quickly turned to worry, 
and troubling questions whirred through my mind. 

What if she wasn’t playing a mean trick on me? 

What if something bad had happened to her? 

What if she had missed a step and fallen into a hole? 

Or had gotten herself trapped in a hidden tunnel? Or... I didn’t know 
what. 

I wasn’t thinking clearly. 

My sneakers thudded loudly over the sandy floor as I started to half¬ 
walk, half-jog through the winding tunnel. “Sari?” I called, frantically now, 
not caring whether I sounded frightened or not. 

Where was she? 

She wasn’t that far ahead of me. I should at least be able to see the 
light from her flashlight, I thought. 

“Sari?” 

There was no place for her to hide in this narrow space. Was I 
following the wrong tunnel? 

No. 



I had been in the same tunnel all along. The same tunnel I had watched 
her disappear in. 

Don’t say disappear, I scolded myself. Don’t even think the word. 

Suddenly the narrow tunnel ended. A small opening led into a small, 
square room. I flashed the light quickly from side to side. 

“Sari?” 

No sign of her. 

The walls were bare. The air was warm and stale. I moved the 
flashlight rapidly across the floor, looking for Sari’s footprints. The floor 
was harder, less sandy here. There were no footprints. 

“Oh!” 

I uttered a low cry when my light came to rest on the object against the 
far wall. My heart pounding, I eagerly took a few steps closer until I was 
just a few feet from it. 

It was a mummy case. 

A large, stone mummy case, at least eight feet long. 

It was rectangular, with curved corners. The lid was carved. I stepped 
closer and aimed the light. 

Yes. 

A human face was carved on the lid. The face of a woman. It looked 
like a death mask, the kind we’d studied in school. It stared wide-eyed up at 
the ceiling. 

“Wow!” I cried aloud. Areal mummy case. 

The carved face on the lid must have been brightly painted at one time. 
But the color had faded over the centuries. Now the face was gray, as pale 
as death. 

Staring at the top of the case, smooth and perfect, I wondered if Uncle 
Ben had seen it. Or if I had made a discovery of my own. 

Why is it all by itself in this small room? I wondered. 

And what does it hold inside? 

I was working up my courage to run my hand over the smooth stone of 
the lid when I heard the creaking sound. 

And saw the lid start to raise up. 

“Oh!” a hushed cry escaped my lips. 

At first I thought I had imagined it. I didn’t move a muscle. I kept the 
light trained on the lid. 



The lid lifted a tiny bit more. 

And I heard a hissing sound come from inside the big coffin, like air 
escaping a new coffee can when you first open it. 

Uttering another low cry, I took a step back. 

The lid raised up another inch. 

I took another step back. 

And dropped the flashlight. 

I picked it up with a trembling hand and shined it back onto the 
mummy case. 

The lid was now open nearly a foot. 

I sucked in a deep breath of air and held it. 

I wanted to run, but my fear was freezing me in place. 

I wanted to scream, but I knew I wouldn’t be able to make a sound. 

The lid creaked and opened another inch. 

Another inch. 

I lowered the flashlight to the opening, the light quivering with my 
hand. 

From the dark depths of the ancient coffin, I saw two eyes staring out 
at me. 



6 


I uttered a silent gasp. 

I froze. 

I felt a cold chill zigzag down my back. 

The lid slowly pushed open another inch. 

The eyes stared out at me. Cold eyes. Evil eyes. 

Ancient eyes. 

My mouth dropped open. And before I even realized it, I started to 
scream. 

Scream at the top of my lungs. 

As I screamed, unable to turn away, unable to run, unable to move, the 
lid slid open all the way. 

Slowly, as if in a dream, a dark figure raised itself from the depths of 
the mummy case and climbed out. 

“Sari!” 

Abroad smile widened across her face. Her eyes glowed gleefully. 

“Sari—that wasn’t funny!” I managed to shout in a high-pitched voice 
that bounced off the stone walls. 

But now she was laughing too hard to hear me. 

Loud, scornful laughter. 

I was so furious, I searched frantically for something to throw at her. 
But there wasn’t anything, not even a pebble on the floor. 

Staring at her, my chest still heaving from my fright, I really hated her 
then. She had made a total fool of me. There I had been, screaming like a 
baby. 

I knew she’d never let me live it down. 

Never. 

“The look on your face!” she exclaimed when she finally stopped 
laughing. “I wish I had a camera.” 

I was too angry to reply. I just growled at her. 

I pulled the little mummy hand from my back pocket and began rolling 
it around in my hand. I always fiddled with that hand when I was upset. It 



usually helped to calm me. 

But now I felt as if I’d never calm down. 

“I told you I’d found an empty mummy case yesterday,” she said, 
brushing the hair back off her face. “Didn’t you remember?” 

I growled again. 

I felt like a total dork. 

First I’d fallen for her dad’s stupid mummy costume. And now this. 

Silently to myself I vowed to pay her back. If it was the last thing I 
ever did. 

She was still chuckling about her big-deal joke. 

“The look on your face,” she said again, shaking her head. Rubbing it 
in. 

“You wouldn’t like it if I scared you,” I muttered angrily. 

“You couldn’t scare me,” she replied. “I don’t scare so easy.” 

“Hah!” 

That was the best comeback I could think of. Not very clever, I know. 
But I was too angry to be clever. 

I was imagining myself picking Sari up and tossing her back into the 
mummy case, pulling down the lid, and locking it—when I heard footsteps 
approaching in the tunnel. 

Glancing over at Sari, I saw her expression change. She heard them, 

too. 

A few seconds later, Uncle Ben burst into the small room. I could see 
immediately, even in the dim light, that he was really angry. 

“I thought I could trust you two,” he said, talking through gritted teeth. 

“Dad—” Sari started. 

But he cut her off sharply. “I trusted you not to wander off without 
telling me. Do you know how easy it is to get lost in this place? Lost 
forever?” 

“Dad,” Sari started again. “I was just showing Gabe this room I 
discovered yesterday. We were going to come right back. Really.” 

“There are hundreds of tunnels,” Uncle Ben said heatedly, ignoring 
Sari’s explanation. “Maybe thousands. Many of them have never been 
explored. No one has ever been in this section of the pyramid before. We 
have no idea what dangers there are. You two can’t just wander off by 
yourselves. Do you know how frantic I was when I turned around and you 



were gone?” 

“Sorry,” Sari and I both said in unison. 

“Let’s go,” Uncle Ben said, gesturing to the door with his flashlight. 
“Your pyramid visit is over for today.” 

We followed him into the tunnel. I felt really bad. Not only had I fallen 
for Sari’s stupid joke, but I’d made my favorite uncle really angry. 

Sari always gets me into trouble, I thought bitterly. Since we were little 

kids. 

Now she was walking ahead of me, arm in arm with her dad, telling 
him something, her face close to his ear. Suddenly they both burst out 
laughing and turned back to look at me. 

I could feel my face getting hot. 

I knew what she’d told him. 

She’d told him about hiding in the mummy case and making me 
scream like a scared baby. And now they were both chuckling about what a 
jerk I was. 

“Merry Christmas to you, too!” I called bitterly. 

And that made them laugh even harder. 


* * * 


We spent the night back in the hotel in Cairo. I beat Sari in two straight 
games of Scrabble, but it didn’t make me feel any better. 

She kept complaining that she had only vowels, and so the games 
weren’t fair. Finally, I put my Scrabble set back in my room, and we sat and 
stared at the TV. 

The next morning, we had breakfast in the room. I ordered pancakes, 
but they didn’t taste like any pancakes I’d ever eaten. They were tough and 
grainy, as if they were made of cowhide or something. 

“What are we doing today?” Sari asked Uncle Ben, who was still 
yawning and stretching after two cups of black coffee. 

“I have an appointment at the Cairo Museum,” he told us, glancing at 
his wristwatch. “It’s just a couple of blocks away. I thought you two might 
like to wander around the museum while I have my meeting.” 

“Ooh, thrills and chills,” Sari said sarcastically. She slurped up another 
spoonful of Frosted Flakes. 



The little Frosted Flakes box had Arabic writing all over it, and Tony 
the Tiger was saying something in Arabic. I wanted to save it and take it 
home to show my friends. But I knew Sari would make fun of me if I asked 
her for it, so I didn’t. 

“The museum has an interesting mummy collection, Gabe,” Uncle Ben 
said to me. He tried to pour himself a third cup of coffee, but the pot was 
empty. “You’ll like it.” 

“Unless they climb out of their cases,” Sari said. 

Lame. Really lame. 

I stuck my tongue out at her. She tossed a wet Frosted Flake across the 
table at me. 

“When are my mom and dad getting back?” I asked Uncle Ben. I 
suddenly realized I missed them. 

He started to answer, but the phone rang. He walked into the bedroom 
and picked it up. It was an old-fashioned black telephone with a dial instead 
of buttons. As he talked, his face filled with concern. 

“Change of plans,” he said a few seconds later, hanging up the receiver 
and coming back into the living room. 

“What’s the matter, Daddy?” Sari asked, shoving her cereal bowl 
away. 

“It’s very strange,” he replied, scratching the back of his head. “Two of 
my workers came down sick last night. Some kind of mysterious illness.” 
His expression became thoughtful, worried. “They took them to a hospital 
here in Cairo.” 

He started to gather up his wallet and some other belongings. “I think 
I’d better get over there right away,” he said. 

“But what about Gabe and me?” Sari asked, glancing at me. 

“I’ll only be gone an hour or so,” her dad replied. “Stay here in the 
room, okay?” 

“In the room?” Sari cried, making it sound like a punishment. 

“Well, okay. You can go down to the lobby, if you want. But don’t 
leave the hotel.” 

A few minutes later, he pulled on his tan safari jacket, checked one last 
time to make sure he had his wallet and keys, and hurried out the door. 

Sari and I stared at each other glumly. “What do you want to do?” I 
asked, poking the cold, uneaten pancakes on my plate with a fork. 



Sari shrugged. “Is it hot in here?” 

I nodded. “Yeah. It’s about a hundred and twenty.” 

“We have to get out of here,” she said, standing up and stretching. 

“You mean go down to the lobby?” I asked, still poking the pancakes, 
pulling them into pieces with the fork. 

“No. I mean get out of here,” she replied. She walked over to the 
mirror in the entranceway and began brushing her straight, black hair. 

“But Uncle Ben said—” I started. 

“We won’t go far,” she said, and then quickly added, “if you’re 
afraid.” 

I made a face at her. I don’t think she saw me. She was busy admiring 
herself in the mirror. 

“Okay,” I told her. “We could go to the museum. Your dad said it was 
just a block away.” 

I was determined not to be the wimp anymore. If she wanted to 
disobey her dad and go out, fine with me. From now on, I decided, I’ll be 
the macho guy. No repeats of yesterday—ever again. 

“The museum?” She made a face. “Well... okay,” she said, turning to 
look at me. “We’re twelve, after all. It’s not like we’re babies. We can go 
out if we want.” 

“Yes, we can,” I said. “I’ll write Uncle Ben a note and tell him where 
we’re going, in case he gets back before we do.” I went over to the desk and 
picked up a pen and a small pad of paper. 

“If you’re afraid, Gabey, we can just walk around the block,” she said 
in a teasing voice, staring at me, waiting to see how I’d react. 

“No way,” I said. “We’re going to the museum. Unless you ’re afraid.” 

“No way,” she said, imitating me. 

“And don’t call me Gabey,” I added. 

“Gabey, Gabey, Gabey,” she muttered, just to be annoying. 

I wrote the note to Uncle Ben. Then we took the elevator down to the 
lobby. We asked a young woman behind the desk where the Cairo Museum 
was. She said to turn right outside the hotel and walk two blocks. 

Sari hesitated as we stepped out into the bright sunshine. “You sure 
you’re up for this?” 

“What could go wrong?” I replied. 



7 


“Let’s go. This way,” I said, shielding my eyes from the bright sunlight with 
my hand. 

“It’s so hot,” Sari complained. 

The street was crowded and noisy. I couldn’t hear anything over the 
honking of car horns. 

Drivers here lean on their horns the minute they start up their cars, and 
they don’t stop honking till they arrive at their destinations. 

Sari and I stayed close together, making our way through the crush of 
people on the sidewalk. All kinds of people passed by. 

There were men in American-style business suits walking alongside 
men who appeared to be wearing loose-fitting white pajamas. 

We saw women who would look right at home on any street in 
America, wearing colorful leggings and stylish skirts and slacks. Women in 
jeans. Followed by women dressed in long, flowing black dresses, their 
faces covered by heavy, black veils. 

“This sure doesn’t look like back home!” I exclaimed, shouting over 
the blare of car horns. 

I was so fascinated by all the interesting-looking people crowding the 
narrow sidewalk that I forgot to look at the buildings. Before I knew it, we 
were standing in front of the museum, a tall, stone structure looming above 
the street behind steeply sloping steps. 

We climbed the steps and entered the revolving door of the museum. 

“Wow, it’s so quiet in here!” I exclaimed, whispering. It was nice to 
get away from the honking horns, the crowded sidewalks, and shouting 
people. 

“Why do you think they honk their horns so much?” Sari asked, 
holding her ears. 

“Just a custom, I guess,” I replied. 

We stopped and looked around. 

We were standing in the center of an enormous open lobby. Tall 
marble stairways rose up on the far left and far right. Twin white columns 
framed a wide doorway that led straight back. An enormous mural across 



the wall to the right showed an aerial view of the pyramids and the Nile. 

We stood in the middle of the floor, admiring the mural for a while. 
Then we made our way to the back wall and asked a woman at the 
information desk for the mummy room. She flashed us a nice smile and told 
us in perfect English to take the stairs to the right. 

Our sneakers thudded loudly over the shiny marble floor. The stairway 
seemed to go up forever. “This is like mountain climbing,” I complained, 
halfway up. 

“Race you to the top,” Sari said, grinning, and took off before I had a 
chance to reply. 

Of course she beat me by about ten steps. 

I waited for her to call me “slowpoke” or “snail face” or something. 
But she had already turned to see what lay ahead of us. 

A dark, high-ceilinged room seemed to stretch on forever. A glass case 
stood centered in the entryway. Inside was a detailed construction of wood 
and clay. 

I went up close to take a good look. The construction showed 
thousands of workers dragging enormous blocks of limestone across the 
sand toward a partially built pyramid. 

In the room behind the display I could see huge stone statues, large 
mummy cases, displays of glass and pottery, and case after case of artifacts 
and relics. 

“I think this is the place!” I exclaimed happily, rushing over to the first 
display case. 

“Ooh, what’s that? Some kind of giant dog?” Sari asked, pointing to an 
enormous statue against the wall. 

The creature appeared to have a fierce dog’s head and a lion’s body. Its 
eyes stared straight ahead, and it seemed ready to pounce on anyone who 
came near it. 

“They put creatures like that in front of tombs,” I told Sari. “You 
know. To protect the place. Scare away grave robbers.” 

“Like guard dogs,” Sari said, stepping up close to the ancient 
sculpture. 

“Hey—there’s a mummy in this case!” I exclaimed, leaning over an 
ancient stone coffin. “Look!” 

Still staring back at the enormous sculpture, Sari walked up beside me. 



“Yep. It’s a mummy, okay,” she said, unimpressed. I guess she’s seen a lot 
more of them than me. 

“It’s so small,” I said, staring at the yellowed linen wrapped so tightly 
around the skinny head and body. 

“Our ancestors were shrimps,” Sari replied. “Think it was a man or a 
woman?” 

I glanced at the plaque on the side of the coffin. “It says it’s a man.” 

“Guess they didn’t work out in those days,” she said and laughed at 
her own remark. 

“They did a great wrapping job,” I said, examining the carefully 
wrapped fingers on the hands, which were crossed over the mummy’s chest. 
“I was a mummy the Halloween before last, and my costume completely 
unraveled after ten minutes!” 

Sari tsk-tsked. 

“Do you know how they made mummies?” I asked, moving around to 
view it from the other side. “Do you know the first thing they did? They 
removed the brain.” 

“Yuck. Stop,” she said, sticking out her tongue and making a disgusted 

face. 

“Don’t you know about this?” I asked, delighted that I had some truly 
gmesome information that she didn’t. 

“Please—enough,” she said, holding up one hand as if to fend me off. 

“No, this is interesting,” I insisted. “The brain had to come out first. 
They had this special tool. It was like a long, skinny hook. They’d push it 
up the corpse’s nose until it reached the brain and then wiggled it back and 
forth, back and forth, until the brain became mush.” 

“Stop!” Sari pleaded, covering her ears. 

“Then they took a long spoon,” I continued gleefully, “and scooped the 
brain out a little at a time.” 

I made a scooping motion with my hand. “Scoop scoop. They scooped 
the brain out through the nose. Or sometimes they popped off an eyeball 
and scooped the brain out through the eyeball socket.” 

“Gabe—I mean it!” Sari cried. She really looked like she was about to 
hurl. She was green! 

I loved it. 

I never knew that Sari had a squeamish bone in her body. But I was 



really making her sick. 

Outstanding! I thought. 

I would definitely have to remember this technique. 

“It’s all true,” I told her, unable to hold back a wide grin. 

“Just shut up,” she muttered. 

“Of course sometimes they didn’t pull the brain out the nose. 
Sometimes they just sliced off the head. Then they drained the brains out 
through the neck and put the head back on the body. They just bandaged it 
back on, I guess.” 

“Gabe—” 

I’d been staring at her the whole time, checking out her reaction. She 
was looking sicker and sicker. She was breathing real heavy. Her chest was 
sort of heaving. I really thought she was going to lose her breakfast. 

If she did, I’d never let her forget it. 

“That’s really gross,” she said. Her voice sounded funny, like it was 
coming from underwater or something. 

“But it’s true,” I said. “Didn’t your dad ever tell you about how they 
made mummies?” 

She shook her head. “He knows I don’t like—” 

“And you know what they did with the guts?” I asked, enjoying the 
startled look on her face. “They put them in jars and—” 

I suddenly realized that Sari’s startled look wasn’t for me. 

She was actually staring over my shoulder. 

“Huh?” I turned around and saw why she suddenly looked so 
surprised. 

A man had entered the room and was standing just in front of the first 
display case. It took me a few seconds to recognize him. 

It was Ahmed, the strange, silent Egyptian with the black ponytail who 
had greeted us in such an unfriendly manner down inside the pyramid. He 
was dressed the same, in loose-fitting white trousers and shirt with a scarlet 
bandanna around his neck. And his expression was just as unfriendly. 
Angry, even. 

Sari and I both backed away from the mummy case, and Ahmed, his 
eyes darting from one of us to the other, took a step toward us. 

“Gabe, he’s coming after us!” Sari whispered. 

She grabbed my arm. Her hand was cold as ice. 



“Let’s get out of here!” she cried. 

I hesitated. Shouldn’t we stop and say hello to him first? 

But something about the stern, determined look on Ahmed’s face told 
me that Sari was right. 

We turned and began walking really fast away from him into the vast 
room, Sari a few steps ahead of me. 

I turned and saw that Ahmed was jogging after us. 

He shouted something to us, his voice angry, threatening. I couldn’t 
make out the words. 

“Run!” Sari cried. 

And now we were both running at full speed, our sneakers drumming 
loudly over the polished marble floor. 

We scooted around an enormous glass display case containing three 
upright mummy cases. Then we ran straight down the wide aisle between 
sculptures and shelves of ancient pottery and pyramid relics. 

Behind us, I could hear Ahmed shouting furiously, “Come back! Come 
back!” 

He sounded really angry. 

His shoes clacked against the floor as he ran, the sound echoing in the 
vast, empty museum chamber. 

“He’s gaining on us!” I called to Sari, who was still a few steps ahead. 

“There’s got to be a way out of here!” she answered breathlessly. 

But I immediately saw that there wasn’t. We were nearly to the back 
wall. We passed a gigantic sphinx, then stopped. 

There was nowhere to go. 

No doorway. No exit. 

A solid granite wall. 

We both turned and saw Ahmed’s eyes grow wide with triumph. 

He had us cornered. 



8 


Ahmed stopped a few feet in front of us. He was panting like a dog, gasping 
for air, and holding his side. He glared at us angrily. 

Sari glanced at me. She looked pale, really frightened. We both had 
our backs pressed against the wall. 

I swallowed hard. My throat felt tight and dry. 

What was he going to do to us? 

“Why did you run?” Ahmed finally managed to say, still holding his 
side as if he had a cramp. “Why?” 

We didn’t reply. We both stared back at him, waiting to see what he 
was about to do. 

“I came with a message from your father,” he told Sari, breathing hard. 
He raised the red bandanna from his neck and wiped his perspiring forehead 
with it. “Why did you run?” 

“A message?” Sari stammered. 

“Yes,” Ahmed said. “You know me. We met again yesterday. I don’t 
understand why you ran.” 

“I’m sorry,” Sari said quickly, glancing guiltily at me. 

“We weren’t thinking clearly,” I said. “Sari frightened me, and I 
followed her.” 

“Gabe was telling me all this frightening stuff,” she said, jabbing me 
hard in the side with her elbow. “It was his fault. He scared me with all this 
mummy stuff. So when I saw you, I wasn’t thinking clearly, and...” 

Both of us were babbling. We both felt so relieved that he wasn’t 
chasing us—and so embarrassed that we had run away from him. 

“Your father sent me to get you,” Ahmed said, his dark eyes trained on 
me. “I didn’t think I’d have to chase you through the whole museum.” 

“Sorry,” Sari and I said in unison. 

I felt like a complete jerk. I’m sure Sari did, too. 

“Daddy came back to the hotel and saw Gabe’s note?” Sari asked, 
straightening her hair with her hand as she moved away from the wall. 

“Yes.” Ahmed nodded. 

“He got back from the hospital awfully fast,” Sari said, glancing at her 



wrist watch. 

“Yes,” Ahmed replied again. “Come. I will take you back to the hotel. 
He is waiting for you there.” 

We followed him in silence, Sari and I walking side by side a few steps 
behind him. 

As we made our way down the long stairway, we glanced sheepishly at 
each other. We were both feeling really foolish for running away like that. 

A short while later, we were back on the crowded, noisy sidewalk, an 
unending stream of cars honking past, all moving in starts and stops, drivers 
hanging out of car windows, shouting and shaking their fists. 

Ahmed checked to make sure we were with him, then turned right and 
began leading the way through the crowd. The sun was high over the 
buildings now. The air was hot and humid. 

“Hey, wait—” I called. 

Ahmed turned back, but kept walking. 

“We’re going the wrong way,” I called to him, shouting over the cries 
of a street peddler behind a cart of vegetables. “The hotel is back that way.” 
I pointed. 

Ahmed shook his head. “My car is just up there.” 

“We’re driving back to the hotel?” Sari asked, her voice revealing her 
surprise. 

“It’s only two blocks,” I said to Ahmed. “Sari and I could walk back 
by ourselves if you want. You really don’t have to take us.” 

“It is no trouble,” Ahmed replied, and he placed his hands firmly, one 
on my shoulder, one on Sari’s, and continued to guide us to his car. 

We crossed the street and continued walking. The sidewalk grew even 
more crowded. A man swinging a leather briefcase accidentally clipped my 
shoulder with it. I cried out in pain. 

Sari laughed. 

“You have a great sense of humor,” I muttered sarcastically. 

“I know,” she replied. 

“If we’d walked, we would have been at the hotel already,” I said. 

Ahmed must have overheard, because he said, “The car’s in the next 
block.” 

We made our way quickly through the crowds. A short while later, 
Ahmed stopped at a small, four-door station wagon. It was covered with 



dust, and the fender on the driver’s side was crunched. 

He pulled open the back door, and Sari and I piled in. “Ow,” I 
complained. The leather seats were burning hot. 

“The wheel is hot, too,” Ahmed said, climbing in and fastening his 
seat belt. He touched the steering wheel a few times with both hands, trying 
to get used to the heat. “They should invent a car that stays cool inside 
when it is parked.” 

The engine started on the second try, and he pulled away from the curb 
and into the line of traffic. 

Immediately, he began honking the horn at the car in front of us. We 
moved slowly, stopping every few seconds, through the narrow street. 

“I wonder why Daddy didn’t come to get us,” Sari said to me, her eyes 
on the crowds passing by the dusty car window. 

“He said he would wait for you at the hotel,” Ahmed replied from the 
front seat. 

He made a sudden sharp turn onto a wider avenue and began to pick 
up speed. 

It took me a long while to realize that we were heading in the wrong 
direction —away from our hotel. “Uh... Ahmed... I think the hotel is back 
that way,” I said, pointing toward the back window. 

“I believe you are mistaken,” he replied softly, staring straight ahead 
through the windshield. “We will be there shortly.” 

“No. Really,” I insisted. 

One thing about me is I have a really good sense of direction. Mom 
and Dad always say they don’t need a map when I’m around. I almost 
always know when I’m heading the wrong way. 

Sari turned to glance at me, an expression of concern beginning to 
tighten her features. 

“Settle back and enjoy the ride,” Ahmed said, staring at me through 
the rearview mirror. “Have you fastened your seat belts? Better do it right 
now.” 

He had a smile on his face, but his voice was cold. His words sounded 
like a threat. 

“Ahmed, we’ve gone too far,” I insisted, starting to feel really afraid. 

Outside the window, the buildings were lower, more rundown. We 
seemed to be heading away from the downtown area. 



“Just settle back,” he replied with growing impatience. “I know where 
I’m going.” 

Sari and I exchanged glances. She looked as worried as I did. We both 
realized that Ahmed was lying to us. He wasn’t taking us to the hotel. He 
was taking us out of town. 

We were being kidnapped. 



9 


Seeing Ahmed’s eyes on me in the rearview mirror, I fiddled with the seat 
belt, pretending to fasten it. As I did this, I leaned close to Sari and 
whispered in her ear, “Next time he stops.” 

At first she didn’t get my meaning. But then I saw that she understood. 

We both sat tensely, eyes on the door handles, waiting in silence. 

“Your father is a very smart man,” Ahmed said, staring at Sari in the 
mirror. 

“I know,” Sari replied in a tiny voice. 

The traffic slowed, then stopped. 

“Now!” I screamed. 

We both grabbed for the door handles. 

I pushed my door open and flung myself out of the car. 

Horns were honking in front of me and behind me. I could hear 
Ahmed’s surprised shout. 

Leaving the car door open, I turned to see that Sari had made it to the 
street, too. She turned to me as she slammed her door shut, her eyes wide 
with fear. 

Without a word, we started to run. 

The car horns seemed to grow louder as we headed into a narrow side 
street. We were running side by side, following the narrow brick street as it 
curved between two rows of tall, white stucco buildings. 

I feel like a rat in a maze, I thought. 

The street grew even narrower. Then it emptied into a wide circle 
filled with a small market of fruit and vegetable stands. 

“Is he following us?” Sari cried, a few steps behind me now. 

I turned back and searched for him, my eyes darting through the small 
crowd attending the market. 

I saw several people in flowing white robes. Two women entered the 
market, dressed in black, carrying a basket loaded high with bananas. A boy 
on a bicycle swerved to keep from running straight into them. 

“I don’t see him,” I called back to Sari. 

But we kept running just to make sure. 



I’d never been so scared in my life. 

Please, please, I begged silently, don’t let him be following us. Don’t 
let him catch us! 

Turning a corner, we found ourselves on a wide, busy avenue. A tmck 
bounced past, pulling a trailer filled with horses. The sidewalk was crowded 
with shoppers and businesspeople. 

Sari and I pushed our way through them, trying to lose ourselves in the 
crowd. 

Finally, we came to a stop near the entrance of what appeared to be a 
large department store. Breathing hard, I rested my hands on my knees, 
leaned forward, and tried to catch my breath. 

“We’ve lost him,” Sari said, staring back in the direction from which 
we’d come. 

“Yeah. We’re okay,” I said happily. I smiled at her, but she didn’t 
return the smile. 

Her face was filled with fear. Her eyes continued to stare into the 
crowd. One hand tugged nervously at a strand of her hair. 

“We’re okay,” I repeated. “We got away.” 

“There’s only one problem,” she said quietly, her eyes still on the 
crowd bustling toward us on the sidewalk. 

“Huh? Problem?” 

“Now we’re lost,” she replied, finally turning to face me. “We’re lost, 
Gabe. We don’t know where we are.” 

I suddenly had a heavy feeling in the pit of my stomach. I started to 
utter a frightened cry. 

But I forced myself to hold it in. 

I forced myself to pretend I wasn’t afraid. 

Sari had always been the brave one, the winner, the champ. And I was 
always the wimp. But now I could see that she was really scared. This was 
my chance to be the cool one, my chance to show her who was really the 
champ. 

“No problem,” I told her, gazing up at the tall glass and concrete 
buildings. “We’ll just ask somebody to direct us to the hotel.” 

“But no one speaks English!” she cried, sounding as if she were about 
to cry. 

“Uh... no problem,” I said, a little less cheerily. “I’m sure someone...” 



“We’re lost,” she repeated miserably, shaking her head. “Totally lost.” 

And then I saw the answer to our problem parked at the curb. It was a 
taxi, an empty taxi. 

“Come on,” I said, tugging her arm. I pulled her to the taxi. The driver, 
a thin, young man with a wide black mustache and stringy black hair falling 
out of a small gray cap, turned around in surprise as Sari and I climbed into 
the back seat. 

“The Cairo Center Hotel,” I said, glancing reassuringly at Sari. 

The driver stared back at me blankly, as if he didn’t understand. 

“Please take us to the Cairo Center Hotel,” I repeated slowly and 
clearly. 

And then he tossed back his head, opened his mouth, and started to 
laugh. 



10 


The driver laughed till tears formed in the comers of his eyes. 

Sari grabbed my arm. “He’s working for Ahmed,” she whispered, 
squeezing my wrist. “We’ve walked right into a trap!” 

“Huh?” I felt a stab of fear in my chest. 

I didn’t think she was right. 

She couldn’t be right! 

But I didn’t know what else to think. 

I grabbed the door handle and started to leap out of the taxi. But the 
driver raised a hand, signaling for me to stop. 

“Gabe— go\” Sari pushed me hard from behind. 

“Cairo Center Hotel?” the driver asked suddenly, wiping the tears from 
his eyes with a finger. Then he pointed through the windshield. “Cairo 
Center Hotel?” 

Sari and I both followed his finger. 

There was the hotel. Right across the street. 

He started to laugh again, shaking his head. 

“Thanks,” I shouted, and climbed out. 

Sari scrambled out behind me, a wide, relieved smile on her face. “I 
don’t think it’s that funny,” I told her. “The cab driver has a strange sense of 
humor.” 

I turned back. The driver was still staring at us, a broad smile on his 

face. 

“Come on,” she urged, tugging at my arm. “We have to tell Daddy 
about Ahmed.” 

But to our surprise, our hotel room was empty. My note was still on 
the table where I had left it. Nothing had been moved or touched. 

“He hasn’t been back here,” Sari said, picking up my note and 
crumpling it into a ball in her hand. “Ahmed lied—about everything.” 

I flopped down on the couch with a loud sigh. “I wonder what’s going 
on,” I said unhappily. “I just don’t get it.” 

Sari and I both screamed as the door to the room flew open. 



“Daddy!” Sari cried, running to hug him. 

I was sure glad it was Uncle Ben, and not Ahmed. 

“Daddy, the strangest thing—” Sari started. 

Uncle Ben had his arm around her shoulder. As he led her across the 
room toward the couch, I could see that he had a really dazed expression on 
his face. 

“Yes, it’s strange,” he muttered, shaking his head. “Both of my 
workers...” 

“Huh? Are they okay?” Sari asked. 

“No. Not really,” Uncle Ben replied, dropping onto the arm of the 
armchair, staring hard but not really focusing on me. “They’re both... in a 
state of shock. I guess that’s how to describe it.” 

“They were in an accident? In the pyramid?” I asked. 

Uncle Ben scratched the bald spot at the back of his head. “I don’t 
really know. They can’t talk. They’re both... speechless. I think something 
—or someone—frightened them. Scared them speechless. The doctors are 
completely confused. They said that—” 

“Daddy, Ahmed tried to kidnap us!” Sari interrupted, squeezing his 
hand. 

“What? Ahmed?” He narrowed his eyes, his forehead wrinkling up in 
confusion. “What do you mean?” 

“Ahmed. The guy at the pyramid. The one who wears the white suits 
with the red bandanna and always carries the clipboard,” Sari explained. 

“He told us you sent him to get us,” I said. “He came to the museum 

“Museum?” Uncle Ben climbed to his feet. “What were you doing at 
the museum? I thought I told you—” 

“We had to get out of here,” Sari said, putting a hand on her dad’s 
shoulder, trying to calm him. “Gabe wanted to see mummies, so we went to 
the museum. But Ahmed came and took us to his car. He said he was taking 
us to you at the hotel.” 

“But he was driving the wrong way,” I continued the story. “So we 
jumped out and ran away.” 

“Ahmed?” Uncle Ben kept repeating the name, as if he just couldn’t 
believe it. “He came to me with excellent credentials and references,” he 
said. “He’s a cryptographer. He studies ancient Egyptian. He’s mainly 



interested in the wall writings and symbols we uncover.” 

“So why did he come for us?” I asked. 

“Where was he going to take us?” Sari asked. 

“I don’t know,” Uncle Ben said. “But I certainly intend to find out.” 
He hugged Sari. “What a mystery,” he continued. “You’re both okay?” 

“Yeah. We’re okay,” I replied. 

“I’ve got to get to the pyramid,” he said, letting go of Sari and walking 
to the window. “I gave my workers the day off. But I’ve got to get to the 
bottom of this.” 

Clouds rolled over the sun. The room suddenly grew darker. 

“I’ll order up some room service for you,” Uncle Ben said, a 
thoughtful expression on his face. “Will you two be okay here till I get back 
tonight?” 

“No!” Sari cried. “You can’t leave us here!” 

“Why can’t we come with you?” I asked. 

“Yes! We’re coming with you!” Sari exclaimed, before Uncle Ben had 
a chance to reply. 

He shook his head. “Too dangerous,” he said, his eyes narrowing as he 
glanced first at me, then at Sari. “Until I can find out what happened to my 
two workers in there—” 

“But, Daddy, what if Ahmed comes back?” Sari cried, sounding really 
frightened. “What if he comes here?” 

Uncle Ben scowled. “Ahmed,” he muttered. “Ahmed.” 

“You can’t leave us here!” Sari repeated. 

Uncle Ben stared out the window at the darkening sky. “I guess you’re 
right,” he said finally. “I guess I have to take you with me.” 

“Yes!” Sari and I both cried, relieved. 

“But you have to promise to stick close,” Uncle Ben said sternly, 
pointing a finger at Sari. “I mean it. No wandering off. No more practical 
jokes.” 

I realized I was seeing a whole new side of my uncle. Even though he 
was a well-known scientist, he had always been the jolly practical joker of 
the family. 

But now he was worried. 

Seriously worried. 

No more jokes until the frightening mystery was cleared up. 



We had sandwiches downstairs in the hotel restaurant, then drove 
through the desert to the pyramid. 

Heavy clouds rolled across the sun as we drove, casting shadows over 
the sand, coloring the desert darkly in shimmering shades of blue and gray. 

Before long, the enormous pyramid loomed on the horizon, appearing 
to grow larger as we approached on the nearly empty highway. 

I remembered the first time I had seen it, just a few days before. Such 
an amazing sight. 

But now, watching it through the car windshield, I felt only dread. 

Uncle Ben parked the car near the low entrance he had discovered 
behind the pyramid. As we stepped out, the wind whipped at the ground, 
tossing the sand up, whirling it around our legs. 

Uncle Ben raised a hand to stop us at the tunnel entrance. 

“Here,” he said. He reached into his supply pack and pulled out 
equipment for Sari and me. “Clip this on.” 

He handed each of us a beeper. “Just push the button, and it will beep 
me,” he said, helping me clip mine to the belt on my jeans. “It’s like a 
homing device. If you push the button, it sends electronic signals to the unit 
I’m wearing. Then I can track you down by following the sound levels. Of 
course, I don’t expect you to use it because I expect you to stay close to 
me.” 

He handed us flashlights. “Watch your step,” he instructed. “Keep the 
light down at your feet, a few yards ahead of you on the floor.” 

“We know, Daddy,” Sari said. “We’ve done this before, remember?” 

“Just follow instructions,” he said sharply, and turned into the darkness 
of the pyramid opening. 

I stopped at the entrance and pulled out my little mummy hand, just to 
make sure I had it. 

“What are you doing with that?” Sari asked, making a face. 

“My good luck charm,” I said, slipping it back into my pocket. 

She groaned and gave me a playful shove into the pyramid entrance. 

A few minutes later, we were once again making our way carefully 
down the long rope ladder and into the first narrow tunnel. 

Uncle Ben led the way, the wide circle of light from his flashlight 
sweeping back and forth across the tunnel ahead of him. Sari was a few 
steps behind him, and I walked a few steps behind her. 



The tunnel seemed narrower and lower this time. I guess it was just my 
mood. 

Gripping the flashlight tightly, keeping the light aimed down, I dipped 
my head to keep from hitting the low, curved ceiling. 

The tunnel bent to the left, then sloped downhill where it split into two 
paths. We followed the one to the right. The only sound was that of our 
shoes scraping against the sandy, dry floor. 

Uncle Ben coughed. 

Sari said something. I couldn’t hear what it was. 

I had stopped to shine my light on a bunch of spiders on the ceiling, 
and the two of them had walked several yards ahead of me. 

Following my light as it moved over the floor, I saw that my sneaker 
had come untied once again. 

“Oh, man—not again!” 

I stooped to tie it, setting the flashlight on the ground beside me. “Hey 
—wait up!” I called. 

But they had started to argue about something, and I don’t think they 
heard me. I could hear their voices echoing loudly down the long, twisting 
tunnel, but I couldn’t make out their words. 

I hurriedly double-knotted the shoe lace, grabbed up the flashlight, and 
climbed to my feet. “Hey, wait up!” I shouted anxiously. 

Where had they gone? 

I realized that I couldn’t hear their voices anymore. 

This can’t be happening to me again! I thought. 

“Hey!” I shouted, cupping my hands over my mouth. My voice echoed 
down the tunnel. 

But no voices called back. 

“Wait up!” 

Typical, I thought. 

They were so involved in their argument, they forgot all about me. 

I realized that I was more angry than frightened. Uncle Ben had made 
such a big deal about us sticking close together. And then he walked off and 
left me alone in the tunnel. 

“Hey, where are you?” I shouted. 

No reply. 



11 


Beaming the light ahead of me on the floor, I ducked my head and began 
jogging, following the tunnel as it curved sharply to the right. 

The floor began to slope upwards. The air became hot and musty 
smelling. I found myself gasping for breath. 

“Uncle Ben!” I called. “Sari!” 

They must be around the next curve in the tunnel, I told myself. It 
hadn’t taken me that long to tie my shoelace. They couldn’t have gotten that 
far ahead. 

Hearing a sound, I stopped. 

And listened. 

Silence now. 

Was I starting to hear things? 

I had a sudden flash: Was this another mean practical joke? Were Sari 
and Uncle Ben hiding, waiting to see what I’d do? 

Was this another lame trick of theirs to frighten me? 

It could be. Uncle Ben, I knew, could never resist a practical joke. He 
had laughed like a hyena when Sari told him how she’d hid in the mummy 
case and scared about ten years off my life. 

Were they both hiding in mummy cases now, just waiting for me to 
stumble by? 

My heart thumped in my chest. Despite the heat of the ancient tunnel, I 
felt cold all over. 

No, I decided. This isn’t a practical joke. 

Uncle Ben was too serious today, too worried about his stricken 
workers. Too worried about what we’d told him about Ahmed. He wasn’t in 
any mood for practical jokes. 

I began making my way through the tunnel again. As I jogged, my 
hand brushed against the beeper at my waist. 

Should I push it? 

No, I decided. 

That would only give Sari a good laugh. She’d be eager to tell 
everyone how I’d started beeping for help after being in the pyramid for 



two minutes! 

I turned the corner. The tunnel walls seemed to close in on me as the 
tunnel narrowed. 

“Sari? Uncle Ben?” 

No echo. Maybe the tunnel was too narrow for an echo. 

The floor grew harder, less sandy. In the dim yellow light, I could see 
that the granite walls were lined with jagged cracks. They looked like dark 
lightning bolts coming down from the ceiling. 

“Hey—where are you guys?” I shouted. 

I stopped when the tunnel branched in two directions. 

I suddenly realized how scared I was. 

Where had they disappeared to? They had to have realized by now that 
I wasn’t with them. 

I stared at the two openings, shining my light first into one tunnel, then 
the other. 

Which one had they entered? 

Which one? 

My heart pounding, I ran into the tunnel on the left and shouted their 
names. 

No reply. 

I backed out quickly, my light darting wildly over the floor, and 
stepped into the tunnel to the right. 

This tunnel was wider and higher. It curved gently to the right. 

A maze of tunnels. That’s how Uncle Ben had described the pyramid. 
Maybe thousands of tunnels, he had told me. 

Thousands. 

Keep moving, I urged myself. 

Keep moving, Gabe. 

They’re right up ahead. They’ve got to be! 

I took a few steps and then called out to them. 

I heard something. 

Voices? 

I stopped. It was so quiet now. So quiet, I could hear my heart 
pounding in my chest. 

The sound again. 

I listened hard, holding my breath. 



It was a chattering sound. A soft cluttering. Not a human voice. An 
insect, maybe. Or a rat. 

“Uncle Ben? Sari?” 

Silence. 

I took a few more steps into the tunnel. Then a few more. 

I decided Td better forget my pride and beep them. 

So what if Sari teased me about it? 

I was too frightened to care. 

If I beeped them, they’d be right there to get me in a few seconds. 

But as I reached to my waist for the beeper, I was startled by a loud 
noise. 

The insect chittering became a soft cracking sound. 

I stopped to listen, the fear rising up to my throat. 

The soft cracking grew louder. 

It sounded like someone breaking saltines in two. 

Only louder. Louder. 

Louder. 

Right under my feet. 

I turned my eyes to the floor. 

I shined the light at my shoes. 

It took me so long to realize what was happening. 

The ancient tunnel floor was cracking apart beneath me. 

The cracking grew louder, seemed to come from all directions, to 
surround me. 

By the time I realized what was happening, it was too late. 

I felt as if I were being pulled down, sucked down by a powerful force. 
The floor crumbled away beneath me, and I was falling. 

Falling down, down, down an endless black hole. 

I opened my mouth to scream, but no sound came out. 

My hands flew up and grabbed—nothing! 

I closed my eyes and fell. 

Down, down into the swirling blackness. 



12 


I heard the flashlight clang against the floor. 

Then I hit. Hard. 

I landed on my side. Pain shot through my body, and I saw red. A flash 
of bright red that grew brighter and brighter until I had to close my eyes. I 
think the force of the blow knocked me out for a short while. 

When I opened my eyes, everything was a gray-yellow blur. My side 
ached. My right elbow throbbed with pain. 

I tried the elbow. It seemed to move okay. 

I sat up. The haze slowly began to lift, like a curtain slowly rising. 

Where was I? 

A sour smell invaded my nostrils. The smell of decay. Of ancient dust. 
Of death. 

The flashlight had landed beside me on the concrete floor. I followed 
its beam of light toward the wall. 

And gasped. 

The light stopped on a hand. 

A human hand. 

Or was it? 

The hand was attached to an arm. The arm hung stiffly from an erect 
body. 

My hand trembling, I grabbed up the flashlight and tried to steady the 
light on the figure. 

It was a mummy, I realized. Standing on its feet near the far wall. 

Eyeless, mouthless, the bandaged face seemed to stare back at me, 
tense and ready, as if waiting for me to make the first move. 



13 


A mummy? 

The light darted over its featureless face. I couldn’t steady my hand. 
My whole body was shaking. 

Frozen in place, not able to move off the hard floor, I gaped at the 
frightening figure. I suddenly realized I was panting loudly. 

Trying to calm myself, I sucked in a deep breath of the putrid air, and 
held it. 

The mummy stared blindly back at me. 

It stood stiffly, its arms hanging at its sides. 

Why is it standing there like that? I wondered, taking another deep 
breath. 

The ancient Egyptians didn’t leave their mummies standing at 
attention. 

Realizing that it wasn’t moving forward to attack me, I began to feel a 
little calmer. 

“Easy, Gabe. Easy,” I said aloud, trying to steady the flashlight I 
gripped so tightly in my hand. 

I coughed. The air was so foul. So old. 

Groaning from the pain in my side, I climbed to my feet and began 
rapidly shining the light back and forth beyond the silent, faceless mummy. 

I was in an enormous, high-ceilinged chamber. Much bigger than the 
chamber Uncle Ben’s workers had been digging in. 

And much more cluttered. 

“Wow.” I uttered a low cry as the pale light of the flashlight revealed 
an amazing scene. Dark, bandaged figures hovered all around me. 

The vast chamber was crammed with mummies! 

In the unsteady light, their shadows seemed to reach toward me. 

Shuddering, I took a step back. I moved the light slowly over the 
strange, hideous scene. 

The light burned through the shadows, revealing bandaged arms, 
torsos, legs, covered faces. 

There were so many of them. 



There were mummies leaning against the wall. Mummies lying on 
stone slabs, arms crossed over their chests. Mummies leaning at odd angles, 
crouched low or standing tall, their arms straight out in front of them like 
Frankenstein monsters. 

Against one wall stood a row of mummy cases, their lids propped 
open. I turned, following the arc of my light. I realized that my fall had 
dropped me into the center of the room. 

Behind me, I could make out an amazing array of equipment. Strange, 
pronglike tools I had never seen before. Tall stacks of cloth. Gigantic clay 
pots and jars. 

Easy, Gabe. Easy. 

Whoa. Breathe slowly. 

I took a few reluctant steps closer, trying to hold the flashlight steady. 

A few more steps. 

I walked up to one of the tall stacks of cloth. Linen, most likely. The 
material used for making mummies. 

Gathering my courage, I examined some of the tools. Not touching 
anything. Just staring at them in the wavering light of the flashlight. 

Mummy-making tools. Ancient mummy-making tools. 

I stepped away. Turned back toward the crowd of unmoving figures. 

My light traveled across the room and came to rest on a dark square 
area on the floor. Curious, I moved closer, stepping around twin mummies, 
lying on their backs, their arms crossed over their chests. 

Whoa. Easy, Gabe. 

My sneakers scraped noisily along the floor as I made my way 
hesitantly across the vast chamber. 

The dark square on the floor was nearly the size of a swimming pool. I 
bent down at its edge to examine it more closely. 

The surface was soft and sticky. Like tar. 

Was this an ancient tar pit? Was this tar used in the making of the 
mummies that hovered so menacingly around the room? 

I had a sudden chill that froze me to the spot. 

How could this tar pit be soft after four thousand years ? 

Why was everything in this chamber—the tools, the mummies, the 
linen—preserved so well? 

And why were these mummies—at least two dozen of them—left out 



like this, scattered about the room in such strange positions? 

I realized that I had made an incredible discovery here. By falling 
through the floor, I had found a hidden chamber, a chamber where 
mummies had been made. I had found all of the tools and all of the 
materials used to make mummies four thousand years ago. 

Once again, the sour smell invaded my nose. I held my breath to keep 
myself from gagging. It was the smell of four-thousand-year-old bodies, I 
realized. A smell that had been bottled up in this ancient, hidden chamber— 
until now. 

Staring at the twisted, shadowy figures gazing back at me in faceless 
horror, I reached for the beeper. 

Uncle Ben, you must come quickly, I thought. 

I don’t want to be alone down here any longer. 

You must come here now! 

I pulled the beeper off my belt and brought it up close to the light. 

All I had to do, I realized, was push the button, and Uncle Ben and 
Sari would come running. 

Gripping the small square tightly in my hand, I moved my hand to the 
button—and cried out in alarm. 

The beeper was ruined. Wrecked. Smashed. 

The button wouldn’t even push. 

I must have landed on it when I fell. 

It was useless. 

I was all alone down here. 

Alone with the ancient mummies, staring facelessly, silently, at me 
through the deep, dark shadows. 



14 


All alone. 

I stared in horror at the worthless beeper. 

The flashlight trembled in my hand. 

Suddenly, everything seemed to move in on me. The walls. The 
ceiling. The darkness. 

The mummies. 

“Huh?” 

I stumbled back a step. Then another. 

I realized I was gripping the flashlight so tightly, my hand hurt. 

The light played over the faceless figures. 

They weren’t moving. 

Of course they weren’t moving. 

I took another step back. The sour odor seemed to grow stronger, 
thicker. I held my breath, but the smell was in my nostrils, in my mouth. I 
could taste it, taste the decay, taste the four-thousand-year-old aroma of 
death. 

I tossed the worthless beeper on the floor and took another step back, 
keeping my eyes on the hovering mummies. 

What was I going to do? 

The smell was making me sick. I had to get out of there, had to call 
Uncle Ben. 

Another step back. 

“Help!” 

I tried to shout, but my voice sounded weak, muffled by the heavy, 
foul air. 

“Help! Can anybody hear me?” A little louder. 

Tucking the flashlight under my arm, I cupped my hands around my 
mouth to form a megaphone. “Can anybody hear me?” I screamed. 

I listened, desperate for a reply. 

Silence. 

Where were Sari and Uncle Ben? Why couldn’t they hear me? Why 



weren’t they looking for me? 

“Help! Somebody—please help!” 

I screamed as loud as I could, tilting my head up to the hole in the 
ceiling, the hole I had fallen through. 

“Can’t anybody hear me?” I shrieked. 

I could feel the panic grip my chest, freeze my legs. 

The panic swept over me, wave after paralyzing wave. 

“Help me! Somebody —please!” 

I took another step back. 

And something crunched under my sneaker. 

I uttered a high-pitched yelp and stumbled forward. 

Whatever it was slithered away. 

I exhaled loudly, a long sigh of relief. 

And then I felt something brush against my ankle. 

I cried out, and the flashlight dropped from under my arm. It clattered 
noisily to the floor. 

The light went out. 

Again, something scraped silently against me. 

Something hard. 

I heard soft, scrabbling sounds down on the floor. Something snapped 
at my ankle. 

I kicked hard, but hit only air. 

“Ohh, help!” 

There were creatures down there. A lot of them. 

But what were they? 

Again, something slapped at my ankle, and I kicked wildly. 

Frantically, I bent down, grabbing for the flashlight in the darkness. 
And touched something hard and warm. 

“Ohh, no!” 

I jerked my hand up with a startled cry. 

In the darkness, groping for the flashlight, I had the feeling that the 
entire floor had come to life. The floor was moving in waves, rolling and 
tossing, seething beneath me. 

Finally, I found the flashlight. I grabbed it up in my trembling hand, 
climbed to my feet, and struggled to turn it back on. 



As I stepped backward, something slid against my leg. 

It felt hard. And prickly. 

I heard clicking sounds. Snapping. Creatures bumping into each other. 

Panting loudly, my chest heaving, my entire body gripped with terror, I 
jumped up, tried to dance away as I fiddled with the flashlight. 

Something crunched loudly beneath my sneaker. I danced away, 
hopping over something that scuttled through my legs. 

Finally, the light flickered on. 

My heart thudding, I lowered the yellow beam of light to the floor. 

And saw the scrabbling, snapping creatures. 

Scorpions! 

I had stumbled into a disgusting nest of them. 

“Ohh—help!” 

I didn’t recognize my tiny, frightened voice as I cried out. I didn’t even 
realize I had cried out. 

The light darted over the slithering creatures, their tails raised as if 
ready to attack, their claws snapping silently as they moved. Crawling over 
each other. Slithering past my ankles. 

“ S omebody—help! ” 

I leapt backwards as a pair of claws grabbed at the leg of my jeans— 
into another of the creatures whose tail snapped against the back of my 
sneaker. 

Struggling to escape from the poisonous creatures, I tripped. 

“No! Please —no/” 

I couldn’t save myself. 

I started to fall. 

My hands shot out, but there was nothing to grab on to. 

I was going to plunge right into the middle of them. 

“Nooooo!” 

I uttered a frantic cry as I toppled forward. 

And felt two hands grab me by the shoulders from behind. 



15 


A mummy! I thought. 

My entire body convulsed with fear. 

The scorpions snapped and scrabbled at my feet. 

The strong hands gripped my shoulders, pulled me hard. 

The ancient, bandaged hands. 

I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t think. 

Finally, I managed to spin around. 

“Sari!” I cried. 

She gave me one more tug. We both stumbled backwards, claws 
snapping up at us. 

“Sari—how—?” 

We moved together now, making our way toward the center of the vast 
chamber. 

Safe. Safe from the disgusting nest of snapping scorpions. 

“Saved your life,” she whispered. “Yuck. Those are gross!” 

“Tell me about it,” I said weakly. I could still feel the hideous creatures 
sliding along my ankles, still feel them slithering between my legs, 
crunching under my sneakers. 

I don’t think I’ll ever forget that crunching sound. 

“What are you doing down here?” Sari cried impatiently, as if scolding 
a child. “Daddy and I have been looking everywhere for you.” 

I pulled her even farther from the scorpions, into the center of the 
chamber. “How did you get down here?” I cried, struggling to calm my 
breathing, struggling to stop the pounding in my chest. 

She pointed with her flashlight to a tunnel in the corner that I hadn’t 
seen. “I was searching for you. Daddy and I got separated. Do you believe 
it? He stopped to talk to a worker, and I didn’t realize it. By the time I 
turned back, he was gone. Then I saw the light moving around in here. I 
thought it was Daddy.” 

“You got lost, too?” I asked, wiping beads of cold sweat off my 
forehead with the back of my hand. 

“I’m not lost. You’re lost,” she insisted. “How could you do that, 



Gabe? Daddy and I were totally freaked.” 

“Why didn’t you wait up for me?” I demanded angrily. “I called to 
you. You just disappeared.” 

“We didn’t hear you,” she replied, shaking her head. I was really glad 
to see her. But I hated the way she was looking at me, like I was some kind 
of hopeless idiot. “I guess we got involved in our argument. We thought 
you were right behind us. Then when we turned around, you were gone.” 
She sighed and shook her head. “What a day!” 

“What a day?” I cried shrilly. “What a day?” 

“Gabe, why did you do that?” she demanded. “You know we were 
supposed to stay close together.” 

“Hey—it wasn’t my fault,” I insisted angrily. 

“Daddy is so mad,” Sari said, shining her light in my face. 

I raised my arm to shield my eyes. “Cut it out,” I snapped. “He won’t 
be mad when he sees what I’ve discovered. Look.” 

I shined my light onto a mummy crouching near the tar pit, then 
moved it to another mummy, this one lying down, then to the row of 
mummy cases against the wall. 

“Wow.” Sari mouthed the word silently. Her eyes grew wide with 
surprise. 

“Yeah. Wow,” I said, starting to feel a little more like normal. “The 
chamber is filled with mummies. And there are all kinds of tools and cloth 
and everything you need to make a mummy. It’s all in perfect shape, like it 
hasn’t been touched in thousands of years.” I couldn’t hide my excitement. 
“And I discovered it all,” I added. 

“This must be where they prepared the mummies for burial,” Sari said, 
her eyes darting from mummy to mummy. “But why are some of them 
standing up like that?” 

I shrugged. “Beats me.” 

She walked over to admire the stacks of neatly folded linen. “Wow. 
This is amazing, Gabe.” 

“Outstanding!” I agreed. “And if I hadn’t stopped to tie my sneaker, I 
never would have discovered it.” 

“You’re going to be famous,” Sari said, a smile spreading across her 
face. “Thanks to me saving your life.” 

“Sari—” I started. 



But she had moved across the room and was admiring one of the 
upright mummies close up. “Wait till Daddy sees all this,” she said, 
suddenly sounding as excited as me. 

“We have to call him,” I said eagerly. I glanced back at the scorpion 
nest and felt a chill of fear tighten the back of my neck. 

“People were so tiny back then,” she said, holding her flashlight up 
close to the mummy’s covered face. “Look—I’m taller than this one.” 

“Sari, use your beeper,” I said impatiently, walking over to her. 

“Yuck. There are bugs crawling in this one’s face,” she said, stepping 
back and lowering the light. She made a disgusted face. “Gross.” 

“Come on. Use your beeper. Call Uncle Ben,” I said. I reached for the 
beeper at her waist, but she pulled away. 

“Okay, okay. Why didn’t you use yours?” She eyed me suspiciously. 
“You forgot about it, didn’t you, Gabe?” she accused. 

“No way,” I replied sharply. “Mine broke when I fell into this place.” 

She made a face and pulled the beeper off her belt loop. I shined my 
light on it as she pushed the button. She pressed it twice, just to make sure, 
then clipped it back onto her jeans. 

We stood with our arms crossed, waiting for Uncle Ben to follow the 
radio signals and find us. 

“It shouldn’t take him long,” Sari said, her eyes on the tunnel in the 
corner. “He wasn’t far behind me.” 

Sure enough, a few seconds later, we heard the sounds of someone 
approaching in the tunnel. 

“Uncle Ben!” I called excitedly. “Look what I’ve found!” 

Sari and I both started to run to the tunnel, our lights zigzagging over 
the low entrance. 

“Daddy, you won’t believe—” Sari started. 

She stopped when the stooped figure leaned out of the darkness and 
straightened up. 

We both gaped in horror, our flashlights making his mustached face 
glow eerily. 

“It’s Ahmed!” Sari cried, grabbing my arm. 



16 


I swallowed hard. 

Sari and I stared at each other. I saw her features tighten in fear. 

Ahmed. 

He had tried to kidnap us. And now he had us all alone down here. 

He stepped forward, a flaming torch held high in one hand. His black 
hair glowed in the flickering flames. His eyes narrowed at us in menace. 

“Ahmed, what are you doing here?” Sari called, grasping my arm so 
hard, I winced. 

“What are you doing here?” he asked softly, his voice as cold as his 

eyes. 

Holding the torch in front of him, he stepped into the chamber. His 
eyes went around the room, as if inspecting it, making sure that nothing had 
been moved. 

“My dad will be here in a second,” Sari warned him. “I just beeped 
him.” 

“I tried to warn your father,” Ahmed said, staring hard at Sari. The 
flickering orange light from the torch made him grow bright, then fade into 
shadow. 

“Warn him?” Sari asked. 

“About the curse,” Ahmed said without emotion. 

“Uncle Ben mentioned some kind of curse to me,” I said, glancing 
nervously at Sari. “I don’t think he takes that kind of thing seriously.” 

“He should!” Ahmed replied, screaming the words, his eyes glowing 
with anger in the torch light. 

Sari and I stared back at him in silence. 

Where is Uncle Ben? I wondered. 

What’s keeping him? 

Hurry, I urged silently. Please — hurry! 

“The curse must be carried out,” Ahmed said softly again, almost 
sadly. “I have no choice. You have violated the priestess’ chamber.” 

“Priestess?” I stammered. 



Sari was still squeezing my arm. I tugged it away. She crossed her 
arms resolutely over her chest. 

“This chamber belongs to the Priestess Khala,” Ahmed said, lowering 
the torch. “This is the sacred Preparation Chamber of the Priestess Khala, 
and you have violated it.” 

“Well, we didn’t know,” Sari snapped. “I really don’t see what’s the 
big deal, Ahmed.” 

“She’s right,” I said quickly. “We didn’t touch anything. We didn’t 
move anything. I don’t think—” 

“Shut up, you fools!” Ahmed screamed. He swung the torch angrily as 
if trying to hit us. 

“Ahmed, my dad will be here any second,” Sari repeated, her voice 
trembling. 

We both turned our eyes to the tunnel. It was dark and silent. 

No sign of Uncle Ben. 

“Your father is a smart man,” Ahmed said. “It is too bad he wasn’t 
smart enough to heed my warnings.” 

“Warnings?” Sari asked. 

I realized she was stalling for time, trying to keep Ahmed talking until 
Uncle Ben arrived. 

“I frightened the two workers,” Ahmed confessed to Sari. “I frightened 
them to show your father that the curse was alive, that I was prepared to 
carry out Khala’s wishes.” 

“How did you frighten them?” Sari demanded. 

He smiled. “I gave them a little demonstration. I showed them what it 
might feel like to be boiled alive.” He turned his eyes to the tar pit. “They 
didn’t like it,” he added quietly. 

“But, Ahmed—” Sari started. 

He cut her off. “Your father should have known better than to return 
here. He should have believed me. He should have believed in the Priestess’ 
curse. The Priestess cursed all who would violate her chamber.” 

“But, come on, you don’t really believe—” I started. 

He raised the torch menacingly. “It was decreed by Khala more than 
four thousand years ago that this sacred chamber would not be violated,” he 
cried, gesturing with the torch, leaving a trail of orange light against the 
darkness. “Since that time, from generation to generation, descendants of 



Khala have made sure that the Priestess’ command was obeyed.” 

“But, Ahmed—” Sari cried. 

“It has come to me,” he continued, ignoring her, ignoring us both, 
staring at the ceiling as he spoke, as if speaking directly to the Priestess up 
in the heavens. “It has come to me as a descendant of Khala to make sure 
the curse is carried out.” 

I stared past Ahmed to the tunnel. Still no sign of Uncle Ben. 

Was he coming? Had Sari’s beeper worked? 

What was keeping him? 

“I volunteered to work for your father to make sure that Khala’s sacred 
sanctuary was not violated,” Ahmed continued, shadows flickering over his 
menacing face. “When he would not heed my warnings, I had to take 
action. I frightened the two workers. Then I planned to take you away, to 
hide you until he agreed to stop his work.” 

He lowered the torch. His face filled with sadness. “Now, I have no 
choice. I must carry out my sacred duties. I must keep the ancient promise 
to Khala.” 

“But what does that mean?” Sari cried. The orange torchlight revealed 
her frightened expression. 

“What does it mean?” Ahmed repeated. He gestured with the torch. 
“Look around you.” 

We both turned and glanced quickly around the chamber. But we 
didn’t understand. 

“The mummies,” he explained. 

We still didn’t understand. “What about the mummies?” I managed to 
stammer. 

“They were all violators of the Priestess’ chamber,” Ahmed revealed. 
The thin smile that formed on his face could only be described as a proud 
smile. 

“You mean—they’re not from ancient Egypt?” Sari cried, raising her 
hands in horror to her face. 

“A few of them,” Ahmed replied, still smiling that frightening, cold 
smile. “A few of them were ancient intruders. Some are quite recent. But 
they all have one thing in common. They all became victims of the curse. 
And they all were mummified a/zve!” 

“No!” I screamed without realizing it. 



Ahmed ignored my terrified outburst. “I did that one myself,” he said, 
pointing to a mummy standing stiffly at attention at the edge of the tar pit. 

“Oh, how awful!” Sari cried, her voice trembling. 

I stared hopefully at the tunnel opening behind Ahmed. But there was 
still no sign of Uncle Ben. 

“Today, I must go to work again,” Ahmed announced. “Today there 
will be new mummies. New trophies for Khala.” 

“You can’t do that!” Sari shrieked. 

I grabbed her hand. 

To my horror, I understood perfectly now. I understood why some of 
the mummies were in such good condition. 

They were new. 

All of the tools, the tar, the linen—they had been used by descendants 
of Khala, descendants like Ahmed. Since the time of Khala, anyone who 
had entered the chamber—the chamber we were now standing in—had 
been mummified. 

Alive. 

And now Sari and I were about to become mummies, too. 

“Ahmed, you can’tl” Sari cried. She let go of my hand and balled her 
hands into angry fists at her side. 

“It is the will of Khala,” he replied softly, his dark eyes glowing in the 
light of the torch. 

I saw a long-bladed dagger appear in his free hand. The blade caught 
the light from the torch. 

Sari and I both took a step back as Ahmed began moving toward us 
with quick, determined strides. 



17 


As Ahmed approached, Sari and I shrank back to the center of the chamber. 

Run, I thought. 

We can run away from him. 

My eyes searched frantically for a place we could escape through. 

But there was no way out. 

The tunnel in the corner appeared to be the only opening. And we’d 
have to run right past Ahmed to get to it. 

Sari, I saw, was frantically pressing the beeper at her waist. She 
glanced at me, her features tight with fear. 

“Yowwww!” 

I cried out as I suddenly backed into someone. 

I turned and stared into the bandaged face of a mummy. 

With a loud gasp, I lurched away from it. 

“Let’s make a run for the tunnel,” I whispered to Sari, my throat so dry 
and tight, I could barely make myself heard. “He can’t get both of us.” 

Sari stared back at me, confused. I don’t know if she heard me or not. 

“There is no escape,” Ahmed said softly, as if reading my thoughts. 
“There is no escape from Khala’s curse.” 

“He—he’s going to kill us!” Sari screamed. 

“You have violated her sacred chamber,” Ahmed said, raising the torch 
high, holding the dagger at his waist. 

He stepped nearer. “I saw you yesterday climb into the sacred 
sarcophagus. I saw you two playing in Khala’s holy chamber. It was then 
that I knew I had to carry out my sacred duties. I—” 

Sari and I both cried out as something dropped from the chamber 
ceiling. 

All three of us looked up to see a rope ladder dangling from the hole I 
had fallen through. It swung back and forth as it was lowered, nearly to the 
floor. 

“Are you down there? I’m coming down!” Uncle Ben shouted down to 
us. 



“Uncle Ben—no!” I screamed. 

But he was already moving down the ladder, making his way quickly, 
the ladder steadying under his weight. 

Halfway down, he stopped and peered into the chamber. “What on 
earth—?” he cried, his eyes roaming over the amazing scene. 

And then he saw Ahmed. 

“Ahmed, what are you doing here?” Uncle Ben cried in surprise. He 
quickly lowered himself to the floor, jumping down the last three rungs. 

“Merely carrying out Khala’s wishes,” Ahmed said, his face 
expressionless now, his eyes narrowed in anticipation. 

“Khala? The Priestess?” Uncle Ben wrinkled his features in confusion. 

“He’s going to kill us!” Sari cried, mshing up to her dad, throwing her 
arms around his waist. “Daddy—he’s going to kill us! And then turn us into 
mummies !” 

Uncle Ben held Sari and looked over her shoulder accusingly at 
Ahmed. “Is this true?” 

“The chamber has been violated. It has fallen to me, Doctor, to carry 
out the curse.” 

Uncle Ben put his hands on Sari’s trembling shoulders and gently 
moved her aside. Then he began to make his way slowly, steadily, toward 
Ahmed. 

“Ahmed, let us go out of here and discuss this,” he said, raising his 
right hand as if offering it in friendship. 

Ahmed took a step back, raising the torch menacingly. “The Priestess’ 
will must not be ignored.” 

“Ahmed, you are a scientist, and so am I,” Uncle Ben said. I couldn’t 
believe how calm he sounded. I wondered if it was an act. 

The scene was tense. We were in such terrifying danger. 

But I felt just a little bit calmer knowing that my uncle was here, 
knowing that he’d be able to handle Ahmed and get us out of here—alive. 

I glanced reassuringly at Sari, who was staring hard, biting her lower 
lip in tense concentration as her father approached Ahmed. 

“Ahmed, put down the torch,” Uncle Ben urged, his hand extended. 
“The dagger, too. Please. Let’s discuss this, scientist to scientist.” 

“What is there to discuss?” Ahmed asked softly, his eyes studying 
Uncle Ben intently. “The will of Khala must be carried out, as it has been 



for four thousand years. That cannot be discussed.” 

“As scientist to scientist,” Uncle Ben repeated, returning Ahmed’s 
stare as if challenging him. “The curse is ancient. Khala has had her way for 
many centuries. Perhaps it is time to let it rest. Lower your weapons, 
Ahmed. Let’s talk about this. Scientist to scientist.” 

It’s going to be okay, I thought, breathing a long sigh of relief. It’s all 
going to be okay. We’re going to get out of here. 

But then Ahmed moved with startling quickness. 

Without warning, without a word, he pulled back his arms and, 
gripping the torch handle with both hands, swung it as hard as he could at 
Uncle Ben’s head. 

The torch made a loud thonk as it connected with the side of Uncle 
Ben’s face. 

The orange flames danced up. 

A swirl of bright color. 

And then shadows. 

Uncle Ben groaned. His eyes bulged wide with surprise. 

With pain. 

The torch hadn’t set him aflame. But the blow knocked him out. 

He slumped to his knees. Then his eyes closed, and he dropped limply 
to the floor. 

Ahmed raised the torch high, his eyes gleaming with excitement, with 
triumph. 

And I knew we were doomed. 



18 


“Daddy!” 

Sari rushed to her father and knelt at his side. 

But Ahmed moved quickly, thrusting the torch toward her, holding the 
dagger ready, forcing her to back away. 

A thin trickle of blood, glowing darkly in the light of the fire, rolled 
down the side of Uncle Ben’s face. He groaned, but didn’t stir. 

I glanced quickly at the mummies scattered around the room. It was 
hard to believe that we would soon be one of them. 

I thought of leaping at Ahmed, trying to knock him over. I imagined 
grabbing the torch, swinging it at him, forcing him against the wall. Forcing 
him to let us escape. 

But the blade of the dagger glowed, as if warning me to stay back. 

I’m just a kid, I thought. 

Thinking I could beat a grown man with a knife and a torch was just 
crazy. 

Crazy. 

The whole scene was crazy. And terrifying. 

I suddenly felt sick. My stomach tightened, and a wave of nausea 
swept over me. 

“Let us go—now!” Sari screamed at Ahmed. 

To my surprise, he reacted by swinging back the torch and heaving it 
across the room. 

It landed with a soft plop in the center of the tar pit. Instantly, the 
surface of the tar burst into flames. The flames spread, leaping up toward 
the chamber ceiling, until the entire square was aflame. 

As I stared in amazement, the tar popped and bubbled beneath the 
orange and red covering of flames. 

“We must wait for it to boil,” Ahmed said calmly, the shadows cast by 
the flames flickering across his face and clothing. 

The chamber grew thick with smoke. Sari and I both started to cough. 

Ahmed bent down and put his hands under Uncle Ben’s shoulders. He 
began to drag him across the floor. 



“Leave him alone!” Sari screamed, running frantically toward Ahmed. 

I saw that she was going to try to fight him. 

I grabbed her shoulders and held her back. 

We were no match for Ahmed. He had already knocked Uncle Ben 
unconscious. There was no telling what he would do to us. 

Holding onto Sari, I stared at him. What did he plan to do now? 

It didn’t take long to find out. 

With surprising strength, he pulled Uncle Ben across the floor to one 
of the open mummy cases against the wall. Then he hoisted him over the 
side and shoved him into the case. Not even the slightest bit out of breath, 
Ahmed slid the lid closed over my unconscious uncle. 

Then he turned to us. “You two—into that one.” He pointed to an 
enormous mummy case on a tall pedestal next to Uncle Ben’s. It was nearly 
as tall as I was, and at least ten feet long. It must have been built to hold a 
mummified person—and all of his or her possessions. 

“Let us go!” Sari insisted. “Let us out of here. We won’t tell anyone 
what happened. Really!” 

“Please climb into the case,” Ahmed insisted patiently. “We must wait 
for the tar to be ready.” 

“We’re not going in there,” I said. 

I was shaking all over. I could feel the blood pulsing at my temples. I 
didn’t even realize I was saying what I was saying. I was so scared, I didn’t 
even hear myself. 

I glanced at Sari. She stood defiantly with her arms crossed tightly 
over her chest. But despite her brave pose, I could see her chin trembling 
and her eyes beginning to tear. 

“Into the coffin,” Ahmed repeated, “to await your fate. Khala will not 
be kept waiting. The ancient curse will be carried out in her name.” 

“No!” I cried angrily. 

I stood on tiptoe and peered into the enormous mummy case. It 
smelled so sour in there, I nearly hurled. 

The case was made of wood. It was warped and stained and peeling 
inside. In the flickering light, I was sure I saw dozens of insects crawling 
around in there. 

“Get into the case now!” Ahmed demanded. 



19 


Sari climbed up over the side and lowered herself into the ancient mummy 
case. She always had to be first at everything. But this was one time I didn’t 
mind. 

I hesitated, resting my hand on the rotting wood on the side of the 
case. I glanced at the case next to it, the case with Uncle Ben inside. It was 
carved of stone, and the heavy stone lid was closed, sealing it up tight. 

Did Uncle Ben have any air in there? I wondered, gripped with fear. 
Was he able to breathe? 

And, then, I thought glumly, what difference does it make? All three of 
us are going to be dead soon. All three of us are going to be mummies, 
locked away in this hidden chamber forever. 

“Get in—now!” Ahmed ordered, his dark eyes burning into mine. 

“I—I’m just a kid\” I cried. I don’t know where the words came from. 
I was so scared, I really didn’t know what I was saying. 

An unpleasant sneer formed on Ahmed’s face. “Many of the pharaohs 
were your age at death,” he said. 

I wanted to keep him talking. I had the desperate idea that if I could 
keep the conversation going, I could get us out of this mess. 

But I couldn’t think of anything to say. My brain just froze. 

“Get in,” Ahmed ordered, moving toward me menacingly. 

Feeling totally defeated, I slid one leg over the side of the rotting 
coffin, raised myself up, and then dropped down beside Sari. 

She had her head bowed, and her eyes shut tight. I think she was 
praying. She didn’t glance up, even when I touched her shoulder. 

The coffin lid began to slide over us. The last thing I saw were the red 
flames leaping up over the pit of tar. Then the lid closed us into complete 
blackness. 

“Gabe...” Sari whispered a few seconds after the lid was closed. “I’m 
frightened.” 

For some reason, her confession made me snicker. She said it with 
such surprise. As if being frightened was a startling new experience. 

“I’m too frightened to be frightened,” I whispered back. 



She grabbed my hand and squeezed it. Her hand was even colder and 
clammier than mine. 

“He’s crazy,” she whispered. 

“Yeah. I know,” I replied, still holding onto her hand. 

“I think there are bugs in here,” she said with a shudder. “I can feel 
them crawling on me.” 

“Me, too,” I told her. I realized I was gritting my teeth. I always do 
that when I’m nervous. And now I was more nervous than I thought was 
humanly possible. 

“Poor Daddy,” Sari said. 

The air in the coffin was already beginning to feel stuffy and hot. I 
tried to ignore the disgusting sour smell, but it had crept into my nostrils, 
and I could even taste it. I held my breath to keep from gagging. 

“We’re going to suffocate in here,” I said glumly. 

“He’s going to kill us before we can suffocate,” Sari wailed. “Ow!” I 
could hear her slap at a bug on her arm. 

“Maybe something will happen,” I told her. Pretty lame. But I couldn’t 
think of what else to say. I couldn’t think. Period. 

“All I keep thinking about is how he’s going to reach in and pull my 
brain out through my nose,” Sari wailed. “Why did you have to tell me that, 
Gabe?” 

It took me a while to reply. Then, all I could say was, “Sorry.” I began 
to picture the same thing, and another wave of nausea swept over me. 

“We can’t just sit here,” I said. “We have to escape.” I tried to ignore 
the thick, sour smell. 

“Huh? How?” 

“Let’s try to push up the lid,” I said. “Maybe if we both push 
together...” 

I counted to three in a low whisper, and we both flattened our hands 
against the coffin top and pushed up as hard as we could. 

No. The lid wouldn’t budge. 

“Maybe he’s locked it or put something heavy on top of it,” Sari 
suggested with a miserable sigh. 

“Maybe,” I replied, feeling just as miserable. 

We sat in silence for a while. I could hear Sari breathing. She was sort 
of sobbing as she breathed. I realized my heart was racing. I could feel my 



temples throbbing. 

I pictured the long hook that Ahmed would use to pull our brains out 
of our heads. I tried to force the thought out of my mind, but it wouldn’t go 
away. 

I remembered being a mummy two Halloweens ago, and how the 
costume unraveled in front of my friends. 

Little did I know then that I’d soon have a mummy costume that 
would never unravel. 

Time passed. I don’t know how long. 

I realized I had been sitting with my legs crossed. Now they were 
beginning to fall asleep. I uncrossed them and stretched them out. The 
mummy case was so big, Sari and I could both lie down if we wanted to. 

But we were too tense and terrified to lie down. 

I was the first to hear the scrabbling sound. Like something climbing 
quickly around inside the mummy case. 

At first I thought it was Sari. But she grabbed my hand with her icy 
hand, and I realized she hadn’t moved from in front of me. 

We both listened hard. 

Something near us, something right next to us, bumped the side of the 

case. 

A mummy? 

Was there a mummy in the case with us? 

Moving ? 

I heard a soft groan. 

Sari squeezed my hand so tightly, it hurt, and I uttered a sharp cry. 

Another sound. Closer. 

“Gabe—” Sari whispered, her voice tiny and shrill. “Gabe—there’s 
something in here with us!” 



20 


It’s not a mummy, I told myself. 

It can’t be. 

It’s a bug. A very large bug. Moving across the coffin floor. 

It’s not a mummy. It’s not a mummy. 

The words repeated in my mind. 

I didn’t have too long to think about it. Whatever it was crept closer. 

“Hey!” a voice whispered. 

Sari and I both shrieked. 

“Where are you guys?” 

We recognized the voice immediately. 

“Uncle Ben!” I cried, swallowing hard, my heart pounding. 

“Daddy!” Sari lunged over me to get to her father. 

“But how?” I stammered. “How did you get in here?” 

“Easy,” he replied, squeezing my shoulder reassuringly. 

“Daddy—I don’t believe it!” Sari wailed. I couldn’t see in the 
blackness of the closed coffin, but I think she was crying. 

“I’m okay. I’m okay,” he repeated several times, trying to calm her 
down. 

“How did you get out of that case and into this one?” I asked, totally 
confused and amazed. 

“There’s an escape hatch,” Uncle Ben explained. “A small opening 
with a doorway. The Egyptians built hidden doorways and escape hatches 
into many of their mummy cases. For the corpse’s soul to be able to leave.” 

“Wow,” I said. I didn’t know what to say. 

“Ahmed is so caught up in his ancient curse mumbo jumbo, he’s 
forgotten about this little detail,” Uncle Ben said. I felt his hand on my 
shoulder again. “Come on, you two. Follow me.” 

“But he’s out there—” I started. 

“No,” Uncle Ben replied quickly. “He’s slipped away. When I climbed 
out of my case, I looked for him. I didn’t see him anywhere. Maybe he went 
somewhere else while he’s waiting for the tar to get hot enough. Or maybe 



he decided to just leave us in the mummy cases to suffocate.” 

I felt a bug slither up my leg. I slapped at it, then tried to pull it out 
from inside the leg of my jeans. 

“Out we go,” Uncle Ben said. 

I heard him groan as he turned in the enormous coffin. Then I could 
hear him crawling to the back. 

I saw a small rectangle of light as he pushed open the hidden door in 
the back of the case. It was a very small escape hatch, just big enough for us 
to squeeze through. 

I followed Uncle Ben and Sari out of the case, flattening myself to 
crawl out the small opening, then dropping onto all fours on the chamber 
floor. 

It took a while for my eyes to adjust to the brightness. 

The red flames still danced over the pit of bubbling tar, casting eerie 
blue shadows on all four chamber walls. The mummies stood as before, 
frozen in place around the room, shadows flickering over their faceless 
forms. 

As my eyes began to focus, I saw that Uncle Ben had an enormous, 
dark bruise on the side of his head. A wide ribbon of dried blood streaked 
down his cheek. 

“Let’s get out of here before Ahmed comes back,” he whispered, 
standing between us, one hand on each of our shoulders. 

Sari looked pale and trembly. Her lower lip was bleeding from her 
chewing on it so hard. 

Uncle Ben started toward the rope ladder in the center of the chamber, 
but then stopped. “It’ll take too long,” he said, thinking out loud. “Come on. 
To the tunnel. Hurry.” 

All three of us started jogging toward the tunnel in the corner. Looking 
down, I saw that my stupid shoelace had come untied again. But there was 
no way I was going to stop to tie it! 

We were about to get out of there! 

A few seconds before, I had given up all hope. But now, here we were 
out of the mummy case and heading to freedom. 

We were just a few yards in front of the tunnel entrance when the 
tunnel suddenly filled with orange light. 

Then, from out of the tunnel, Ahmed emerged, holding a new torch in 



front of him, the flames revealing a startled look on his face. 

“No!” Sari and I cried in unison. 

All three of us skidded to a halt right in front of him. 

“You cannot escape!” Ahmed said softly, quickly regaining his 
composure, his startled expression tightening to anger. “You will not 
escape!” 

He thrust the torch toward Uncle Ben, who was forced to fall 
backwards, out of reach of the hissing flames. He landed hard on his elbows 
and cried out in pain. 

His cry brought a grim smile to Ahmed’s lips. “You have made Khala 
angry,” he announced, raising the torch above his head and reaching for the 
dagger sheathed at his waist. “You will not join the other violators of this 
chamber.” 

Whew. I breathed a sigh of relief. 

Ahmed had changed his mind. He wasn’t going to turn us into 
mummies after all. 

“The three of you will die in the tar pit,” he declared. 

Sari and I exchanged horrified glances. Uncle Ben had climbed back to 
his feet and put his arms around us. “Ahmed, can’t we talk about this 
calmly and rationally as scientists?” he asked. 

“To the tar pit,” Ahmed ordered, thrusting the flaming torch angrily at 
us. 

“Ahmed— please !” Uncle Ben cried in a whining, frightened tone I’d 
never heard from him before. 

Ahmed ignored Uncle Ben’s desperate pleas. Pushing the torch at our 
backs and gesturing with the long-bladed dagger, he forced us to make our 
way to the edge of the pit. 

The tar was bubbling noisily now, making ugly popping and sucking 
sounds. The flames across the top were low and red. 

I tried to pull back. It smelled so bad. And the steam coming off it was 
so hot, it made my face burn. 

“One by one, you will jump,” Ahmed said. 

He was standing a few feet behind us as we stared down into the 
bubbling tar. “If you don’t jump, I will be forced to push you.” 

“Ahmed—” Uncle Ben began. But Ahmed brushed the torch against 
Ben’s back. 



“It has come to me,” Ahmed said solemnly. “The honor of carrying out 
Khala’s wishes.” 

The tar fumes were so overwhelming, I thought I was going to faint. 
The pit started to tilt in front of me. I felt very dizzy. 

I shoved my hands into my jeans pockets, to steady myself, I guess. 
And my hand closed around something I had forgotten about. 

The Summoner. 

The mummy hand that I carry around everywhere. 

I’m not sure why—I wasn’t thinking clearly, if at all—but I pulled out 
the little mummy hand. 

I spun around quickly. And I held the mummy hand up high. 

I can’t really explain what was going through my mind. I was so 
terrified, so overwhelmed with fear, that I was thinking a hundred things at 
once. 

Maybe I thought the mummy hand would distract Ahmed. 

Or interest him. 

Or confuse him. 

Or frighten him. 

Maybe I was just stalling for time. 

Or maybe I was unconsciously remembering the legend behind the 
hand that the kid at the garage sale had told me. 

The legend of why it was called The Summoner. 

How it was used to call up ancient souls and spirits. 

Or maybe I wasn’t thinking anything at all. 

But I spun around and, gripping it by its slender wrist, held the 
mummy hand up high. And waited. Ahmed stared at it. But nothing 
happened. 



21 


I waited, standing there like the Statue of Liberty with the little hand raised 
high above my head. 

It seemed as if I were standing like that for hours. 

Sari and Uncle Ben stared at the hand. 

Lowering the torch a few inches, Ahmed squinted at the mummy hand. 
Then his eyes grew wider, and his mouth dropped open in surprise. 

He cried out. I couldn’t understand what he was saying. The words 
were in a language I’d never heard. Ancient Egyptian, maybe. 

He took a step back, his surprised expression quickly replaced by a 
wide-eyed look of fear. 

“The hand of the Priestess!” he cried. 

At least, that’s what I think he cried—because I was suddenly 
distracted by what was going on behind him. 

Sari uttered a low cry. 

All three of us stared over Ahmed’s shoulder in disbelief. 

A mummy propped against the wall appeared to lean forward. 

Another mummy, lying on its back, slowly sat up, creaking as it raised 
itself. 

“No!” I cried, still holding the mummy hand high. 

Sari and Uncle Ben were gaping wide-eyed as the vast chamber filled 
with motion. As the mummies creaked and groaned to life. 

The air filled with the odor of ancient dust, of decay. 

In the shadowy light, I saw one mummy, then another, straighten up, 
stand tall. They stretched their bandaged arms above their featureless heads. 
Slowly. Painfully. 

Staggering, moving stiffly, the mummies lumbered forward. 

I watched, frozen in amazement, as they climbed out of mummy cases, 
raised themselves from the floor, leaned forward, took their first slow, 
heavy steps, their muscles groaning, dust rising up from their dry, dead 
bodies. 

They’re dead, I thought. 

All of them. Dead. Dead for so many years. 



But now they were rising up, climbing from their ancient coffins, 
struggling toward us on their heavy, dead legs. 

Their bandaged feet scraped across the chamber floor as they gathered 
in a group. 

Scrape. Scrape. Scrape. 

A dry, shuffling sound I knew I’d never forget. 

Scrape. Scrape. 

The faceless army approached. Bandaged arms outstretched, they 
lumbered toward us, creaking and groaning. Moaning softly with ancient 
pain. 

Ahmed caught the astonishment on our faces and spun around. 

He cried out again in that strange language as he saw the mummies 
advancing on us, scraping so softly, so deliberately, across the chamber 
floor. 

And, then, with a furious scream, Ahmed heaved the torch at the 
mummy in the lead. 

The torch hit the mummy in the chest and bounced to the floor. Flames 
burst from the mummy’s chest, immediately spreading over the arms and 
down the legs. 

But the mummy kept advancing, didn’t slow, didn’t react at all to the 
fire that was quickly consuming it. 

Gaping in openmouthed horror, babbling an endless stream of words in 
that mysterious language, Ahmed tried to run. 

But he was too late. 

The burning mummy lunged at him. The ancient figure caught Ahmed 
up by the throat, lifted him high above its flaming shoulders. 

Ahmed uttered a high-pitched shriek of terror as the other mummies 
lumbered forward. Moaning and wailing through their yellowed bandages, 
they moved in to help their burning colleague. 

They raised Ahmed high above their moaning heads. 

And then held him over the burning tar pit. 

Squirming and kicking, Ahmed uttered a piercing scream as they held 
him over the boiling, bubbling, steaming tar. 

I closed my eyes. The heat and tar fumes swirled around me. I felt as if 
I were being swallowed up, pulled down into the steaming blackness. 

When I opened my eyes, I saw Ahmed fleeing to the tunnel, staggering 



clumsily, shrieking in openmouthed terror as he ran. The mummies 
remained by the pit, enjoying their victory. 

I realized I was still holding the mummy hand over my head. I lowered 
it slowly, and gazed at Sari and Uncle Ben. They were standing beside me, 
their faces filled with confusion. And relief. 

“The mummies—” I managed to utter. 

“Look,” Sari said, pointing. 

I followed the direction of her gaze. The mummies were all back in 
place. Some were leaning, some propped at odd angles, some lying down. 

They were exactly as they had been when I entered the chamber. 

“Huh?” My eyes darted rapidly around the room. 

Had they all moved? Had they raised themselves, stood up, and 
staggered toward us? Or had we imagined it all? 

No. 

We couldn ’t have imagined it. 

Ahmed was gone. We were safe. 

“We’re okay,” Uncle Ben said gratefully, throwing his arms around 
Sari and me. “We’re okay. We’re okay.” 

“We can go now!” Sari cried happily, hugging her dad. Then she 
turned to me. “You saved our lives,” she said. She had to choke out the 
words. But she said them. 

Then Uncle Ben turned his gaze on me and the object I still gripped 
tightly in front of me. “Thanks for the helping hand,” Uncle Ben said. 

We had an enormous dinner at a restaurant back in Cairo. It’s a miracle any 
of us got any food down since we were all talking at once, chattering 
excitedly, reliving our adventure, trying to make sense of it all. 

I was spinning The Summoner around on the table. 

Uncle Ben grinned at me. “I had no idea how special that mummy 
hand was!” 

He took it from me and examined it closely. “Better not play with it,” 
he said seriously. “We must treat it carefully.” He shook his head. “Some 
great scientist / am!” he exclaimed scornfully. 

“When I saw it, I thought it was just a toy, some kind of reproduction. 
But this hand may be my biggest discovery of all!” 

“It’s my good luck charm,” I said, handling it gently as I took it back. 



“You can say that again!” Sari said appreciatively. The nicest thing 
she’d ever said to me. 

Back at the hotel, I surprised myself by falling asleep instantly. I 
thought I’d be up for hours, thinking about all that had happened. But I 
guess all the excitement had exhausted me. 

The next morning, Sari, Uncle Ben, and I had a big breakfast in the 
room. I had a plate of scrambled eggs and a bowl of Frosted Flakes. As I 
ate, I fiddled with the little mummy hand. 

All three of us were feeling good, happy that our frightening adventure 
was over. We were kidding around, teasing each other, laughing a lot. 

After I finished my cereal, I raised the little mummy hand high. “O, 
Summoner,” I chanted in a deep voice, “I summon the ancient spirits. Come 
alive. Come alive again!” 

“Stop it, Gabe,” Sari snapped. She grabbed for the hand, but I swung it 
out of her reach. 

“That isn’t funny,” she said. “You shouldn’t fool around like that.” 

“Are you chicken?” I asked, laughing at her. I could see that she was 
really frightened, which made me enjoy my little joke even more. 

Keeping it away from her, I raised the hand high. “I summon thee, 
ancient spirits of the dead,” I chanted. “Come to me. Come to me now!” 

And there was a loud knock on the door. 

All three of us gasped. 

Uncle Ben knocked over his juice glass. It clattered onto the table and 
spilled. 

I froze with the little hand in the air. 

Another loud knock. 

We heard a scrabbling at the door. The sound of ancient, bandaged 
fingers struggling with the lock. 

Sari and I exchanged horrified glances. 

I slowly lowered the hand as the door swung open. 

Two shadowy figures lumbered into the room. 

“Mom and Dad!” I cried. 

I’ll bet they were surprised at how glad I was to see them. 


LET'S GET INVISIBLE! 
Goosebumps - 06 
R.L. Stine 


1 


I went invisible for the first time on my twelfth birthday. 

It was all Whitey’s fault, in a way. Whitey is my dog. He’s just a mutt, part 
terrier, part everything else. He’s all black, so of course we named him Whitey. 

If Whitey hadn’t been sniffing around in the attic... 

Well, maybe I’d better back up a bit and start at the beginning. 

My birthday was on a rainy Saturday. It was a few minutes before kids 
would start arriving for my birthday party, so I was getting ready. 

Getting ready means brushing my hair. 

My brother is always on my case about my hair. He gives me a hard time 
because I spend so much time in front of the mirror brushing it and checking it 
out. 

The thing is, I just happen to have great hair. It’s very thick and sort of a 
golden brown, and just a little bit wavy. My hair is my best feature, so I like to 
make sure it looks okay. 

Also, I have very big ears. They stick out a lot. So I have to keep making 
sure that my hair covers my ears. It’s important. 

“Max, it’s messed up in back,” my brother, Lefty, said, standing behind me 
as I studied my hair in the front hall mirror. 

His name is really Noah, but I call him Lefty because he’s the only left- 
handed person in our family. Lefty was tossing a softball up and catching it in 
his left hand. He knew he wasn’t supposed to toss that softball around in the 
house, but he always did it anyway. 

Lefty is two years younger than me. He’s not a bad guy, but he has too 
much energy. He always has to be tossing a ball around, drumming his hands on 
the table, hitting something, running around, falling down, leaping into things, 
wrestling with me. You get the idea. Dad says that Lefty has ants in his pants. 
It’s a dumb expression, but it sort of describes my brother. 

I turned and twisted my neck to see the back of my hair. “It is not messed 
up, liar,” I said. 

“Think fast!” Lefty shouted, and he tossed the softball at me. 

I made a grab for it and missed. It hit the wall just below the mirror with a 
loud thud. Lefty and I held our breath, waiting to see if Mom heard the sound. 



But she didn’t. I think she was in the kitchen doing something to the birthday 
cake. 

“That was dumb,” I whispered to Lefty. “You almost broke the mirror.” 

“You’re dumb,” he said. Typical. 

“Why don’t you learn to throw right-handed? Then maybe I could catch it 
sometimes,” I told him. I liked to tease him about being left-handed because he 
really hated it. 

“You stink,” he said, picking up the softball. 

I was used to it. He said it a hundred times a day. I guess he thought it was 
clever or something. 

He’s a good kid for a ten-year-old, but he doesn’t have much of a 
vocabulary. 

“Your ears are sticking out,” he said. 

I knew he was lying. I started to answer him, but the doorbell rang. 

He and I raced down the narrow hallway to the front door. “Hey, it’s my 
party!” I told him. 

But Lefty got to the door first and pulled it open. 

My best friend, Zack, pulled open the screen door and hurried into the 
house. It was starting to rain pretty hard, and he was already soaked. 

He handed me a present, wrapped in silver paper, raindrops dripping off it. 
“It’s a bunch of comic books,” he said. “I already read ’em. The X-Force graphic 
novel is kind of cool.” 

“Thanks,” I said. “They don’t look too wet.” 

Lefty grabbed the present from my hand and ran into the living room with 
it. “Don’t open it!” I shouted. He said he was just starting a pile. 

Zack took off his Red Sox cap, and I got a look at his new haircut. “Wow! 
You look... different,” I said, studying his new look. His black hair was buzzed 
real short on the left side. The rest of it was long, brushed straight to the right. 

“Did you invite girls?” he asked me, “or is it just boys?” 

“Some girls are coming,” I told him. “Erin and April. Maybe my cousin 
Debra.” I knew he liked Debra. 

He nodded thoughtfully. Zack has a real serious face. He has these little 
blue eyes that always look far away, like he’s thinking hard about something. 
Like he’s real deep. 

He’s sort of an intense guy. Not nervous. Just keyed up. And very 
competitive. He has to win at everything. If he comes in second place, he gets 



really upset and kicks the furniture. You know the kind. 

“What are we going to do?” Zack asked, shaking the water off his Red Sox 

cap. 

I shrugged. “We were supposed to be in the back yard. Dad put the 
volleyball net up this morning. But that was before it started to rain. I rented 
some movies. Maybe we’ll watch them.” 

The doorbell rang. Lefty appeared again from out of nowhere, pushed Zack 
and me out of the way, and made a dive for the door. “Oh, it’s you,” I heard him 
say. 

“Thanks for the welcome.” I recognized Erin’s squeaky voice. Some kids 
call Erin “Mouse” because of that voice, and because she’s tiny like a mouse. 
She has short, straight blonde hair, and I think she’s cute, but of course I’d never 
tell anyone that. 

“Can we come in?” I recognized April’s voice next. April is the other girl in 
our group. She has curly black hair and dark, sad eyes. I always thought she was 
really sad, but then I figured out that she’s just shy. 

“The party’s tomorrow,” I heard Lefty tell them. 

“Huh?” Both girls uttered cries of surprise. 

“No, it isn’t,” I shouted. I stepped into the doorway and shoved Lefty out of 
the way. I pushed open the screen door so Erin and April could come in. “You 
know Lefty’s little jokes,” I said, squeezing my brother against the wall. 

“Lefty is a little joke,” Erin said. 

“You’re stupid,” Lefty told her. I pressed him into the wall a little harder, 
leaning against him with all my weight. But he ducked down and scooted away. 

“Happy Birthday,” April said, shaking the rain from her curly hair. She 
handed me a present, wrapped in Christmas wrapping paper. “It’s the only paper 
we had,” she explained, seeing me staring at it. 

“Merry Christmas to you, too,” I joked. The present felt like a CD. 

“I forgot your present,” Erin said. 

“What is it?” I asked, following the girls into the living room. 

“I don’t know. I haven’t bought it yet.” 

Lefty grabbed April’s present out of my hand and ran to put it on top of 
Zack’s present in the corner behind the couch. 

Erin plopped down on the white leather ottoman in front of the armchair. 
April stood at the window, staring out at the rain. 

“We were going to barbecue hot dogs,” I said. 



“They’d be pretty soggy today,” April replied. 

Lefty stood behind the couch, tossing his softball up and catching it one- 
handed. 

“You’re going to break that lamp,” I warned him. 

He ignored me, of course. 

“Who else is coming?” Erin asked. 

Before I could answer, the doorbell rang again. Lefty and I raced to the 
door. He tripped over his own sneakers and went skidding down the hall on his 
stomach. So typical. 

By two-thirty everyone had arrived, fifteen kids in all, and the party got 
started. Well, it didn’t really get started because we couldn’t decide what to do. I 
wanted to watch the Terminator movie I’d rented. But the girls wanted to play 
Twister. 

“It’s my birthday!” I insisted. 

We compromised. We played Twister. Then we watched some of the 
Terminator video until it was time to eat. 

It was a pretty good party. I think everyone had an okay time. Even April 
seemed to be having fun. She was usually really quiet and nervous-looking at 
parties. 

Lefty spilled his Coke and ate his slice of chocolate birthday cake with his 
hands because he thought it was funny. But he was the only animal in the group. 

I told him the only reason he was invited was because he was in the family 
and there was nowhere else we could stash him. He replied by opening his 
mouth up real wide so everyone could see his chewed-up chocolate cake inside. 

After I opened presents, I put the Terminator movie back on. But everyone 
started to leave. I guess it was about five o’clock. It looked much later. It was 
dark as night out, still storming. 

My parents were in the kitchen cleaning up. Erin and April were the only 
ones left. Erin’s mother was supposed to pick them up. She called and said she’d 
be a little late. 

Whitey was standing at the living room window, barking his head off. I 
looked outside. I didn’t see anyone there. I grabbed him with both hands and 
wrestled him away from the window. 

“Let’s go up to my room,” I suggested when I finally got the dumb dog 
quiet. “I got a new Super Nintendo game I want to try.” 

Erin and April gladly followed me upstairs. They didn’t like the Terminator 



movie, for some reason. 

The upstairs hallway was pitch black. I clicked the light switch, but the 
overhead light didn’t come on. “The bulb must be burned out,” I said. 

My room was at the end of the hall. We made our way slowly through the 
darkness. 

“It’s kind of spooky up here,” April said quietly. 

And just as she said it, the linen closet door swung open and, with a 
deafening howl, a dark figure leapt out at us. 



2 


As the girls cried out in horror, the howling creature grabbed me around the 
waist and wrestled me to the floor. 

“Lefty —let go!” I screamed angrily. “You’re not funny!” 

He was laughing like a lunatic. He thought he was a riot. “Gotcha!” he 
cried. “I gotcha good!” 

“We weren’t scared,” Erin insisted. “We knew it was you.” 

“Then why’d you scream?” Lefty asked. 

Erin didn’t have an answer. 

I shoved him off me and climbed to my feet. “That was dumb, Lefty.” 

“How long were you waiting in the linen closet?” April asked. 

“A long time,” Lefty told her. He started to get up, but Whitey ran up to him 
and began furiously licking his face. It tickled so much, Lefty fell onto his back, 
laughing. 

“You scared Whitey, too,” I said. 

“No, I didn’t. Whitey’s smarter than you guys.” Lefty pushed Whitey away. 

Whitey began sniffing at the door across the hall. 

“Where does that door lead, Max?” Erin asked. 

“To the attic,” I told her. 

“You have an attic?” Erin cried. Like it was some kind of big deal. “What’s 
up there? I love attics!” 

“Huh?” I squinted at her in the dark. Sometimes girls are really weird. I 
mean, how could anyone love attics? 

“Just a lot of old junk my grandparents left,” I told her. “This house used to 
be theirs. Mom and Dad stored a lot of their stuff in the attic. We hardly ever go 
up there.” 

“Can we go up and take a look?” Erin asked. 

“I guess,” I said. “I don’t think it’s too big a thrill or anything.” 

“I love old junk,” Erin said. 

“But it’s so dark....” April said softly. I think she was a little scared. 

I opened the door and reached for the light switch just inside. A ceiling light 
clicked on in the attic. It cast a pale yellow light down at us as we stared up the 



steep wooden stairs. 

“See? There’s light up there,” I told April. I started up the stairs. They 
creaked under my sneakers. My shadow was really long. “You coming?” 

“Erin’s mom will be here any minute,” April said. 

“We’ll just go up for a second,” Erin said. She gave April a gentle push. 
“Come on.” 

Whitey trotted past us as we climbed the stairs, his tail wagging excitedly, 
his toenails clicking loudly on the wooden steps. About halfway up, the air grew 
hot and dry. 

I stopped on the top step and looked around. The attic stretched on both 
sides. It was one long room, filled with old furniture, cardboard cartons, old 
clothes, fishing rods, stacks of yellowed magazines—all kinds of junk. 

“Ooh, it smells so musty,” Erin said, moving past me and taking a few steps 
into the vast space. She took a deep breath. “I love that smell!” 

“You’re definitely weird,” I told her. 

Rain drummed loudly against the roof. The sound echoed through the low 
room, a steady roar. It sounded as if we were inside a waterfall. 

All four of us began walking around, exploring. Lefty kept tossing his 
softball up against the ceiling rafters, then catching it as it came down. I noticed 
that April stayed close to Erin. Whitey was sniffing furiously along the wall. 

“Think there are mice up here?” Lefty asked, a devilish grin crossing his 
face. I saw April’s eyes go wide. “Big fat mice who like to climb up girls’ legs?” 
Lefty teased. 

My kid brother has a great sense of humor. 

“Could we go now?” April asked impatiently. She started back toward the 
stairway. 

“Look at these old magazines,” Erin exclaimed, ignoring her. She picked 
one up and started flipping through it. “Check this out. The clothes these models 
are wearing are a riot!” 

“Hey—what’s Whitey doing?” Lefty asked suddenly. 

I followed his gaze to the far wall. Behind a tall stack of cartons, I could see 
Whitey’s tail wagging. And I could hear him scratching furiously at something. 

“Whitey—come!” I commanded. 

Of course he ignored me. He began scratching harder. 

“Whitey, what are you scratching at?” 

“Probably pulling a mouse apart,” Lefty suggested. 



“I’m outta here!” April exclaimed. 

“Whitey?” I called. Stepping around an old dining room table, I made my 
way across the cluttered attic. I quickly saw that he was scratching at the bottom 
of a door. 

“Hey, look,” I called to the others. “Whitey found a hidden door.” 

“Cool!” Erin cried, hurrying over. Lefty and April were right behind. 

“I didn’t know this was up here,” I said. 

“We’ve got to check it out,” Erin urged. “Let’s see what’s on the other 
side.” 

And that’s when the trouble all began. 

You can understand why I say it was all Whitey’s fault, right? If that dumb 
dog hadn’t started sniffing and scratching there, we might never have found the 
hidden attic room. 

And we never would have discovered the exciting—and frightening—secret 
behind that wooden door. 



3 


“Whitey!” I knelt down and pulled the dog away from the door. “What’s your 
problem, doggie?” 

As soon as I moved him aside, Whitey lost all interest in the door. He 
trotted off and started sniffing another corner. Talk about your short attention 
span. But I guess that’s the difference between dogs and people. 

The rain continued to pound down, a steady roar just above our heads. I 
could hear the wind whistling around the corner of the house. It was a real spring 
storm. 

The door had a rusted latch about halfway up. It slid off easily, and the 
warped wooden door started to swing open before I even pulled at it. 

The door hinges squeaked as I pulled the door toward me, revealing solid 
darkness on the other side. 

Before I had gotten the door open halfway, Lefty scooted under me and 
darted into the dark room. 

“A dead bodyl” he shrieked. 

“Noooo!” April and Erin both cried out with squeals of terror. 

But I knew Lefty’s dumb sense of humor. “Nice try, Lefty,” I said, and 
followed him through the doorway. 

Of course he was just goofing. 

I found myself in a small, windowless room. The only light came from the 
pale yellow ceiling light behind us in the center of the attic. 

“Push the door all the way open so the light can get in,” I instructed Erin. “I 
can’t see a thing in here.” 

Erin pushed open the door and slid a carton over to hold it in place. Then 
she and April crept in to join Lefty and me. 

“It’s too big to be a closet,” Erin said, her voice sounding even squeakier 
than usual. “So what is it?” 

“Just a room, I guess,” I said, still waiting for my eyes to adjust to the dim 

light. 

I took another step into the room. And as I did, a dark figure stepped toward 
me. 


I screamed and jumped back. 



The other person jumped back, too. 

“It’s a mirror, dork!” Lefty said, and started to laugh. 

Instantly, all four of us were laughing. Nervous, high-pitched laughter. 

It was a mirror in front of us. In the pale yellow light filtering into the 
small, square room, I could see it clearly now. 

It was a big, rectangular mirror, about two feet taller than me, with a dark 
wood frame. It rested on a wooden base. 

I moved closer to it and my reflection moved once again to greet me. To my 
surprise, the reflection was clear. No dust on the glass, despite the fact that no 
one had been in here in ages. 

I stepped in front of it and started to check out my hair. 

I mean, that’s what mirrors are for, right? 

“Who would put a mirror in a room all by itself?” Erin asked. I could see 
her dark reflection in the mirror, a few feet behind me. 

“Maybe it’s a valuable piece of furniture or something,” I said, reaching 
into my jeans pocket for my comb. “You know. An antique.” 

“Did your parents put it up here?” Erin asked. 

“I don’t know,” I replied. “Maybe it belonged to my grandparents. I just 
don’t know.” I ran the comb through my hair a few times. 

“Can we go now? This isn’t too thrilling,” April said. She was still lingering 
reluctantly in the doorway. 

“Maybe it was a carnival mirror,” Lefty said, pushing me out of the way 
and making faces into the mirror, bringing his face just inches from the glass. 
“You know. One of those fun house mirrors that makes your body look like it’s 
shaped like an egg.” 

“You’re already shaped like an egg,” I joked, pushing him aside. “At least, 
your head is.” 

“You’re a rotten egg,” he snapped back. “You stink.” 

I peered into the mirror. I looked perfectly normal, not distorted at all. “Hey, 
April, come in,” I urged. “You’re blocking most of the light.” 

“Can’t we just leave?” she asked, whining. Reluctantly, she moved from the 
doorway, taking a few small steps into the room. “Who cares about an old 
mirror, anyway?” 

“Hey, look,” I said, pointing. I had spotted a light attached to the top of the 
mirror. It was oval-shaped, made of brass or some other kind of metal. The bulb 
was long and narrow, almost like a fluorescent bulb, only shorter. 



I gazed up at it, trying to figure it out in the dim light. “How do you turn it 
on, I wonder.” 

“There’s a chain,” Erin said, coming up beside me. 

Sure enough, a slender chain descended from the right side of the lamp, 
hanging down about a foot from the top of the mirror. 

“Wonder if it works,” I said. 

“The bulb’s probably dead,” Lefty remarked. Good old Lefty. Always an 
optimist. 

“Only one way to find out,” I said. Standing on tiptoes, I stretched my hand 
up to the chain. 

“Be careful,” April warned. 

“Huh? It’s just a light,” I told her. 

Lamous last words. 

I reached up. Missed. Tried again. I grabbed the chain on the second try and 
pulled. 

The light came on with a startlingly bright flash. Then it dimmed down to 
normal light. Very white light that reflected brightly in the mirror. 

“Hey—that’s better!” I exclaimed. “It lights up the whole room. Pretty 
bright, huh?” 

No one said anything. 

“I said, pretty bright, huh?” 

Still silence from my companions. 

I turned around and was surprised to find looks of horror on all three faces. 

“Max?” Lefty cried, staring hard at me, his eyes practically popping out of 
his head. 

“Max—where are you?” Erin cried. She turned to April. “Where’d he go?” 

“I’m right here,” I told them. “I haven’t moved.” 

“But we can’t see you! ” April cried. 



4 


All three of them were staring in my direction with their eyes bulging and looks 
of horror still on their faces. But I could tell they were goofing. 

“Give me a break, guys,” I said. “I’m not as stupid as I look. No way I’m 
falling for your dumb joke.” 

“But, Max—” Lefty insisted. “We’re seriousl” 

“We can’t see you!” Erin repeated. 

Dumb, dumb, dumb. 

Suddenly, the light started to hurt my eyes. It seemed to grow brighter. It 
was shining right in my face. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I reached up with the other hand and 
pulled the chain. 

The light went out, but the white glare stayed with me. I tried to blink it 
away, but I still saw large bright spots before my eyes. 

“Hey—you’re back!” Lefty cried. He stepped up and grabbed my arm and 
squeezed it, as if he were testing it, making sure I was real or something. 

“What’s your problem?” I snapped. I was starting to get angry. “I didn’t fall 
for your dumb joke, Lefty. So why keep it up?” 

To my surprise, Lefty didn’t back away. He held onto my arm as if he were 
afraid to let go. 

“We weren’t joking, Max,” Erin insisted in a low voice. “We really couldn’t 
see you.” 

“It must have been the light in the mirror,” April said. She was pressed 
against the wall next to the doorway. “It was so bright. I think it was just an 
optical illusion or something.” 

“It wasn’t an optical illusion,” Erin told her. “I was standing right next to 
Max. And I couldn’t see him.” 

“He was invisible,” Lefty added solemnly. 

I laughed. “You guys are trying to scare me,” I said. “And you’re doing a 
pretty good job of it!” 

“You scared us!” Lefty exclaimed. He let go of my arm and stepped up to 
the mirror. 

I followed his gaze. “There I am,” I said, pointing to my reflection. A strand 



of hair was poking up in back of my head. I carefully slicked it down. 

“Let’s get out of here,” April pleaded. 

Lefty started to toss his softball up, studying himself in the mirror. 

Erin made her way around to the back of the mirror. “It’s too dark back 
here. I can’t see anything,” she said. 

She stepped around to the front and stared up at the oval-shaped lamp on 
top. “You disappeared as soon as you pulled the chain on that lamp.” 

“You’re really serious!” I said. For the first time I began to believe they 
weren’t joking. 

“You were invisible, Max,” Erin said. “Poof. You were gone.” 

“She’s right,” Lefty agreed, tossing the softball up and catching it, admiring 
his form in the mirror. 

“It was just an optical illusion,” April insisted. “Why are you guys making 
such a big deal about it?” 

“It wasn’t !” Erin insisted. 

“He clicked on the light. Then he disappeared in a flash,” Lefty said. He 
dropped the softball. It bounced loudly on the hardwood floor, then rolled behind 
the mirror. 

He hesitated for a few seconds. Then he went after it, diving for the ball in 
the darkness. A few seconds later, he came running back. 

“You really were invisible, Max,” he said. 

“Really,” Erin added, staring hard at me. 

“Prove it,” I told them. 

“Let’s go !” April pleaded. She had moved to the doorway and was standing 
half in, half out of the room. 

“What do you mean prove it!” Erin asked, talking to my dark reflection in 
the mirror. 

“Show me,” I said. 

“You mean do what you did?” Erin asked, turning to talk to the real me. 

“Yeah,” I said. “You go invisible, too. Just like I did.” 

Erin and Lefty stared at me. Lefty’s mouth dropped open. 

“This is dumb,” April called from behind us. 

“I’ll do it,” Lefty said. He stepped up to the mirror. 

I pulled him back by the shoulders. “Not you,” I said. “You’re too young.” 

He tried to pull out of my grasp, but I held onto him. “How about you, 
Erin?” I urged, wrapping my arms around Lefty’s waist to keep him back from 



the mirror. 

She shrugged. “Okay. I’ll try, I guess.” 

Lefty stopped struggling to get away. I loosened my grip a little. 

We watched Erin step up in front of the mirror. Her reflection stared back at 
her, dark and shadowy. 

She stood on tiptoes, reached up, and grabbed the lamp chain. She glanced 
over at me and smiled. “Here goes,” she said. 



5 


The chain slipped from Erin’s hand. 

She reached up and grabbed it again. 

She was just about to tug at it when a woman’s voice interrupted from 
downstairs. “Erin! Are you up there? April?” 

I recognized the voice. Erin’s mom. 

“Yeah. We’re up here,” Erin shouted. She let go of the chain. 

“Hurry down. We’re late!” her mom called. “What are you doing up in the 
attic, anyway?” 

“Nothing,” Erin called down. She turned to me and shrugged. 

“Good. I’m outta here!” April exclaimed, and hurried to the stairway. 

We all followed her down, clumping noisily down the creaking wooden 
stairs. 

“What were you doing up there?” my mom asked when we were all in the 
living room. “It’s so dusty in that attic. It’s a wonder you’re not filthy.” 

“We were just hanging out,” I told her. 

“We were playing with an old mirror,” Lefty said. “It was kind of neat.” 

“Playing with a mirror?” Erin’s mom flashed my mom a bewildered glance. 

“See you guys,” Erin said, pulling her mom to the door. “Great party, Max.” 

“Yeah. Thanks,” April added. 

They headed out the front door. The rain had finally stopped. I stood at the 
screen door and watched them step around the puddles on the walk as they made 
their way to the car. 

When I turned back into the living room, Lefty was tossing the softball up 
to the ceiling, trying to catch it behind his back. He missed. The ball bounced up 
from the floor onto an end table, where it knocked over a large vase of tulips. 

What a crash! 

The vase shattered. Tulips went flying. All the water poured down onto the 
carpet. 

Mom tossed up her hands and said something silently up to the sky, the way 
she always does when she’s very pushed out of shape about something. 

Then she really got on Lefty’s case. She started screaming: “How many 



times do I have to tell you not to throw that ball in the house?” Stuff like that. 
She kept it up for quite a while. 

Lefty shrank into a corner and tried to make himself tinier and tinier. He 
kept saying he was sorry, but Mom was yelling so loud, I don’t think she heard 
him. 

I bet Lefty wanted to be invisible right at that moment. 

But he had to stand and take his punishment. 

Then he and I helped clean up the mess. 

A few minutes later, I saw him tossing the softball up in the living room 
again. 

That’s the thing about Lefty. He never learns. 

I didn’t think about the mirror again for a couple of days. I got busy with school 
and other stuff. Rehearsing for the spring concert. I’m only in the chorus, but I 
still have to go to every rehearsal. 

I saw Erin and April in school a lot. But neither of them mentioned the 
mirror. I guess maybe it slipped their minds, too. Or maybe we all just shut it out 
of our minds. 

It was kind of scary, if you stopped to think about it. 

I mean, if you believed what they said happened. 

Then that Wednesday night I couldn’t get to sleep. I was lying there, staring 
up at the ceiling, watching the shadows sway back and forth. 

I tried counting sheep. I tried shutting my eyes real tight and counting 
backwards from one thousand. 

But I was really keyed up, for some reason. Not at all sleepy. 

Suddenly I found myself thinking about the mirror up in the attic. 

What was it doing up there? I asked myself. Why was it closed up in that 
hidden room with the door carefully latched? 

Who did it belong to? My grandparents? If so, why would they hide it in 
that tiny room? 

I wondered if Mom and Dad even knew it was up there. 

I started thinking about what had happened on Saturday after my birthday 
party. I pictured myself standing in front of the mirror. Combing my hair. Then 
reaching for the chain. Pulling it. The flash of bright light as the lamp went on. 
And then... 

Did I see my reflection in the mirror after the light went on? 



I couldn’t remember. 

Did I see myself at all? My hands? My feet? 

I couldn’t remember. 

“It was a joke,” I said aloud, lying in my bed, kicking the covers off me. 

It had to be a joke. 

Lefty was always playing dumb jokes on me, trying to make me look bad. 
My brother was a joker. He’d always been a joker. He was never serious. Never. 

So what made me think he was serious now? 

Because Erin and April had agreed with him? 

Before I realized it, I had climbed out of bed. 

Only one way to find out if they were serious or not, I told myself. I 
searched in the darkness for my bedroom slippers. I buttoned my pajama shirt 
which had come undone from all my tossing and turning. 

Then, as silent as I could be, I crept out into the hallway. 

The house was dark except for the tiny night-light down by the floor just 
outside Lefty’s bedroom. Lefty was the only one in the family who ever got up 
in the middle of the night. He insisted on having a night-light in his room and 
one in the hall, even though I made fun of him about it as often as I could. 

Now I was grateful for the light as I made my way on tiptoe to the attic 
stairs. Even though I was being so careful, the floorboards squeaked under my 
feet. It’s just impossible not to make noise in an old house like this. 

I stopped and held my breath, listening hard, listening for any sign that I 
had been heard. 

Silence. 

Taking a deep breath, I opened the attic door, fumbled around till I found 
the light switch, and clicked on the attic light. Then I made my way slowly up 
the steep stairs, leaning ah my weight on the banister, trying my hardest not to 
make the stairs creak. 

It seemed to take forever to get ah the way up. Finally, I stopped at the top 
step and gazed around, letting my eyes adjust to the yellow glare of the ceiling 
light. 

The attic was hot and stuffy. The air was so dry, it made my nose burn. I 
had a sudden urge to turn around and go back. 

But then my eyes stopped at the doorway to the small, hidden room. In our 
hurry to leave, we had left the door wide open. 

Staring at the darkness beyond the open doorway, I stepped onto the 



landing and made my way quickly across the cluttered floor. The floorboards 
creaked and groaned beneath me, but I barely heard them. 

I was drawn to the open doorway, drawn to the mysterious room as if being 
pulled by a powerful magnet. 

I had to see the tall mirror again. I had to examine it, study it closely. 

I had to know the truth about it. 

I stepped into the small room without hesitating and walked up to the 
mirror. 

I paused for a moment and studied my shadowy reflection in the glass. My 
hair was totally messed up, but I didn’t care. 

I stared at myself, stared into my eyes. Then I took a step back to get a 
different view. 

The mirror reflected my entire body from head to foot. There wasn’t 
anything special about the reflection. It wasn’t distorted or weird in any way. 

The fact that it was such a normal reflection helped to calm me. I hadn’t 
realized it, but my heart was fluttering like a nervous butterfly. My hands and 
feet were cold as ice. 

“Chill out, Max,” I whispered to myself, watching myself whisper in the 
dark mirror. 

I did a funny little dance for my own benefit, waving my hands above my 
head and shaking my whole body. 

“Nothing special about this mirror,” I said aloud. 

I reached out and touched it. The glass felt cool despite the warmth of the 
room. I ran my hand along the glass until I reached the frame. Then I let my 
hand wander up and down the wood frame. It also felt smooth and cool. 

It’s just a mirror, I thought, finally feeling more relaxed. Just an old mirror 
that someone stored up here long ago and forgot about. 

Still holding onto the frame, I walked around to the back. It was too dark to 
see clearly, but it didn’t seem too interesting back here. 

Well, I might as well turn on the light at the top, I thought. 

I returned to the front of the mirror. Standing just inches back from it, I 
began to reach up for the lamp chain when something caught my eye. 

“Oh!” 

I cried out as I saw two eyes, down low in the mirror. Two eyes staring out 
at me. 



6 


My breath caught in my throat. I peered down into the dark reflection. 

The two eyes peered up at me. Dark and evil eyes. 

Uttering a cry of panic, I turned away from the mirror. 

“Lefty!” I cried. My voice came out shrill and tight, as if someone were 
squeezing my throat. 

He grinned at me from just inside the doorway. 

I realized that it had been Lefty’s eyes reflected in the mirror. 

I ran over to him and grabbed him by the shoulders. “You scared me to 
death!” I half-screamed, half-whispered. 

His grin grew wider. “You’re stupid,” he said. 

I wanted to strangle him. He thought it was a riot. 

“Why’d you sneak up behind me?” I demanded, giving him a shove back 
against the wall. 

He shrugged. 

“Well, what are you doing up here, anyway?” I sputtered. 

I could still see those dark eyes staring out at me in the mirror. So creepy! 

“I heard you,” he explained, leaning back against the wall, still grinning. “I 
was awake. I heard you walk past my room. So I followed you.” 

“Well, you shouldn’t be up here,” I snapped. 

“Neither should you,” he snapped back. 

“Go back downstairs and go to bed,” I said. My voice was finally returning 
to normal. I tried to sound as if I meant business. 

But Lefty didn’t move. “Make me,” he said. Another classic argument- 
winner. 

“I mean it,” I insisted. “Go back to bed.” 

“Make me,” he repeated nastily. “I’ll tell Mom and Dad you’re up here,” he 
added. 

I hate being threatened. And he knows it. That’s why he threatens me every 
hour of the day. 

Sometimes I just wish I could pound him. 

But we live in a nonviolent family. 



That’s what Mom and Dad say every time Lefty and I get in a fight. “Break 
it up, you two. We live in a nonviolent family.” 

Sometimes nonviolence can be real frustrating. Know what I mean? 

This was one of those times. But I could see that I wasn’t going to get rid of 
Lefty so easily. He was determined to stay up in the attic with me and see what I 
was doing with the mirror. 

My heart had finally slowed down to normal. I was starting to feel calmer. 
So I decided to stop fighting with him and let him stay. I turned back to the 
mirror. 

Luckily, there wasn’t another pair of eyes in there staring out at me! 

“What are you doing?” Lefty demanded, stepping up behind me, his arms 
still crossed over his chest. 

“Just checking out the mirror,” I told him. 

“You going to go invisible again?” he asked. He was standing right behind 
me, and his breath smelled sour, like lemons. 

I turned and shoved him back a few steps. “Get out of my face,” I said. 
“Your breath stinks.” 

That started another stupid argument, of course. 

I was sorry I’d ever come up here. I should have stayed in bed, I realized. 

Finally, I persuaded him to stand a foot away from me. A major victory. 

Yawning, I turned back to the mirror. I was starting to feel sleepy. Maybe it 
was because of the heat of the attic. Maybe it was because I was tired of arguing 
with my dopey brother. Or maybe it was because it was really late at night, and I 
was tired. 

“I’m going to turn on the light,” I told him, reaching for the chain. “Tell me 
if I go invisible again.” 

“No.” He shoved his way right next to me again. “I want to try it, too.” 

“No way,” I insisted, shoving back. 

“Yes way.” He pushed me hard. 

I pushed back. Then I had a better idea. “How about if we both stand in 
front of the mirror, and I pull the light chain?” 

“Okay. Go ahead.” Standing an inch in front of it, practically nose to nose 
with his reflection, Lefty stiffened until he was standing at attention. 

He looked ridiculous, especially in those awful green pajamas. 

I stepped up beside him. “Here goes nothing,” I said. 

I stretched my hand up, grabbed the light chain, and pulled. 



7 


The light on top of the mirror flashed. 

“Ow!” I cried out. The light was so bright, it hurt my eyes. 

Then it quickly dimmed, and my eyes started to adjust. 

I turned to Lefty and started to say something. I don’t remember what it 
was. It completely flew out of my mind when I realized that Lefty was gone. 

“L-Lefty?” I stammered. 

“I’m right here,” he replied. His voice sounded nearby, but I couldn’t see 
him. “Max—where are you?” 

“You can’t see me?” I cried. 

“No,” Lefty said. “No, I can’t.” 

I could smell his sour breath, so I knew he was there. But he was invisible. 
Gone. Out of sight. 

So they weren’t putting me on! Erin, April, and Lefty had been telling the 
truth on Saturday after my birthday party. I really had gone invisible. 

And now I was invisible again, along with my brother. 

“Hey, Max,” his voice sounded tiny, shaky. “This is weird.” 

“Yeah. It’s weird, okay,” I agreed. “You really can’t see me, Lefty?” 

“No. And I can’t see myself,” he said. 

The mirror. I had forgotten to check out the mirror. 

Did I have a reflection? 

I turned and stared into the mirror. The light was pouring down from the top 
of the frame, casting a bright glare over the glass. 

Squinting into the glare, I saw... nothing. 

No me. 

No Lefty. 

Just the reflection of the wall behind us and the open doorway leading to 
the rest of the attic. 

“We—we don’t have reflections,” I said. 

“It’s kinda cool,” Lefty remarked. He grabbed my arm. I jumped in 
surprise. 

“Hey!” I cried. 



It felt creepy to be grabbed by an invisible person. 

I grabbed him back. I tickled his ribs. He started to laugh. 

“We still have our bodies,” I said. “We just can’t see them.” 

He tried to tickle me, but I danced away from him. 

“Hey, Max, where’d you go?” he called, sounding frightened again. 

“Try and find me,” I teased, backing toward the wall. 

“I—I can’t,” he said shakily. “Come back over here, okay?” 

“No way,” I said. “I don’t want to be tickled.” 

“I won’t,” Lefty swore. “I promise.” 

I stepped back in front of the mirror. 

“Are you here?” Lefty asked timidly. 

“Yeah. I’m right beside you. I can smell your bad breath,” I told him. 

And he started to tickle me again. The little liar. 

We wrestled around for a bit. It was just so strange wrestling with someone 
you couldn’t see. 

Finally, I pushed him away. “I wonder if we could go downstairs and still 
be invisible,” I said. “I wonder if we could leave the house like this.” 

“And go spy on people?” Lefty suggested. 

“Yeah,” I said. I yawned. I was starting to feel a little strange. “We could go 
spy on girls and stuff.” 

“Cool,” Lefty replied. 

“Remember that old movie Mom and Dad were watching on TV?” I asked 
him. “About the ghosts who kept appearing and disappearing all the time? They 
had a lot of fun scaring people. You know, playing jokes on them, driving them 
crazy.” 

“But we’re not ghosts,” Lefty replied in a trembling voice. I think the idea 
kind of frightened him. 

It frightened me, too! 

“Could we go back to normal now?” Lefty asked. “I don’t feel right.” 

“Me, either,” I told him. I was feeling very light. Kind of fluttery. Just... 
weird. 

“How can we get back right again?” he asked. 

“Well, the last time, I just pulled the chain. I clicked the light off, and I was 
back. That’s all it took.” 

“Well, do it,” Lefty urged impatiently. “Right now. Okay?” 

“Yeah. Okay.” I started to feel kind of dizzy. Kind of light. As if I could 



float away or something. 

“Hurry,” Lefty said. I could hear him breathing hard. 

I reached up and grabbed the light chain. “No problem,” I told him. “We’ll 
be back in a second.” 

I pulled the chain. 

The light went out. 

But Lefty and I didn’t return. 



8 


“Max—I can’t see you!” Lefty whined. 

“I know,” I replied quietly. I felt so frightened. I had chills running down 
my back, chills that wouldn’t stop. “I can’t see you, either.” 

“What happened?” Lefty cried. I could feel him tug at my invisible arm. 

“I—I don’t know,” I stammered. “It worked before. I clicked off the light 
and I was back.” 

I gazed into the mirror. No reflection. Nothing. 

No me. No Lefty. 

I stood there, staring at the spot where our reflections should be, frozen 
with fear. I was glad Lefty couldn’t see me because I wouldn’t want him to see 
how frightened I looked. 

“Try it again, Max,” he whined. “Please. Hurry!” 

“Okay,” I said. “Just try to stay calm, okay?” 

“Stay calm? How?” Lefty wailed. “What if we never get back? What if no 
one can ever see us again?” 

I suddenly felt so sick. My stomach just sort of heaved. 

Get a grip, I told myself. You’ve got to keep it together, Max. For Lefty’s 

sake. 

I stretched up for the light chain, but it seemed to be out of my reach. 

I tried again. Missed. 

And then suddenly, I was back. And so was Lefty. 

We could see each other. And we could see our reflections in the mirror. 

“We’re back!” We both shouted it in unison. 

And then we both fell on the floor, laughing. We were so relieved. So 
happy. 

“Ssshh!” I grabbed Lefty and shoved my hand over his mouth. I just 
remembered it was the middle of the night. “If Mom and Dad catch us up here, 
they’ll kill us,” I warned, whispering. 

“Why did it take so long for us to come back?” Lefty asked, turning serious, 
gazing at his reflection. 

I shrugged. “Beats me.” I thought about it. “Maybe if you stay invisible 



longer, it takes longer for you to get back,” I suggested. 

“Huh? What do you mean?” 

“The first time I went invisible,” I told him, “it was only for a few seconds. 
And I came back instantly, as soon as I clicked off the light. But tonight—” 

“We stayed invisible a lot longer. So it took longer to come back. I get it,” 
Lefty said. 

“You’re not as dumb as you look,” I said, yawning. 

“You are!” he snapped back. 

Feeling totally exhausted, I started to lead the way out of the tiny room, 
motioning for Lefty to follow me. But he hesitated, glancing back at his 
reflection in the mirror. 

“We have to tell Mom and Dad about the mirror,” he whispered 
thoughtfully. 

“No way!” I told him. “No way we’re telling them. If we tell them about it, 
they’ll take it away. They won’t let us use it.” 

He stared at me thoughtfully. “I’m not sure I want to use it,” he said softly. 

“Well, I do,” I said, turning at the doorway to look back at it. “I want to use 
it just one more time.” 

“What for?” Lefty asked, yawning. 

“To scare Zack,” I said, grinning. 

Zack couldn’t come over until Saturday. As soon as he arrived, I wanted to take 
him up to the attic and give him a demonstration of the mirror’s powers. 

Mainly, I wanted to scare the life out of him! 

But Mom insisted that we sit down for lunch first. Canned chicken noodle 
soup and peanut butter-and-jelly sandwiches. 

I gulped my soup as fast as I could, not bothering to chew the noodles. 
Lefty kept giving me meaningful glances across the table. I could see that he was 
as eager as I was to scare Zack. 

“Where’d you get that haircut?” my mom asked Zack. She walked around 
the table, staring at Zack’s head, frowning. I could tell she hated it. 

“At Quick Cuts,” Zack told her after swallowing a mouthful of peanut 
butter and jelly. “You know. At the mall.” 

We all studied Zack’s haircut. I thought it was kind of cool. The way it was 
buzzed so short on the left, then hung down long on the right. 

“It’s different, all right,” my mom said. 



We all could tell she hated it. But I guess she thought she was covering up 
by calling it different. If I ever came home with a haircut like that, she’d murder 
me! 

“What did your mom say about it?” she asked Zack. 

Zack laughed. “Not much.” 

We all laughed. I kept glancing up at the clock. I was so eager to get 
upstairs. 

“How about some chocolate cupcakes?” Mom asked when we’d finished 
our sandwiches. 

Zack started to say yes, but I interrupted him. “Can we have dessert later? 
I’m kinda full.” 

I pushed back my chair and got up quickly, motioning for Zack to follow 
me. Lefty was already running to the stairs. 

“Hey—where are you going so fast?” Mom called after us, following us 
into the hall. 

“Uh... upstairs... to the attic,” I told her. 

“The attic?” She wrinkled her face, puzzled. “What’s so interesting up 
there?” 

“Uh... just a bunch of old magazines,” I lied. “They’re kind of funny. I 
want to show them to Zack.” That was pretty fast thinking, for me. I’m usually 
not very quick at making up stories. 

Mom stared at me. I don’t think she believed me. But she turned back to the 
kitchen. “Have fun, guys. Don’t get too dirty up there.” 

“We won’t,” I told her. I led Zack up the steep stairs. Lefty was already 
waiting for us in the attic. 

It was about a hundred degrees hotter up there. I started to sweat the second 
I stepped into the room. 

Zack stopped a few feet behind me and looked around. “It’s just a lot of old 
junk. What’s so interesting up here?” he asked. 

“You’ll see,” I said mysteriously. 

“This way,” Lefty called eagerly, running to the little room against the far 
wall. He was so excited, he dropped his softball. It rolled in front of him, and he 
tripped over it and fell facedown on the floor with a thud. 

“I meant to do that!” Lefty joked, climbing up quickly and leaping after the 
ball, which had rolled across the floor. 

“Your brother is made of rubber or something,” Zack laughed. 



“Falling down is his hobby,” I said. “He falls down about a hundred times a 
day.” I wasn’t exaggerating. 

A few seconds later, the three of us were in the hidden room standing in 
front of the mirror. Even though it was a sunny afternoon, the room was as dark 
and shadowy as ever. 

Zack turned from the mirror to me, a bewildered look on his face. “This is 
what you wanted to show me?” 

“Yeah.” I nodded. 

“Since when are you into furniture?” he asked. 

“It’s an interesting mirror, don’t you think?” I asked. 

“No,” he said. “Not too interesting.” 

Lefty laughed. He bounced his softball off the wall and caught it. 

I was deliberately taking my time. Zack was in for the surprise of his life, 
but I wanted to confuse him a little bit first. He was always doing stuff like that 
to me. He always acted as if he knew everything there was to know, and if I were 
good, he’d share a little bit of his knowledge with me. 

Well, now I knew something he didn’t know. I wanted to stretch this 
moment out, make it last. 

But at the same time, I couldn’t wait to watch the look on Zack’s face when 
I disappeared right in front of his eyes. 

“Let’s go outside,” Zack said impatiently. “It’s too hot up here. I brought 
my bike. Why don’t we ride to the playground behind school, see who’s there?” 

“Maybe later,” I replied, grinning at Lefty. I turned to my brother. “Should I 
show Zack our secret or not?” 

Lefty grinned back at me. He shrugged. 

“What secret?” Zack demanded. I knew he couldn’t stand to be left out of 
anything. He couldn’t bear it if anyone had a secret he didn’t know about. 

“What secret?” he repeated when I didn’t answer. 

“Show him,” Lefty said, tossing up the softball. 

I rubbed my chin, pretended to be thinking about it. “Well... okay.” I 
motioned for Zack to stand behind me. 

“You’re going to make funny faces in the mirror?” Zack guessed. He shook 
his head. “Big deal!” 

“No. That’s not the secret,” I told him. I stepped in front of the mirror, 
admiring my reflection, which stared back at me in the glass. 

“Watch!” Lefty urged, stepping up beside Zack. 



“I’m watching. I’m watching,” Zack said impatiently. 

“I’ll bet you I can disappear into thin air,” I told Zack. 

“Yeah. Sure,” he muttered. 

Lefty laughed. 

“How much do you want to bet?” I asked. 

“Two cents,” Zack said. “Is this some kind of trick mirror or something?” 
“Something like that,” I told him. “How about ten dollars? Bet me ten 
dollars?” 

“Huh?” 

“Forget the bet. Just show him,” Lefty said, bouncing up and down 
impatiently. 

“I have a magic kit at home,” Zack said. “I can do over a thousand tricks. 
But it’s kid stuff,” he sneered. 

“You don’t have any tricks like this,” I said confidently. 

“Just get it over with so we can go outside,” he grumbled. 

I stepped into the center of the mirror. “Ta -daa\” I sang myself a short 
fanfare. Then I reached up and grabbed the light chain. 

I pulled it. The lamp above the mirror flashed on, blindingly bright at first, 
then dimming as before. 

And I was gone. 

“Hey!” Zack cried. He stumbled backwards. 

He actually stumbled out of shock! 

Invisible, I turned away from the mirror to enjoy his stunned reaction. 
“Max?” he cried out. His eyes searched the room. 

Lefty was laughing his head off. 

“Max?” Zack sounded really worried. “Max? How’d you do that? Where 
are you?” 

“I’m right here,” I said. 

He jumped at the sound of my voice. Lefty laughed even harder. 

I reached out and took the softball from Lefty’s hand. I glanced at the 
reflection in the mirror. The ball seemed to float in midair. 

“Here. Catch, Zack.” I tossed it at him. 

He was so stunned, he didn’t move. The ball bounced off his chest. “Max? 
How do you do this trick?” he demanded. 

“It isn’t a trick. It’s real,” I said. 

“Hey, wait...” He got a suspicious look on his face. He ran around to the 



back of the mirror. I guess he expected me to be hiding back there. 

He looked very disappointed when he didn’t see me. “Is there a trapdoor or 
something?” he asked. He walked back in front of the mirror, got down on his 
hands and knees, and started searching the floorboards for a trapdoor. 

I leaned over and pulled his T-shirt up over his head. 

“Hey—stop it!” he yelled, climbing angrily to his feet. 

I tickled his stomach. 

“Stop, Max.” He squirmed away, thrashing his arms, trying to hit me. He 
looked really frightened now. He was breathing hard, and his face was bright 
red. 

I pulled his T-shirt up again. 

He jerked it down. “You’re really invisible?” His voice rose up so high, 
only dogs could hear it. “Really?” 

“Good trick, huh?” I said right in his ear. 

He jumped and spun away. “What does it feel like? Does it feel weird?” 

I didn’t answer him. I crept out of the room and picked up a cardboard 
carton just outside the door. I carried it up to the mirror. It looked great. A carton 
floating all by itself. 

“Put it down,” Zack urged. He sounded really scared. “This is really 
freaking me out, Max. Stop it, okay? Come back so I can see you.” 

I wanted to torture him some more, but I could see he was about to lose it. 
Besides, I was starting to feel weird again. Sort of dizzy and lightheaded. And 
the bright light was hurting my eyes, starting to blind me. 

“Okay, I’m coming back,” I announced. “Watch.” 

I leaned against the mirror and reached up for the chain. I suddenly felt very 
tired, very weak. It took all my strength to wrap my hand around the chain. 

I had the strangest sensation that the mirror was pulling me, tugging me 
toward it, holding me down. 

With a determined burst of strength, I pulled the chain. 

The lamp went out. The room darkened. 

“Where are you? I still can’t see you!” Zack cried, his voice revealing 
panic. 

“Just chill,” I told him. “It takes a few seconds. The longer I stay invisible, 
the longer it takes to come back.” And then I added, “I think.” 

Staring into the blank mirror, waiting for my reflection to return, I suddenly 
realized that I didn’t know anything at all about this mirror, about turning 



invisible. About coming back. 

My mind suddenly whirred with all sorts of terrifying questions: 

What made me think that reappearing was automatic? 

What if you could only come back twice? And after the third time you went 
invisible, you stayed invisible? 

What if the mirror was broken? What if it was locked away in this hidden 
room because it didn’t work properly and it made people stay invisible forever? 

What if I never came back? 

No, that can’t be, I told myself. 

But the seconds were ticking by. And my body was still not visible. 

I touched the mirror, rubbing my invisible hand over the smooth, cool glass. 

“Max, what’s taking so long?” Zack asked, his voice trembling. 

“I don’t know,” I told him, sounding as frightened and upset as he did. 

And then suddenly, I was back. 

I was staring at my reflection in the mirror, watching intently, gratefully, as 
a wide smile crossed my face. 

“Ta-daaa\” I sang my triumphant fanfare, turning to my still shaken friend. 
“Here lam!” 

“Wow!” Zack exclaimed, and his mouth remained in a tight O of surprise 
and wonder. “Wow.” 

“I know,” I said, grinning. “Pretty cool, huh?” 

I felt very shaky, kind of trembly all over. My knees felt all weak and 
sweaty. You know the feeling. 

But I ignored it. I wanted to enjoy my moment of glory. It wasn’t often that 
I got to do something that Zack hadn’t already done ten times. 

“Amazing,” Zack said, staring hard at the mirror. “I’ve got to try it!” 

“Well...” I wasn’t so sure I wanted Zack to do it. It was such a big 
responsibility. I mean, what if something went wrong? 

“You’ve got to let me do it!” Zack insisted. 

“Hey—where’s Lefty?” I asked, glancing quickly around the small room. 

“Huh? Lefty?” Zack’s eyes searched, too. 

“I was so busy being invisible, I forgot he was here,” I said. And then I 
called, “Hey, Lefty?” 

No reply. 

“Lefty?” 

Silence. 



I walked quickly around to the back of the mirror. He wasn’t there. Calling 
his name, I made my way to the door and peered out into the attic. 

No sign of him. 

“He was standing right here. In front of the mirror,” Zack said, suddenly 

pale. 

“Lefty?” I called. “Are you here? Can you hear me?” 

Silence. 

“Weird,” Zack said. 

I swallowed hard. My stomach suddenly felt as if I’d swallowed a rock. 

“He was right here. Standing right here,” Zack said in a shrill, frightened 
voice. 

“Well, he’s gone now,” I said, staring at the dark, shadowy reflection of the 
mirror. “Lefty’s gone.” 



9 


“Maybe Lefty went invisible, too,” Zack suggested. 

“Then why doesn’t he answer us?” I cried. I tried calling my brother again. 
“Lefty—are you here? Can you hear me?” 

No reply. 

I walked up to the mirror and angrily slapped the frame. “Stupid mirror.” 
“Lefty? Lefty?” Zack had his hands cupped around his mouth like a 
megaphone. He stood at the door to the little room, calling out into the attic. 

“I don’t believe this,” I said weakly. My legs were shaking so much, I 
dropped down onto the floor. 

And then I heard giggling. 

“Huh? Lefty?” I jumped to my feet. 

More giggling. Coming from behind the carton I’d carried into the little 
room. 

I lunged toward the carton just as Lefty popped up from behind it. 
“Gotcha!” he cried, and collapsed over the carton, slapping the floor, laughing 
his head off. 

“Gotcha! Gotcha both!” 

“You little creep!” Zack screamed. 

He and I both pounced on Lefty at the same time. I pulled his arm back 
until he screamed. Zack messed up his hair, then tickled him. 

Lefty was screaming and laughing and squirming and crying all at the same 
time. I gave him a hard punch on the shoulder. “Don’t ever do that again,” I 
shouted angrily. 

Lefty laughed, so I gave him a hard shove and climbed to my feet. 

Zack and I, both breathing hard, both red in the face, glared angrily at Lefty. 
He was rolling around on the floor, covered in dust, still laughing like a lunatic. 
“You scared us to death. You really did!” I exclaimed heatedly. 

“I know,” Lefty replied happily. 

“Let’s beat him up some more,” Zack suggested, balling his hands into tight 

fists. 

“Okay,” I agreed. 



“You’ll have to catch me first!” Lefty cried. He was on his feet in a flash, 
and out the door. 

I chased after him, tripped over a stack of old clothes, and went flying 
headfirst to the floor. “Ow!” I banged my leg hard. The pain shot up through my 
body. 

Pulling myself up slowly, I started after Lefty again. But voices on the attic 
stairway made me stop. 

Erin’s head popped up first. Then April appeared. 

Lefty was sitting on the windowsill at the far end of the attic, red-faced and 
sweaty, catching his breath. 

“Hey, how’s it going?” I called to the two girls, brushing dust off my jeans, 
then straightening my hair with one hand. 

“Your mom said you were here,” Erin explained, looking from Lefty to me. 

“What are you guys doing up here?” April asked. 

“Oh... just hanging out,” I said, casting an angry glance at my brother, who 
stuck his tongue out in reply. 

April picked up an old Life magazine from a stack of yellowed magazines 
and began flipping through it. But the pages crumbled as she looked at them. 
“Yuck,” she said, putting it down. “This stuff is so old.” 

“That’s what attics are for,” I said, starting to feel a little more normal. 
“Whoever heard of keeping new stuff in an attic?” 

“Ha-ha,” Lefty laughed sarcastically. 

“Where’s that mirror?” Erin asked, stepping into the center of the room. 
“The one that made that weird optical illusion last Saturday.” 

“It wasn’t an optical illusion,” I blurted out. I didn’t really feel like messing 
with the mirror anymore. I’d had enough scares for one afternoon. But the words 
just tumbled out of me. 

I can never keep a secret. It’s a real character flaw. 

“What do you mean?” Erin asked, very interested. She walked past me, 
heading to the open doorway of the little room. 

“You mean that wasn’t an optical illusion last week?” April asked, 
following her. 

“No, not really,” I said, glancing at Lefty, who hadn’t budged from the 
windowsill across the large room. “The mirror has strange powers or something. 
It really can turn you invisible.” 

April laughed scornfully. “Yeah. Right,” she said. “And I’m going to fly to 



Mars in a flying saucer tonight after dinner.” 

“Give me a break,” I muttered. I turned my eyes to Erin. “I’m serious.” 

Erin stared back at me, her face filled with doubt. “You’re trying to tell us 
that you’ve gone in that room and become invisible?” 

“I’m not trying to tell you,” I replied heatedly. “I am telling you!” 

April laughed. 

Erin continued to stare at me, studying my face. “You are serious,” she 
decided. 

“It’s a trick mirror,” April told her. “That’s all. That light on top of it is so 
bright, it makes your eyes go weird.” 

“Show us,” Erin said to me. 

“Yeah. Show them!” Lefty exclaimed eagerly. He jumped up from the 
windowsill and started running to the little room. “I’ll go this time! Let me do 
it!” 

“No way,” I said. 

“Let me try it,” Erin volunteered. 

“Hey, do you know who else is here?” I asked the girls, following them to 
the room. “Zack is here.” I called to him. “Hey, Zack. Erin wants to go invisible. 
Think we should let her?” 

I stepped into the room. “Zack?” 

“Where’s he hiding?” Erin asked. 

I uttered a silent gasp. 

The mirror light was on. Zack was gone. 



10 


“Oh, no!” I cried. “I don’t believe this!” 

Lefty laughed. “Zack’s invisible,” he told Erin and April. 

“Zack—where are you?” I demanded angrily. 

Suddenly, the softball floated up from Lefty’s hand. “Hey, give that back!” 
Lefty shouted, and grabbed for it. But invisible Zack pulled the ball out of 
Lefty’s reach. 

Erin and April were both gaping at the ball as it floated in midair, their eyes 
bulging, their mouths wide open. 

“Hi, girls,” Zack called in a booming, deep voice that floated from in front 
of the mirror. 

April screamed and grabbed Erin’s arm. 

“Zack, stop kidding around. How long have you been invisible?” I asked. 

“I don’t know.” The ball flew back to Lefty, who dropped it and had to 
chase it out into the attic. 

“How long, Zack?” I repeated. 

“About five minutes, maybe,” he replied. 

“When you chased after Lefty, I turned on the light and went invisible. 
Then I heard you talking to Erin and April.” 

“You’ve been invisible the whole time?” I asked, feeling really nervous and 
upset. 

“Yeah. This is awesome!” he exclaimed. But then his tone grew doubtful. “I 
—I’m starting to feel kinda funny, though, Max.” 

“Funny?” Erin asked, staring at where Zack’s voice seemed to be coming 
from. “What do you mean ‘funny’?” 

“Kinda dizzy,” Zack replied weakly. “Everything’s kind of breaking up. 
You know. Like a bad TV picture. I mean, you’re starting to fade, to seem far 
away.” 

“I’m bringing you back,” I said. And without waiting for Zack to reply, I 
reached up and pulled the light chain. 

The light clicked off. Darkness seemed to roll into the room, filling the 
mirror with gray shadows. 

“Where is he?” April cried. “It didn’t work. He isn’t back.” 



“It takes a while,” I explained. 

“How long?” April asked. 

“I don’t really know,” I said. 

“Why aren’t I back?” Zack asked. He was standing right beside me. I could 
feel his breath on my neck. “I can’t see myself.” He sounded very frightened. 

“Don’t get tense,” I said, forcing myself to sound calm. “You know it takes 
a while. Especially since you stayed invisible so long.” 

“But how long?” Zack wailed. “Shouldn’t I be back by now? You were back 
by now. I remember.” 

“Just stay cool,” I told him, even though my stomach was churning and my 
throat was dry. 

“This is too scary. I hate this!” April moaned. 

“Be patient,” I repeated softly. “Everybody just be patient.” 

We all stared from the spot where we thought Zack was standing to the 
mirror, then back again. 

“Zack, how do you feel?” Erin asked, her voice trembling. 

“Weird,” Zack replied. “Like I’m never coming back.” 

“Don’t say that!” I snapped. 

“But that’s how I feel,” Zack said sadly. “Like I’m never coming back.” 

“Just chill,” I said. “Everybody. Just chill.” 

We stood in silence. Watching. Waiting. 

Waiting. 

I was never so frightened in all my life. 



11 


“Do something!” Zack, still invisible, pleaded. “Max—you’ve got to do 
something!” 

“I—I’d better get Mom,” Lefty stammered. He dropped the softball to the 
floor and started to the door. 

“Mom? What could Mom do?” I cried in a panic. 

“But I’d better get somebody !” Lefty declared. 

At that moment, Zack shimmered back into view. “Wow!” He uttered a 
long, breathless sigh of relief and slumped to his knees on the floor. 

“Yaaaay!” Erin cried happily, clapping her hands as we all gathered around 
Zack. 

“How do you feel?” I asked, grabbing his shoulders. I think I wanted to 
know for sure that he was really back. 

“I’m back!” Zack proclaimed, smiling. “That’s all I care about.” 

“That was really scary,” April said quietly, hands shoved into the pockets of 
her white tennis shorts. “I mean, really.” 

“I wasn’t scared,” Zack said, suddenly changing his tune. “I knew there was 
no problem.” 

Do you believe this guy? 

One second, he’s whining and wailing, begging me to do something. 

The next second, he’s pretending he had the time of his life. Mister 
Confident. 

“What did it feel like?” Erin asked, resting one hand on the wooden mirror 
frame. 

“Awesome,” Zack replied. He climbed unsteadily to his feet. “Really. It was 
totally awesome! I want to get invisible again before school on Monday so I can 
go spy in the girls’ locker room!” 

“Zack, you’re a pig!” Erin declared disgustedly. 

“What’s the point of being invisible if you can’t spy on girls?” Zack asked. 

“Are you sure you’re okay?” I asked, genuinely concerned. “You look kind 
of shaky to me.” 

“Well, I started to feel a little strange at the end,” Zack confessed, 
scratching the back of his head. 



“How do you mean?” I asked. 

“Well, like I was being pulled away. Away from the room. Away from you 
guys.” 

“Pulled where?” I demanded. 

He shrugged. “I don’t know. I only know one thing.” A smile began to form 
on his face, and his blue eyes seemed to light up. 

Uh-oh, I thought. 

“I only know one thing,” Zack repeated. 

“What?” I had to ask. 

“I’m the new invisible champ. I stayed invisible longer than you. At least 
five minutes. Longer than anybody.” 

“But I haven’t had a turn!” Erin protested. 

“I don’t want a turn!” April declared. 

“Chicken?” Zack teased her. 

“I think you’re stupid for messing around with this,” April said heatedly. “It 
isn’t a toy, you know. You don’t know anything about it. You don’t know what it 
really does to your body.” 

“I feel fine!” Zack told her, and pounded his chest with both hands like a 
gorilla to prove it. He glanced at the dark mirror. “I’m ready to go back—even 
longer.” 

“I want to get invisible and go outside and play tricks on people,” Lefty 
said enthusiastically. “Can I go next, Max?” 

“I—I don’t think so....” 

I was thinking about what April had said. We really were messing around 
with something that could be dangerous, something we didn’t know anything 
about. 

“Max has to go again,” Zack said, slapping me hard on the back, nearly 
sending me sprawling against the mirror. “To beat my record.” He grinned at me. 
“Unless you’re chicken, too.” 

“I’m not chicken!” I insisted. “I just think—” 

“You’re chicken,” Zack accused, laughing scornfully. He started clucking 
loudly, flapping his arms like a chicken. 

“I’m not chicken. Let me go,” Lefty pleaded. “I can break Zack’s record.” 

“It’s my turn,” Erin insisted. “You guys have all had turns. I haven’t gone 
once yet!” 

“Okay,” I said with a shrug. “You go first, Erin. Then me.” I was glad Erin 



was so eager to do it. I really didn’t feel like getting invisible again just yet. 

To be honest, I felt very fluttery and nervous. 

“Me next!” Lefty insisted. “Me next! Me next!” He started chanting the 
words over and over. 

I clamped my hand over his mouth. “Maybe we should all go downstairs,” I 
suggested. 

“Chicken?” Zack teased. “You’re chickening out?” 

“I don’t know, Zack,” I replied honestly. “I think—” I saw Erin staring at 
me. Was that disappointment on her face? Did Erin think I was a chicken, too? 

“Okay,” I said. “Go ahead, Erin. You go. Then I’ll go. Then Lefty. We’ll all 
beat Zack’s record.” 

Erin and Lefty clapped. April groaned and rolled her eyes. Zack grinned. 

It’s no big deal, I told myself. I’ve done it three times already. It’s perfectly 
painless. And if you just stay cool and wait patiently, you come right back the 
way you were. 

“Does anyone have a watch?” Erin asked. “We need to keep time so I know 
what time I have to beat.” 

I could see that Erin was really into this competition. 

Lefty seemed really excited, too. And of course Zack would compete in 
anything. 

Only April was unhappy about the whole thing. She walked silently to the 
back of the room and sat down on the floor with her back against the wall, her 
arms folded over her knees. 

“Hey, you’re the only one with a watch,” Erin called to April. “So you be 
the timer, okay?” 

April nodded without enthusiasm. She raised her wrist and stared down at 
her watch. “Okay. Get ready.” 

Erin took a deep breath and stepped up to the mirror. She closed her eyes, 
reached up, and tugged the light chain. 

The light came on with a bright flash. Erin disappeared. 

“Oh, wow!” she cried. “This is way cool!” 

“How does it feel?” April called from behind us, her eyes glancing from the 
mirror to her watch. 

“I don’t feel any different at all,” Erin said. “What a great way to lose 
weight!” 

“Fifteen seconds,” April announced. 



Lefty’s hair suddenly stood straight up in the air. “Cut it out, Erin!” he 
shouted, twisting away from her invisible hands. 

We heard Erin laugh from somewhere near Lefty. 

Then we heard her footsteps as she walked out of the room and into the 
attic. We saw an old coat rise up into the air and dance around. After it dropped 
back into its carton, we saw an old magazine fly up and its pages appear to flip 
rapidly. 

“This is so much fun!” Erin called to us. The magazine dropped back onto 
the stack. “I can’t wait to go outside like this and really scare people!” 

“One minute,” April called. She hadn’t moved from her sitting position 
against the wall. 

Erin moved around the attic for a while, making things fly and float. Then 
she returned to the little room to admire herself in the mirror. 

“I’m really invisible!” we heard her exclaim excitedly. “Just like in a movie 
or something!” 

“Yeah. Great special effects!” I said. 

“Three minutes,” April announced. 

Erin continued to enjoy herself until about four minutes had passed. Then 
her voice suddenly changed. She started to sound doubtful, frightened. 

“I—I don’t like this,” she said. “I feel kind of strange.” 

April jumped to her feet and ran up to me. “Bring her back!” she demanded. 
“Hurry!” 

I hesitated. 

“Yes. Bring me back,” Erin said weakly. 

“But you haven’t beaten my record!” Zack declared. “Are you sure—?” 

“Yes. Please. I don’t feel right.” Erin suddenly sounded far away. 

I stepped up to the mirror and pulled the chain. The light clicked off. 

We waited for Erin to return. 

“How do you feel?” I asked. 

“Just... weird,” she replied. She was standing right next to me, but I still 
couldn’t see her. 

It took nearly three minutes for Erin to reappear. Three very tense minutes. 

When she shimmered back into view, she shook herself like a dog shaking 
water off after a bath. Then she grinned at us reassuringly. “I’m okay. It was 
really terrific. Except for the last few seconds.” 

“You didn’t beat my record,” Zack reported happily. “You came so close. 



But you folded. Just like a girl.” 

“Hey—” Erin gave Zack a hard shove. “Stop being such a jerk.” 

“But you only had fifteen seconds to go, and you wimped out!” Zack told 
her. 

“I don’t care,” Erin insisted, frowning angrily at him. “It was really neat. 
I’ll beat your record next time, Zack.” 

“I’m going to be the winner,” Lefty announced. “I’m going to stay invisible 
for a whole day. Maybe two!” 

“Whoa!” I cried. “That might be dangerous, Lefty.” 

“It’s Max’s turn next,” Zack announced. “Unless you want to forfeit.” 

“No way,” I said, glancing at Erin. Reluctantly, I stepped up to the mirror 
and took a deep breath. “Okay, Zack, say good-bye to your record,” I said, trying 
to sound calm and confident. 

I didn’t really want to do it, I admitted to myself. But I didn’t want to look 
like a chicken in front of the others. For one thing, if I did wimp out, I knew that 
Lefty would only remind me of it twenty or thirty times a day for the rest of my 
life. 

So I decided to go ahead and do it. 

“One thing,” I said to Zack. “When I call out ‘ready’, that means I want to 
come back. So when I say ‘ready’, you pull the light chain as fast as you can— 
okay?” 

“Gotcha,” Zack replied, his expression turning serious. “Don’t worry. I’ll 
bring you back instantly.” He snapped his fingers. “Like that. Remember, Max, 
you’ve got to beat five minutes.” 

“Okay. Here goes,” I said, staring at my reflection in the mirror. 

I suddenly had a bad feeling about this. 

A real bad feeling. 

But I reached up and pulled on the light anyway. 



12 


When the glaring light dimmed, I stared hard into the mirror. 

The reflections were bright and clear. Against the back wall, I could see 
April, slumped on the floor, staring intently at her watch. 

Lefty stood near the wall to the right, gaping at the spot where I had stood, 
a silly grin on his face. Zack stood next to him, his arms crossed over his chest, 
also staring into the mirror. Erin leaned against the wall to the left. Her eyes 
were on the light above the mirror frame. 

And where was I? 

Standing right in front of the mirror. Right in the center of it. Staring at their 
reflections. Staring at the spot where my reflection should be. 

Only it wasn’t. 

I felt perfectly normal. 

Experimenting, I kicked the floor. My invisible sneakers made the usual 
scraping sound. 

I grabbed my left arm with my right hand and squeezed it. It felt perfectly 
normal. 

“Hi, everyone,” I said. I sounded the same as ever. 

Only I was invisible. 

I glanced up at the light, casting a yellow rectangle down onto the mirror. 
What was the light’s power? I wondered. 

Did it do something to your molecules? Make them break apart somehow 
so you couldn’t be seen? 

No. That wasn’t a good theory. If your molecules broke up, you’d have to 
feel it. And you wouldn’t be able to kick the floor, or squeeze your arm, or talk. 

So what did the light do? Did it cover you up somehow? Did the light form 
some kind of blanket? A covering that hid you from yourself and everyone else? 

What a mystery! 

I had the feeling I’d never be able to figure it out, never know the answer. 

I turned my eyes away from the light. It was starting to hurt my eyes. 

I closed my eyes, but the bright glare stayed with me. Two white circles that 
refused to dim. 

“How do you feel, Max?” Erin’s voice broke into my thoughts. 



“Okay, I guess,” I said. My voice sounded weird to me, kind of far away. 
“Four minutes, thirty seconds,” April announced. 

“The time went so fast,” I said. 

At least, I thought I said it. I realized I couldn’t tell if I was saying the 
words or just thinking them. 

The bright yellow light glowed even brighter. 

I had the sudden feeling that it was pouring over me, surrounding me. 
Pulling me. 

“I—I feel weird,” I said. 

No response. 

Could they hear me? 

The light folded over me. I felt myself begin to float. 

It was a frightening feeling. As if I were losing control of my body. 
“Ready!” I screamed. “Zack—ready! Can you hear me, Zack?” 

It seemed to take Zack hours to reply. “Okay,” I heard him say. His voice 
sounded so tiny, so far away. 

Miles and miles away. 

“Ready!” I cried. “Ready!” 

“Okay!” Again I heard Zack’s voice. 

But the light was so bright, so blindingly bright. Waves of yellow light 
rolling over me. Ocean waves of light. 

Sweeping me away with it. 

“Pull the chain, Zack!” I screamed. At least, I think I was screaming. 

The light was tugging me so hard, dragging me away, far, far away. 

I knew I would float away. Float forever. 

Unless Zack pulled the chain and brought me back. 

“Pull it! Pull it! Please —pull it!” 

“Okay.” 

I saw Zack step up to the mirror. 

He was blurred in shadows. He stepped through dark shadows, on the other 
side of the light. 

So far away. 

I felt so feather light. 

I could see Zack in the shadows. He jumped up. He grabbed the lamp chain. 
He pulled it down hard. 



The light didn’t click off. It glowed even brighter. 

And then I saw Zack’s face fill with horror. 

He held up his hand. He was trying to show me something. 

He had the chain in his hand. 

“Max, the chain—” he stammered. “It broke off. I can’t turn off the light!” 



13 


Beyond the shimmering wall of yellow light, Zack’s outstretched hand came 
clearly into my view. The dark chain dangled from his hand like a dead snake. 

“It broke off!” he was crying, sounding very alarmed. 

I stared through the light at the chain, feeling myself hovering beside Zack, 
floating, fading. 

Somewhere far in the distance, April was screaming. I couldn’t make out 
her words. 

Lefty stood frozen in the center of the room. It seemed strange to see him 
standing so still. He was always moving, always bouncing, running, falling. But 
now he, too, stood staring at the chain. 

The light shimmered brighter. 

I saw sudden movement. 

Someone was crossing the room. I struggled to focus. 

It was Erin. She was dragging a large cardboard box across the floor. The 
scraping sound it made seemed so far away. 

Feeling myself being pulled away, I struggled to watch her. She pulled the 
box next to the mirror. Then she climbed up onto it. 

I saw her reaching up to the lamp. I saw her staring into the light. 

I wanted to ask her what she was doing, but I was too far away. I was 
floating off. I felt so light, so feather light. 

And as I floated, the yellow light spread over me. It covered me. Pulled me. 

And then with startling suddenness, it was gone. 

And all was darkness. 

“I did it!” Erin proclaimed. 

I heard her explaining to the others. “There was a little bit of chain left up 
there. I pulled it and turned off the light.” Her eyes darted frantically around the 
room, searching for me. “Max—are you okay? Can you hear me?” 

“Yeah. I’m okay,” I replied. 

I felt better. Stronger. Closer. 

I stepped up to the mirror and searched for my reflection. 

“That was scary,” Lefty said behind me. 



“I can feel myself coming back,” I told them. 

“What was his time?” Zack asked April. 

April’s features were tight with worry. Sitting against the wall, she looked 
pale and uncomfortable. “Five forty-eight,” she told Zack. And then quickly 
added, “I really think this stupid competition is a big mistake.” 

“You beat my record!” Zack groaned, turning to where he figured I was 
standing. “I don’t believe it! Almost six minutes!” 

“I’m going for longer than that,” Lefty said, pushing past Zack and stepping 
up to the mirror. 

“We have to fix the chain first,” Erin told him. “It’s too hard to keep 
climbing up on a box to pull that little piece of chain.” 

“I felt pretty strange at the end,” I told them, still waiting to reappear. “The 
light grew brighter and brighter.” 

“Did you feel like you were being pulled away?” Erin asked. 

“Yeah,” I replied. “Like I was fading or something.” 

“That’s how / started to feel,” Erin cried. 

“This is just so dangerous,” April said, shaking her head. 

I popped back. 

My knees buckled and I almost fell to the floor. But I grabbed the mirror 
and held myself up. After a few seconds, my legs felt strong again. I took a few 
steps and regained my balance. 

“What if we couldn’t turn off the light?” April demanded, climbing to her 
feet, brushing the dust off the back of her jeans with both hands. “What if the 
chain completely broke and the light stayed on? What then?” 

I shrugged. “I don’t know.” 

“You broke my record,” Zack said, making a disgusted face. “That means I 
have to have another turn.” 

“No way!” Lefty shouted. “It’s my turn next!” 

“None of you are listening to me!” April cried. “Answer my question. What 
if one of you is invisible and the light won’t go out?” 

“That won’t happen,” Zack told her. He pulled a string from his pocket. 
“Here. I’m going to tie this tightly to the chain.” He climbed up onto the box and 
began to work. “Pull the string. The light goes out,” he told April. “No 
problem.” 

“Which one of us is going to be first to get invisible and then go outside?” 
Erin asked. 



“I want to go to school and terrorize Miss Hawkins,” Lefty said, snickering. 
Miss Hawkins is his social studies teacher. “She’s been terrorizing me ever since 
school started. Wouldn’t it be cool just to sneak up behind her and say, ‘Hi, Miss 
Hawkins’? And she’d turn around and there’d be no one there?” 

“That’s the best you can do?” Erin scoffed. “Lefty, where’s your 
imagination? Don’t you want to make the chalk fly out of her hand, and the 
chalkboard erasers fly across the room, and the wastebasket spill everything out 
on her desk, and her yogurt fly into her face?” 

“Yeah! That’s way cool!” Lefty exclaimed. 

I laughed. It was a funny idea. The four of us could go around, completely 
invisible, doing whatever we wanted. We could wreck the whole school in ten 
minutes! Everyone would be screaming and running out the doors. What a goof! 

“We can’t do it now,” Lefty said, interrupting my thoughts. “Because it’s 
my turn to beat the record.” He turned back to April, who was standing tensely 
by the door, pulling at a strand of her black hair, a worried frown on her face. 
“Ready to time me?” 

“I guess,” she replied, sighing. 

Lefty pushed me out of the way. He stepped in front of the mirror, stared at 
his reflection, and reached for the string. 



14 


“Lefty!” a voice shouted from behind us. “Lefty!” 

Startled by the interruption, I uttered an alarmed cry. Lefty stepped back 
from the mirror. 

“Lefty, tell your brother his friends have to leave! It’s dinnertime. Grammy 
and Poppy are here. They’re eager to see you!” 

It was Mom, calling up from downstairs. 

“Okay, Mom. We’ll be right down!” I shouted quickly. I didn’t want her to 
come up. 

“But that’s not fair!” Lefty whined. “I didn’t get my turn.” 

He stepped back up to the mirror and angrily grabbed for the string again. 

“Put it down,” I told him sternly. “We have to go downstairs. Quick. We 
don’t want Mom or Dad coming up here and seeing the mirror, do we?” 

“Okay, okay,” Lefty grumbled. “But next time, I get to go first.” 

“And then me,” Zack said, heading toward the stairs. “I get a chance to beat 
your record, Max.” 

“Everybody, stop talking about it,” I warned as we all clomped down the 
stairs. “Talk about something else. We don’t want them to overhear anything.” 

“Can we come over tomorrow?” Erin asked. “We could start up the contest 
again.” 

“I’m busy tomorrow,” April said. 

“We can’t do it tomorrow,” I replied. “We’re visiting my cousins in 
Springfield.” I was sorry they’d reminded me. My cousins have this humongous 
sheepdog that likes to run through the mud and then jump on me and wipe its 
hairy paws all over my clothes. Not my idea of a good time. 

“There’s no school on Wednesday,” Zack said. “Teachers’ meetings, I think. 
Maybe we could all come over on Wednesday.” 

“Maybe,” I said. 

We stepped into the hallway. Everyone stopped talking. I could see that my 
grandparents and parents were already sitting at the dining room table. Grammy 
and Poppy liked to eat promptly. If their dinner came one minute late, it made 
them real cranky for the rest of the day. 

I ushered my friends out quickly, reminding them not to tell anyone about 



what we’d been doing. Zack asked again if Wednesday would be okay, and again 
I told him I wasn’t sure. 

Getting invisible was really exciting, really thrilling. But it also made me 
nervous. I wasn’t sure I wanted to do it again so soon. 

“Please!” Zack begged. He couldn’t wait to get invisible again and beat my 
record. He couldn’t stand it that he wasn’t the champ. 

I closed the front door behind them and hurried to the dining room to greet 
my grandparents. They were already slurping their soup when I came in. 

“Hi, Grammy. Hi, Poppy.” I walked around the table and gave them each a 
kiss on the cheek. Grammy smelled of oranges. Her cheek felt soft and mushy. 

Grammy and Poppy are the names I gave them when I was a kid. It’s really 
embarrassing to call them that now, but I still do. I don’t have much choice. 
They even call each other Grammy and Poppy! 

They look alike, almost like brother and sister. I guess that’s what happens 
when you’ve been married a hundred years. They both have long, thin faces and 
short white hair. They both wear thick glasses with silver wire frames. They’re 
both really skinny. And they both have sad eyes and sad expressions. 

I didn’t feel like sitting there at dinner and making small talk with them 
today. I was still really pumped about what we’d been doing all afternoon. 

Being invisible was just so weird and exciting. 

I wanted to be by myself and think about it. You know. Try to relive it, 
relive what it felt like. 

A lot of times after I’ve done something really exciting or interesting, I like 
to go up to my room, lie down on my bed, and just think about it. Analyze it. 
Tear it apart. 

Dad says I have a very scientific mind. I guess he’s right. 

I walked over to my place at the table. 

“You’re looking much shorter,” Poppy said, wiping his mouth with his cloth 
napkin. That was one of his standard jokes. He said it every time he saw me. 

I forced a laugh and sat down. 

“Your soup must be ice cold by now,” Grammy said, clicking her tongue. 
“Nothing I hate more than cold soup. I mean, what’s the point of having soup if 
it isn’t steaming hot?” 

“It tastes okay,” I said, taking a spoonful. 

“We had some delicious cold soup last summer,” Poppy said. He loved to 
contradict Grammy and start arguments with her. “Strawberry soup, remember? 



You wouldn’t want that hot, would you?” 

“It wasn’t strawberry,” Grammy told him, frowning. “It wasn’t even soup. 
It was some kind of fancy yogurt.” 

“No, it wasn’t,” Poppy insisted. “It was definitely cold soup.” 

“You’re wrong, as usual,” Grammy snapped. 

This could get ugly, I thought. “What kind of soup is this?” I asked, trying 
to stop their arguing. 

“Chicken noodle,” Mom answered quickly. “Didn’t you recognize it?” 

“Poppy and I had soup a few weeks ago that we couldn’t recognize,” my 
grandmother said, shaking her head. “I had to ask the waiter what it was. It 
didn’t look like what we’d ordered at all. Some kind of potato-leek soup, wasn’t 
it, Poppy?” 

Poppy took a long time swallowing some noodles. “No. Tomato,” he 
answered. 

“Where’s your brother?” Dad asked, staring at the empty chair next to me. 

“Huh?” I reacted with surprise. I had been so busy listening to my 
grandparents’ silly soup arguments, I had forgotten all about Lefty. 

“His soup is getting cold,” Poppy said. 

“You’ll have to heat it up for him,” Grammy said, tsk-tsking again. 

“So where is he?” Dad asked. 

I shrugged. “He was right behind me,” I said. I turned toward the dining 
room doorway and shouted, “Lefty! Lef-teeeee!” 

“Don’t shout at the table,” Mom scolded. “Get up and go find him.” 

“Is there any more soup?” Poppy asked. “I didn’t really get enough.” 

I put my napkin down and started to get up. But before I was out of my 
chair, I saw Lefty’s soup bowl rise up into the air. 

Oh, no! I thought. 

I knew instantly what was happening. 

My idiot brother had made himself invisible, and now he thought he was 
being funny, trying to scare the daylights out of everyone at the table. 

The soup bowl floated up over Lefty’s place. 

I stood up and lunged for it and pulled it down as fast as I could. 

“Get out!” I whispered loudly to Lefty. 

“What did you say?” my mom asked, gaping at me. 

“I said I’m getting out and going to find Lefty,” I told her, thinking quickly. 

“Get out—now!” I whispered to Lefty. 



“Stop talking about finding him. Just go do it,” my mom said impatiently. 

I stood up just as my dumb invisible brother raised his water glass. The 
glass floated up over the table. 

I gasped and grabbed for it. 

But I grabbed too hard. I jerked the glass, and water spilled all over the 
table. 

“Hey!” Mom screamed. 

I pulled the glass down to its place. 

Then I looked up. Dad was glaring at me, his eyes burning angrily into 
mine. 

He knows, I thought, a heavy feeling of dread sweeping over me. 

He saw what just happened, and he knows. 

Lefty has spoiled it for everyone. 



15 


Dad glared angrily across the table at me. 

I waited for him to say, “Max, why is your brother invisible?” But instead, 
he yelled, “Stop fooling around, Max. We don’t appreciate your comedy act. Just 
get up and find your brother.” 

I was so relieved. Dad hadn’t realized what was really happening, after all. 
He thought I was just goofing. 

“Is there seconds on the soup?” I heard Poppy ask again as I gratefully 
pushed away from the table and hurried out of the dining room. 

“You’ve had enough,” Grammy scolded. 

“No, I haven’t!” 

I made my way quickly through the living room, taking long strides, 
climbed to the second floor, and stopped in the hallway at the door to the attic 
stairs. “Lefty?” I whispered. “I hope you followed me.” 

“I’m here,” Lefty whispered back. I couldn’t see him, of course, but he was 
right beside me. 

“What’s the big idea?” I demanded angrily. I wasn’t angry. I was furious. 
“Are you trying to win the stupid championship?” 

Lefty didn’t care that I was upset. He started to giggle. 

“Shut up!” I whispered. “Just shut up! You really are a dork!” 

I clicked on the attic light and clomped angrily up the stairs. I could hear his 
sneakers clomping up behind mine. 

He was still giggling at the top of the stairs. “I win!” he declared. I felt a 
hand slap me hard on the back. 

“Stop it, jerk!” I screamed, storming into the little room that housed the 
mirror. “Don’t you realize you nearly spoiled it for everybody?” 

“But I win!” he repeated gleefully. 

The lamp over the mirror was shining brightly, the reflection glaring sun- 
yellow in the mirror. 

I really couldn’t believe Lefty. He was usually a pretty selfish kid. But not 
this selfish! 

“Don’t you realize the trouble you could have gotten us into?” I cried. 

“I win! I win!” he chanted. 



“Why? How long have you been invisible?” I asked. I stepped up to the 
mirror and pulled the string. The light went out. The glare remained in my eyes. 

“Ever since you guys went downstairs,” Lefty, still invisible, bragged. 

“That’s almost ten minutes!” I exclaimed. 

“I’m the champ!” Lefty proclaimed. 

I stared into the mirror, waiting for him to reappear. 

“The stupidity champ,” I repeated. “This was the dumbest thing you’ve 
ever done.” 

He didn’t say anything. Linally, he asked in a quiet voice, “Why is it taking 
so long for me to come back?” 

Before I could answer, I heard Dad calling from downstairs: “Max? Are 
you two up there?” 

“Yeah. We’ll be right down,” I shouted. 

“What are you two doing up there?” Dad demanded. I heard him start to 
climb the stairs. 

I ran to the top of the stairs to head him off. “Sorry, Dad,” I said. “We’re 
coming.” 

Dad stared up at me in the stairwell. “What on earth is so interesting up 
there?” 

“Just a lot of old stuff,” I muttered. “Nothing, really.” 

Lefty appeared behind me, looking like his old self. Dad disappeared back 
to the dining room. Lefty and I started down the stairs. 

“Wow, that was awesome !” Lefty exclaimed. 

“Didn’t you start to feel weird after a while?” I asked him, whispering even 
though we were alone. 

“No.” He shook his head. “I felt fine. It was really awesome ! You should 
have seen the look on your face when I made the soup bowl float up in the air!” 
He started giggling again, that high-pitched giggle of his that I hate. 

“Listen, Lefty,” I warned, stopping at the bottom of the stairs, blocking his 
way to the hallway. “Getting invisible is fun, but it could be dangerous. You—” 

“It’s awesome!” he repeated. “And I’m the new champ.” 

“Listen to me,” I said heatedly, grabbing him by the shoulders. “Just listen. 
You’ve got to promise me that you won’t go up there and get invisible by 
yourself again. I mean it. You’ve got to wait till someone else is around. 
Promise?” I squeezed his shoulders hard. 

“Okay, okay,” he said, trying to squirm away. “I promise.” 



I looked down. He had his fingers crossed on both hands. 


Erin called me later that night. It was about eleven. I was in my pajamas, reading 
a book in bed, thinking about going downstairs and begging my parents to let me 
stay up and watch Saturday Night Live. 

Erin sounded really excited. She didn’t even say hello. Just started talking a 
mile a minute in that squeaky mouse voice, so fast I had trouble understanding 
her. 

“What about the science fair?” I asked, holding the phone away from my 
ear, hoping that would help me understand her better. 

“The winning project,” Erin said breathlessly. “The prize is a silver trophy 
and a gift certificate at Video World. Remember?” 

“Yeah. So?” I still wasn’t following her. I think I was sleepier than I’d 
thought. It had been a nervous, tiring day, after all. 

“Well, what if you brought the mirror to school?” Erin asked excitedly. 
“You know. I would make you go invisible. Then I’d bring you back, and I’d get 
invisible. That could be our project.” 

“But, Erin—” I started to protest. 

“We’d win!” she interrupted. “We’d have to win! I mean, what else could 
beat it? We’d win first prize. And we’d be famous!” 

“Whoa!” I cried. “Famous?” 

“Of course. Famous!” she exclaimed. “Our picture would be in People 
magazine and everything!” 

“Erin, I’m not so sure about this,” I said softly, thinking hard. 

“Huh? Not so sure about what?” 

“Not so sure I want to be famous,” I replied. “I mean, I really don’t know if 
I want the whole world to know about the mirror.” 

“Why not?” she demanded impatiently. “Everyone wants to be famous. And 
rich.” 

“But they’ll take away the mirror,” I explained. “It’s an amazing thing, Erin. 
I mean, is it magic? Is it electronic? Is it someone’s invention? Whatever it is, 
it’s unbelievable! And they’re not going to let a kid keep it.” 

“But it’s yours\” she insisted. 

“They’ll take it away to study it. Scientists will want it. Government guys 
will want it. Army guys. They’ll probably want to use it to make the army 
invisible or something.” 



“Scary,” Erin mumbled thoughtfully. 

“Yeah. Scary,” I said. “So I don’t know. I’ve got to think about this. A lot. 
In the meantime, it’s got to be a secret.” 

“Yeah, I guess,” she said doubtfully. “But think about the science fair, Max. 
We could win the prize. We really could.” 

“I’ll think about it,” I told her. 

I haven’t thought about anything else! I realized. 

“April wants to try it,” she said. 

“Huh?” 

“I convinced her. I told her it didn’t hurt or anything. So she wants to try it 
on Wednesday. We are going to do it on Wednesday, aren’t we, Max?” 

“I guess,” I replied reluctantly. “Since everyone wants to.” 

“Great!” she exclaimed. “I think I’ll beat your record.” 

“The new record is ten minutes,” I informed her. I explained about Lefty 
and his dinnertime adventure. 

“Your brother is really a nut,” Erin remarked. 

I agreed with her, then said good night. 

I couldn’t get to sleep that night. I tried sleeping on one side, then the other. 
I tried counting sheep. Everything. 

I knew I was sleepy. But my heart was racing. I just couldn’t get 
comfortable. I stared up at the ceiling, thinking about the mirror in the little room 
above me. 

It was nearly three in the morning when I crept barefoot out of my room, 
wide awake, and headed up to the attic. As before, I leaned heavily on the 
banister as I climbed, trying to keep the wooden stairs from their usual 
symphony of creaks and groans. 

In my hurry to get to the little room, I stubbed my toe on the corner of a 
wooden crate. 

“Ow!” I screamed as quietly as possible. I wanted to hop up and down, but 
I forced myself to stand still, and waited for the pain to fade. 

As soon as I could walk again, I made my way into the little room. I pulled 
a carton in front of the mirror and sat down on it. 

My toe still throbbed, but I tried to ignore it. I stared at my dark reflection 
in the mirror, studying my hair first, of course. It was totally messed up, but I 
really didn’t care. 

Then I peered beyond my reflection, behind it. I guess I was trying to look 



deep into the glass. I don’t really know what I was doing or why I was up there. 

I was so tired and pumped up at the same time, so curious and confused, 
sleepy and nervous. 

I ran a hand along the glass, surprised again at how cool it felt in the hot, 
nearly airless little room. I pushed my open hand against the glass, then pulled it 
away. It left no handprint. 

I moved my hand to the wooden frame, once again rubbing the smooth 
wood. I stood up and slowly walked around to the back of the mirror. It was too 
dark back here to really examine it carefully. But there wasn’t anything to 
examine. The back of the frame was smooth, plain, and uninteresting. 

I came back around to the front and gazed up at the light. It looked like an 
ordinary lamp. Nothing at all special about it. The bulb was an odd shape, long 
and very thin. But it looked like an ordinary light bulb. 

Sitting back down on the carton, I rested my head in my hands and stared 
drowsily into the mirror. I yawned silently. 

I knew I should go back downstairs and go to sleep. Mom and Dad were 
going to wake us up early the next morning to drive to Springfield. 

But something was holding me there. 

My curiosity, I guess. 

I don’t know how long I sat there, still as a statue, watching my own 
unmoving reflection. It may have been just a minute or two. Or it might have 
been half an hour. 

But after a while, as I stared into the mirror, the reflection seemed to lose its 
sharpness. Now I found myself staring at vague shapes, blurred colors, 
deepening shadows. 

And then I heard the soft whisper. 

“Maaaaaaaax. ” 

Like the wind through the trees. The hushed shaking of leaves. 

Not a voice at all. Not even a whisper. 

Just the hint of a whisper. 

“Maaaaaaaaax. ” 

At first, I thought it was inside my own head. 

So faint. So soft. But so near. 

I held my breath, listened hard. 

Silence now. 

So it was inside my head, I told myself. I was imagining it. 



I took a deep breath, let it out slowly. 

“Maaaaax. ” 

Again, the whisper. 

Louder this time. Sad, somehow. Almost a plea. A call for help. From far, 
far away. 

“Maaaaaaaax. ” 

I raised my hands to my ears. Was I trying to shut it out? To see if I could 
make it go away? 

Inside the mirror, the dark reflected shapes shifted slowly. I stared back at 
myself, my expression tense, frightened. I realized I was chilled from head to 
foot. My whole body shivered from the cold. 

“Maaaaax. ” 

The whisper, I realized, was coming from the mirror. 

From my own reflection? From somewhere behind my reflection? 

I leapt to my feet, turned away, and ran. My bare feet slapped against the 
hardwood floor. I plunged down the stairs, flew across the hall, dived into my 
bed. 

I shut my eyes tight and prayed the frightening whisper wouldn’t follow 


me. 



16 


I pulled the covers up to my chin. I felt so cold. My entire body was trembling. 

I was breathing hard, gripping the top of the blanket with both hands, 
waiting, listening. 

Would the whispers follow me into my room? Were they real, or only in my 
head? 

Who was calling to me, whispering my name in that sad, desperate voice? 

Suddenly I heard panting louder than mine. I felt hot breath on my face. 
Sour-smelling and moist. 

It reached for me. It grabbed my face. 

I opened my eyes in terror. 

“Whitey!” I cried. 

The dumb dog was standing on his hind paws, leaning over the blanket, 
furiously licking my face. 

“Whitey, good dog!” I cried, laughing. His scratchy tongue tickled. I was 
never so glad to see him. 

I hugged him and pulled him up into the bed. He whimpered excitedly. His 
tail was wagging like crazy. 

“Whitey, what’s got you so worked up?” I asked, hugging him. “Do you 
hear voices, too?” 

He uttered a low bark, as if answering the question. Then he hopped off the 
bed and shook himself. He turned three times in a tight circle, making a place for 
himself on the carpet, and lay down, yawning loudly. 

“You’re definitely weird tonight,” I said. He curled himself into a tight ball 
and chewed softly on his tail. 

Accompanied by the dog’s gentle snores, I eventually drifted into a restless 
sleep. 

When I awoke, the morning sky outside my bedroom window was still 
gray. The window was open just a crack, and the curtains were swaying in a 
strong breeze. 

I sat up quickly, instantly alert. I have to stop going up to the attic, I 
thought. 

I have to forget about the stupid mirror. 



I stood up and stretched. I’ve got to stop. And I’ve got to get everyone else 
to stop. 

I thought of the whispered cry from the night before. The dry, sad voice, 
whispering my name. 

“Max!” 

The voice from outside my room startled me out of my chilling thoughts. 

“Max—time to wake up! We’re going to Springfield, remember?” It was 
my mom out in the hallway. “Hurry. Breakfast is on the table.” 

“I’m already up!” I shouted. “I’ll be down in a minute.” 

I heard her footsteps going down the stairs. Then I heard Whitey downstairs 
barking at the door to be let out. 

I stretched again. 

“Whoa!” I cried out as my closet door swung open. 

A red Gap T-shirt rose up off the top shelf and began to float across the 
room. 

I heard giggling. Familiar giggling. 

The T-shirt danced in front of me. 

“Lefty, you’re ridiculous!” I yelled angrily. I swiped at the T-shirt, but it 
danced out of my reach. “You promised you wouldn’t do this again!” 

“I had my fingers crossed,” he said, giggling. 

“I don’t care!” I cried. I lunged forward and grabbed the shirt. “You’ve got 
to stop. I mean it.” 

“I just wanted to surprise you,” he said, pretending his feelings were hurt. A 
pair of jeans floated up from the closet shelf and began to parade back and forth 
in front of me. 

“Lefty, I’m going to murder you!” I shouted. Then I lowered my voice, 
remembering that Mom and Dad might hear. “Put that down—now. Go upstairs 
and turn off the mirror light. Hurry!” 

I shook my fist at where the jeans were marching. I was so angry. 

Why did he have to be so dumb? Didn’t he realize that this wasn’t just a 
game? 

Suddenly, the jeans collapsed in a heap on the carpet. 

“Lefty, toss them to me,” I instructed him. “Then get upstairs and get 
yourself visible again.” 

Silence. 

The jeans didn’t move. 



“Lefty—don’t fool around,” I snapped, feeling a stab of dread in the pit of 
my stomach. “Toss me the jeans and get out of here.” 

No reply. 

The jeans remained crumpled on the carpet. 

“Stop this stupid game!” I screamed. “You’re not funny! So just stop it. 
Really. You’re scaring me!” 

I knew that’s what he wanted to hear. Once I admitted that he was scaring 
me, I was sure he’d giggle and go do as I said. 

But no. The room was still silent. The curtains fluttered toward me, then 
pulled back with a gentle rustling sound. The jeans lay crumpled on the carpet. 

“Lefty? Hey, Lefty?” I called, my voice trembling. No reply. 

“Lefty? Are you here?” No. Lefty was gone. 



17 


“Lefty?” My voice came out weak and trembling. 

He wasn’t there. It wasn’t a game. He was gone. 

Without thinking, I ran out of my room, down the hall, and up the stairs to 
the attic. My bare feet pounded on the steep wooden steps. My heart was 
pounding even louder. 

As I stepped into the heat of the attic, a wave of fear swept over me. 

What if Lefty had disappeared forever ? 

With a frightened cry, I lunged into the tiny room. 

The bright light reflected in the mirror shone into my eyes. 

Shielding my eyes with one hand, I made my way to the mirror and pulled 
the string. The light went out immediately. 

“Lefty?” I called anxiously. 

No reply. 

“Lefty? Are you up here? Can you hear me?” 

Fear clogged my throat. I was panting loudly, barely able to speak. 

“Lefty?” 

“Hi, Max. I’m here.” My brother’s voice came from right beside me. 

I was so happy to hear it, I turned and gave him a hug, even though I 
couldn’t see him. 

“I’m okay,” he said, startled by my emotion. “Really, Max. I’m okay.” 

It took a few minutes for him to reappear. 

“What happened?” I asked, checking him out, looking him up and down as 
if I hadn’t seen him for months. “You were clowning around in my room. Then 
you were gone.” 

“I’m fine,” he insisted with a shrug. 

“But where did you go?” I demanded. 

“Up here,” he repeated. 

“But Lefty—” Something about him looked different. I couldn’t quite put 
my finger on it. But staring at his face, I was sure that something was weird. 

“Stop staring at me like that, Max.” He shoved me away. “I’m fine. Really.” 
He started dancing away from me, heading to the stairs. 



“But, Lefty—” I followed him out of the room. 

“No more questions. Okay? I’m all right.” 

“Stay away from the mirror,” I said sternly. “Do you hear me?” 

He started down the stairs. 

“I mean it, Lefty. Don’t get invisible again.” 

“Okay, okay,” he snapped. “I won’t do it anymore.” 

I checked to make sure his fingers weren’t crossed. This time they weren’t. 

Mom was waiting for us in the hall. “So there you are,” she said 
impatiently. “Max, you’re not dressed!” 

“I’ll hurry,” I told her, and bolted into my room. 

“Lefty, what did you do to your hair?” I heard Mom ask my brother. “Did 
you brush it differently or something?” 

“No,” I heard Lefty reply. “It’s the same, Mom. Really. Maybe your eyes 
are different.” 

“Stop being such a smart mouth and get downstairs,” Mom told him. 

Something was definitely weird about Lefty. Mom had noticed it, too. But I 
couldn’t figure out what. 

As I picked my jeans up off the floor and pulled them on, I started to feel a 
little better. I had been so frightened, frightened that something terrible had 
happened to my brother. Frightened that he’d disappeared for good, and I’d 
never see him again. 

All because of that stupid mirror. 

All because it was such a thrill to get invisible. 

I suddenly thought about Erin, April, and Zack. 

They were so excited about Wednesday. About the big competition. Even 
April was going to get invisible this time. 

No, I thought. 

I have to call them. I have to tell them. 

I’ve really made up my mind. 

No more mirror. No more getting invisible. 

I’ll call all three of them when I get back from Springfield. And I’ll tell 
them the competition is cancelled. 

I sat down on my bed to tie my sneakers. 

Whew, I thought. That’s a load off my mind. 

And it was. Having decided not to use the mirror ever again made me feel 
much, much better. All of my fear seemed to float away. 



Little did I know that the most frightening time was still to come. 



18 


Imagine my surprise when Zack, Erin, and April showed up at my front door on 
Wednesday morning. 

“I told you guys the competition is off,” I sputtered, staring at them in 
astonishment through the screen door. 

“But Lefty called us,” Erin replied. “He said you changed your mind.” The 
other two agreed. 

My mouth dropped open to my knees. “Lefty?” 

They nodded. “He called us yesterday,” April said. 

“But Lefty isn’t even here this morning,” I told them as they marched into 
the house. “He’s at the playground playing softball with some of his friends.” 

“Who’s here?” my mom called. She came walking into the hallway, drying 
her hands on a dish towel. She recognized my friends, then turned to me, a 
bewildered look on her face. “Max, I thought you were going to help me down 
in the basement. I didn’t know you’d made plans with Zack, Erin, and April.” 

“I didn’t,” I replied weakly. “Lefty—” 

“We just dropped by,” Zack told Mom, coming to my rescue. 

“If you’re busy, Max, we can go,” Erin added. 

“No, that’s okay,” Mom told them. “Max was complaining about how 
boring it would be to help me. It’s good you three showed up.” 

She disappeared back into the kitchen. As soon as she was gone, my three 
friends practically pounced on me. 

“Upstairs!” Zack cried eagerly, pointing to the stairs. 

“Let’s get invisible!” Erin whispered. 

“I get to go first since I’ve never gone,” April said. 

I tried to argue with them, but I was outnumbered and outvoted. “Okay, 
okay,” I reluctantly agreed. I started to follow them up the stairs when I heard 
scratching noises at the door. 

I recognized the sound. It was Whitey, back from his morning walk. I 
pushed open the screen door and he trotted in, wagging his tail. 

The dumb dog had some burrs stuck to his tail. I chased him into the 
kitchen and managed to get him to stand still long enough to pull them off. Then 
I hurried up to the attic to join my friends. 



By the time I got up there, April was already standing in front of the mirror, 
and Zack was standing beside her, ready to pull the light on. 

“Whoa!” I called. 

They turned to look at me. I could see that April had a frightened 
expression on her face. “I have to do this right away. Or else I might wimp out,” 
she explained. 

“I just think we should get the rules straight first,” I said sternly. “This 
mirror really isn’t a toy, and—” 

“We know, we know,” Zack interrupted, grinning. “Come on, Max. No 
lectures today, okay? We know you’re nervous because you’re going to lose. But 
that’s no reason—” 

“I don’t want to compete,” April said nervously. “I just want to see what it’s 
like to be invisible. For just a minute. Then I want to come back.” 

“Well, I’m going for the world’s record,” Zack boasted, leaning against the 
mirror frame. 

“Me, too,” Erin said. 

“I really don’t think it’s a good idea,” I told them, staring at my reflection in 
the mirror. “We should just get invisible for a short time. It’s too dangerous to 

“What a wimp!” Zack declared, shaking his head. 

“We’ll be careful, Max,” Erin said. 

“I just have a really bad feeling,” I confessed. My hair was standing up in 
the back. I stepped closer to the mirror to see better, and smoothed it down with 
my hand. 

“I think we should all get invisible at the same time,” Zack said to me, his 
blue eyes lighting up with excitement. “Then we could go to the playground and 
scare your brother to death!” 

Everyone laughed except April. “I just want to try it for a minute,” she 
insisted. “That’s all.” 

“First we compete,” Erin told Zack. “Then we go out and scare people.” 

“Yeah! All rightl” Zack exclaimed. 

I decided to give up. There was no sense in trying to reason with Zack and 
Erin. They were too psyched for this competition. “Okay, let’s get it over with,” I 
told them. 

“But first I go,” April said, turning back to the mirror. 

Zack reached up for the string again. “Ready? On three,” he said. 



I turned to the door as Whitey came sniffing his way in, his nose lowered to 
the floor, his tail straight out behind him. 

“Whitey, what are you doing up here?” I asked. 

He ignored me and continued sniffing furiously. 

“One... two...” Zack started. 

“When I say ‘ready’, bring me back. Okay?” April asked, standing stiffly, 
staring straight ahead into the mirror. “No jokes or anything, Zack.” 

“No jokes,” Zack replied seriously. “As soon as you want to come back, I’ll 
turn off the light.” 

“Good,” April replied softly. 

Zack began his count again. “One... two... three!” 

As he said three and pulled the string, Whitey stepped up beside April. 

The light flashed on. 

“Whitey!” I screamed. “Stop!” 

But it was too late. 

With a yelp of surprise, the dog vanished along with April. 



19 


“The dog!” Erin screamed. 

“Hey—I’m gone! I’m invisible!” April exclaimed at the same time. 

I could hear Whitey whimpering. He sounded really frightened. 

“Pull the string!” I shouted to Zack. 

“Not yet!” April protested. 

“Pull it!” I insisted. 

Zack pulled the string. The light went out. April reappeared first, with an 
angry expression on her face. 

Whitey reappeared, and fell down. He jumped up quickly, but his legs were 
all wobbly. 

He looked so funny, we all started to laugh. 

“What’s going on up there?” My mom’s voice from the stairwell startled us 
into instant silence. “What are you doing?” 

“Nothing, Mom,” I answered quickly, signalling for my friends to remain 
silent. “Just hanging out.” 

“I don’t understand what’s so interesting up there in that dusty old attic,” 
she called up. 

I crossed my fingers, hoping she wouldn’t come upstairs to find out. 

“We just like it up here,” I replied. Pretty lame, but it was the only thing I 
could think of to say. 

Whitey, having recovered his balance, went running to the stairs. I heard the 
dog’s toenails click on the wooden stairs as he went down to join my mom. 

“That wasn’t fair,” April complained after Mom and Whitey were gone. “I 
didn’t get any time.” 

“I think we should get out of here,” I pleaded. “You see how unpredictable 
it is. You never know what’s going to happen.” 

“That’s sort of the fun of it,” Erin insisted. 

“I want another turn,” April said. 

We argued for about ten minutes. Once again, I lost. 

It was time to start the competition. Erin was going first. 

“Ten minutes is the time to beat,” Zack instmcted her. 



“No problem,” Erin said, making funny faces at herself in the mirror. “Ten 
minutes is too easy.” 

April had resumed her position, sitting on the floor with her back against 
the wall, studying her watch. We had agreed that she would take another turn 
after the competition was over. 

After it was over... 

Standing there watching Erin get ready, I wished it were over already. I felt 
cold all over. I had a heavy feeling of dread weighing me down. 

Please, please, I thought to myself, let everything go okay. 

Zack pulled the string. 

Erin disappeared in the flash of light. 

April studied her watch. 

Zack took a step back from the mirror and crossed his arms in front of his 
chest. His eyes glowed with excitement. 

“How do I look?” Erin teased. 

“You never looked better,” Zack joked. 

“I like what you did with your hair,” April teased, glancing up from the 
watch. 

Even April was joking and having a good time. Why couldn’t I relax, too? 
Why was I suddenly so frightened? 

“You feel okay?” I asked Erin. The words nearly caught in my throat. 

“Fine,” Erin replied. 

I could hear her footsteps as she walked around the room. 

“If you start to feel weird, just say ‘ready’, and Zack’ll pull the string,” I 

said. 

“I know,” she replied impatiently. “But I won’t be ready to come back until 
I break the record.” 

“I’m going next,” Zack told Erin, arms still crossed in front of him. “So 
your record won’t last for long.” 

Suddenly Zack’s arms uncrossed. His hands flew wildly up in the air, and 
he began slapping his face with both hands. 

“Ow! Cut it out, Erin!” he yelled, trying to squirm away. “Let go!” 

We heard Erin laugh as Zack slapped himself a few more times, then finally 
managed to wrestle out of her grip. 

“One minute,” April announced from behind us. 

“Ow! You hurt me!” Zack said, scowling and rubbing his red cheeks. 



Erin laughed again. 

“You still feel okay?” I asked, glancing into the mirror. 

“Fine. Stop worrying, Max,” Erin scolded. 

My T-shirt suddenly pulled up over my head. Erin laughed. 

“Give me a break!” I cried, spinning away. 

“Two minutes,” April announced. 

I heard the attic stairs creaking. A few seconds later, Whitey poked his head 
in. This time, he stopped in the doorway and peered into the room without 
entering. 

“Go back downstairs, boy,” I told him. “Go down.” 

He stared back at me as if considering my request. But he didn’t budge 
from the doorway. 

I didn’t want to take another chance of him getting too close to the mirror. 
So I grabbed him by the collar and guided him to the stairs. Then it took a while 
for the dumb dog to get the idea that he was supposed to go down the stairs! 

When I returned to the little room, April had just called out four minutes. 
Zack was pacing impatiently back and forth in front of the mirror. I guess he 
couldn’t wait for it to be his turn. 

I found myself thinking about Lefty. Lefty knew I had called everyone and 
canceled the competition. So why had he called Zack, Erin, and April and told 
them it was back on? 

Just one of his practical jokes, I decided. 

I’d have to find a way to pay him back for this. 

Something really evil... 

“Eight minutes,” April said, stretching. 

“Pretty good,” Zack told Erin. “Sure you don’t want to quit now? There’s 
no way you can win. Why not save everyone the time?” 

“Do you still feel okay?” I asked anxiously. 

No reply. 

“Erin?” I called, searching around as if I had a chance of spotting her. “You 
feel okay?” 

No reply. 

“Erin—don’t mess around. It’s not funny!” I cried. 

“Yeah. Answer us!” Zack demanded. 

Still no reply. 

Glancing into the mirror, I saw April’s reflection, caught her horrified 



expression. “Erin’s gone,” she uttered, her voice a frightened whisper. 



20 


“Erin—where are you?” I shouted. 

When she didn’t reply, I ran over to the string. Just as I grabbed it, I heard 
footsteps outside the room. A few seconds later, a can of Coke came floating 
through the door. 

“Miss me?” Erin asked playfully. 

“You scared us to death!” I cried, my voice squeaking. 

Erin laughed. “I didn’t know you cared.” 

“That wasn’t funny, Erin,” Zack said sternly. For once he was agreeing with 
me. “You really did scare us.” 

“I got thirsty,” Erin replied. The Coke can tilted up. We saw Coke start to 
pour out of it. The liquid abruptly disappeared as it flowed into Erin’s mouth. 

“I guess being invisible makes you really thirsty,” Erin explained. “So I 
slipped downstairs and got a Coke.” 

“But you should’ve told us,” April scolded, her eyes turned back to her 
watch. “Nine minutes.” 

“You shouldn’t go downstairs,” I added heatedly. “I mean, what if my mom 
saw you?” 

“Saw me?” 

“Well... you know what I mean,” I muttered. 

Erin laughed. I didn’t think it was funny. 

Why was I the only one taking this seriously? 

Erin beat Lefty’s record and kept going. When April called out twelve 
minutes, Zack asked Erin if she wanted to come back. 

No reply. 

“Erin? Are you goofing on us again?” I demanded. 

Still no reply. 

I could feel my throat tighten once again with fear. I walked over and pulled 
the string. My hand was shaking as I pulled it. I prayed silently to myself that 
Erin would return okay. 

The light went out. The three of us waited tensely for Erin to come back. 

After what seemed an endless wait, she shimmered back into view. She 



turned quickly away from the mirror, a triumphant smile on her face. “The new 
champ!” she declared, raising her fists in a gesture of victory. 

“You’re okay?” I asked, my feeling of fear refusing to leave. 

She nodded. “Just fine, worrywart.” She stepped away from the mirror, 
walking unsteadily. 

I stared at her. Something about her looked different. 

She looked perfectly okay. Not pale or sick-looking or anything. But 
something was different. Her smile? Her hair? I wished I could figure out what. 

“Max, pull the string.” Zack’s eager voice jerked me away from my 
thoughts. “Let’s go, man. I’m going for fifteen minutes.” 

“Okay. Get ready,” I said, glancing at Erin as I grabbed for the string. She 
flashed me a reassuring smile. 

But something about her smile was different. 

Something. 

But what? 

I pulled the string. Zack vanished in the flash of bright light. 

“Return of the Invisible Man!” he cried in a deep voice. 

“Not so loud,” I warned him. “My mom’ll hear you downstairs.” 

Erin had lowered herself to the floor beside April. I walked over and stood 
over her. “You sure you’re okay?” I asked. “You don’t feel dizzy or weird or 
anything?” 

She shook her head. “No. Really. Why don’t you believe me, Max?” 

As I stared down at her, I tried to figure out what was different about her 
appearance. What a mystery! I just couldn’t put my finger on it. 

“Well, how come you didn’t answer when I called you?” I demanded. 

“Huh?” Her face filled with surprise. “When?” 

“At about twelve minutes,” I told her. “I called you and Zack called you. 
But you didn’t answer us.” 

Erin’s expression turned thoughtful. “I guess I didn’t hear you,” she replied 
finally. “But I’m fine, Max. Really. I feel great. It was really awesome.” 

I joined them on the floor and leaned back against the wall to wait for 
Zack’s turn to be over. “I really mean it. Don’t turn off the light till fifteen 
minutes,” he reminded me. 

Then he messed up my hair, making it stand straight up in the air. 

Both girls laughed. 

I had to get up, walk over to the mirror, and comb it back down. I don’t 



know why people think messed-up hair is such a riot. I really don’t get it. 

“Hey, follow me. I’ve got an idea,” Zack said. His voice was coming from 
the doorway. 

“Whoa—hold on!” I called. But I could hear his sneakers clomping across 
the attic. 

“Follow me outside,” he called to us. We heard his footsteps on the attic 
stairs. 

“Zack—don’t do it,” I pleaded. “Whatever it is, don’t do it!” 

But there was no way he was going to listen to me. 

A few seconds later, we were out the back door, following our invisible 
friend toward our neighbor Mr. Evander’s back yard. 

This is going to be trouble, I thought unhappily. Big trouble. 

Erin, April, and I hid behind the hedge that separated our two yards. As 
usual, Mr. Evander was out in his tomato garden, stooped over, pulling up 
weeds, his big belly hanging out under his T-shirt, his red bald head shiny under 
the sun. 

What is Zack going to do? I wondered, holding my breath, my whole body 
heavy with dread. 

And then I saw three tomatoes float up from the ground. They hovered in 
the air, then floated closer to Mr. Evander. 

Oh, no, I thought, groaning silently to myself. 

Please, Zack. Please don’t do it. 

Erin, April, and I were huddled together behind the hedge, staring in 
disbelief as the three tomatoes began to circle each other rapidly in the air. 

Invisible Zack was juggling them. Showing off, as usual. He was always 
bragging about how he could juggle, and we couldn’t. 

It took a while for Mr. Evander to notice. 

But when he finally saw the three tomatoes spinning around in midair a few 
feet in front of him, his eyes bugged out and his face turned as red as the 
tomatoes! 

“Oh!” he cried. He let the weeds fall from his hands. And then he just 
stared at the spinning tomatoes, like he was frozen. 

Zack tossed the tomatoes higher as he juggled. 

April and Erin held hands over their mouths to stifle their laughter. They 
thought Zack’s stunt was a real hoot. But I just wanted to get Zack back up to the 
attic. 



“Hey, Mary! Mary!” Mr. Evander started calling to his wife. “Mary—come 
out here! You’ve got to see this! Mary!” 

A few seconds later, his wife came running across the yard, a frightened 
expression on her face. “Mike, what’s wrong? What’s wrong?” 

“Look—these tomatoes are twirling in the air!” Mr. Evander cried, 
motioning wildly for her to hurry. 

Zack let the tomatoes fall to the ground. 

“Where?” Mrs. Evander asked breathlessly, running as fast as she could. 

“There. Look!” Mr. Evander pointed. 

“I don’t see any tomatoes,” Mrs. Evander said, stopping in front of her 
husband, panting loudly. 

“Yes! They’re spinning. They’re—” 

“Those tomatoes?” Mrs. Evander asked, pointing to the three tomatoes on 
the ground. 

“Well... yes. They were twirling around, and—” Looking terribly confused, 
Mr. Evander scratched the back of his neck. 

“Mike, how long have you been out in the sun?” his wife scolded. “Didn’t I 
tell you to wear a cap?” 

“Uh... I’ll be in in a few minutes,” Mr. Evander said softly, staring down at 
the tomatoes. 

As soon as Mrs. Evander turned and headed back to the house, the three 
tomatoes floated up from the ground and began twirling in the air again. 

“Mary, look!” Mr. Evander shouted excitedly. “Look—quick! They’re 
doing it again!” 

Zack let the tomatoes drop to the ground. 

Mrs. Evander spun around and stared into empty space. “Mike, you’d better 
come with me —right now,” she insisted. She hurried back, grabbed Mr. Evander 
by the arm, and pulled him away. The poor man looked totally bewildered, 
staring at the tomatoes on the ground, still scratching the back of his neck as his 
wife pulled him to the house. 

“Hey, this is awesome!” Zack cried, right in front of me. 

Erin and April collapsed in wild giggles. I had to admit it was pretty funny. 
We laughed about it for a while. Then we sneaked back into the house and up to 
the attic. 

In the safety of the little room, we laughed some more about Zack’s 
juggling stunt. Zack bragged that he was the world’s first invisible juggler. 



Then, at twelve minutes, Zack suddenly stopped answering us. 

Just as Erin had. 

The three of us called his name over and over. 

Silence. 

Zack didn’t reply. 

“I’m going to bring him back,” I said, instantly gripped with fear once 
again. I ran to the string. 

“Wait,” Erin said, holding me back. 

“Huh? What for?” I pulled away from her. 

“He said to wait till fifteen minutes, remember?” she argued. 

“Erin, he’s completely disappeared!” I cried. 

“But he’ll be really mad,” Erin pleaded. 

“I say bring him back,” April said anxiously. 

“Give him until fifteen minutes,” Erin insisted. 

“No,” I said. I pulled the string. 

The light clicked off. 

A few minutes later, Zack flickered back. He smiled at us. “How long?” he 
asked, turning to April. 

“Thirteen minutes, twenty seconds,” she told him. 

His grin widened. “The new champ!” 

“You’re okay? You didn’t answer us,” I said, studying his face. 

“I’m fine. I didn’t hear you calling me. But I’m fine.” 

Zack looked different to me, too. Something was very different about him. 
But what? 

“What’s your problem, Max?” he demanded. “Why are you staring at me 
like I’m some kind of alien life-form or something?” 

“Your hair,” I said, studying him. “Was it like that before?” 

“Huh? What are you talking about? Are you freaking out or something?” 
Zack asked, rolling his eyes. 

“Was your hair like that before?” I repeated. “Buzzed real short on the right 
and then combed long to the left? Wasn’t it the other way around?” 

“You’re messed up, Max,” he said, grinning at Erin and April. “My hair is 
the same it’s always been. You’ve been staring in that mirror too long or 
something.” 

I could’ve sworn his hair had been short on the left, long on the right. But I 
guess Zack would know his own hair. 



“Are you going to go?” Erin asked, jumping up behind me. 

“Yeah, are you going to beat fifteen minutes?” Zack asked. 

I shook my head. “No, I really don’t feel like it,” I told them truthfully. 
“Let’s declare Zack the winner and get out of here.” 

“No way!” Zack and Erin declared in unison. 

“You’ve got to try,” Zack insisted. 

“Don’t wimp out, Max. You can beat Zack. I know you can,” Erin declared. 
She and Zack both pushed me up to the mirror. 

I tried to pull back. But they practically held me in place. 

“No. Really,” I said. “Zack can be the winner. I—” 

“Go for it, Max!” Erin urged. “I’m betting on you!” 

“Yeah. Go for it,” Zack repeated, his hand firmly on my shoulder. 

“No. Please—” I said. 

But Zack reached up with his free hand and pulled the string. 



21 


I stared into the mirror for a moment, waiting for the glare to fade from my eyes. 
It was always such a shock. That first moment, when your reflection 
disappeared. When you stared at the spot where you knew you were standing— 
and realized you were looking right through yourself! 

“How do you feel, Max? How do you feel?” Erin asked, imitating me. 

“Erin, what’s your problem?” I snapped. It wasn’t like her to be so 
sarcastic. 

“Just giving you a taste of your own medicine,” she replied, grinning. 

Something about her smile was lopsided, not normal. 

“Think you can beat my record?” Zack demanded. 

“I don’t know. Maybe,” I replied uncertainly. 

Zack stepped up to the mirror and studied his reflection. I had the strangest 
feeling as I watched him. I can’t really explain it. I’d never seen Zack stand in 
just that position and admire himself in just that way. 

Something was different. I knew it. But I couldn’t figure out what. 

Maybe it’s just my nervousness, I told myself. 

I’m just so stressed out. Maybe it’s affecting the way I look at my friends. 
Maybe I’m making all this up. 

“Two minutes,” April announced. 

“Are you just going to stand there?” Erin asked, staring into the mirror. 
“Aren’t you going to move around or anything, Max?” 

“No. I don’t think so,” I said. “I mean, I can’t think of anything I want to 
do. I’m just going to wait till the time is up.” 

“You want to quit now?” Zack asked, grinning at the spot where he thought 
I was standing. 

I shook my head. Then I remembered that no one could see it. “No. I might 
as well go the distance,” I told him. “Since I’m here, I might as well make you 
look bad, Zack.” 

He laughed scornfully. “You won’t beat thirteen-twenty,” he said 
confidently. “No way.” 

“Well, you know what?” I said, angered by his smug tone of voice. “I’m 
just going to stand here until I do.” 



And that’s what I did. I stood in place, leaning against the mirror frame, 
while April counted off the minutes. 

I did okay until a short while after she had called out eleven minutes. Then, 
suddenly, the glare of the light began to hurt my eyes. 

I closed my eyes, but it didn’t help. The light grew brighter, harsher. It 
seemed to sweep around me, surround me, fold over me. 

And then I began to feel dizzy and light. As if I were about to float away, 
even though I knew I was standing in place. 

“Hey, guys?” I called out. “I think I’ve had enough.” 

My voice sounded tiny and far away, even to me. 

The light swirled around me. I felt myself grow lighter, lighter, until I had 
to struggle to keep my feet on the floor to keep from floating away. 

I uttered a high-pitched cry. I was suddenly gripped by panic. 

Cold panic. 

“Zack—bring me back!” I shouted. 

“Okay, Max. No problem,” I heard Zack reply. 

He seemed miles and miles away. 

I struggled to see him through the blinding yellow light. He was a dark 
figure behind the wall of light, a dark figure moving quickly to the mirror. 

“I’m bringing you back now, Max. Hold on,” I heard Zack say. 

The bright light glowed even brighter. It hurt so much. Even with my eyes 
closed, it hurt. 

“Zack, pull the string!” I shouted. 

I opened my eyes to see his dim shadow reaching up to the string. 

Pull it, pull it, pull it! I urged silently. 

I knew that in a second, the light would go off. And I’d be safe. 

A second. 

One tug of the string. 

Pull it, pull it, pull it, Zack! 

Zack reached for the string. I saw him grab it. 

And then I heard another voice in the room. A new voice. A surprised 
voice. 

“Hi. What’s going on up here? What are you kids doing?” 

I saw the shadowy figure of Zack drop the string and step away without 
pulling it. 

My mom had burst into the room. 



22 


“Please—pull the string!” I called. 

No one seemed to hear me. 

“We’re just hanging out,” I heard Zack tell my mom. 

“But where’s Max?” I heard her ask. “How did you find this little room? 
What are you all doing in here?” Her voice sounded as if it were coming from 
underwater, far, far away. 

The entire room began to shimmer in the light, flickering on and off. I held 
on tightly to the frame of the mirror, struggling not to float away. 

“Can you hear me?” I called. “Please, somebody—pull the string! Bring me 
back!” 

They were just gray shadows in the wavering, rolling light. They didn’t 
seem to hear me. 

Gripping the frame tightly, I saw a shadow approach the mirror. My mom. 
She walked around it, admiring it. 

“I can’t believe we never knew about this room. Where did this old mirror 
come from?” I heard her ask. 

She was standing so close to me. They all were. 

They were so close and so far away at the same time. 

“Please bring me back!” I shouted. 

I listened for an answer. But the voices faded away. 

The shadows moved in a flickering blur. I tried to reach out to them, but 
they were too far away. 

I let go of the mirror frame and began to float. 

“Mom, I’m right here. Can’t you hear me? Can’t you do anything?” 

So light, so completely weightless, I floated in front of the mirror. 

My feet were off the floor. I couldn’t see them in the blinding glare. 

I floated to the mirror glass, under the light. 

I could feel the light pull me closer. Closer. 

Until it pulled me right into the mirror. 

I knew I was inside the mirror. Inside a glistening blur of colors. The shapes 
shimmered and rolled together as if underwater. 



And I floated through the glimmering shards of light and color, floated 
silently away from my friends, away from my mom, floated away from the tiny 
attic room. 

Into the center of the mirror. 

Into the center of an undulating, rolling world of twisting lights and colors. 

“Help me!” I cried. 

But my voice was muffled by the blurred, shifting colors. 

“Bring me back! Get me back!” 

Floating deeper into this glimmering world, I could barely hear myself. 

Deeper into the mirror. And still deeper. 

The colors gave way to shapes of gray and black. It was cold here. Cold as 
glass. 

And as I floated deeper, deeper, the grays and blacks faded, too. The world 
was white now. Pure white all around. Shadowless white as far as I could see. 

I stared straight ahead, no longer calling out, too frightened to call out, too 
mystified by the cold, ivory world I had entered. 

“Hello, Max,” a familiar voice said. 

“Ohh!” I cried out, realizing I was not alone. 



23 


A scream of terror escaped my lips. I tried to form words, but my brain seemed 
to be paralyzed. 

The figure approached quickly, silently, through the cold, white world of 
the mirror. He smiled at me, an eerie, familiar smile. 

“You!” I managed to scream. 

He stopped inches away from me. 

I stared at him in disbelief. 

I was staring at myself. Me. Smiling back at me. The smile as cold as the 
glass that surrounded us. 

“Don’t be afraid,” he said. “I’m your reflection.” 

“No!” 

His eyes —my eyes—studied me hungrily, like a dog staring at a meaty 
bone. His smile grew wider as I cried out my fear. 

“I’ve been waiting here for you,” my reflection said, his eyes locked on 
mine. 

“No!” I repeated. 

I turned away. 

I knew I had to get away. 

I started to run. 

But I stopped short when I saw the faces in front of me. Distorted, unhappy 
faces, dozens of them, fun house mirror faces, with enormous, drooping eyes, 
and tiny mouths tight with sadness. 

The faces seemed to hover just ahead of me. The gaping eyes staring at me, 
the tiny mouths moving rapidly as if calling to me, warning me, telling me to get 
away. 

Who were these people, these faces? 

Why were they inside the mirror with me? 

Why did their distorted, twisted images reveal so much sadness, so much 
pain? 

“No!” 

I gasped as I thought I recognized two of the floating faces, their mouths 



working furiously, their eyebrows rising wildly up and down. 

Erin and Zack? 

No. 

That was impossible, wasn’t it? 

I stared hard at them. Why were they talking so frantically? What were they 
trying to tell me? 

“Help me!” I called. But they didn’t seem to hear me. 

The faces, dozens of them, bobbed and floated. 

“Help me—please!” 

And then I felt myself being spun around. I stared into the eyes of my 
reflection as he gripped my shoulders and held me in place. 

“You’re not leaving,” he told me. His quiet voice echoed through the clear 
stillness, icicles scratching against glass. 

I struggled to free myself, but his grip was strong. 

“I’m the one to leave,” he told me. “I’ve been waiting so long. Ever since 
you turned on the light. And now I’m going to step out from here and join the 
others.” 

“Others?” I cried. 

“Your friends gave in easily,” he said. “They did not resist. The switch was 
made. And now you and I will also make a switch.” 

“No!” I screamed, and my cry seemed to echo through the icy cold for 
miles. 

“Why are you so afraid?” he asked, turning me around, still gripping my 
shoulders, bringing his face close to mine. “Are you so afraid of your other side, 
Max?” 

He stared at me intently. “That’s what I am, you know,” he said. “I am your 
reflection. Your other side. Your cold side. Don’t be afraid of me. Your friends 
were not afraid. They made the switch without much of a struggle. Now they are 
inside the mirror. And their reflections...” 

His voice trailed off. He didn’t have to finish his sentence. I knew what he 
was saying. 

Now I understood about Erin and Zack. Now I understood why they looked 
different to me. 

They were reversed. They were their own reflections. 

And now I understood why they pushed me into the mirror, why they 
forced me to disappear, too. 



If I didn’t do something, I realized, my reflection would switch places with 
me. My reflection would step into the attic. And I’d be trapped inside the mirror 
forever, trapped forever with the sad, bobbing faces. 

But what could I do? 

Staring at myself, I decided to stall, to ask questions, to give myself a little 
time to think. 

“Whose mirror is it? Who built it?” I demanded. 

He shrugged. “How should I know? I’m only your reflection, remember?” 

“But how—” 

“It’s time,” he said eagerly. “Don’t try to stall with foolish questions. Time 
to make the switch. Time for you to become my reflection!” 



24 


I pulled away. 

I started to run. 

The sad, distorted faces hovered in front of me. 

I shut my eyes and dodged away from them. 

I couldn’t think. Couldn’t breathe. 

My legs pumped. My arms flew out at my sides. It was so clear and bright, 
I couldn’t tell if I was moving or not. My feet couldn’t feel a floor. There were 
no walls, no ceiling. There was no air brushing my face as I ran. 

But my fear kept me moving. Through the clear, cold, shimmering light. 

He was behind me. 

I couldn’t hear him. 

He had no shadow. 

But I knew he was right behind me. 

And I knew that if he caught me, I’d be lost. Lost inside this blank world, 
unable to see, to hear, to smell, to touch anything, lost in the cold glass forever. 

Another silent, bobbing face. 

And so I kept running. 

Until the colors returned. 

Until light bent to form shapes. 

And I saw shadows moving and shifting in front of me. 

“Stop, Max!” I heard my reflection’s voice right behind me. “Stop right 
there!” 

But now he sounded worried. 

And so I kept running, running into the colors and moving shapes. 

Suddenly, Zack turned off the light. 

I came bursting out of the mirror, into the tiny attic room, into an explosion 
of sound, of color, of hard surfaces, of real things. The real world. 

I stood up, panting, gasping for breath. I tested my legs. I stomped on the 
floor. The solid floor. 

I turned my eyes to my friends, who were standing in front of me, startled 
expressions on their faces. My mom, I realized, must have retreated back 



downstairs. 

“Did you make the switch?” Zack asked eagerly, his eyes glowing with 
excitement. 

“Are you one of us?” Erin asked at the same time. 

“No,” said a voice—my voice—coming from just behind me. 

We all stared into the mirror. 

Inside it, my reflection, red-faced and angry, glared out at us, his hands 
pressed against the glass. “He got away,” my reflection told my friends. “The 
switch wasn’t made.” 

“I don’t understand!” I heard April cry. “What’s going on, guys?” 

Zack and Erin ignored her. They stepped up quickly and grabbed me by the 
arms. They spun me around roughly. 

“The switch wasn’t made,” my reflection repeated from inside the glass. 

“No problem,” Erin told it. 

She and Zack forced me up to the mirror. 

“You’re going back in, Max,” Zack said heatedly. 

He reached up and pulled the light cord. 



25 


The light flashed on. 

I went invisible. 

My reflection remained in the mirror, open palms pressed against the inside 
of the glass, staring out. 

“I’m waiting for you, Max,” he said. “In a few minutes, you’ll join me in 
here.” 

“No!” I shouted. “I’m leaving. I’m going downstairs.” 

“No, you’re not,” my reflection said, shaking his head. “Erin and Zack 
won’t let you escape. But don’t be so frightened, Max. It’s all quite painless. 
Really.” He smiled. It was my smile. But it was cold. Cruel. 

“I don’t get this,” April was protesting back by the door. “Will someone tell 
me what’s going on?” 

“You’ll see, April,” Erin told her soothingly. 

What am I going to do? I wondered, frozen in panic. 

What can I do? 

“Just a few more minutes,” my reflection said calmly, already celebrating 
his victory. His freedom. 

“April, get help!” I cried. 

She spun around at the sound of my voice. “Huh?” 

“Get help! Go downstairs. Get help! Hurry!” I screamed. 

“But—I don’t understand—” April hesitated. 

Erin and Zack moved to block her path. 

But the door suddenly swung open. 

I saw Lefty stop at the doorway. He peered in. Saw my reflection. 

He must have thought the reflection was me. 

“Think fast!” he shouted, and he tossed a softball. 

The ball smashed into the mirror. 

I saw the startled look on Lefty’s face. And then I heard the crash and saw 
the mirror crack and shatter. 

My reflection didn’t have time to react. He broke into shards of glass and 
fell to the floor. 



“Nooooo!” Erin and Zack shrieked. 

I popped back into view just as Erin’s and Zack’s reflections floated up off 
the floor. They were sucked into the broken mirror—screaming all the way— 
sucked into it as if a powerful vacuum cleaner were pulling them in. 

The two reflections flew screaming into the mirror and appeared to crack 
into hundreds of pieces. 

“Whoa!” Lefty cried, gripping the door with all his strength, pressing his 
body against the doorframe, struggling to keep himself from being sucked into 
the room. 

And then Erin and Zack dropped onto the floor on their knees, looking 
dazed and confused, staring at the pieces of shattered mirror that littered the 
floor around them. 

“You’re back!” I cried happily. “It’s really you!” 

“Yeah. It’s me,” Zack said, climbing unsteadily to his feet, then turning to 
help Erin up. 

The mirror was shattered. The reflections were gone. 

Erin and Zack gazed around the room, still shaken and dazed. 

April stared at me in total confusion. 

Lefty remained outside the doorway, shaking his head. “Max,” he said, 
“you should’ve caught the ball. That was an easy catch.” 

Erin and Zack were back. And they were okay. 

It didn’t take long to get everything back to normal. 

We explained everything to April and Lefty as best we could. 

April went home. She had to baby-sit her little sister. 

Erin and Zack—the real Erin and Zack—helped me sweep up the broken 
glass. Then we closed the door to the little room. I latched it tightly, and we all 
carried cartons over and stacked them up to block off the door. 

We knew we’d never go in there again. 

We vowed never to tell anyone about getting invisible or the mirror or what 
happened in that little room. Then Erin and Zack headed home. 

Later, Lefty and I were hanging around out in the back yard. “That was so 
scary,” I told Lefty with a shudder. “You just can’t imagine what it was like.” 

“Sounds pretty scary,” Lefty replied absently. He tossed his softball from 
hand to hand. “But at least everything is okay now. Want to play a little catch?” 

“No,” I shook my head. I wasn’t in the mood. But then I changed my mind. 
“Maybe it’ll take my mind off what happened this morning,” I said. 



Lefty tossed me the ball. We trotted behind the garage, our usual place for 
tossing the ball around. 

I lobbed it back to him. 

We were having a pretty good game of catch. 

Until about five minutes had gone by. 

Until... 

Until I stopped and froze in place. 

Were my eyes playing tricks on me? 

“Here comes my fastball,” he said. He heaved it at me. 

No. No. No. 

I gaped open-mouthed as the ball shot past me. 

I didn’t even try to catch it. I couldn’t move. 

I could only stare in horror. 

My brother was throwing right-handed. 

